Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 24609-AFR
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED GRANT FROM THE
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$8.00 MILLION
TO THE NILE BASIN lNITIATIVE
FOR
NILE TRANSBOUNDARY ENVIRONMENTAL ACTION PROJECT
March 5, 2003
Nile Team



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective)
Currency Unit = US$
FISCAL YEAR
2003 -- 2008
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS                   Country Assistance Strategy
CCBO                  Commumty-based Organization
CCF                   Country Cooperation Framework (UNDP)
CEM                   Country Economic Memorandum
CG                    Consultative Group
CIDA                  Canadian International Development Agency
DSS                   Decision Support System
EAC                   East African Community
EN-SAP                Eastem Nile nparian grouping for project development: includes Egypt, Sudan and
Ethiopia
FAO                   United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization
FMR                   Financial Management Report
GEF                   Global Environment Facility
GIS                   Geographical Information System
HEP                   Hydro-Electric Power Development
ICCON                 International Consortium for Cooperation on the Nile
ILWM                  Integrated Land and Water Management Program for Africa
IMS                   Information Management System
IPM                   Integrated Pest Management
IUCN                  World Conservation Union
LVDP                  Lake Victoria Development Strategy and Action Plan for Sustainable Development
LVEMP                 Lake Victoria Environmental Management Project
NBI                   Nile Basin Initiative
NBTF                  Nile Basin Trust Fund
NEL-SAP               Nile Equatorial Lakes Region - riparian group for project development: includes the six
countries in the southern portion of the Basin - Burundi, D.R. Congo, Kenya, Rwanda,
Tanzania and Uganda - as well as the downstream riparians, Sudan and Egypt
NGO                   Nongovernmental organization
Nile-COM              Council of Ministers of Water Affairs of the Nile Basin
Nile-TAC              Nile Basin Initiative Technical Advisory Committee
Nile-SEC              Nile Basin Initiative Secretariat
NRBAP                 Nile River Basin Action Program
PDF                   Project Development Facility (GEF)
PIP                   Project Implementation Plan
PIR                   Project Implementation Review
PMU                   Project Management Unit
PSA                   Project Services Agency
PSC                   Project Steerng Committee
RBM                   River Basin Model
SAP                   Subsidiary Action Program
SGP                   Small Grants Programme
Sida                  Swedish Intemational Development Agency
SMLVBP                Sustainable Management of the Lake Victoria Basin Program



SVP                   Shared Vision Program
TEA                   Transboundary Environmental Analysis
UNDB                  United Nations Development Business
UNDP                  United Nations Development Programme
UNOPS                 United Nations Office for Project Services
USAID                 United States Agency for International Development
WWF                   World Wide Fund for Nature
Vice President:   Callisto Madavo (AFR), Jean Louis Sarbib
(MNA)
Sector Director/Country Director:  Praful C. Patel
Sector Manager/Task Team Leader     Inger Andersen






NILE BASIN INITIATIVE
NILE TRANSBOUNDARY ENVIRONMENTAL ACTION PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                      Page
1. Project development objective                                                      2
2. Key performance indicators                                                          2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project     3
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                          6
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                 10
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                 10
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                      15
3 Benefits and target population                                                      16
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                      17
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                          17
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies      18
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design                                21
4. Indications of borrower and recipient commitment and ownership                     22
5. Value added of Bank and Global support in this project                             23
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                           24
2. Financial                                                                          24
3. Technical                                                                          24
4. Institutional                                                                      25
5. Environmental                                                                      27
6. Social                                                                             28
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                 30
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                    30
2. Critical risks                                                                     31



3. Possible controversial aspects                                                   33
G. Main Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                          33
2. Other                                                                            34
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                        34
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                       34
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                        35
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                  42
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                       74
Annex 4: Incremental Costs                                                             75
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or Financial Summary  92
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                     93
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                  107
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                108
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                               113
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                         126
Annex I 1: Strategic Action Program                                                   145
Annex 12: Public Involvement Plan Summary                                             146
Annex 13: Institutional Arrangements for Project Implementation                       154
Annex 14: Description of the Nile Basin Initiative                                    164
Annex 15: Root Causes                                                                 175
Annex 16: Letters of Endorsement                                                      182
Annex 17: STAP Roster Technical Review                                                192
Annex 18: Response to STAP (and IA comments as appropriate)                           196
Annex 19: Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet                                            197
Annex 20: Summary of GEF Co-Financing                                                 203
MAP(S)
IBRD 30967 (May 2001)



NILE BASIN INITIATIVE
Nile Transboundary Environmental Action Project
Project Appraisal Document
Africa Regional Office
Middle East and North Africa Region
Nile Team
Date: March 5, 2003                                Team Leader: Inger Andersen
Sector Manager/Director: Praful C. Patel           Sector(s): General water, sanitation and flood protection
Country Director: Praful C. Patel                  sector (100%)
Project ID: P070073                                Theme(s): Water resource management (P),
Focal Area: I - International Waters               Environmental policies and institutions (P), Pollution
management and environmental health (P), Biodiversity
(P)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
[ Loan       [] Credit   [X] Grant     [] Guarantee     [ ] Other:
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 8.0
Incremental Cost Summary:
Total project costs          43.60
Other SVP increment          76.60
Total incremental cost of program 120.20
Sourc                 '        ..   Local>    .  Forei n         total'.
BORROWER/RECIPIENT                                              3.55           0.00           3.55
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY                                     0.00            8.00          8.00
NILE BASIN TRUST FUND                                           0.00           12.81         12.81
UN DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMME                                        0.00           18.49         18.49
NON-GOVERNMENT ORGANIZATION (NGO) OF                            0.75            0.00          0.75
RECIPIENT COUNTRIES
Total:                                                          4.30          39.30          43.60
Borrower/Recipient: NILE BASIN INITIATIVE
Responsible agency: NILE BASIN INITIATIVE
Address: Nile Basin Secretariat, P.O. Box 192, Entebbe, Uganda
Contact Person: Mr. Meraji Msuya, Executive Director
Tel: 256 41 32 13 29          Fax: 256 41 32 09 71           Email: nbisec@nilesec.org
Estimated Disbursements ( Bank FY/U$m):
2003       2004    .  20,05      .0.6,7 X20J.: -.200 (8
Annual      0.02       1.30       2.18       2.40       1.40      0.70
Cumulative     0.02       1.32       3.50       5.90       7.30       8.00
Project implementation period: 5 years
Expected effectiveness date: 07/31/2003  Expected closing date: 09/30/2008
* Note: Financing Plan=lncremental Cost. comprised of the Transboundary Environmental Action Project augmented by a significant portion of the SYP
project portfolio. Separate PADs will be submmttedfor other SVP projects.



A. Project Oevelopment Objective
X. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The Nile Basin Rintiative. The Nile Basin Initiative (NBI) is a transitional mechanism that
includes nine Nile riparian countries as equal members in a regional partnership to promote
economic development and fight poverty throughout the Basin. The vision of the NBI is to
achieve sustainable socio-economic development through the equitable utilization of, and benefit
from, the common Nile Basin water resources.
The Shared Vision Program. The Shared Vision Program (SVP) project portfolio includes
eight projects - seven thematic projects and an eighth "project" to strengthen the capacity of the
NBI to execute basin-wide projects and ensure the effective oversight and coordination of the
Program. The seven thematic projects address the priority water-related sectors and cross-cutting
themes identified by the Nile riparians to ensure an integrated and comprehensive approach to
water resources development and management that will serve as a catalyst for broader
socioeconomic development and regional cooperation. The seven thematic projects are listed
below:
1.    Nile Transboundary Environmental Action
2.    Nile Basin Regional Power Trade
3.    Efficient Water Use for Agricultural Production
4.    Water Resources Planning and Management
5.    Confidence-Building and Stakeholder Involvement (Communications)
6.    Applied Training
7.    Socio-Economic Development and Benefit-Sharing.
The proposed project is the first of these projects to be finalized. A Master PAD describing the
entire program, including this project as well as the remaining seven projects is under
preparation. These projects will not require Bank approval, but the Master PAD will be provided
to Board members for information. A Board briefing on the Nile Basin Initiative was held on
March 4, 2003 and a note entitled "The Nile Basin Initiative: Sharing the Benefits of Cooperation
on International Waters" circulated as background material. This briefing covered the entire
program of the Nile Basin Initiative, including the proposed project. At the request of the Board,
Management will provide periodic technical briefings to the Board on progress of the Nile Basin
Initiative.
The Nile T1ransboundary EnvironmentaR Actdon Project will support the development of a
basin-wide framework for actions to address high-priority transboundary environmental issues
within the context of the Nile Basin Initiative's Strategic Action Program. The United Nations
Development Program (UNDP) and the World Bank will jointly, as implementing agencies of
the Global Environment Facility (GEF), support the project while continuing to draw on the
comparative advantage of each of the organizations. (See section B.2 below.)
Nile lBasin Transboundary Environmental Analysis. The key challenges were identified and
prioritized by a Transboundary Environmental Analysis (TEA) that was conducted jointly by the
Nile Basin States in preparation for this project. The main objective of the TEA was to help
- 2 -



translate existing national environmental commitments and interests into regional and basin-wide
analytical frameworks, priorities and, eventually, basin-wide actions. The TEA was initiated by
the Nile Basin countries in December 1999 with funding from the GEF Project Development
Facility (PDF), UNDP and World Bank resources. The full report was published in May 2001.
A Prioritized "Agendafor Environmental Action in the Nile Basin" emerged from the TEA
process and was incorporated in the TEA report. Consistent with this Agenda, the Nile
Transboundary Environmental Action Project will: (a) provide a forum to discuss development
paths for the Nile with a wide range of stakeholders; (b) improve understanding of the
relationship between water resources development and the environment; and (c) enhance
basin-wide cooperation. The Agenda for Environmental Action in the Nile Basin will also be
reflected in the capacity building and investment programs of the Nile Basin Initiative in key
social and economic development sectors.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
Performance Indicators. To facilitate a full overview of the project, the present PAD describes
both the Bank and UNDP supported components. The achievements of the Bank's components
will be judged by the following outcome indicators:
*   Increased regional cooperation in environmental and water management fields;
*   Increased basin-wide community action and cooperation in land and water management;
*   Effective basin-wide networks of environmental and water professionals;
*   Greater appreciation of river hydrology and more informed discussion of development paths;
*   Expanded information and knowledge base on land and water resources available to
goveniment staff and NGOs;
*   Greater awareness of the linkages between macro/sectoral policies and the environment; and
*   Greater awareness of and increased capacity on transboundary water quality threats.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number:
Burundi      CAS 14442-BU
D.R.Congo   Transitional Sup. Strategy Report no. 22499-ZR
Egypt       CAS 22163-EGT
Ethiopia     CAS 17009-ET
Ethiopia    Interim Support Strategy 21189 ET, November 9, 2000
Kenya        CAS 18391-KY
Rwanda       CAS 17478-RW
Tanzania     CAS 20728-TA
Uganda       CAS 20886-UG
Date of latest CAS discussion:
Burundi - May 2, 1995
D.R.Congo - Transitional Support Strategy - July 9, 2001
Egypt - June 5, 2001
Ethiopia - August 19, 1997
-3 -



Ethiopia - Interim Support Strategy - November 9, 2000
Kenya - September 2, 1998
Rwanda - March 17, 1998
Tanzania - June 30, 2000
Uganda - December 18, 2000
Hlarmonized Approach. In a reflection of the UNDP-World Bank Intemational Waters
Partnership, the project has been designed to be in line with both the Bank's Country Assistance
Strategy (CAS) and UNDP's Country Cooperation Framework (CCF) for the countries covered
by this regional project. In general, the goals identified in the various cooperation planning
frameworks of the Bank CASs and UNDP CCFs are supported by the project. Environmental
degradation of land and water resources, and inadequate capacity to manage these resources in a
sustainable manner, have been recognized in all the CAS and CCF documents as threats to the
sustainable development of the countries concerned. The linkages between environmental
degradation and poverty are clearly established, and combating the forner will result effectively
in reducing the latter and vice versa. One component is effectively targeting the grass-roots level
with the provision of small-sized grants to community-based organizations and nongovernmental
organizations (NGOs).
The Transboundary Environmental Action Project is regional in scope and will foster regional
integration and cooperation, not just in the area of environment, but also in a wider water-land
context, and as such it will contribute to the goals of the CASs and CCFs. The education sector is
weak in all the countries, in particular at the primary and secondary levels. Many of the CASs
and CCFs focus on providing support to the sector and the current project actively contributes to
this goal through its environmental education component.
Environment and water resources management issues are prominent in the seven CASs. Most of
the CASs recognize the centrality of sound environmental management and each of the countries
gives prominence to different aspects of the water sub-sector (water supply and sanitation,
irrigation, etc.). Environmental sustainability as well as sustainable management of the water
sectors is highlighted. This project will emphasize the transboundary nature of environment and
water resource management.
Buirundi
CAS - Environmental Concerns. The current project addresses directly the environmental
concerns that have been highlighted in the CAS, with improved environmental management of
watersheds.
Democratic Republic of Congo
The Bank's Transitional Support Strategy Report no. 22499-ZR, July 9, 2001 (covers a one-year
period) - Rehabilitation, Promoting Stability and Conflict Resolution. The project supports this
objective through a wide range of activities fostering regional integration and cooperation, and
supporting the creation of mutual trust through exchanges with other Nile Basin States.
- 4 -



Egypt
CAS - Improving Natural Resources Management. The project supports CAS objectives relating
to improved environmental management, particularly in the area of watershed management. The
NBI is specifically cited as one of the avenues through which sustainable use of the Nile's
resources can be achieved.
Ethiopia
CAS - Agriculture and Environment. The project supports CAS objectives relating to improved
environmental and water resources management.
Kenya
CAS - Capacity Building. The project supports CAS objectives relating to capacity building,
particularly in public sector institutions.
Rwanda
CAS - Renewing Natural Resources. The project supports CAS objectives relating to improved
environmental and water resources management.
Sudan
Sudan's 2002 Country Economic Memorandum (CEM) is currently under preparation. It is
anticipated that water resource management, irrigation and the land and water interface will be
prominent features of the CEM.
Tanzania
CAS - Sustainable Rural Development. The Transboundary Environmental Action Project
supports CAS objectives relating to improved environmental and water resources management.
Uganda
CAS - Sustainable Rural Development. The project supports CAS objectives relating to
improved watershed management. The NBI is specifically cited as one of the avenues through
which Uganda can become more integrated with its neighbors, thereby improving development.
la. Global Operational strategy/Program objective addressed by the project:
GEF Operational Program No. 9. The Transboundary Environmental Action Project fully
supports the objectives of GEF Operational Program Number 9, the "Integrated Land and Water
Multiple Focal Area Operational Program." Consistent with the priorities of Operational Program
Number 9, GEF can "be a catalyst for action to bring about the successful integration of
improved land and water resource management practices on an area-wide basis." It specifically
addresses the goal of the Operational Program to assist a "group of countries to utilize the full
range of technical, economic, financial, regulatory, and institutional measures needed to
operationalize sustainable development strategies for international waters and their drainage
basins." Special attention is given to "integrated land and water resources management" and the
special protection of sensitive areas since "land degradation resulting in damage to the water
resources" is often a transboundary problem that requires "political commitments on the part of
neighboring countries to work together, establish factual priorities, and decide on joint
- 5 -



commitments for action."
Consistency with World IBank and GEIF Strategies and Guidelines. The Nile Basin Initiative,
consistent with GEF guidelines, will "achieve changes in sectoral policies and activities as well
as in leveraging donor and regular Implementing Agency participation." Its "projects focus on
integrated approaches for the use of better land and water resources management practices on an
area-wide basis." "Community involvement and stakeholder participation" are especially
important and the GEF basin-wide project is aiming to "derive lessons learned in testing
workable mechanisms to improve community, NGO, stakeholder [including the private sector]
and inter-ministerial participation in planning, implementing and evaluating projects." As an
outcome of the basin-wide project and in line with Operational Program Number 9, "political
commitments on the part of neighboring countries to work together, establish factual priorities,
and decide on joint commitments for actions" will be supported. A "strengthened multi-country
institutional arrangement is ... [an] appropriate measure for support." The program has been
designed to "test various interventions and learn from implementation." It will also provide
critical support for activities in two priority development regions for the GEF-Sub-Saharan
Africa and the Middle East and North Africa. The project is also consistent with the World Bank
corporate Environment Strategy because it supports sustainable development, promotes poverty
reduction, and improves quality of life by removing environmental constraints to economic
development and empowering people and societies to manage their enviromnental resources.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Nile Cooperation - Challernges and Opportuanties. Cooperative management of the Nile River
Basin is one of the greatest challenges of the global international waters agenda. The Nile has
enormous potential to foster regional social and economic development through advances in food
production, transportation, power production, industrial development, environmental
conservation and other related activities. To realize this potential, the riparians have come to
recognize that they must take concrete steps to address current challenges and that cooperative,
sustainable development holds the greatest prospect of delivering mutual benefits to the region.
A Shared Vision. In an historic effort, the Nile Basin countries have come together within the
Nile Basin Initiative to realize a shared vision "to achieve sustainable socio-economic
development through the equitable utilization of, and benefit from, the common Nile Basin water
resources." Recognizing the tremendous benefits that can be reaped from cooperation, yet fully
aware of the challenges ahead, the Nile countries have embarked on a remarkable journey to
translate their shared vision into concrete activities and projects that will build confidence and
capacity across the Basin (the Shared Vision Program), as well as initiate concrete investments
and action on the ground at local levels (Subsidiary Action Programs).
T1he Shared Vision P rogram (SVJP). The main purpose of the SVP is to create an enabling
environment for cooperative management and development in the Nile Basin through a limited
but effective set of basin-wide activities and projects (see list of projects above). The SVP project
portfolio, identified and prepared through a participatory process involving a range of
stakeholders from the Nile riparian states, includes seven thematic projects focusing on water
resources, the environment, power trade, agriculture, applied training, communication and
- 6 -



stakeholder involvement, and benefit sharing. These projects address the priority water-related
sectors and cross-cutting themes identified by the Nile riparians to ensure an integrated and
comprehensive approach to water resources development and management that will serve as a
catalyst for broader socioeconomic development and regional cooperation. The SVP portfolio
also includes an eighth "project, which will strengthen the capacity of NBI institutions to execute
and coordinate cooperative basin-wide projects.
SVP Financing. Total program costs for the SVP are estimated at US$130 million. The SVP is a
grant-funded program, supported by bilateral donors, international financial institutions, and
other grant mechanisms. At the request of the NBI's Council of Ministers of Water Affairs
(Nile-COM), the World Bank has established a multi-donor trust fund, the Nile Basin Trust
Fund (NBTF), as the preferred mechanism for funding SVP projects, and will initially serve as
the administrator of the NBTF. It is intended that as progress is achieved in SVP implementation
and a permanent institutional framework is established, the NBTF will be transferred to an NBI
institution following consultation between the donors, the Nile riparians and the Bank. Current
bilateral donors supporting the SVP through the NBTF include: Canada, Denmark, the
Netherlands, Norway, Sweden and the United Kingdom. While NBTF funds are non-earmarked
resources, the Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA) has contributed to the NBTF
with a particular view to support this project.
Investments at Sub-basin Levels. At the same time, groups of countries-one in the Eastern
Nile and the other in the Nile Equatorial Lakes region-have identified joint investment
opportunities. These Subsidiary Action Programs (SAPs) will consist of investment projects that
confer mutual benefits at the sub-basin level, each involving two or more countries. Identified
areas of cooperation include irrigation and water use in agriculture, hydropower development and
power trade, watershed management, flood and drought management and sustainable
management of lakes and wetlands.
SVP - Building Regional Cooperation Across Sectors and Themes. As a whole, the Shared
Vision Program aims to create an enabling environment for cooperative management of the Nile
Basin, and for development and investment at the basin and sub-basin levels. Though each
project is different in focus and scope, all contribute to building a strong foundation for regional
cooperation by supporting basin-wide engagement and dialogue, developing common strategic
and analytical frameworks, building practical tools and demonstrations, and strengthening human
and institutional capacity. Together, they pave the way for the realization of the Vision through
investments on the ground within the Subsidiary Action Programs.
Strengthening Transboundary Environmental Management. This project will strengthen
riparian cooperation and coordination by supporting a series of measures focusing on various
aspects of transboundary environmental management. Project activities include capacity building,
training, education and awareness raising, knowledge and information sharing, development of a
decision support system, communications, environmental monitoring and field activities at
selected pilot sites. Diverse stakeholder groups will be encouraged to work together, both within
their own countries and with counterparts in other riparian countries, to help build the mutual
- 7 -



understanding, relationships and trust that are essential to joint problem-solving.
The Main IRegional Sector lssunes. The main regional sector issues, as well as their relationship
to SVP projects, are summarized below.
Utilization of W/ater Resources. Water resources are utilized at a high level in parts of the Nile
Basin, and, throughout, the availability of water is highly variable both in space and in time.
These factors result in considerable water stress across much of the Basin. Population growth,
urbanization, poverty, and environmental threats exacerbate this stress. These problems are
extremely difficult to tackle effectively if treated in isolation. However, the challenges can be
effectively met by taking a collaborative and integrated approach to sustainable economic
development of Nile Basin resources. Real opportunities will only be apparent through
cross-sectoral win-win planning and broad-based investment projects. Such development
scenarios and benefit-sharing will be explored within the SVP Socio-Economic Development
and Benefit-Sharing Project, while the Water Resources Management Project as well as the
Transboundary Environmental Action Project will provide the tools and strengthen capacity for
improved environment and water resources planning and management. This will support
effective analysis of potential development options.
Institutional Capacity. The institutions involved in planning and management vary widely across
the Basin, in termns of size, funding, capacity, and legal and institutional framework. Strong
national institutions are an important element in achieving regional cooperation and the joint
planning and management of the Nile Basin's shared resources and transboundary environmental
issues. The SVP projects aim to increase institutional capacity at local, national, and regional
levels.
Information. The networks, databases, and facilities needed to process and analyze
environment-related information are not well developed or are not functioning effectively in most
of the Basin countries. The data that do exist are often inconsistent and scattered across several
government departments and are difficult to access both within and from outside the countries.
More accurate information for informed decision making and priority setting at national, regional
and sub-regional levels will be critical as the level of cooperation increases. Integrated
management of Nile Basin resources and joint investment planning at the subsidiary (sub-basin)
level will depend upon access to reliable information, as well as adequate modeling, decision
support tools, a supportive national and basin-wide knowledge base, and effective networking
between professionals. Within the SVP, the present project, the Water Resources Project, the
Confidence Building and Stakeholder Involvement Project and the Applied Training Project, will
each address some of these issues.
Domestic Water Supply and Saitation. Access to safe drinking water and adequate sanitation
facilities is a major challenge in most of the Nile riparian countries. Diarrhea is one of the major
causes of sickness and death among small children. This is frequently related to consumption of
drinking water and foods prepared with water polluted by discharge of partially treated or
untreated sewage, and is often compounded by insufficient hygiene education. Significant
improvements have been achieved in Egypt in recent years through programs specifically
- 8 -



addressing these issues, yet in other parts of the Basin waterborne intestinal diseases and death of
the young, the very old, and vulnerable groups, such as people living with HIV/AIDS, remain a
problem. Successful development and initiatives in this sector require the commitment of
national/local governments and utilities to undertake institutional, financial and technical
measures, including public-private partnership models and investment in technologies that
respond to local needs and capacities. The present project addresses public awareness raising
with regard to environmental pollution and health.
Irrigation. Agriculture is by far the largest water user in the Basin, and is of great economic and
social importance. Irrigated agriculture is found mostly in the northern part of the Basin, while
rain-fed agriculture prevails in the southern and eastern parts. There is heavy reliance on local
food production in the Basin, and food security is an important issue. Efficient water use in
agriculture is being addressed within the SVP Efficient Water Use for Agricultural Production
Project, while training and knowledge sharing aspects will be addressed in the Applied Training
Project. Furthermore, the Socio-Economic Development and Benefit-Sharing Project is taking a
strategic approach through scenario-building and macroeconomic analysis, which will necessarily
include the role of agriculture in the Basin's future.
Hydropower. While hydropower is relatively undeveloped in the Basin, power demand is
increasing rapidly and the limited availability of electricity is constraining development. There is
substantial potential for increased development of reliable, low-cost power, for example through
expansion of hydropower production and through exploring opportunities for regional power
trade. These options are being examined in the SVP project entitled Nile Basin Regional Power
Trade.
Environmental Concerns. Significant environmental issues related to water resources include
land degradation, water quality protection, aquatic weeds infestation, wetland protection, and
extreme events. Land degradation due to deforestation and cultivation on steep slopes has led to
losses of biologically important habitats, high rates of soil erosion, and sedimentation of rivers,
lakes, and reservoirs. Water quality problems are increasing, with localized pollution from
agriculture, industry, mining and domestic effluent. The proliferation of aquatic weeds,
particularly water hyacinth, is having major adverse consequences. The region contains some of
the world's largest and most ecologically important wetlands. Pollution and changes in flow
regimes due to water resources development could have major effects on the human use and
biodiversity conservation value of these ecosystems. Poverty and population growth impose
additional pressures on natural resources, compounded by a lack of awareness of land-water
interactions and the functioning of critical ecosystems. Furthermore, large-scale flooding and
periodic devastating droughts are a very severe problem in most of the Basin. While the priority
environmental concerns in the Basin are primarily being addressed within this Transboundary
Environmental Action Project, this project will be complemented by all of the SVP projects and
it will lay the foundation for sustainable development actions in the SAPs.
Participation and Public Awareness. Increased public awareness of the importance of
conserving water and other natural resources is urgently needed. This will be addressed in one of
the components of the present project. National and basin-wide communication programs are
-9-



also required; to create a culture of awareness of the opportunities for beneficial cooperation in
the Nile Basin. This will be addressed in the SVP Confidence-Building and Stakeholder
Involvement (Communication) Project. Stakeholder participation, with particular sensitivity to
gender issues and the effective participation of women, is an important part of all of the SVP
projects.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
Transboundary Environmental Thiregats. The Nile countries recognize that future development.
of the Basin must be environmentally sustainable. Identifying the environment and development
synergies, and thus the sustainable development opportunities in the Basin, has therefore
emerged as a major priority. More effective cooperation and coordination between the riparian
countries is badly needed if the Nile Basin's environrnent is to be conserved in ways that help
improve the quality of life of the inhabitants. This project will strengthen riparian cooperation
and coordination through transboundary activities including capacity building, training, education
and awareness raising, knowledge and information sharing, communications, environmental
monitoring and activities at selected pilot sites. Consistent emphasis will be given to encouraging
diverse stakeholder groups to work together, not only within their own countries but especially
with counterparts in other riparian countries, as an essential contribution to building the mutual
understanding, relationships and trust that will be essential to collaborative problem-solving for
the Basin as a whole.
C. ProjecQ DescrpOfon Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The project has been developed through an extensive participatory process (see Annex 12). It
will be financed jointly through the World Bank and UNDP with funds from the GEF and from
the Bank administered NBTF. The main text of this PAD covers the Bank financed components
of the project. The annexes reflect components financed by both, with a clear indication of
whether the activities described are Bank or UNDP financed.
The project will encourage more effective basin-wide stakeholder cooperation on transboundary
environmental issues by supporting the implementation of the actions prioritized by the TEA, in
the following areas:
1.    Institutional Strengthening to Facilitate Regional Cooperation
(GEF/UNDP, GEF/WB, and NBTF/WB)
2.    Community-Level Land, Forest and Water Conservation (GEF/UNDP, and CIDA through
NBTF/WB)
3.    Environmental Education and Awareness (GEF/UNDP)
4.    Wetlands and Biodiversity Conservation (GEF/UTNDP, and NBTF/WB)
5.    Water Quality Monitoring Basin-wide (GEF/WB)
The project has been designed with a phased approach. This is a function of funding constraints
- 10-



present in the GEF. The five-year project has therefore been divided into two GEF funding
phases. All Bank GEF components are fully funded from the initial GEF allocation and will be
completed within the five-year time span of the full project. However, it is anticipated that
additional resources might be received for Phase II through the NBTF to address aspects of
component 4 (Wetlands and Biodiversity Conservation). At the end of the third project year, a
second submission will be made by UNDP for the additional GEF resources required.
The overall project is supported by GEF resources as outlined below (in million US$):
GEF Resources
World Bank            UNDP                Total
Phase 1                    8.0                8.8                 16.8
Phase 2                                        9.7                9.7
Project total              8.0                18.5                26.5
The overall project is supported by resources from the Bank administered NBTF. The NBTF
resources will support both UNDP and Bank financed GEF activities as outlined below:
Nile Basin Trust Fund (NBTF) Resources
COMPONENT                           NBTF      NBTF donors
1.3 River Basin Model                                    2.7        Various
2. Land, Forests and Water Conservation                  7.4         CIDA
4. Wetlands and Biodiversity Conservation                2.7       Netherlands'
Total funds from NBTF for Nile Transboundary Environmental  12.8
~Action Project
*Netherlands contribution (Phase 2) to be confirmed.
Nile Country Contributions - Contributions (cash and in-kind) by the Nile riparian countries are
estimated to amount to US$4.3 million (see Annex 2 - Appendix E).
The funding for the overall project is summarized in the table below:
Total Resources for Environment Project of SVP program
Project Funding Overview
GEF/         NBTF       GEF/UNDP        Nile        Total
World Bank                              countries
8.0          12.8         8.8          4.3          33.9
. 9.7 (Phase 2)                 9.7
8.0          12.8         18.5         4.3          43.6
The total cost of the project is therefore: US$43.6 million, of which the Bank will finance
US$20.7 million as follows:
GEF resources:                       US$8.0 million
CIDA contribution to NBTF:           US$7.4 million
NBTF contribution (non-earmarked):   US$2.7 million
Netherlands contribution to NBTF:    US$2.7 million (to be confirmed).
-11-



Incremental Cost (for details see Annex 4). The alternative consists of the steps needed to establish
a sound basin-wide environmental framework consistent with current and projected patterns of
economic development. This would be accomplished through GEF support of the present
Transboundary Enviromnental Action Project to facilitate the priority transboundary actions
outlined in the Agenda for Environmental Action in the Nile Basin, combined with additional
resources from other projects within the NBI Strategic Action Program, which are funded
through the ICCON mechanism by other international as well as domestic sources. Separate
Project Appraisal Documents will be processed for each of these SVP projects. However, a
description of these projects is provided in Annex 14.
Incremental Cost Summary for SVP program
Alternative
Local      ForeEgn      Total
.__ _ _ _ __   _(GEF&non-GEF)
Transboundary Environmental    4.30        39.30       43.60
Action -SVP component
Other Shared Vision Program                76.60       76.60
Total Incremental Cost                    115.90      120.20
The Bank financed (through GEF and NBTF) project components are described below. The
description of the full project is provided in Annex 2.
NOTE: To prevent confusion, the component and sub-component numbering of the present
World Bank PAD is being kept as it was in the discussions with the Nile countries, the Nile-SEC,
the donors and UNDP. The UNDP components are omittedfrom the PAD main text, but arefully
referenced in the Annexes.
Component I - linstitutionall Strengthening to IFacilftzte RegionaDl Cooperation
This component will enable deeper and more effective cooperation on transboundary
environmental management among and between the Nile riparian countries, including
governments, NGOs, researchers and other stakeholders. Key stakeholders will gain improved
access to relevant resource management information relating to the entire Nile Basin, while some
of the key linkages between macro and sectoral policies and the environment will be highlighted
and better understood. A substantial learning process will result from the development of a River
Basin Model and Decision Support System in coordination with the SVP Water Resources
Planning and Management Project, which will increase understanding of the Nile's hydrological
behavior as well as linkages between environment and development. This component includes
the management arrangements for the entire project.
1.2 Knowledge Managemeng (GEF/IWB). This sub-component will provide project participants
and other key stakeholders across the Basin with improved access to relevant environmental and
natural resource management information, while sharing experiences and building on lessons
learned across the NBI. This sub-component will offer a tremendous opportunity for learning and
- 12 -



exchange of experiences across the SVP projects and for transferring lessons and providing
exchanges with the emerging Subsidiary Action Programs. Key products will be regular project
newsletters (print and electronic distribution), including special themes/topics as appropriate,
such as youth and environment, and a regularly updated project website. The sub-component will
also support setup and maintenance of connections to the NBI website and resource center which
is established at and managed by the Nile Basin Secretariat.
1.3 River Basin Model (GEF/WB and NBTF/WB). This sub-component will be a major
contributor to the development of a River Basin Model for the Nile Basin. The model, which will
be the first basin-wide, highly participatory modeling effort anchored in the Basin, will provide a
means to better understand and describe, on a regional basis, Basin hydrology and river system
behavior. It will provide a commonly developed and agreed means of assessing the impacts of
alternative development and management schemes that may have transboundary implications. It
will provide quantitative river flow information to support more detailed environmental
assessments. Broader, multi-sectoral databases and finer-scale models may be developed in
subsequent projects to address site-specific issues.
The River Basin Model will be developed as part of a Nile Basin Decision Support System
(DSS) within the context of the SVP Water Resources Planning and Management Project. The
DSS will be a basin-wide, computer-based platform for communication, information sharing and
analysis of Nile Basin water resources (i.e., the River Basin Model). The DSS is being developed
to support the assessment of transboundary opportunities for cooperative action based on
commonly shared information and analysis tools. The DSS will build the technical foundation for
and enhance the sustainability of integrated environmental and water resources planning.
This GEF project will contribute to the development and application of the River Basin Model.
The SVP Water Resources Planning and Management Project will also support model
development efforts as well as the remaining DSS components, including the strengthening of
institutional frameworks and human capacity for DSS development; the development of a
basin-wide information management system; and the development of guidelines for data
collection, analysis and exchange.
1.4 Macro/Sectoral Policies and the Environment (GEF/WB). This sub-component will consist
of policy studies building on two key issues identified in the Nile River Basin TEA: (a) the
relationship between deforestation for fuelwood and the dynamics of the energy markets being
supplied; and (b) the complex links between agricultural productivity, pesticide subsidies and
non-point source pollution of water supplies. This sub-component aims at increasing the
understanding of shared and high priority environmental policy issues that affect environmental
conservation in the Nile Basin. Nile Basin networks of researchers working on transboundary
environmental policy issues will be established and strengthened. Lessons learned will be widely
disseminated and exchanges encouraged across SVP projects and SAPs through knowledge
management activities (sub-component 1.2) and interaction with other SVP project activities.
- 13 -



Component 2 - Communiity-Level Land, Forest, and Water Conservation
Pilot activities at selected transboundary sites will demonstrate the feasibility of local-level
approaches to land and water conservation, including mitigation actions for soil erosion,
desertification, non-point source pollution and invasive water weeds. National NGO networks
will be strengthened and NGO-government collaboration improved.
2.3 Nile Transboundary Microgrant Program (GEF/UNIIJ'D; NVB1TF/IWB through Canadian
CIDA contribution). The Nile Transboundary Microgrant Program will support
community-driven interventions to address transboundary environmental threats on a local scale.
The Nile Transboundary Microgrant Program will also provide alternative sustainable livelihood
opportunities to communities who may otherwise be obliged to overexploit their natural
resources. The main emphasis of the Nile Transboundary Microgrant Program will be on piloting
new and promising transboundary initiatives, on the development and dissemination of best
practice and on exchanges of lessons learned. It is anticipated that there will be opportunities for
the more successful or promising initiatives to be scaled up or replicated within subsequent
phases of the NBI SAPs. The size of each grant will not exceed $25,000.
Component 5: Water Quality Monitoring IBasAn-wide (GEIF/WIB)
This project component aims at increasing understanding about the current state of water quality
and priority needs for transboundary cooperation between the Nile countries. It will contribute to
building greater capacity for water quality monitoring and management.
The Nile countries vary considerably in the extent to which they consider water quality an
immediate priority and in their technical and resource capacities to address water quality issues at
this point. The project component will take this into account and foster a regional dialogue and
cooperation between relevant agencies across the Basin. It will raise awareness on benefits/costs
of cooperation with regard to water quality management. Exchange of experiences on regulatory
issues and on water quality information between countries will facilitate improved decision
making by governments and other resource users. The project component also aims to create a
starting point for increased regional transboundary water quality assessment and collaborative
action through initiating a limited exchange of information. Activities related to geo-referencing
and exchange of information will be coordinated with and seek collaboration with the SVP Water
Resources Planning and Management Project activities as this project becomes operational.
- 14 -



The Bank funded components of the project amount to a total of US$20.81 million (divided
between GEF and NBTF resources) as depicted in the table below.
Project Cost by Component        Bank managed    Bank managed      Total Bank
GEF financing   NBTF financing  managed funds
US$million      US$million
1. Institutional Strengthening       5.07             3.63            7.77
2. Community-Level Land, Forest, and   0              7.4             7.4
Water Conservation
4. Wetlands and Biodiversity           0              2.71*
Conservation
5. Water Quality Basin-wide           2.93             0
Total Project Costs    8.0             12.81           20.81
An overview of the total project cost is provided in the table below. This table includes both the
UNDP and the Bank resources.
World Bank/GEF and NBTF Components
- ,;                 ". . *e. x Indicative  "  m%C ', *Baniex'-  n   T-,%to f' 
-,"Coh1oet    .'                    Cs        o    fiinig~ak~fnnig'GEF
%                           F~~~~~~~~r 
(US$M)  'Total, ,-(US$Mj  financing  (US$M) fnaiicing;
1.2 Knowledge Management                   0.99     4.8    0.00      0.0    0.99    12.4
1.3 Decision Support System - River Basin Model  6.33  30.4  2.70   21.1    3.63    45.4
1.4 Macro/Sectoral Policies and the Environment  0.45  2.2  0.00     0.0    0.45     5.6
2. Land, Forests and Water Conservation    7.40     35.6   7.40     57.8    0.00     0.0
4. Wetlands and Biodiversity Conservation  2.71     13.0   2.71     21.2    0.00     0.0
5. Water Quality Monitoring Basin-Wide (World  2.93  14.1  0.00      0.0    2.93    36.6
Bank GEF)                                                            _
Total Project Costs  20.81  100.0  12.81    100.0    8.00   100.0
Total Financing Required  20.81  100.0  12.81    100 0    8.00   100.0
"Bank" financing in the above table indicates financing from the Nile Basin Trust Fund (NBTF) that is managed
by the World Bank.
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The project supports the Nile Basin countries to develop sound approaches to dealing with
transboundary environmental threats at the regional and national level. The Nile countries
recognize that future development of the Basin must be environmentally sustainable. Identifying
the environment and development synergies, and thus the sustainable development opportunities
in the Basin, is now a major priority. Focusing on transboundary issues provides the riparian
countries with a major opportunity to make significant progress towards their economic and
environmental goals in ways that have proved difficult to achieve independently. Consensus has
emerged in support of a set of activities in the riparian countries to: (a) provide a strategic
framework for the environmentally sustainable development of the Nile River Basin as part of
the SVP; (b) improve the understanding of the relationship of water resources development and
the environment throughout the Basin; and (c) provide a forum to discuss development paths for
the Nile Basin with a wide range of stakeholders.
- 15-



The Policy Guidelines adopted by the Nile-COM in February 1999 further define the primary
objectives of the NBI. These objectives are:
o To develop the water resources of the Nile Basin in a sustainable and equitable way to ensure
prosperity, security, and peace for all its peoples;
o To ensure efficient water management and the optimal use of the resources;
o To ensure cooperation and joint action between the riparian countries, seeking win-win gains;
o To target poverty eradication and promote economic integration; and
o To ensure that the program results in a move from planning to action.
3. Benefits and target population:
The primary regional benefits lie in strengthening cooperation and communication on
transboundary environmental and water resources management issues and enhancing regional
and national capacities in natural resources management. Cooperation on transboundary issues
provides an opportunity for regional development that is sustainable and will benefit all people in
the Basin. Regional benefits include:
o Strengthened regional institutional capacity for coordinated natural resource and water
management as well as decision support tools;
o Increased basin-wide community action and cooperation in land and water management;
o   Empowerment of local communities in the management of land and water resources;
o Improved cooperation and capacities for basin-wide water quality monitoring;
o Development of common understanding of Nile riparian issues in the region; and
o Progress towards the NBI goals of sustainable development and poverty reduction.
Target populations and beneficiaries include:
o Local communities that will benefit from improved security through better land and water
resources management; women's groups will be specifically targeted;
o National and local decision makers that will benefit from better planning tools in
environment and water resources management;
o Universities, schools, and other educational and professional organizations that will benefit
from an expansion of the overall knowledge base related to the Nile's environment and water
resources as well as increased opportunities for networking with professional colleagues
within the Basin;
o Local and national governments in the recipient countries that will benefit from increased
opportunity for capacity building in their river basin monitoring and management skills,
improved knowledge of hydrology, and expanded opportunities to interact with partners from
other Nile Basin governments and NGOs; and
o NBI institutions, such as the Nile-COM, the Nile Technical Advisory Committee
(Nile-TAC), and Nile Basin Secretariat (Nile-SEC), as well as regional offices of the Nile
Equatorial Lakes and the Eastern Nile Subsidiary Action Programs (see Annex 14), which
will benefit from enhanced decision making and regional coordination towards sustainable
development goals.
- 16 -



4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
The Transboundary Environrmental Action Project will be jointly supported by UNDP and the
World Bank, as GEF implementing agencies, each with its specialized expertise and comparative
advantage in the thematic areas of intervention. In keeping with the decentralized implementation
arrangements made for the SVP, each of the seven SVP Projects will be executed by the NBI,
through its executive arm, the Nile-SEC. The NBI will set up separate Project Management
Units based in the Basin for each of the SVP projects.
The NBI will execute the World Bank GEF and NBTF financed portions. The Nile-COM has
decided that the NBI enters into a formal partnership with the United Nations Office for Project
Services (UNOPS) through a contractual arrangement to support the NBI in project execution.
This decision from the Nile-COM was given no-objection by the Bank with the approval of the
Bank's Operations Procurement Review Committee (OPRC).
A Project Management Unit (PMU) will be set up in Khartoum, Sudan for the entire project. The
PMU is funded through the UNDP financed portion of the project. The PMU will provide
technical and managerial support to the Nile-SEC in overseeing the implementation of the
project, with a Thematic Lead Specialist recruited from the region to coordinate each major
project component. Through LJNOPS as the NBI's agent, the PMU will also facilitate local
contracting, fund management, local procurement, disbursement, program administration and
project level monitoring (see Annex 13).
One National Project Coordinator in each country will provide a critical link between the
Thematic Lead Specialists based in the PMU and the national specialists and organizations
involved in implementing the various project components within the respective countries. Project
implementation will prioritize the participation of all key stakeholders, including local and
traditional communities, ministries of water, agriculture, and forestry, NGOs, educational
institutions, and private sector organizations.
A Project Steering Committee (PSC) will be established to provide oversight and guidance to
project implementation (see Annex 13).
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Project alternatives were reviewed through the preparation of the TEA. National experts played
key coordination and technical roles, together with UNDP and World Bank staff. One of the key
outputs was a preliminary characterization of the major basin-wide environmental threats by the
national experts. Broad national consultations and at least one stakeholder workshop were held in
each riparian country in order to ensure that the process incorporated local and national concerns
and priorities. After completing the national exercises, a regional priority setting exercise was
then undertaken to identify common transboundary environmental issues and priorities. Actions
that largely reflected national concerns, or which had limited transboundary relevance or would
require large national investments were either spun off into the SAPs or left to be addressed at
the national level. Priority actions that would enhance transboundary environmental cooperation,
- 17 -



learning and management were identified, and these are reflected in the project. Preparation of
the TEA fostered an impressive collaboration between the riparian countries' experts and
provided the foundation for the detailed design and implementation of the project.
The alternative to this basin-wide cooperative project would be a series of individual national
programs or projects that would be costly and likely result in duplication and inconsistencies.
Individual programs could not address transboundary issues or the need for systematic and
coordinated monitoring and assessment for regional management of Nile resources.
2. Major related projects flnanced by the B3ank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
An initial set of seven basin-wide projects (the SVP) has been endorsed by the Nile-COM and is
being prepared for implementation in the following areas: environmental action (this project),
power trade, efficient water use for agriculture, water resources planning and management,
communications, applied training, and socio-economic development and benefit sharing.
Through the NBI, the Nile countries are now moving forward to implement a Strategic Action
Program comprised of basin-wide activities and joint investment opportunities. Initial financing
has been obtained through the International Consortium for Cooperation on the Nile (ICCON)
(see Annex 14).
The Transboundary Environmental Action Project will provide a basin-wide framework for two
follow-on programs of investment activities: (a) Nile Equatorial Lakes Subsidiary Action
Program (NEL-SAP); and (b) Eastern Nile Subsidiary Action Program (EN-SAP). These
programs are preparing investment projects in sectors that include water and agriculture,
irrigation and drainage, sustainable management of lakes and linked wetlands, watershed
management, water hyacinth and water weed control, hydropower development and power trade,
and flood and drought preparedness.
In addition to NBI activities, two particularly notable transboundary enviromnental initiatives
have been launched in the Lake Victoria region of the Nile Basin, namely the Lake Victoria
Environmental Management Project (LVEMP) and the joint Lake Victoria Development Strategy
and Action Plan (LVDP).
LVEMP. The LVEMP is a comprehensive program that covers Lake Victoria and its catchment
in Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda. Its main objective is the rehabilitation of the ecosystem-using
a regional transboundary approach-for the benefit of the inhabitants and national economies.
The project addresses the major threats facing the Lake Victoria ecosystem, including
overfishing, eutrophication and algae levels, pollution and invasive exotic species such as the
water hyacinth. The ongoing project commenced in 1994 with a Tripartite Agreement and is
funded by GEF and IDA in addition to national contributions. A follow-up project (Sustainable
Management of the Lake Victoria Basin Program, SMLVBP) is proposed and preparation is
being launched.
The present NBI GEF project will seek to build explicitly upon the lessons learned by, and
achievements of, the LVEMP, allowing replication across the ten-country Nile basin. Activities
- 18 -



in Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda that are part of specific LVEMP components will not receive
additional support. However, the basin-wide activities in the present project will clearly include
Kenyan, Tanzanian and Ugandan participation, which will also aid in transfer of knowledge and
lessons learned. As investment and other support needs, including activities to address
transboundary issues, are further identified in the Lake Victoria Basin through the present project
or other NBI projects, these will be integrated into the preparation of SMLVBP wherever
appropriate. In this way, SMLVBP will be a primary vehicle for Bank support to NBI SAP
investment in the Lake Victoria Basin (see also Annex 14 for additional information on the NBI
and the SAPs).
In order to optimize coordination and maximize complementarity of the present basin-wide
project and LVEMP, the LVEMP focal points of each of the countries (Kenya, Tanzania and
Uganda) will be invited to participate in yearly PSC meetings of the present Nile Transboundary
Environmental Action project. In this way the NBI GEF project will build on and disseminate the
transboundary experiences and actions of LVEMP to the basin-wide level.
Thus the Bank, using IDA and GEF resources, will be financing transboundary water and
environment actions in the Nile Basin within one "concentric" framework, at different levels:
(a)   At the Basin-wide level (10 countries);
(b)   At the Sub-basin level (e.g. 6 countries in the Nile Equatorial Lakes); and
(c)   At lower levels, in the LVEMP/SMLVBP case at the level of Lake Victoria (3 countries).
LVDP. As part of a complementary, longer-term process, the Governments of Kenya, Tanzania
and Uganda have recently re-established fonnal cooperation through the East African
Community (EAC). The Lake Victoria Basin has been targeted as a Growth Zone common to the
three EAC countries and a joint Lake Victoria Development Strategy and Action Plan for
Sustainable Development (LVDP) is under preparation. To promote the investments necessary
EAC has entered into a Partnership Agreement with the Govermnents of Sweden (through Sida),
France and Norway as well as the World Bank and the East African Development Bank (April
2001). The partners are committed to support the development of the region in the long term in a
coordinated manner.
A list of relevant Bank projects in the ten Nile countries is provided below. An extensive list of
all relevant projects is provided in Annex 4 (see table entitled "Other Base-Line Projects".)
Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                  Project               (PSR) Ratings
(Bank-flnanced .projects only)|
Implementation  Development
Bank-financed                                            Progress (IP)  Objective (DO)
Regional (Kenya, Uganda, Tanzania) - Lake Victoria Environmental  S       S
International Waters - International  Management Project
Waters
Egypt - Agriculture            Egypt East Delta Agricultural  U          U
Services
Egypt - Irrigation and Drainage  Egypt Irrigation Improvement  S          S
- 19 -



Egypt - Irrigation and Drainage  Egypt National Drainage II      S            S
Egypt - Integrated Natural Resource  Matruh Resource Management  S            HS
Management
Ethiopia - Agricultural Research  Agricultural Research          S            S
Ethiopia - Natural Resource      Conservation and Sustainable    S            S
Management                       Use of Medical Plants
Ethiopia - Power - Energy Adjustment Energy Access Project
Kenya - Natural Resource         Arid Lands                      S             S
Management
Rwanda - Environment             Integrated Management of
Critical Ecosystems
Rwanda - Rural Water Supply       Rural Water Supply and          S            S
-Sanitation                      Sanitation Project
Tanzania - Water Resources and   River Basin Management and       S            S
Irrigation                       Smallholder Irrigation
Improvement
Tanzania - Environment           Wildlife and Livestock
Utilization
Uganda - Hydropower plant and    Bujagali / Private Hydropower    S            S
Transmnission
Uganda - Environment             Bwindi Forest and Mgahinga
Gorilla NP Conservation
Uganda - Enhancing Environmental  EMCBP I & II                    S            S
Management Capacity
Uganda - Power, Energy Conservation Energy for Rural
rransformation Project
Uganda - Natural Resource        ICB - PAMSU                      S            S
Management - Capacity Building -
Institutional Strengthening
Uganda - Advisory and Information  National Agriculture Advisory  S            S
Services                         Services Project
Uganda - Biodiversity and Nature  Protected Areas Management      S            S
Conservation                     and Sustainable Use
Uganda - Water Supply            Small Towns Water Supply         S            S
Uganda - Power System Expansion and UG Fourth Power Project       S            S
Rehabilitation - Power Sector Reform
Uganda - Fuels                   Water Hyacinth Industry
Other development agencies
For projects funded by other
development agencies please refer to
Annex 4 - baseline projects
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
For non-Bank projects, please see Annex 4, Incremental Costs.
- 20 -



3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Lessons learned from the NBI to date, from the region and from the broader GEF International
Waters Project portfolio, were reflected in project design. The lessons that are of the greatest
relevance to the project include:
(a)   Development of a shared vision. This important step allows development and expression
of a common overarching goal for cooperation and a common view of the objectives of
riparian involvement in a transboundary dialogue and/or institution. Goals need to take
full account of historical, environmental, and socio-economic development constraints
and opportunities.
(b)   Movingfrom challenges and constraints to opportunities. Long-term conflict over scarce
resources creates challenges, but also provides opportunity for cooperation, thereby
unlocking a huge development potential. In spite of a history of conflicting water
demands and difficulties, the Nile riparian countries have come together to forge a new
environment of cooperation, seeking win-win benefits. The Shared Vision Program has
been designed to provide the "software" and the enabling environment that will foster
sound transboundary cooperation and development among the Nile riparian states.
(c)   Sharing benefits not sharing water. A dialogue that moves away from a stalemate in
sharing a limited resource to sharing its benefits-especially in situations where water
quantity is at stake-can provide a much more constructive base for continued
cooperation and open an avenue for regional integrated planning. This also implies the
need for "widening the circle" from water departments alone to broader sectoral
involvement, such as agriculture, environment, planning, energy, infrastructure, and
education.
(d)   Preventive and curative measures. There is a need to identify and undertake both
preventive and curative measures to address environmental management concerns,
ensuring a careful balance of the two. Preventive measures are by far the most
cost-effective type of intervention and can be complemented by curative actions to
remediate existing problems. In the Nile context, where the water quality concerns are not
yet at critical levels, except in isolated locations (largely centered on urban centers around
Lake Victoria, around large-scale irrigation along the Nile and in the delta), the emphasis
on preventive measures through sustainable development planning presents a huge
opportunity for preventive action.
(e)   Institutional and legalframework. The dialogue and commitment to agree on a basic
legal and institutional framework should be supported and where necessary capacity
should be built to assist in this process. Partnership and trust among countries requires a
"leveling of the playing field" in terms of information and skills among riparian partners.
Entering into dialogue and eventually agreeing on a framework for cooperation
demonstrate national and regional political commitment and facilitate the initiation of
more concrete investment discussions.
(f)   Acceptance of principle of subsidiarity and agreed policy guidelines. The acceptance of
the commonly known principle of subsidiarity has proven immensely useful in the Nile
context. Once agreement was found and a common set of Policy Guidelines determined,
- 21 -



within which all agreed to operate, this provided the opportunity to explore subsidiary
actions on the sub-basin level, which would concern those countries affected by and those
involved in the proposed activities.
(g)   Trust. Developing trust and personal relations among riparian delegations from countries
that have often been in conflict for decades or more is a key ingredient to moving the
process further. Trust and confidence among and between riparian parties and between
riparians and donor partners need to be built and long-term involvement of specific
individuals can be very important.
(h)   Long-term commitment to process and product. Involvement in regional processes
requires a substantial commitment in terms of time, and long-term provision of financial
and human resources. The dialogue process and support for development of trust
underpin an enabling environment for cooperation, and a sense of ownership of and
commitment by all parties to a process that may require years to bear fruit. For donor
agencies, a key requirement is that they be able to stay with the process. Long-term
support that will not be subject to political and institutional changes must be a mainstay
of any donor involvement.
(i)   Partnerships. Building broad partnerships among and within the riparian countries and
with key international agencies and donors is essential for a coordinated process and
implementation of programs and for utilizing the comparative advantage of donor
institutions. Public support and broad ownership in the countries should be encouraged
and built early in the process.
(j)   Management structures and implementation arrangements. Financial sustainability,
careful attention to institutional set-ups and selection of staff, and consideration of
efficient, transparent and accountable management structures are all essential. Regional
projects often have high overhead costs given the inherent complexity of their tasks. The
present project has been designed with minimum organizational structures, and will
instead draw on consultancy expertise (preferably regional consultants) when required.
4. Indications of borrower and recipient commitment and ownership:
National Level. At the national level, the project has received strong support from governmental
institutions and NGOs, which have actively participated in project preparation activities and
workshops (Annex 12 provides a summary of the participatory process that was used in the
project preparation process and a list of the involved stakeholders). The Environment
Ministries/Agencies in the Nile countries have taken an active leadership role in the formulation
of this project, working in close consultation with their sector colleagues in the respective
ministries of water affairs (in a number of countries-Burundi, DRC, Kenya, Rwanda, Tanzania
and Uganda-water and environment are within the same ministry). In addition, broader NGO
and public participation in the preparation process was ensured through the organization of
national workshops in each country to review the TEA and the priorities which were beginning to
emerge as potential project elements.
- 22 -



Regional Level. At the regional level the commitment of the Nile countries has been of historic
proportions. This large group of countries, many of which have a history of tension between
them, has come together as one, united behind the NBI and the Shared Vision. This was
demonstrated to the world at the June 2001 ICCON at which the countries presented their Vision
and their program to the world's donor community.
The Nile countries realize that effective management and conservation of the Nile's unique
environment and natural resources will depend first and foremost on long-term, high-level
commitment by governments as well as the communities and peoples benefiting from the Nile.
The prospects for implementing and sustaining the benefits of the Agenda for Environmental
Action, including the initial activities within the present project, have been substantially
enhanced by being embedded within the much broader basin-wide initiative to which the
governments of the Nile countries have already committed themselves (see Annex 14). The
governments see the NBI as offering the possibility to move beyond isolated planning and
unilateral actions in a non-cooperative and possibly contentious setting, towards cooperative
development planning in the utilization of this transboundary resource, seeking win-win
opportunities within the spirit of benefit sharing. The initial basin-wide activities must therefore
be seen as a component within a much larger Nile Basin Strategic Action Program. The
governments of the region, in making their commitments to the NBI - including the actions
identified through the TEA - have committed themselves to finding cooperative solutions to
sustainable governance of shared natural resources and further integration. While intangible and
unquantifiable, these commitments are the most important elements underpinning long-term
sustainability of activities in the Nile Basin. The decision of the Nile riparian countries to
self-finance the recurring costs of the Nile-SEC further reflects this commitment. This measure
has been put in place to assure true ownership and control of the process.
5. Value added of Bank and Global support in this project:
The external support provided to the NBI is critical to the success of the SVP as well as the SAPs
since the Bank, UNDP and other donor partners are able to provide a wide range of practical
experience from a series of jointly implemented regional GEF programs (Baltic Sea, Black Sea,
Danube River Basin, Mediterranean Sea, Mekong River Basin, Lake Victoria, Red Sea, etc.). The
global support provided by GEF facilitates the mobilization of regional efforts and resources to
overcome barriers to addressing the management of transboundary environmental issues.
Without the combined resources of the Bank, UNDP, GEF and donor partners, implementation
of the Agendafor Environmental Action would proceed at a slower pace and would not fully
benefit from the experience gained from other regional environmental programs worldwide.
The recent Second Biennial GEF International Waters Conference, held in Dalian, Liaoning
Province, China, on September 25-29, 2002, demonstrated that the UNDP and the World Bank
are leading agencies in implementing GEF International Waters Projects. Considerable in-house
expertise and intemationally-based knowledge of the main issues relating to such initiatives has
been developed. While the NBI is by far the largest of the ongoing intemational waters initiatives
at the moment, it is noteworthy that currently the World Bank is involved in the implementation
and/or preparation of some twenty-three GEF Intemational Waters Projects in Africa, the Middle
East, Latin America, Europe and South East Asia.
- 23 -



E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
o Cost benefit   NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
o Cost effectiveness
O Incremental Cost
o Other (specify)
The economic evaluation methodology is the GEF incremental cost analysis. Although a number
of baseline activities touch upon the proposed project, the incremental costs are substantial.
Project investment addresses the transboundary overlay of Nile environmental management. It is
highly unlikely that the individual countries would take action independently to preserve a
resource that will be available for other, neighboring countries to use and the present project
therefore provides an essential element for sound and sustainable management of the shared
water resources.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
The project builds on a number of existing national and regional activities. In terms of this
project, sustainable financing of the transboundary activities beyond GEF funding is a key issue.
A first step in ensuring the long-term sustainability of environmental management activities was
made in March 2001 when the Nile-COM endorsed the Nile TEA. This document, the
preparation of which was funded by the GEF PDF B resources, lays the foundation for sound
environmental analysis and understanding for programs which will follow. Financial
sustainability is further ensured through strong government ownership and comrnitment to the
NBI. In addition, the June 2001 meeting of the first ICCON secured US$140 million in donor
pledges towards the SVP and the preparation work for the first SAP (the investment projects). In
the long term, therefore, the mainstreaming of environmental management action will be secured
through the investment program, which is now under preparation.
Fiscal Impact:
Not applicable.
3. Technical:
The project is supporting networks, electronic communication and information dissemination to
link the Nile Countries and stakeholders in different agencies, NGOs and educational institutions
across the Basin. While it is realized that information technology infrastructure and availability in
the countries is often just emerging, experience over the past five years has shown that this
development is very fast and growing. Additionally, the information dissemination aspects do not
only rely on electronic media, but also on regular distribution of printed material.
The main technical element in the project is the River Basin Model. This component of the
project builds on existing technologies and incorporates lessons learned from these efforts. It is
the first participatory basin-wide modeling effort entirely developed in institutions in the Basin
and emphasizes capacity building and the creation of opportunities for careers for younger staff.
Some specific technical challenges associated with developing the River Basin Model relate to:
- 24 -



* A suitable balance between the requirements of accuracy of model output and the relative
scarcity of data;
* Maintenance and continuity of data collection;
* Operation and maintenance of information management systems/databases at regional and
national levels;
* Regional coordination regarding uniformity and quality assurance of data and information;
* Design of the River Basin Model and the overall DSS so that these are useful tools at all
levels and scales: regional, sub-regional, and national; and
* Creation of sustainable mechanisms of financing for activities after project completion.
The basin-wide water quality component has been designed as a starting point for coordination
and dialogue on water quality management on a basin-wide scale. There is a wide divergence in
the Nile Countries with respect to the priority accorded to water quality issues as well as
capacities to address water quality threats. Project activities are facilitating regional cooperation
through:
* Capacity building;
* Facilitating water quality data exchange;
* Comprehensive evaluation of the current state of water quality; and
* Enhanced monitoring efforts.
Support for water quality monitoring efforts will be geared towards low cost field methods with
an emphasis on synergy with project activities in the Community-Level Land, Forests and Water
Conservation component. As the emphasis of this component is to launch a basin-wide dialogue
supplemented by exchanges and training, the project will not support significant laboratory
development or equipment purchases. Additional resources are still required to upgrade national
capacities in a number of the Nile countries which are largely outside the scope of the present
regional effort. It is expected that in countries where this is considered a priority, this will form
elements of the SAP investment program.
4. Institutional:
The Nile Basin countries have established, through a series of legal instruments adopted at
meetings of the Nile-COM between 1999 and 2002, transitional institutional mechanisms for
cooperation, including a regional organization, the NBI, headquartered in Entebbe, Uganda. The
current NBI institutional structure is transitional in nature until a permanent institution within a
basin-wide framework for cooperation has been established. A Cooperative Framework is
currently under discussion by the Nile Basin countries. While the establishment of a permanent
regional institution will facilitate continuity and sustainability of the NBI activities, the present
project and the entire SVP will contribute to strengthening cooperation, building awareness and
supporting the development of technical tools as well as strengthening the expertise needed to
support the anticipated functions of a permanent institution when it is established.
The SVP will be executed by the NBI through Project Management Units. The preparation of the
SVP projects has been a complex, multi-country, multi-sectoral process involving more than
- 25 -



seventy national experts from nine countries in the preparation of the seven projects. The NBI
structure, supported by the Nile-SEC, has effectively managed this process, demonstrating Nile
riparian capacity for basin-wide coordination. Effective implementation of the present project as
well as the other SVP projects, however, will be a challenge. The creation of strong PMUs, as
well as continued attention to strengthening the regional coordination capabilities of the NBI will
be critical to the success of this project and each of the other SVP Projects.
As outlined in Annex 13, the seven Shared Vision Projects will be headquartered different Nile
countries to maintain country ownership and involvement. The present project will be hosted in
Khartoum, Sudan. All project components are regional in cha-racter and all the participating
countries, including the host country, will receive the same benefits from project operations. The
host country will provide office space and other in-kind contributions. To avoid possible
conflicts of interests, the Council of Ministers has determined that the Project Managers of each
of the Shared Vision Project (including the present project) will not be a national of the host
country (See also Annex 6).
Sudan holds a critical place in the Nile Basin, forming more than 60% of the basin with all the
major rivers meeting in Sudan. To achieve the objectives of the Nile Basin Initiative, the
participation of Sudan is key. Due to Sudan's non accrual status, the Bank does not have a
lending program with Sudan at present. By supporting the inclusive approach of the NBI through
a direct grant to NBI, the Bank will ensure that the regional benefits of this program are not
compromised by the non-accrual status of a participating country in the Bank.
In addition, it should be noted that the Shared Vision Program will provide a platform for
regional dialogue and will enhance trust and cooperation, thereby providing an important
contribution to peace building.
4.1 Executing agencies:
The NBI will execute the World Bank financed portion of the project. The NBI will act on behalf
of the Nile Basin countries, and be responsible to the World Bank to ensure that applicable rules
and procedures are adhered to. On behalf of the NBI, the U1NDP portion of the project will be
executed by UNOPS. The project will be managed by a small PMU to be created in Khartoum,
Sudan. The PMU will be designed to function in close liaison and under the supervision of the
Nile-SEC. To ensure that the NBI meets its required fiduciary, procurement, and project
management responsibilities, the Bank and the NBI have agreed on an implementation
arrangement through which the NBI will contract UNOPS to support Project execution by the
NBI of the Bank managed components (see Annex 13). As no funds will transit directly through
NBI, a Procurement and Financial Management Assessment of the NBI is not required.
4.2 Project management:
Project management challenges in a multi-country regional setting cannot be underestimated. The
commitment of all the Nile countries to the NBI has been and continues to be a key for success.
The success so far of the NBI is to a large extent derived from the fact that the countries have
been firmly in the driver's seat, and that there is a keen sense of ownership of the Initiative. As
the NBI moves into the project implementation phase, close attention must be paid by the Bank
and UNDP to ensure that the PMU and the National Project Coordinators identify closely with,
- 26 -



and integrate well into the NBI structures, rather than functioning as separate entities that report
to Washington or New York. For detailed project management description, see Annex 13.
4.3 Procurement issues:
Choice of a Project Services Agency. The Bank financed portion of the project will be executed
by the NBI through its executive arm, Nile-SEC. The Nile-COM has decided that the NBI would
contract a Project Services Agency (PSA) for the implementation of the SVP. The purpose of the
PSA is to support the NBI in the execution of the SVP projects, through the provision of project
services, in particular financial management, procurement of goods and services and capacity
building of the NBI to oversee basin-wide projects. Following an extensive evaluation of options,
the Bank agreed to the Nile-COM's request that UNOPS be selected as the PSA. (For further
information on the choice and selection of the PSA, please see Annex 6).
Procurement of works and goods financed through the World Bank by the GEF Trust Fund and
through the NBTF administered by the World Bank will follow the World Bank's "Guidelines
for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" dated January 1995, and revised January
and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999. Procurement of services financed by the
GEF Trust Fund and the NBTF will follow the World Bank's "Guidelines for Selection and
Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" dated January 1997, revised September
1997, January 1999 and May 2002. The World Bank's latest editions of standard bidding
documents and contracts will be used.
Consultant Services. It is envisaged that a large percentage of the consultants used on this
project will be individual consultants, many of whom will be selected from the Nile Basin
countries, who will work directly with specific aspects of the different components with both
national and basin-wide teams implementing those components. Consultant firms will be used
primarily for major studies and training exercises. Bank managed resources budgeted for
consultant firms amount to a total of US$7.0 million, while Bank managed resources for
individual consultants amount to a total of US$3.7 million.
Microgrants to NGOs. A large portion of the NBTF Grant (US$5.5 million) is being used to
make small grants to NGOs in the Nile Basin countries. These grants will be no larger than
US$25,000 and will be selected through a formal procedure to be established by the PMU based
on the UNDP GEF Small Grants Program procedures.
4.4 Financial management issues:
As the project implementation functions will be carried out by UNOPS for the NBI, and further
as no financial management actions will be undertaken by the NBI, a financial management
assessment of the Nile Secretariat is not required. As part of the appraisal process, a senior Bank
financial management specialist traveled to New York to discuss project financial management
issues with UNOPS.
5. Environmental:               Environmental Category: C (Not Required)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
The project enhances transboundary cooperation and environmental quality. Training,
- 27 -



networking, improving the management of ecologically sensitive areas and information
management are among the major activities of the project. The project is anticipated to enhance
environmental management through improved information exchange and common analytical
methods for water quality monitoring. Actions on the ground involve a Microgrant Program for
community access (grants< $25,000) for improved local land management, water weed control,
soil conservation, and land and water degradation control. The activities will be implemented at
community and village levels. Screening for environmental and social aspects will be part of the
grant application process.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
No Environmental Management Plan required.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft:
Not applicable.
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe
mechanisms of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
Not applicable.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
Not applicable.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
The development of national policies for the use and protection of natural resources is of
significant social importance in the Nile Basin countries, which are largely natural resource based
economies. It is important that regional development action reflect the concerns of society and
endorse the positive aspects of each society's values and culture while also ensuring that the
transboundary nature of the resources does not result in downstream environmental degradation.
Additionally, the present project will contribute to dialogue and decisions on possible alternative
development paths from a regional perspective, thereby contributing to sustainable management
of land and water resources. Environmental sustainability issues are largely linked to social
issues of access to resources. The project will improve the information needed to assess social
and environmental impacts of future NBI and related projects. The project itself, however, as it
focuses on the building of capacity and technical tools, is not anticipated to have any adverse
social impacts. The project will actively involve local and national NGOs and support
community action. Equal participation of the poor and women will be assured throughout project
implementation. For example, women's groups are specifically targeted by the Microgrant
Program.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
Key stakeholders in the project are the national water and environment ministries/agencies as
well as educators, local communities and NGOs. The ministries will participate at the level of
policy issues, and in the development of the River Basin Model and the Water Quality work. The
- 28 -



educators will participate in the development of common educational modules on transboundary
water and environment issues for primary, secondary and tertiary levels and students at these
levels will also participate through their involvement in training, networking through the creation
of school twinning arrangements, study tours, jamborees, school competitions, etc. NGOs and
community groups will participate through the Microgrant Program and through the public
awareness and outreach programs. The overall design of the project is based on open and broad
participation at multiple layers of society, with the aim of ensuring that as many points of
contacts as possible are created between the countries, therefore leading to greater understanding
and dialogue, and, eventually, trust, integration and thus an overall reduction in tension and
conflict. The conduct of frequent workshops is seen as an important means of bringing the
different countries and stakeholders together.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
Annex 12 highlights the large number of national government and NGO institutions that were
involved in project design and preparation. Implementation of the project will involve even
larger numbers of community groups and NGOs. The Microgrant Program specifically targets
local communities and NGOs in the Nile countries, while the Environmental Education and
Awareness component will also largely be implemented by NGOs from the region. During the
pre-appraisal, extensive meetings and consultations with NGOs and community-based
organizations were undertaken. The present document reflects the findings and priorities from
these consultations.
Annex 12 also provides an overview of some of the agencies and institutions that the project
would aim to involve in the implementation phase.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
The implementation arrangements for the project include regular meetings of the PSC. These
meetings are intended to provide the governments, World Bank, UJNDP and other co-financiers
with information on the progress of the project, and with the opportunity to modify project
activities to best accomplish overall project goals. As noted, one of these goals is community
empowerment through appropriate informational programming and through the Microgrant
Program. At the national level, the Microgrant Steering Committees will overview the
Microgrant Program and will monitor that target beneficiaries are reached.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
The Logical Framework (see Annex 1) provides initial benchmarks for project monitoring.
However, a separate monitoring unit will be established under the project to monitor and provide
information on project progress and success in achieving project outcomes. In addition, the
project will be subject to an independent mid-term evaluation. This will provide further insight
and analysis on project progress and will suggest corrective measures for under-performing
components or activities.
- 29 -



7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Are any of the following safeguard policies triggered by the pr ect?
- X z  s,  Policy                              Triggered
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)      U Yes U No
Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, HP 4.04, GP 4.04)              U Yes U No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                               ( Yes U No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                    Yes U No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                             U Yes U No
Indigenous Peoples (0D 4.20)                              _ Yes U No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                     ()Yes (9 No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                         (9 Yes ( No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)  (9) Yes ( No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*   (9 Yes ( No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
There are no anticipated issues surrounding safeguard compliance (see copy of Integrated
Safeguards Data Sheet - Annex 19).
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Project Ownership. Sustainability of project initiatives will greatly depend on the approach
adopted during project design and implementation. First and foremost is the question of project
ownership. Through a resolutely participatory process of project design, every effort has been
made to ensure that riparian country stakeholders genuinely "own" the project. Local
communities, NGOs and the private sector have been engaged in the national and local
consultations underlying the TEA. These and other key stakeholders will need to be genuinely
engaged in project implementation and encouraged to take on ownership. Project ownership will
also be demonstrated through continued national commitment to the Nile Basin institutional
set-up.
Tangible Benefits. The second important concem is whether the project outcomes will indeed
result in tangible benefits for the local communities and farmers. It is recognized that the initial
beneficiaries of the project will be selected local communities, NGOs, educators, government
agencies and ministries, and the private sector. For long-term sustainability, project benefits must
reach policy makers, financial planners and private sector investors. Incorporating regional
experiences at the national level will need to form an important element of this strategy.
Regional Cooperation. Project sustainability will depend on the growing Nile cooperation being
maintained and strengthened among the Nile Basin countries. There is among the riparians a
strong conunitment and a clear notion of "crossing the Rubicon", a sense that so much has been
invested already that the Nile Basin Initiative, including the present project, must succeed for the
process to move forward. Regional commitment to the process is high, with the specifics of the
- 30-



cooperation anchored in the Policy Guidelines endorsed by the Nile Council of Ministers. The
core institutions governing the overall Nile Basin Initiative (Nile-COM, Nile-TAC and
Nile-SEC) as well as the Policy Guidelines have emphasized the importance of transparent
operational procedures, open communication networks and information sharing as key principles
to guide long-term regional cooperation.
la. Replicability:
2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of cntical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Commitment of the Nile-Basin Countries. Project success will be critically dependent on the
countries' continued commitment to collaboration with other Nile Basin member countries, and
to achieving the objectives of the SVP program, as laid down by the Nile-TAC. This is intimately
related to political stability in the region. Many countries in the region are facing war, political
uncertainty, extreme poverty, diseases, etc. All these conditions are not conducive to a long-term
project aimed at improving an enabling environment on a regional basis. On the other hand, this
and other NBI projects seek to contribute towards building trust among the Nile Basin countries.
This very trust will work towards increasing cooperation and thereby reducing the levels of
conflicts and tension. It is therefore of crucial importance that this process have tangible benefits.
The emphasis on regional cooperation, the collaborative efforts that have been made to produce
the TEA and the regional ownership that is the result thereof are powerful instruments for not
only achieving the project's objectives, but also for accomplishing the longer term trust and
understanding.
Institutional Leadership. The project critically depends on the capability of government
institutions and staff to provide visionary leadership. This may not be forthcoming in a setting
where there is general lack of incentives for staff, research and innovation and supporting
infrastructure. Through regional learning from study tours, exchange visits and consultations, the
project endeavors to create institutional capacity and leadership that will form the basis for
implementation of project activities. It should be pointed out that the project intends to seek
visionary leadership within, and not outside, the boundaries of the Nile Basin.
Regional Coordination Capacity. The institutions of the NBI supported by the Nile-SEC, have
effectively managed a complex, multi-country sectoral process to prepare the seven projects of
the Shared Vision Program. This demonstrates capacity for basin-wide coordination. Effective
implementation of the SVP projects, however, will be a challenge. The creation of a strong
Project Management Unit has been incorporated into the project design while continued
strengthening of the regional capabilities of the NBI will take place through the present project as
well as the broader SVP.
National Institutional Capacity. Recognizing that some countries in the Basin face institutional
capacity constraints, the project has been designed to strengthen institutional and human
resources capacity in the recipient countries. Component 1 of the present project, "Regional
Capacity Building for Transboundary Environmental Management" is specifically designed to
- 31 -



develop a culture of good practice within national environmental management institutions.
lInsecurity znd Conflict. Seven of the ten countries in the Nile region are at present, or have
recently been, involved in internal or external conflict. This brings both operational as well as
political risks to a process and a project of this size. However, there is awareness at the highest
political levels of the Nile countries of the possibilities of a "cooperation and peace dividend"
which the broader Nile Basin Initiative can leverage, and thus there is a high-level commitment
to maintaining the momentum of the process, in spite of the political landscape and reality of the
moment. Leaders in the Nile Basin countries have made it clear that they see the Nile Basin
Initiative as a tremendous opportunity to bring further cooperation, economic exchange and
eventually greater integration and interdependence, which can yield high returns in terms of
growth, food security, sustainable development and peace. Both of the Implementing Agencies
are well represented in the ten countries concerned and manage large programs delivering both
development and humanitarian assistance in all the countries. Moreover, as far as the regional
Nile process is concerned, UNDP and the Bank have been involved since 1995 and 1997
respectively, and are confident of the agencies' ability to deliver this GEF project, as well as the
larger Nile Basin Initiative, in an efficient and effective manner.
Risk                   Risk Rating            Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Regional and national level management/    S        Through the broader SVP program, capacities
institutional capacities are not adequate           are being built for regional management at a
to ensure effective basin-wide                      variety of levels. The present project will
coordination.                                       contribute to this effort in the environmental
field, through regional exchanges, workshops,
study tours and targeted training.
Qualified and motivated staff and/or       M        Through mainstreaming enviromnental
experts for particular components are not           management in governments and through
available in the region.                            exposure to training and exchange, motivation
of staff and career opportunities will be
enhanced.
Riparians are unwilling to share           M        All riparian countries have committed to share
information and collaborate in the design           information for the project-specific
and implementation of project                       components. Moreover, the follow-on
components.                                         investment projects will act as an incentive to
mitigate this risk.
1.2 The parallel Shared Vision Program     N        Canadian CIDA has already committed funds
Confident Building and Stakeholder                  through the NBTF for this component. The
Involvement Project s unable to provide             NBI has decided to fast-track this project, in
planned support to the newsletter and                view if the important service it is providing to
website.                                            the entire NBI.
1.3 Adequate national level institutional  S        This project sub-component is directly linked
and human capacity is not available to              to the SVP Water Resources Planning and
implement the Regional River Basin                  Management Project, which is designed to
Model (RBM) component and sustain the               assist the Riparians in building both the
activity.                                           necessary human and institutional capacities.
1.4 Necessary economic and                 S        This project sub-component will study the links
- 32 -



environmental data is not available over            between the environment and macro-policies.
periods necessary to develop trends and             Study topics will be selected in countries/fields
sound hypotheses.                                   in which data available.
2.3 Active women's participation in       M         Special efforts will be made to encourage
component activities is not achieved in             women's participation in the project
all countries.                                      component. M&E will particularly track
gender ratios so corrective measures can be
taken.
2.3 Community-level stakeholders are not  M         A National Microgrant Coordinator will be
ready to submit proposals and implement             appointed in each of the countries to work
grants dealing with transboundary issues.           actively with community and NGO networks
for outreach to communities and
community-based organizations.
From Components to Outputs
Pledged donor financing, including         M        The GEF Executive Council has endorsed the
second phase GEF financing, and                     project brief in at the GEF Executive Council
riparian in kind financing are not                  meeting in December 2001. Canadian CIDA
provided at expected levels.                        has confirmed its contribution and already paid
the first installment. Other NBTF donors are
going through the appropriations procedures
and are expected to follow suit.
Overall Risk Rating                        M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
None
G. Main Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition and Board Condition
a. Board Condition
The Bank will receive the following from the NBI countries, in form and substance satisfactory to it:
*   A letter from each of the countries' Ministers of Finance confirming their respective countries'
agreement for the NBI to execute the GEF Grant on their behalf.
b. Effectiveness Conditions
*   NBI, through its executive arm, the Nile Basin Secretariat, has entered into a Management Services
Agreement for project services execution to the satisfaction of the Bank;
*   Project Steering Committee constituted;
*   Regional Project Management Unit established and its staff appointed;
- 33 -



o   Procurement plan for first Project year prepared and agreed;
O   Submission to the Bank of a Project Implementation Manual for use in project implementation;
O   UNDP Project Document (UNDP/GEF funded portion of the Project) signed;
O   Recruitment of an independent extemal auditor for the yearly audit of the Project accounts; and
O   Establishment of an adequate financial management system for Project monitoring and
implementation.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
Conditions to be met at 2i times during project implementatton
O   Contract with the Project Services Agency continues to be in force;
o   Regional Project Management Unit remains adequately staffed; and
O   NBI, as executing agency, is able to operate in accordance with the legal Instruments establishing it,
and provide funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the project (Section 3.01 (a) of
Grant Agreement).
H=. RIeadiness for mrpDemeMnation
C 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the
start of project implementation.
1. b) Not applicable.
2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
Z 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
0 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
L. Compflance with Banka Policies
3 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
D 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies
with all other applicable Bank policies.
A temporary waiver of the Bank's policy on the ineligibility of taxes under Bank financing has
been granted by Bank management for a period of three years. During the three-year period, each
participating country will pass national legislation which will grant the tax exemption to the NBI.
In r   dersen                  r Praful C. Patel               ,GPraful C. Patel
Team Leader                      Sector Manager/Director     AP    Country Director
- 34 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
NILE BASIN INITIATIVE: Nile Transboundary Environmental Action Project
Key Performance        Data Collection Strategy
Hierarchy of Objectives          Indicators                                     Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:  Sector Indicators:         Sector/ country reports:  (from Goal to Bank Mission)
The vision of the Nile Basin  Increasing levels of regional  Nile Secretariat's Annual  Continued political and
Initiative (NBI) is to achieve  cooperation and coordination  Report.          financial commitment to the
sustainable socio-economic  through the Shared Vision                          NBI by the ten ripanan states.
development through the    Program's seven regional
equitable utilization of, and  projects.                                       Continued donor support.
benefit from, the common Nile
Basin water resources.
The NBI's Shared Vision
Program aims to support the
establishment of an enabling
environment for cooperative
development.
GEF Operational Program:  Outcome I Impact
Indicators:
The Transboundary
Environmental Action project
aims to develop a framework
for basin-wide environmental
action linked to transboundary
issues within the context of the
Nile Basin Initiative's (NBI's)
Shared Vision Program under
the GEF's International
Waters Program.
- 35 -



Key Performance      |Da a  oDiection $strategy
Hierarchy of ,bjectives I       Undicaors         I                         I  Crilical ASumptions
Global Objective:         Outcome / Impact          Project reports:          (from Objective to Goal)
Indicators:
The project aims at creating  o Increased regional  Nile Basin Initiative     The Nile riparian governments
more effective basin-wide    cooperation in         Transboundary Environmental agree on the planning,
stakeholder cooperation on   environmental and water  Action Project reports that  implementation and
transboundary environmental   management fields.    clearly document basin-wide  monitoring of the project.
issues by supporting the   o Increased basin-wide   cooperation on environmental
implementation of a subset of  community action and  action.                  Project component work plans
actions pnoritized by the TEA,  cooperation in land and                       and financial arrangements for
including:                    water management.     Project monitoring and   the project are in place.
o Enhancing the analytical  o Basin-wide networks of  evaluation reports.
capacity for a basin-wide  environmental and water                        Stakeholders from both the
perspective to support the  professionals.                                public sector and civil society
sustainable development,  o Greater appreciation of                       at large are willing to actively
management, and           river hydrology and more                        participate in and collaborate
protection of Nile Basin  informed discussion of                          with the project.
water.                    development paths.
o Engaging the full       o Expanded information and                         Full GEF Financing for all
spectrum of stakeholders,  knowledge base on land                         planned project components.
from local communities to  and water resources
national policy makers,   available to professionals
from elementary schools   and NGOs.
to universities, from   o Greater awareness of the
NGOs to line ministries, in  linkages between
management and            macro/sectoral policies
protection of the Basin's  and the environment.
shared resources.       o Greater awareness and
increased capacity on
transboundary water
quality threats.
- 36 -



Key Performance      1 Data Collection Strategy
Hierarchy of Objectives         Indicators        __Critical Assumptions
Output from each          Output Indicators:        Project reports:          (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
1.1 Institutional Strengthening  1.1 Establish PMU and Project Annual Project Report -  1.1 Qualified and motivated
to Facilitate Regional    Steering Committee, including including project monitoring  staff and other resources are
Cooperation (GEFNWB &     hiring of staff (GEF/UNDP).  and evaluation, and workshop available in the region.
GEF/UNDP).                                          reports.
Regional Capacity Building for
Transboundary Environmental
Management (GEF/UNDP).
1.2 Communications and    1.2 PMU and National      1.2 Project newslenter.   1.2 The parallel Shared Vision
Knowledge Management      Coordinator offices connected  1.2 Regularly updated  Program Communications
(GEFIWB).                 to Internet (GEFIWB).     website.                  Project becomes operational
1.2 Newsletter published                            and provides planned support
regularly and distributed                          to the newsletter and website.
widely with best practices,
lessons learned, workshop
announcements and links to
additional resource material of
interest for all project areas
(GEF/WB).
1.2 Basin-wide environmental
web site established and used
as knowledge portal to access
NBI related environment
reports and for distributing
newslenter (GEF/WB).
1.3 River Basin Model (RBM): 1.3 Functioning river basin  1.3 Annual progress, technical 1.3 Adequate regional-level
Regional River Basin model,  planning model jointly  and financial reports to  management capacities to
coupled with human capacity  developed (GEFIWB).    Steering Committee and    ensure effective basin-wide
and institutional support,  1.3 Greater appreciation for  Nile-SEC.           coordination.
developed and facilitating  river system behavior among  1.3 External review and  1.3 Adequate national-level
water resources planning at a  the riparians (GEFIWB).  evaluation reports at critical  institutional capacity and
regional level (GEFNWB &  1.3.1 River Basin Model   milestones and project    cooperation to implement and
NBTF/WB).                 developed and staff trained  completion.            sustain project.
(GEFIWB)                  1.3 RBM performance and   1.3 Riparians are willing to
* Model developed and    training program evaluations. share information and
calibrated based on     * User guides and technical collaborate in the design and
participatory development  manuals; model test and  maintenance of the River
process.                  calibration results.   Basin Model.
* Core riparian staff     * Workplans and training  * Consensus reached on
understand and able to    logs/reports documenting  model needs and
use model.                in-basin on-the-job       approach to describing
1.3.2 Linkages between       training, in-basin        river basin system.
regional Unit and national    seminars and workshops;  * Accuracy of river basin
network of users established  international study tours,  model description useful.
(GEFIWB)                      etc.                    * Input data adequate and
* Multi-sectoral network of  * Interviews during visits to  consistent.
DSS/RBM users solidified  focal points and network  * Partners in other sectors
at national level through  nodes .                  and institutions can be
awareness building.     * Technical papers          motivated to actively
* National staff capable of  documenting process,     cooperate.
using model.              model results, and use of  * Data exchanges take
* Technical troubleshooting  test applications         place to level necessary
and country visits by   * Course certificates or    for meaningful analysis.
regional DSS/RBM unit     degrees for overseas    * Model results credible.
staff conducted.          training                * Combinations of
-37 -



1.3.3 River Basin Model    o Independent evaluations.  short-term, long-term
refined and applied (GEFAWB)  o Report on institutional and  training plans, twinning
o River Basin Model applied  financing options.       with international
on riparian selected test                           institutions, and
cases.                                              involvement of local
o Modeling results facilitate                         universities sustain and
dialogue among riparian                             update needed expertise.
staff on options for water                        o Critical data gaps filled.
resources management                              o Acceptable means to
and development.                                    ensure long-term financial
1.3.4 RBM use and training                             sustainability instituted.
consolidated (BankGEFIWB)
o Long-term training plan,
including overseas
training programs,
implemented.
o RBM integrated into Nile
DSS.
1.4 Macro and sectoral    1.4 Transboundary studies of  1.4 Studies on relationships  1.4 Necessary economic and
policies and the environment  macro and sector policies and between macro and sector  environmental data available
(GEF/WB).                 environment (including root  policies and environment,  over periods necessary to
causes) completed in 4    including root causes.    develop trends and sound
countries, including at least                       hypotheses.
one in each of the two NBI
sub-regions (GEFIWB).
2. Community-Level Land,                            Annual Project Report -
Forest and Water                                    including project monitoring
Conservation - Microgrant                           and evaluation, and workshop
Program (CIDA through                               reports.
NBTF/WB & GEF/UNDP).
2.1 Enhanced basin-wide   2.1 Regional training     2.1 Workshop reports      2.1 National and intemational
capabilities and cooperation  workshops designed and  (including reporting on  NGOs are willing to share
(GEF/UNDP).               conducted for NGO capacity  participation disaggregated by experience and collaborate
building in technical and  gender).                 with the project.
organizational skills related to                    2.1 Active women's
transboundary environmental                         participation in component
management (GEF/UNDP).                              activities is achieved in all
countries.
2.2 Improved understanding of 2.2 Transboundary     2.2 Reports on assessments  2.2 Studies provide usable
transboundary soil erosion  assessments and studies of  and studies of transboundary  insights on transboundary soil
(GEF/UNDP).               soil erosion completed in  soil erosion.            erosion to guide grant-making
Ethiopia, Sudan & Rwanda                            emphasis of Microgrant
(GEF/UNDP).                                         Program in countries
concerned.
2.3 Nile Transboundary    2.3 Transboundary Microgrant 2.3 Transboundary Microgrant 2.3 Adequate institutional
Microgrant Program to support Program established and  Program reports on     arrangements can be made in
local-level land, forest and  functioning in NBI Countries  institutional arrangements,  each country to house,
water conservation initiatives  (GEFIWB).           organization and          manage, safeguard and
(CIDA through NBTFNWB).   2.3 Microgrants disbursed to  management.           administer the transboundary
community-based           2.3 Regional Microgrant   Microgrant Program in a
organizations and grassroots  Strategy, including eligibility  transparent and open manner.
groups across the broad base criteria, and National Action  2.3 Community-level
of stakeholder communities  Plans.                  stakeholders are ready to
(GEF/WB).                 2.3 Monitoring and evaluation  submit proposals and
2.3 Country specific targets for reports for Microgrant  implement grants dealing with
percentage of the Microgrants Program, including monitoring transboundary issues.
to be awarded to women's  and evaluation for individual
NGOs or community         grants (tracking percent of
organizations reached     grants disbursed to women's
(GEF/WB).                 groups and percent of grants
2.3 Identification of promising  for transboundary grants
- 38 -



or viable approaches to  involving at least two
transboundary environmental  countries).
issues that can be scaled up
or replicated (GEFNWB).
3. Environmental Education  3.1 National Working Groups  Annual Project Report -  All Nile countries ready to
and Awareness (GEF/UNDP). established in 10 countries  including project monitoring  participate in component.
3.1 Enhanced public      (GEF/UNDP).               and evaluation, and workshop 3.1 Transboundary
awareness and understanding 3.1 National Environmental  reports.            communications can be
of Nile transboundary    Education and Awareness  3.1 Environmental Awareness established for teams to work
environmental issues     Reviews carried out in 10  Program Materials.     together in designing
(GEF/UNDP).              countries (GEF/UNDP).     3.1 Survey of environmental  awareness programs.
3.1 At least two environmental education and awareness
awareness programs designed program users to evaluate
by transboundary teams and  impact of activities.
delivered in 5 countries
(GEF/UNDP).
3.1 Enhanced public
awareness of transboundary
environmental issues
(GEF/UNDP).
3.2 Networking of secondary  3.2 Teachers trained in  3.2 Environmental education  3.2 At least one real champion
schools for project-based  project-based collaborative  and awareness program  per country can be identified
learning (GEF/UNDP).     learning (1-3 teachers per  materials.             for developing and teaching
school, a total of 80-100  3.2 Surveys of users, including environmental education
schools from 6-10 countries)  participation rates (collect  modules.
(GEF/UNDP).              gender disaggregated      3.2 National Working Groups
3.2 Environmental modules  information).           are willing to work jointly and
developed and offered to  3.2 Assessments of student  share information with
teachers in 10           learning, teachers' ability to  counterparts from other
countries(GEF/UNDP).     integrate environmental  riparian countries.
3.2 Transboundary school  education.               3.2 Institutional arrangements
environmental projects                            for development and delivery
designed and camed out                             of environmental education
collaboratively (a total of                        programs can be made within
80-100 schools from 6-10                           each country - i.e. with the
countries) (GEF/UNDP).                             education ministries.
3.3 Piloting enhanced    3.3 Two junior faculty or  3.3 Project reports on  3.3 Willingness of relevant
networking among universities graduate students in exchange student/faculty exchanges and institutions to participate in
and other research institutions programs from each of 10  resulting research.  exchange programs and
(GEF/UNDP).              countries (GEF/UNDP).                              commit staff resources.
3.3 University course in Nile
Transboundary Environmental
Issues developed
collaboratively between
universities in at least 6 Nile
countries (GEF/UNDP).
4. Wetlands and Biodiversity  4.1 Basin-wide wetland  Annual Project Report -  4.1 Wetland management
Conservation (GEF/UNDP and management network of  including project monitoring  stakeholders and experts are
possibly NBTF/WB - Phase  stakeholders and experts  and evaluation, and workshop willing to participate in and
2).                      established and functioning  reports.              share information through a
4.1 Regional cooperation is  effectively (GEF/UNDP).  4.1 Survey of users of wetland network facilitated by the
enhanced and capacity for  4.1 Wetland education,  management network to    project.
conservation and         training and awareness    evaluate impact of activities.
management of wetlands and  programs have been
their biodiversity is improved  developed in 3
(GEF/UNDP).              languages(GEF/UNDP).
4.2 Understanding and    4.2 Ecological and economic  4.2 Reports on studies on the  .2 Minimal level of trained staff
awareness of the role of  studies of the role of wetlands role of wetlands in sustainable available for training in
wetlands in supporting   in sustainable development  development.           countries.
sustainable development is  completed in at least one  4.2 Workshop reports; surveys
improved (Possibly NBTF/WB -southern and one northern Nile assessing awareness among
- 39 -



Phase 2).                country (GEF/WB).         arget audience.
.2 Wetland education, training
and awareness programs
developed in 4.1 and
complemented by studies
mentioned above, delivered
(GEF/WB).
4.3 Management capacity of  .3 Pilot initiatives completed in .3 Progress reports on pilot  4.3 Wetlands and other priority
selected wetlands strengthened support of capacity building and initiatives.  ransboundary sites selected for
(GEF/UNDP and possibly   management at 3 key                                studies and for pilot initiatives
NBTFIWB - Phase 2).      ransboundary sites, involving                      are accessible.
at least one southern and one
northem Nile country
(GEF/WB).
5. Basin-wide Water Quality  5.1 Regional Working Group  Annual Project Report -  Commitment among the
Monitonng (GEF/WB).      established (GEFNWB)      including project monitoring and riparians to agree on common
5.1 Enhanced national    5.1 Existing national capacities evaluation, and workshop  monitoring approaches and to
capacities for water quality  assessed, including  reports.                  hare water quality information.
monitonng (GEF/WB).      documentation of sampling  5.1 Reports on national water Where functioning labs exist,
points in each country   quality monitoring activities and he project will rely on these
(GEFNWB).                capacities.               and provide additional financial
5.1 Existing information on  5.1 Nile water quality report  resources during the course of
ater quality aggregated in Nile (may be combined and a  he project; where labs do not
water quality report (GEF/WB). chapter in the 'Nile Atlas'  exist, basic capacities are built.
5.1 Common analytical    planned in the SVP- Water  Adequate arrangements,
methods selected and agreed  Resources Management  including staff time and
or basin-wide use by Working Project).            computers, are made available
Group (GEF/WB).          5.1 Manual for common Nile  o continue to record national
5.1 National training workshops Basin water quality analytical  data and engage in regional
held and methods pilot tested  methods.            exchange of information.
(GEF/WB).                5.1 Workshop reports.
5.1 Two regional workshops on                      Technical institutions and their
ater quality management                           rained staff ready to engage in
issues conducted (GEF/WB).                         regional effort.
National monitoring efforts and
capacity exist to support basic
ield methods for water quality
analysis.
5.2 Transboundary water   5.2 Intemational Study Tour to 5.2 Study tour report.
quality awareness raising and  raise awareness on need for  5.2 Progress reports on
information shanng. (GEF/WB). ransboundary cooperation  basin-wide water quality
(GEFIWB).                information and exchange of
5.2 Information on sampling  information developed by
points and parameters of  Working Group and Water
special transboundary    Quality Lead Specialist.
significance exchanged on  5.2 Report from study available.
regular basis based on priority
hreats (GEF/WB).
5.2 Study on biological indices
for water quality conducted and
pilot tested (GEF/WB).
5.2 Critical evaluation of
progress undertaken and
recommendations for follow-up
action formulated (GEF/WB).
-40 -



Key Performance    '' C-Data Collection Strategy |-
Hierarchy of Objectives,  '   .ndicatorsr         .       ,                     Critical Assumptions
Project Components /      Inputs: (budget for each   Project reports:          (from Components to
Sub-components:           component)                                           Outputs)
Component 1: Institutional  US$14.6m
Strengthening to Facilitate
Regional Cooperation
1.1 Regional Capacity Building US$6.9m
for Transboundary
Environmental Management
1.2 Communications and    US$1 .Om
Knowledge Management
1.3River Basin            US$6.3m
1.4 Macro and sectoral    US$0.4m
policies and the environment
Component 2:              US$11.1m foreign
Community-Level Land, Forest
and Water Conservation
2.1   Enhanced basin-wide  US$2.1
capabilities and cooperation
2.2 Improved understanding of US$0.3m
transboundary soil erosion
2.3 Microgrant Program to  US$8.7m
support local-level land, forest
and water conservation
initiatives at transboundary
sites
Component 3: Environmental  US$3 4m
Education and Awareness
3.1 Public awareness and  US$2.2m
understanding of Nile
transboundary environmental
issues
3.2 Networking of secondary  US$0.8m
schools for project-based
leaming
3.3 Enhanced networking    US$0.4m
among universities and other
research institutions
Component 4: Wetlands and US$7.1m
Biodiversity Conservation
4.1 Enhanced regional      US$1.3m
cooperation and capabilities
4.2 Better understanding and  US$2.7m
broader awareness of the role
of wetlands
4.3 More effective         US$3.1m
management of wetlands
Component 5: Basin-wide    US$2.9m
Water Quality Monitoring
5.1   Enhanced national   US$1 .5m
capacities for water quality
monitonng                 US$1 .4m
5.2   Transboundary water
quality monitoring established
- 41 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
MILE BAS\IN INITlIATlVE: 6Mile Transboundary Environmental Action Project
1. Objective
The objective of the project is to provide a strategic environmental framework for the
management of the transboundary waters and environmental challenges in the Nile River Basin.
The project will improve understanding of the relationship of water resources development and
the environment in the Basin, and provide a forum to discuss development paths for the Nile with
a wide range of stakeholders. The environmental framework established by the project will also
promote: (a) enhanced basin-wide cooperation and environmental awareness essential to the
successful implementation of the Agenda for Environmental Action in the Nile Basin through the
NBI's SVP, SAPs and other programs, and (b) a basin-wide institution, the NBI, with
substantially enhanced environmental management capacities.
More effective cooperation and coordination between the riparian countries is badly needed if the
Nile Basin's enviromnent is to be conserved in ways that help improve the quality of life of its
inhabitants. This project will strengthen riparian cooperation and coordination by supporting a
series of measures focusing on various aspects of transboundary environmental management.
Project activities will include capacity building, training, education and awareness raising,
knowledge and information sharing, communications, environmental monitoring and activities at
selected pilot sites. All project components will require site selection and stakeholder
participation from at least two riparian countries; while many will involve all of the countries.
Consistent emphasis will be given to encouraging diverse stakeholder groups to work together,
both within their own countries and with counterparts in other riparian countries, as an essential
contribution to building the mutual understanding, relationships and trust that are essential to
collaborative problem-solving in the future.
2. Approach
Promoting a broader understanding and appreciation of transboundary environmental and water
management issues is the main thrust of this project. Hitherto, the Nile countries have generally
worked in isolation while developing and implementing their plans for the use, conservation or
development of the Nile Basin's resources. This project will help build bridges between the
countries, to better enable a variety of key stakeholders to identify and take advantage of the
opportunities offered by international collaboration. In its totality, the project aims to create many
"points of contact" among and between a large and varied set of stakeholders in the ten different
countries. As these contacts grow, and as independent networks are established around common
issues of concern, this is expected to contribute to an overall reduction of tension, to building
greater understanding and trust and, eventually paving the way for sound and environmentally
sustainable cooperative developments for poverty alleviation.
For example, through policy dialogue and capacity building the project will bring together
decision makers and environrmental managers to create a variety of networks of key actors in the
region. Decision makers will become better informed about linkages, opportunities and trade-offs
as a result of the River Basin Model, thereby improving their abilities to frame more effective
-42 -



policies and plans with better sustainability prospects. Improved regional exchanges and
capacities will encourage streamlining of water quality monitoring. Bringing educators together
for joint program development and training will help nurture a new generation in the region,
which has been exposed to other Nile countries and is more aware of transboundary
environmental impacts and opportunities, thus establishing a "community of spirit" over time.
Finally, at the very grassroots, NGOs and community groups will be brought together to plan and
implement Microgrant projects that will respond to shared local community priorities within a
transboundary context.
3. Project Components
The project will encourage more effective basin-wide stakeholder cooperation on transboundary
environmental issues by supporting implementation of the actions prioritized by the TEA, in the
following areas:
I.    Institutional Strengthening to Facilitate Regional Cooperation.
2.    Community-Level Land, Forest and Water Conservation.
3.    Environmental Education and Awareness.
4.    Wetlands and Biodiversity Conservation.
5.    Water Quality Monitoring Basin-wide.
The GEF Project is being executed by the NBI and jointly financed by the World Bank and
UNDP (through GEF and NBTF resources).
By Component:
Project Component I - US$14.70 million
1: Institutional Strengthening to Facilitate Regional Cooperation
GEF/WB: US$5.07 million; GEF/UNWDP: US$6.92 million; NBTF/WB: US$2.70 million; total
US$14.7 million.
This component will enable deeper and more effective cooperation on transboundary
environmental management among and between the Nile riparian countries, including
governments, NGOs, researchers and other stakeholders. Key stakeholders will gain improved
access to relevant resource management information relating to the entire Nile Basin, while some
of the key linkages between macro and sectoral policies and the environment will be highlighted
and better understood. A substantial learning process will result from the development of the
River Basin Model and Decision Support System in coordination with the SVP Water Resources
Planning and Management Project and will increase understanding of the Nile's hydrological
behavior as well as linkages between environment and development.
1.1 Regional Coordination (GEF/UNDP)
This sub-component includes the overall management arrangements for the project, including a
Project Steering Committee, a Project Management Unit (PMU), and a National Project
Coordinator in each country.
- 43 -



The PMU will: (a) strengthen the capacity of the NBI to coordinate and implement the national
components of the project, and (b) ensure effective cooperation with the NBI Subsidiary Action
Programs as well as other environment and development programs in the Basin,
Main Activities & Tasks
1. Establish Project Steering Committee
2. Establish Project Management Unit
3. Hire National Project Coordinators
1.2: Knowledge Management (GEFIWB3)
This sub-component will provide project participants and other key stakeholders across the Basin
with improved access to relevant environmental and natural resource management information. It
supports exchange of information, workshop materials and lessons learned from project activities
and across components and the NBI at large. Key products will be regular project newsletters
(printed and electronic), including special themes/topics as appropriate, e.g. on youth and
environment, and a regularly updated project website. The sub-component will also support setup
and maintenance of connections to the NBI website and resource center to be established at and
managed by the Nile Basin Secretariat.
The Knowledge Management PMU staff (one KM specialist/editor and one intemet
publisher/webpage designer) will compile and make available resource materials and publish a
regular printed and electronic newsletter (not less than three times a year). Infomiation will cover
each project component and relevant activities throughout the Basin. As this project will likely
be the first SVP project to be operational, this sub-component will also have an important role in
offering a learning opportunity through exchanges and transfer of lessons learned across the SVP
projects and the SAPs. This will feed into the emerging Information Resource Center at the
Nile-SEC. The National Project Coordinators will be responsible for coordinating information
gathering at the local and national level, including lessons learned and best practices. Short term
consultancies will support this effort as needed.
Main Activities & Tasks
1. Procure and install hardware
2. Hire Knowledge Management PMU staff
3. Develop project communications plan
4. Establish environmental knowledge base and disseminate knowledge on demand
5. Publish environmental newsletter and establish project website
1.3 Decision Support System and River Basin Modeling (GEFI/WB and NIB TF/WB)
This component will contribute to the development of a River Basin Model (RBM) for the Nile
Basin as part of a Nile Basin Decision Support System (DSS) being developed by the SVP Water
Resources Planning and Management Project. The DSS is being developed to support the
assessment of transboundary opportunities for cooperative action based on commonly shared
- 44 -



information and analysis tools. The DSS will be a basin-wide, computer-based platform for
communication, information management' and analysis of Nile Basin water resources. The
analysis capabilities will be provided by the river basin model (RBM) element of the DSS which
will serve as an important regional planning tool.
This RBM will be the first basin-wide, participatory river modeling effort wholly based in the
region. Once developed and put into use, the RBM will: (a) increase regional understanding of
the hydrology and system behavior of the Nile River; (b) provide a means of assessing the
impacts of proposed development and management schemes and their transboundary
implications on river hydrology; and (c) be a source of quantitative river flow information for
environmental assessments.
This first participatory, basin-wide development effort of an RBM, at describing, on a regional
basis, the hydrology in the Basin and river system behavior with adequate accuracy and reliability
according to data availability. The model will represent a simplification of the natural system,
which is acceptable for the purpose for which it is developed. From a planning perspective, the
model will allow assessments of impacts that may have transboundary implications and will
provide quantitative river flow information to support more detailed environmental assessments.
Broader, multi-sectoral databases and finer scale models may be developed in subsequent
projects to address site specific issues.
Within the overall set of DSS activities, the present GEF project will contribute to the
development of the RBM, including training. NBTF resources shown herein but managed
through the SVP Water Resources Planning and Management Project will also support model
development efforts. In addition, the SVP Water Resources Planning and Management Project
will support the remaining DSS components; the development of basin-wide information
management system; and the development of guidelines for data collection, analysis and
exchange.
The GEF-supported RBM development approach will emphasize human resource development,
institutional strengthening and team building, as well as the development of technical tools. An
initial assessment of RBM training needs and system requirements will be conducted as a
consultative process with the riparian states, and will consider the data and information needs of
all NBI projects. The RBM should have an open ended architecture with the capability to
gradually evolve over time in response to needs from SVP and SAP projects and to accommodate
regional and national requirements. To ensure sustainability, the development approach will
require a multi-year, multi-disciplinary effort, which includes not only the development of
technical tools, but also team building and the development of staff and institutions. Broad
acceptance and use of the RBM will depend on demonstrating its usefulness and successful
application to decision makers at regional, sub-regional and national scales. This sub-component
therefore includes substantial interactions with decision makers as an integral part of model
development and refinement.
The development of the RBM will be managed through the SVP Water Resources Planning and
Management Project and integrated with DSS development. To ensure sustainability,
-45 -



transparency and confidence in the DSS, a core team of specialists from the region will fully
participate in model development and application and will also serve as national lead specialists
(within the SVP Water Resources Planning and Management Project). These National DSS
Specialists will work with regional staff (e.g., project manager, project technical advisor, DSS
lead specialist, and other technical experts) and with consultants (regional and international) as
part of the core DSS team.
Main Activities & Tasks
1. Develop RBM and conduct staff training
2. Establish linkages between regiorial DSS unit and national user network
3. Test and apply RBM for selected projects/programs
4. Consolidate RBM use and training
(Nole 1: The IMS will include the procurement and installation of hardware and software; the development of
general database architecture; the development of GIS; development of user interfaces and other applications to
support internet access; definition and development of security access; and comprehensive testing. In addition, the
data and information component of the DSS (non-GEFfunded) will establish guidelines for collecting, processing,
analyzing and exchanging information through a consultative process among the Nile riparians. This will be closely
linked with the broader NBI information exchange activities supported through the Nile-SEC and its emerging
Information Resource Center
NVote 2: In addition to the DSS (estimated to cost $21 million), the $28 million grant-funded Water Resources
Planning and Management Project includes components related to water policy, and water resources planning and
management.)
1.4 Macro and Sectoral Policies and the Environment (GEF/WB)
This sub-component will consist of policy studies of the patterns of economic development and
priority transboundary environmental issues. The primary goal is to produce a synthesis suitable
for dissemination in all of the Nile riparian countries. The studies are expected to build on two
key macro and sectoral policy issues identified in the Nile Basin TEA: (a) the policy issues and
potential interventions related to the complex and variable relationship between site-specific
deforestation for fuelwood and the dynamics of the sometimes distant energy markets being
supplied; (b) the policy issues and potential interventions related to the complex and variable
links between agricultural productivity, pesticide subsidies and non-point source pollution of
water supplies.
These studies, carried out as consultancies by teams of researchers drawn from at least three Nile
riparian countries, will need to be carefully coordinated with the other project components and
other SVP projects to maximize complementarity and synergies. The results will be widely
disseminated as a key step towards a more informed environmental policy debate in the Nile
Basin.
Main Activities & Tasks
1. Identify candidate institutions and researchers, and select the study participants
2. Hold one regional workshop to plan each of the two applied research studies
3. Conduct studies through participating researchers/host institutions
-46 -



4. Hold regional workshop to report on and disseminate each of the two research studies
Project Component 2 - US$11.10 million
2: Community-Level Land, Forests and Water Conservation
GEF/UNDP: US$3.72 million; NBTF/WB: US$7.38 million; total US$11.1 million
Pilot activities at selected transboundary sites will demonstrate the feasibility of local-level
approaches to land and water conservation, including mitigation actions for soil erosion,
desertification, non-point source pollution and invasive water weeds. National NGO networks
will be strengthened and NGO-government collaboration improved. This component includes
regional institutional strengthening (sub-component 2.1) and a set of problem identification and
site selection activities (2.2) that build on the basin-wide TEA. These activities will complement
the community-level actions to be financed by a Nile Transboundary Microgrant Program (2.3).
2.1 Enhanced Basin-wide Capabilities and Cooperation (GEF/UNDP)
This sub-component includes the management activities for all of project component 2 and
provides support to a series of workshops. Regional workshops will provide training and
infornation sharing:
(a)   For government and NGO staff on lessons learned in land and water conservation,
including issues of eutrophication and water weeds. This will include training in the
ieentification and mitigation of root causes of environmental degradation, and in
participatory planning and implementation of projects. Consideration will also be given to
areas most at risk and the selection of cost-effective site-specific mitigation measures;
and
(b)   For national NGO networks, on organization and management, funding options and
sources, access to cost-effective technical solutions, best practices on community-level
land, forest and water conservation, etc. NGO networking between as well as within the
Nile countries will be encouraged (although the provision of equipment, technology and
infornation technology training for the NGOs is not covered by the project budget and
will depend on additional financing being mobilized). Special attention will be given to
ensure that women's groups and NGOs are reached through the workshops and training.
Main Activities & Tasks
1. Hire Nile Transboundary Microgrant Lead Specialist at PMU
2. Conduct regional capacity building workshops for NGOs, NGO networks and
government staff
2.2 Priority Actions for Addressing Soil Erosion (GEF/UNDP)
Soil erosion was identified by the Nile Basin TEA as a priority issue for more in-depth analysis.
In order to identify areas where pilot and Microgrant interventions could provide the highest
-47 -



impact, rapid assessment studies will be carried out in regions of high priority that have been
identified during project preparation. The rapid assessments will be limited to those places where
relevant and adequate information is not already available.
Expert consultants will be contracted by the PMU to conduct rapid soil erosion assessment in
three countries (Ethiopia, Rwanda and Sudan). Relevant information to guide the Microgrant
activities is already available in the other Basin countries. The-rapid assessments will include
mapping of erosion and deposition at critical pilot sites combined with the investigation of the
proximate and underlying causes. The knowledge gained will help to target the Nile
Transboundary Microgrant Program (2.3) as well as future NBI investment projects focusing on
land management.
Main Activities & Tasks
1. Carry out rapid assessment studies for soil erosion in Ethiopia, Rwanda and Sudan
2. Hold national and regional workshops to apply findings and initiate dissemination
2.3 Nile Transbou&ndary Microgrant Program (NBTFIW/B tehrough CI[DA contribdtion)
The Nile Transboundary Microgrant Program will support community-driven interventions to
address transboundary environmental threats on a local scale. The Microgrants will also provide
alternative sustainable livelihood opportunities to communities who may otherwise be obliged to
overexploit their natural resources. The main emphasis of the Microgrants will be on piloting
new and promising transboundary initiatives, on the development and dissemination of best
practice and on exchanges of lessons leamed. Special emphasis will be given to include women
and women's groups in the decision making and the activities within this Program. It is
anticipated that there will be opportunities for the more successful or promising transboundary
initiatives to be scaled up or replicated within the NBI SAPs. The institutional arrangements for
the Microgrant sub-component will draw on the best practice model of the GEF Small Grants
Programme (UJNDP/GEF/SGP, see Annex 2 - Appendix A), although the specific arrangements
will vary by country (Annex 2 - Appendix B).
A national Nile Transboundary Microgrant Program will be established in each participating
country. The types of activities eligible to be supported by the Microgrants are listed in Annex 2 -
Appendix C. Priority will be given to funding projects that: (a) focus on transboundary
environmental problems and sites; (b) provide for community participation in their design,
implementation and evaluation; (c) pay attention to the needs of women and/or indigenous
peoples and practices; (d) draw on local or Nile Basin scientific and technical resources; (e)
support capacity development; and (f) communicate best practices to wider audiences.
A draft Microgrant Operational Manual for the Nile Transboundary Microgrant Program has
been prepared drawing from the best practice of the UNDP/GEF/SGP. This. Operational Manual
outlines the basic procedures for grant application, institutional arrangements, and flow of funds.
The Microgrant Operational Manual will assure adherence to certain basin-wide guidelines,
minimum criteria, procedures and terms and conditions of the Microgrant Program. This includes
adherence to financial management guidelines outlined in the overall Project Implementation
- 48 -



Manual as well as standard UNDP and World Bank policies. No grant will be disbursed unless it
has been approved according to the requirements and criteria outlined in the Microgrant
Operational Manual. The Microgrant Operational Manual will be annexed to the Nile
Transboundary Microgrants Strategy, which will be developed during the first year of the project
(see paragraph below).
The maximum size of individual grants will be $25,000, though it is expected that many grants
will be much smaller and the average size will probably be around $10,000. It will be encouraged
that at least 50 percent of each country's Microgrants will directly support transboundary
activities (i.e., those involving partners from at least one other Nile country), while all
single-country projects should clearly be related to transboundary environmental issues (i.e., an
environmental issue shared by at least one other Nile country). The project portfolio developed
by each national Nile Transboundary Microgrant Program will be required to demonstrate a
significant contribution to involving women and women's organizations (specific goals will be
set within each country but should be no less that 10 percent of project funds). To help address
the challenge of implementing local activities with transboundary significance, frequent
interactions and networking between the Nile countries' Microgrant programs will be facilitated
by the Microgrant Lead Specialist in the PMU.
Main Activities & Tasks
1. Establish national institutional arrangements for Nile Transboundary Microgrant
Program in each country
2. Organize a regional initial Nile Transboundary Microgrant workshop
3. Develop regional Nile Transboundary Microgrant Strategy and finalize Microgrant
Operational Manual
4. Develop National Nile Transboundary Microgrant Action Plans (each participating
country)
5. Develop reporting requirements and Monitoring and Evaluation framework (regional
and national)
6. Formulate Nile Transboundary Microgrant communication strategy
7. Organize national Nile Transboundary Microgrant launching workshop
8. Administer National Nile Transboundary Microgrants
9. Additional national and regional workshops as needed
10. Organize regional review workshop to assess progress and lessons learned
11. Prepare assessment of lessons learned and recommendations
Project Component 3 - US$ 3.43 million
3: Environmental Education and Public Awareness (GEF/UNDP)
GEF/UNDP. US$3.43 million; NBTF/WB: US$0 million; total US$3.43 million
Support will be provided to develop or strengthen transboundary partnerships and networks of
environmental education and awareness practitioners. The main objectives are to build
practitioners' capacities, to introduce and build transboundary cooperation, and to demonstrate,
- 49 -



through pilot activities, the feasibility of developing and delivering a variety of environmental
education and awareness programs at a basin-wide level. This will contribute to a longer-term
and more ambitious objective of enhancing awareness of the nature of environmental
inter-relatedness in the region and effects on communities.
3.1 Public Information and Awareness (GEFI/UNDP)
Local and national public awareness campaigns linked to specific environmental issues have
been quite effective on a limited scale in some Nile countries, especially campaigns related to
water conservation, solid waste disposal and the protection of wetlands. Experiences gained
through these programs will help provide the foundation for raising awareness about
transboundary environmental issues. Despite some encouraging signs of progress, however, the
appreciation and understanding of how human behavior can contribute to solving environmental
problems remains generally low in the Basin.
This sub-component will support the development and delivery of a small number of
transboundary environmental awareness campaigns by basin-wide teams of practitioners drawn
from the participating countries. It will include regional training for environmental education and
awareness practitioners on the development and delivery of programs and materials, regional
briefings for media editors and journalists on transboundary environmental issues, and exchanges
of environmental journalists and other media professionals between the Nile riparian countries.
These programs will be launched through a variety of delivery mechanisms, e.g., nature clubs,
schools, youth movements, the scout movement, universities, churches, mosques, etc. A variety
of media will be used, including TV, radio, newspapers and web pages. A National
Environmental Education and Awareness Working Group will be established in each
participating country for sub-component 3.1.
Main Activities d& Tasks
I1. Establish National Environinental Working Education & Awareness Working Group
2. Hold regional workshop to exchange experiences and plan transboundary actions
3 . Develop detailed work plan
4. Cooperatively develop transboundary environmental education materials
5. Hold additional national and regional workshops as needed
6. Hold final regional workshop to assess experiences and plan future activities
3.2 Secondary Schools (GEF/UNDII)P)
A very small nucleus of dedicated schools, teachers, curriculum developers, university
academics, researchers and education administrators are working with students and local
communities throughout the Nile Basin to develop environmental education, usually with very
limited financial and technical resources. Most of the initiatives carried out so far have relied on
external development agency funding. Many of the key stakeholders now have practical
experience in the design and delivery of environmental education programs in their local and
national contexts, but not in an international or transboundary context. This sub-component will
support transboundary education and awareness activities that build on these promising local and
- 50 -



national initiatives. Particular attention will be paid to ensuring that girls and boys benefit equally
from these initiatives.
This sub-component will establish an electronic network of selected schools for transboundary
environmental education and will support exchanges of school staff and experiences between the
Nile riparian countries as well as community projects where students can apply knowledge
acquired in the classroom while developing values and skills for improving environmental
conditions. Finally, an award scheme or competition will be set up for outstanding Nile
Transboundary Environmental Education projects in schools and their communities. All of these
activities will be closely coordinated and managed as a single initiative. National education
authorities will continue to be consulted and involved in the design and implementation of all
school-related project activities. This sub-component will draw on existing best practice in
networking developing country schools and educators, and will be executed as a single contract.
Establishing an electronic network of schools for transboundary environmental education and
awareness will require preliminary identification of those schools capable of and interested in
participating in such a network, and which can cover the basic costs of computer equipment
purchase and maintenance, and Internet connections. A small but adequate number of schools
within the Nile Basin already participate in international educational networks and/or are
partnered with schools in other countries. Informal reviews have indicated that schools with the
requisite capacities would be ready to participate in Egypt, Ethiopia, Kenya, Rwanda, Tanzania
and Uganda. These schools can form the basis of a Nile Schools Environmental Education and
Awareness Network. Further work will be required to assess the potential for schools in the other
Nile countries to participate.
Main Activities & Tasks
I. Deliver schools networking services sub-component
2. Develop detailed work plan
3. Identify participating schools and teachers
4. Organize and conduct teacher training workshops
5. Support transboundary envirornmental projects within school networks
6. Organize Nile Transboundary Environmental Education award scheme
7. Hold regional workshops to assess experiences and formulate further action
8. Hold additional national and regional workshops as needed
3.3 Universities and Other Research Institutions (GEF/UNDP)
This sub-component will support exchanges of university-level environmental education
professors, other researchers and students between the Nile riparian countries. The exchange
program will be coordinated by the Environmental Education and Public Awareness Lead
Specialist in the PMU. It will also support two regional workshops as a contribution towards the
development of a university-level course on one or more Nile transboundary environmental
issues as a collaborative enterprise between participating universities from the riparian countries.
Linkages and cooperation with the Applied Training Project (e.g. for course development and
- 51 -



dissemination) will be sought as this project becomes operational.
Exchanges of junior faculty and graduate students engaged in environmental education will be
supported (approximately two per country). Selection criteria will be developed during the
project. Emphasis will be put on supporting the participation of individuals from Nile Basin
countries which have had limited recent opportunities to participate in such international
programs. Participating individuals and their departmental hosts in other Nile Basin countries
will need to demonstrate the value of their proposed exchange program to building transboundary
environmental awareness and understanding in the Nile Basin.
Main Activities & Tasks
1. Prepare work plan
2. Facilitate faculty and student exchanges among Basin universities
3. Select participants for development of university course on Nile transboundary issues
4. Organize two regional workshops to facilitate course preparation
Project Component 4 - USS7.10 million
4: Wetlands and Biodiversity Conservation (GElFfUNDP and possibly Baink through NBT'IF
- phase 2)
GEF/UNDP: US$4.37 million; co-funding. US$2.73 million; total US$7. 10 million
This component will improve the understanding and awareness of the role of wetlands in
supporting sustainable development, and improve management at selected transboundary wetland
sites and cross-border protected areas. The component will build on the significant number of
nationally-focused wetland conservation and management initiatives in the Nile Basin. Networks
based on existing centers of knowledge and experience will be established (including projects,
government departments, national park or protected areas management units, academia, NGOs,
etc.). The project will help provide a transboundary overlay and set of perspectives to
complement national activities in wetland conservation.
A three-pronged approach will be adopted. First a network will be created, to enhance regional
interaction and exchanges, and to help transfer knowledge and build capacity. Second, a small
number of wetlands of transboundary significance will be selected for in-depth ecological and
economic study. Third, pilot projects will be executed to strengthen management at priority
wetland protected areas and to build capacity through training.
- 52 -



4.1 Enhanced Regional Cooperation and Capabilities (GEF/UNDP)
Implementation of this component will be coordinated by the Wetlands and Biodiversity Lead
Specialist in the PMU, who will work closely with a Wetlands and Biodiversity Conservation
Working Group to be established as part of the project, as well as with the National Project
Coordinators in the participating countries. The Working Group is to plan joint activities,
evaluate progress and share lessons learned. Working Group members will link basin-wide
project activities with the national government agencies responsible for the management of
priority conservation sites as well as NGOs and other stakeholders.
Main Activities & Tasks
1. Establish a Wetlands and Biodiversity Conservation Working Group
2. Elaborate selection criteria for key conservation areas to be targeted
3. Establish basin-wide network of stakeholder representatives/experts
4. Develop education, training, and awareness programs
4.2 Better Understanding and Broader Awareness of the Role of Wetlands in Supporting
Sustainable Development (possibly NBTF/WB -phase 2)
This component will carry out at least two in-depth ecological and economic studies of the role
that wetlands play in supporting sustainable development, one study each in a northern and a
southern country of the Nile Basin. The project will select at least two of the most important Nile
Basin wetlands as study sites to explore: (a) ecological processes, including wetlands' role in
flood control and waste treatment (including the impact of wetland modification and loss on
these roles); (b) the economic value of wetlands; and (c) major threats to wetlands and their
underlying social and economic causes.
The results of these studies will be used, together with the wetland education, training and
awareness programs developed in the previous sub-component, in an awareness campaign that
will include a series of workshops and other forms of dissemination (publications, printed
material etc.) that will target several key audiences (government/decision makers, local
communities, private sector, conservation practitioners, etc.) in selected Nile Basin countries.
Main Activities & Tasks
1. Select study sites
2. Prepare Terms or Reference for each study and tender assignments
3. Backstop implementation of each study
4. Prepare the wetlands education, training and awareness programs
5. Carry out workshop to disseminate results and deliver training and education
materials
- 53 -



4.3 More Effective Management of Wetlands and Transboundary Protected Areas
(GEF/UN1DP and possibly NB TFI WE -/phase 2)
The current levels of effective management of wetlands and transboundary protected areas in the
Nile Basin are very low and often even nonexistent. The capacities that are needed to implement
effective management are largely inadequate, at all levels, not in the least at the field level, one of
the most critical. By means of a select number of pilot sites, this component intends to
demonstrate best practices in protected area and wetland management and build the required
capacity for ensuring long-term conservation.
The selection process to determine the key intervention sites will be informed by the two
previous sub-components. Among the criteria to be used in determining this choice will be the
global significance of the biodiversity present, the level of threats, the transboundary nature of
the area and the absence of donor-financed assistance (many areas of key importance already
receive assistance from GEF and other donors).
The approach that will be followed is to demonstrate at these selected sites effective management
schemes that have proven to lead to sustainable conservation of natural resources. After initial
baseline assessments on the status and trends of biodiversity and related social, economic and
institutional issues at each site, site-specific participatory management plans will be prepared.
The emphasis will be on multiple-use objectives, where applicable, using a process that
facilitates dialogue among key stakeholders to build consensus on the problems and opportunities
of community participation and action in and around the selected sites.
The project will also assist in the implementation of these plans, by building the necessary
capacity. Capacity building efforts will not be limited to the professional staff in charge of the
management of the protected area, but will extend to the local communities living in and around
the sites.
Main Activities & Tasks
1. Select three sites for intervention; prepare Terms of Reference for baseline assessment
and preparation of management plans
2. Contract assignments
3. Formally adopt the management plans, elaborated through participatory process
4. Start implementation of plans
Project Component 5 - US$2.93 million
5: Water Quality Monitoring Basin-wide (GEIF/WB)
GEF/WB: US$2.93 million; co-funding: US$0 million; total US$2.93 million
Transboundary cooperation will be increasingly important to maintain appropriate water quality
for drinking water, irrigation, and industry and to support human health and livelihoods and
ecosystem functions in the Nile Basin. This project component will increase the understanding of
- 54 -



the current state of water quality and priority needs for transboundary cooperation between the
Nile countries and will contribute to building greater capacity for water quality monitoring and
management. Exchange of experiences on regulatory issues and on water quality information
between countries will facilitate improved decision making by governments and other resource
users. The present project component also aims to create a starting point for increased regional
transboundary water quality assessment and collaborative action through initiating a limited
exchange of information. This basin-wide dialogue among relevant stakeholders will help
develop a common vision and goal for water quality for the Nile Basin.
The Nile countries differ noticeably in the degree to which they consider water quality
management an immediate priority. Furthermore, technical and resource capacities to address
water quality issues vary considerably. The project component will therefore emphasize
awareness raising on benefits/costs of cooperation with regard to transboundary water quality
management on an institutional level. Capacity development efforts will be focused on the Nile
countries with the greatest needs in terms of formulating and enforcing regulations, analyzing
water quality and addressing immediate problems. No additional inputs in training and resources
are anticipated in countries that already receive GEF or other targeted resources for similar
activities. Support of water quality monitoring efforts will mainly be geared towards aiding
low-cost field methods to address transboundary priority actions with an emphasis on synergy
with project activities in Component 2, Community Level Land, Forests and Water Conservation
(such as erosion control, improved land management and non-point source pollution control).
As the emphasis of this component is to launch a basin-wide dialogue supplemented by
exchanges and training, the project will not support significant laboratory development or
equipment purchases. Additional resources are still required to upgrade national capacities in a
number of the Nile countries (including laboratories, equipment, identification of sampling
points, etc.), which are largely outside the scope of the present regional effort. An assessment of
the experiences from this regional engagement on water quality will provide the basis for
recommending future NBI investment and grant funded activities and the development of water
quality action plans.
5.1 Enhanced National Capacities for Water Quality Monitoring (GEFWB)
Building on the identification of root causes and priority action steps initiated in the Nile TEA,
this sub-component will begin by assessing existing water quality information on a national and
regional scale and identifying major information gaps and needs. A detailed work plan will be
developed based on this initial overview. One product of this initial assessment will be the
compilation of a Nile Water Quality Report (this will be coordinated with the planned activities
to publish a Nile Atlas within the SVP Water Resources Planning and Management Project and
close collaboration and synergies with this project are anticipated when it becomes operational).
One of the prerequisites of successful water quality management is to build effective institutions
and develop appropriate and enforceable regulations. Regional workshops and training events
will foster exchanges among the Basin countries and draw on lessons learned across the Basin
and worldwide. The project will especially build on and incorporate lessons learned from
- 55 -



ongoing regional efforts in the LVEMP and work with the same actors. Some key capacities for
regional cooperation will be enhanced, especially through strengthening dialogue and evaluation
of existing water quality data and information in a transboundary context. Agreement will also be
sought on the formulation and use of uniform analytical methods and standardized laboratory
protocols for measuring key water quality parameters.
The activities will be coordinated and supervised by the regional Water Quality Lead Specialist.
It is envisaged that the leading laboratories in the region, for example in Uganda and Egypt, will
be able to serve as training sites during the project and then as future reference laboratories. A
regional Working Group will be formed.
Main Activities & Tasks
1. Establishment of basin-wide Working Group
2. Review and summarize national water quality monitoring efforts; compile Nile Water
Quality report; set priorities and develop work plan
3. Develop conmmon analytical methods and conduct training
4. Build capacity for water quality monitoring and enforcement
5.2 Awareness Raising and Information Sharing on Transboundary Water Quality
Monitoring (GEFIWEB)
The planned activities are aimed at raising awareness on the institutional level of the relevance of
cooperation in water quality management and at providing an initial common, updated
information base on transboundary water quality issues as identified in the TEA.
Information exchanges will be initiated, emphasizing priority transboundary issues and a limited
subset of the sites identified through the analysis of gaps and needs under component 5.1.2.
Information management and communication will take advantage of existing facilities
supplemented by those established through this project and other SVP projects (SVP Water
Resources Planning and Management and the Nile-SEC supported information Resource Center
as this emerges). Critical data gaps and information needs identified will be addressed by
improved sampling and analysis methods emphasizing sustainable, low cost methods that can be
carried out in the field. This effort is limited to a realistic number of sites and hotspots of
transboundary significance, which will be selected based on the initial gaps and needs analysis
(5.1) by the Working Group under the guidance of the Water Quality Lead Specialist. Selected
sites where priority actions take place under the Component 2, Community Level Land, Water
and Forest of the present project will be especially considered.
Information exchanged is expected to include the assessment of sediment and nutrient loads and
the protection of wetlands and be closely related to other project activities. Countries that are
already engaged in intensive monitoring efforts are likely to provide more detailed information
and contribute their own experiences. The project will seek complementarity to ongoing efforts
(e.g., LVEMP) and will not provide additional resources where other resources, including GEF
funds, are already being provided for similar activities.
- 56 -



Main Activities & Tasks
I. Conduct study tour to raise awareness of transboundary water quality needs
2. Develop compatible data reporting and database formats
3. Undertake transboundary Nile water quality monitoring at selected pilot sites
(including exchange of information and improvement of field methods)
4. Review and consolidate experiences and formulate recommendations for further
actions
- 57 -



hjame2  d   . .::-  A   -       C? .      .,n  / .               _____-___________
Sub-component 1.1 Regional coordination - Activities & Tasks
1.  Establish Project Steenng Comnuttee
2. Establish Project Management Unit
3   Hire National Project Coordinators
Sub-component 1.2 Knowledge Management - Activities & Tasks
I. Procure and install hardware
2. Hire Knowledge Management PMU staff
3. Develop project communications plan
4.  Establish environmental knowledge base
5. Publish environmental newsletter and establish project website
Sub-component 1.3 River Basin Model (RBM) - Activities & Tasks
1. Develop RBM and conduct staff training
2. Establish and solidify linkages between regional DSS unit and national user network
3. Test and apply RBM for selected projects/programs
4. Consolidate RBM use and training
Sub-component 1.4 Macro- and Sectoral Policies and the Environment - Activities & Tasks
I. Identify candidate institutions & researchers, and select the study participants
2. Hold one regional workshop to plan each of the two applied research studies
3. Contract with participating researchers/host institutions
4. Hold one regional workshop to report on and disseminate each of the two research studies
Component 2 - Cominunlty-level 1co i, Toreats a wntor ccase,7va,:Era
Sub-component 2.1 Enhanced Basin-wide Capabilities and Cooperation - Activities & Tasks
I. Hire Nile Transboundary Microgrant Lead Specialist at PMU
2.  Conduct regional capacity building workshops for NGOs, NGO networks and govemment staff
Sub-component 2.2 Priority Actionsfor Addressing Soil Erosion - Activitlies & Tasks
I. Carry out rapid assessment studies for soil erosion in Ethiopia, Rwanda and Sudan
2. Hold national and regional workshops to apply findings and initiate dissemination
Sub-component 2.3 Nile Transboundary Microgrant Program - Activities & Tasks
1. Establish national institutional arrangements for Nile Transboundary Microgrant Program in each country
2. Organize a regional initial Nile Transboundary Microgrant workshop
3. Develop regional Nile Transboundary Microgrant Strategy and finalize Microgrant Operational Manual
4. Develop National Nile Transboundary Microgrant Action Plans (each participating country)
5.  Develop reporting requirements and Monitonng and Evaluation framework (regional and national)
6. Formulate Nile Transboundary Microgrant communication strategy
7. Organize national Nile Transboundary Microgrant launching workshop
8. Administer National Nile Transboundary Microgrant
9. Additional national and regional workshops as needed
10. Organize regional review workshop to assess progress and lessons learned
I. Prepare assessment of lessons learned and recommendations
-9i4a .|^X: ' - Z<ronnt:atn aedCo.ec ^onm r ptr te nwm-eit
Sub-component 3.1 Public Information and Awareness - Activities & Tasks
I . Estabhlsh National Environmental Working Education & Awareness Working Group
2. Regional workshop to exchange expenences and plan transboundary actions
3. Develop detailed work plan
4. Cooperatively develop transboundary environmental education materials
5. Additional national and regional workshops as needed
6. Hold final regional workshop to assess experiences and plan future activities
Sub-component 3.3 Secondary Schools - Activities & Tasks
I. Deliver schools networking services sub-component (World Links or equivalent)
2.  Develop detailed work plan
3   Identify participating schools and teachers
- 58 -



4 Organize and conduct teacher training workshops
5. Support transboundary environmental projects within school networks
6. Organize Nile Transboundary Environmental Education award scheme
7 Hold regional workshops to assess expenences and formulate further action
8. Additional national and regional workshops as needed
Sub-component 3.3 University Networks - Activities & Tasks
I   Prepare work plan
2. Facilitate faculty and student exchanges among Basin universities
3. Select participants for development of university course on Nile transboundary issues
4. Organize two regional workshops to facilitate course preparation
Component 4 - Wetlands and biodiversity conservation
Sub-component 4.1 Enhanced Regional Cooperation and Capabilities - Activities & Tasks
I Establish a Wetlands and Biodiversity Conservation Working Group
2.  Elaborate selection cntena for key conservation areas to be targeted
3. Establish basin-wide network of stakeholder representatives/experts
4. Develop education, training, and awareness programs
Sub-component 4.2 Better Understanding and Broader Awareness of Role of Wetlands in Supporting Sustainable
Development - Activities & Tasks
1. Select study sites
2. Prepare Terms or Reference for each study and tender assigmnents
3. Backstop implementation of each study
4. Prepare the wetlands education, training and awareness programs
5 Carry out workshop to disseminate results and deliver training and education materials
Sub-component 4.3 More Effective Management of Wedands and Transboundary Protected Areas - Activities &
Tasks
I. Select 3 sites for intervention, prepare TORs for baseline assessment and preparation of management plans
2. Contract assignments
3. Formally adopt the management plans, elaborated through participatory process
4. Start implementation of plans
Component 5 - Water quality monitoring basin-wide
Sub-component 5.1 Enhanced National Capacitiesfor Water Quality Monitoring - Activities & Tasks
I Establishment of basin-wide Working Group
2. Review and summarize national water quality monitoring efforts; compile Water Quality report; set pnoritzes and
develop work plan
3. Develop common analytical methods and conduct training
4. Build capacity for water quality monitoring and enforcement
Sub-component 5.2 Awareness Raising and Information Sharing on Transboundary Water Quality - Activities &
Tasks
I Conduct study tour to raise awareness of transboundary water quality needs
2. Develop compatible data reporting and database formats
3. Transboundary Nile water quality monitoring at selected pilot sites (including exchange of information and
improvement of field methods)
4 Review and consolidate experiences and formulate recommendations for further actions
- 59 -



Annex 2 - Appendix A
Sub-component 2.3
The GIE1F Small Girants Progranmme (UNDF/GEF/SGP)
The UNDP/GEF/SGP has been making small grants since 1992 and now has highly-regarded,
decentralized and country-driven programs in more than fifty countries. Within the Nile Basin,
the UNDP/GEF/SGP operates in Egypt, Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda. In addition to managing
small grants for the GEF, the UNDP/GEF/SGP has also entered into agreements with EU,
DANIDA and other donors to manage additional small grants funds for each of these agencies in
certain countries as separate financing windows, each of which have their own specific
grant-making criteria. The more experienced national UNDP/GEF/SGPs typically award small
grants amounting to about $400,000 each year. The UNDP/GEF/SGP is implemented globally by
UNDP and executed by UNOPS. All SGP grant disbursements are authorized by UJNOPS.
The key elements of the institutional arrangements for the UNDP/GEF/SGP in each country are
the National Steering Committee (NSC) and the National Coordinator (NC), operating with
support from the UJNDP Country Office. The NC and NSC together are responsible for ensuring
that participatory, democratic, impartial, and transparent procedures for project review and
approval as well as all other aspects of program implementation are established and practiced at
the country level.
The UTNDP/GEF/SGP NSCs' are composed of voluntary members from NGOs, academic and
scientific institutions, other civil society organizations, key government agencies and UNDP,
with a majority of members coming from the nongovermmental sector. The NSC provides overall
guidance and direction to the country program, and contributes to developing and implementing
strategies for country program sustainability. In collaboration with the NC, the NSC helps to
develop a country program strategy and oversees its implementation. The NSC is responsible for
selecting and approving projects, and for ensuring their technical and substantive quality. NSC
members are encouraged to participate in pre-selection project site visits and in project
monitoring and evaluation. Most NSCs function under the principle of consensus, and rarely
resort to voting to determine whether a project is approved or a particular course of action is
taken. Members of the NSC are formally appointed by the UNDP Resident Representative.
Participation in the NSC is without monetary compensation. Travel expenses for project site
visits or to NSC meetings can be covered by the UNDP/GEF/SGP country operational budget.
UNDP/GEF/SGP experience has shown that NSC often play very constructive roles in
developing or reinforcing working relationships between government officials and NGOs. NGOs
learn to appreciate that they need to partner effectively with key government agencies in order to
achieve their own objectives and to work effectively at community levels, while government
officials benefit from the opportunity to work directly with members of the NGO community and
to exchange experiences and ideas while working towards shared objectives.
- 60 -



The UNDP/GEF/SGP NC has lead responsibility for managing country program implementation.
The NC's major functions include: (a) promoting the program's objectives, procedures, and
achievements among NGOs, community-based organizations, and other key stakeholders; (b)
developing and revising a Country Program Strategy in collaboration with the NSC and other
stakeholders; (c) implementing the Country Program Strategy, and ensuring that SGP grants and
projects meet the criteria of the Strategy; (d) assisting NGOs and community-based organizations
in the formulation of project proposals, and ensuring their technical and substantive quality; (e)
serving as the NSC's secretariat, pre-screening project proposals, and otherwise supporting the
work of the NSC; (f) facilitating NGO and community-based organizations access to technical
support services; (g) developing and implementing communications and information
dissemination strategies which will reach a wide range of target audiences; (h) ensuring sound
program monitoring and evaluation, including periodic project site visits; (i) mobilizing
resources for co-financing projects; (j) supervising other UNDP/GEF/SGP local staff; and (k)
reporting to UNDP, UNOPS and other funding agencies as required.
In some countries, the UNDP/GEF/SGP is located in a national host institution, normally a
national NGO. UNOPS administers a sub-contract with the host NGO that outlines the technical
support and administrative services to be provided as well as the operating budget. The
sub-contract contains rules of collaboration with the host organization and is supervised by
UNOPS. All country programs, whether based in the UNDP or in a host NGO, are equally bound
by the overall UNDP/GEF/SGP Strategic Framework and Operational Guidelines.
UNOPS provides program execution services for the UNDP/GEF/SGP in the following areas: (a)
personnel recruitment and contract administration for project staff and consultants; (b)
sub-contracts for host institutions; (c) authorization of country program grant allocations and
disbursements; (d) budget administration, including authorization and monitoring of
expenditures; (e) training and guidance on the above to country-level staff; and (f) support for
initiation of the program in new countries.
The Kenya and Tanzania UNDP/GEF/SGPs already participate in the six-country COMPACT
project, which should provide a useful operational model for management and contractual
arrangements for the Nile Transboundary Microgrant Program. The COMPACT project is
supporting small grants focused on one specific area within each country.' To facilitate these
small grants and provide an on-site presence, the UNDP/GEF/SGP has hired Local Coordinators
who report directly to the National Coordinator. These Local Coordinators are based in a local
NGO which provides support services through a contract with UNOPS. There is also a Local
Steering Committee to guide the project's activities, although strategic and grant-making
decisions for the COMPACT project continue to be made by its NSC. A similar arrangement is
expected to be established for the Nile Transboundary Microgrant Program.
I Known as National Selection Committees in some countries.
2 COMPACT = Community-Managed Protected Area Management Project (funded by the UN Foundation and the
GEF).
3 Mount Kenya in Kenya and Mount Kilimanjaro in Tanzania
- 61 -



Annex 2- Appendix B
Sub-conmponent 2.3
Nile Trarisboundaary Microgrant ]Insdtutional Arrangements
A national Nile Transboundary Microgrant Program will be established in each participating
country. The types of activities eligible to be supported by the Microgrants are listed in Appendix
C. Priority will be given to funding projects that: (a) focus on transboundary environmental
problems and sites; (b) provide for community participation in their design, implementation and
evaluation; (c) pay attention to the needs of women and/or indigenous peoples and practices; (d)
draw on local or Nile Basin scientific and technical resources; (e) support capacity development,
and (f) communicate best practices to wider audiences.
A draft Microgrant Operadonal Manual for the Nile Transboundary Microgrant Program has
been prepared drawing from the best practice of the UNDP/GEF/SGP. The Microgrant Manual
will be available in final form for Bank review and acceptance six months after project
effectiveness. Grants will not be disbursed until the Microgrant Manual has been completed and
accepted by the Bank. The Microgrant Manual outlines the basic procedures for grant
application, institutional arrangements, and flow of funds. The Microgrant Manual will assure
adherence to certain basin-wide guidelines, minimum criteria, procedures and terms and
conditions of the Microgrant Program. This includes adherence to financial management
guidelines outlined in the overall Project Implementation Manual as well as standard UNDP and
World Bank policies. No grant will be disbursed unless it has been approved according to the
requirements and criteria outlined in the Microgrant Manual. The Microgrant Manual will be
annexed to the Nile Transboundary Microgrant Strategy, which will be developed during the first
year of the project (see paragraph below).
The maximum size of individual grants will be $25,000, though it is expected that many grants
will be much smaller and the average size will probably be around $10,000 per grant. It will be
encouraged that at least 50 percent of each country's Microgrants will directly support
transboundary activities (i.e., those involving partners from at least one other Nile country),
while all single-country projects should clearly be related to transboundary environmental issues
(i.e., an environmental issue shared by at least one other Nile country). The project portfolio
developed by each national Nile Transboundary Microgrant Program will be required to
demonstrate a significant contribution to involving women and women's organizations (specific
goals will be set within each country but should be no less that 10 percent of project funds). To
help address the challenge of implementing local activities with transboundary significance,
frequent interactions and networking between the Nile countries' Microgrant Programs will be
facilitated by the Microgrant Lead Specialist in the PMU.
Following an initial regional workshop, the Microgrant Lead Specialist in the PMU will
coordinate and take the lead in preparing a Regional Nile T'ransboundary Micirogrant Strategy
based on input from the participating countries. The Microgrant Operational Manual (see above)
will be annexed to the Strategy. This basin-wide Strategy will provide the substantive framework
- 62 -



for focusing resources and guiding program implementation, including the spatial and thematic
priorities to guide project selection and grant making. It will also provide a basis for the
assessment of achievements and sustainable outcomes of the Nile Transboundary Microgrant
Program through the development of overall outcome indicators. In particular, the Strategy will
document the approach to identifying, designing and implementing transboundary activities with
Microgrant support. The Strategy development process will be an important and substantive
contribution to capacity building that will strengthen the awareness and ability of key
stakeholders to address transboundary environmental and sustainable livelihood concerns in an
integrated manner.
Each participating country will then use the Nile Transboundary Microgrant Strategy as a starting
point to developing their own National Nile Transboundary Microgrant Action Plan, intended
as a concise and condensed document. The National Nile Transboundary Microgrant Action Plan
will provide a substantive framework for allocating resources, including spatial and thematic
priorities for grant making on a national level (for example, some Microgrant Programs may
target a limited spatial area within the Nile Basin or a subset of their priority environmental
issues). The National Nile Transboundary Microgrant Action Plan will also provide a basis for
the assessment of achievements and outcomes. The National Nile Transboundary Microgrant
Action Plan development process will include consultations with national stakeholders as well as
transboundary counterparts. The Nile Transboundary Microgrant Lead Specialist in the PMU will
support the development of these Action Plans and ensure their mutual compatibility and
alignment with the regional Nile Transboundary Microgrant Strategy and Microgrant Operational
Manual.
Once institutional arrangements and adequate operational procedures are in place - including the
Regional Nile Transboundary Microgrant Strategy and the national Nile Transboundary
Microgrant Program Action Plans - and documented to the satisfaction of the PMU and the
Project Steering Committee, each participating country will receive an initial round of fund
allocation. The initial range for this allocation will be determined at the time of allocation, but is
expected to be in the range of $200,000-$500,000 to be disbursed as Microgrants over 2-3 years.
The amount allocated to each country will be based on an assessment by the PMU of the
institutional arrangements, transparent and appropriate procedures and the absorptive capacity in
each country. Allocation of the remaining funds will be based on the effectiveness of the first
round of funding combined with a convincing plan for second and further rounds. The Project
Steering Committee and the PMU will approve all grant fund allocations to the national Nile
Transboundary Microgrant Programs.
In Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda, the Nile Transboundary Microgrant Program will coordinate
with the small grants program of the Lake Victoria Environmental Management Project
(LVEMP), possibly inviting this project to be represented on the National Steering Committees
of the UNDP/GEF/SGP (see below). In all countries, coordination with other small grants
programs with related objectives such as the Africa 2000 network, will be emphasized.
- 63 -



2.3.3 Organizational Arrangements
The component will be managed by the Microgrant Lead Specialist in the PMU, working closely
with the National Project Coordinators and National/Local Microgrant Coordinators in the
participating countries.
The institutional arrangements for the Nile Transboundary Microgrants will draw on the best
practice model of the UNDP/GEF/SGP. As such, therefore, it will be managed within each
country by an NSC and an NC. Appendix A describes the UNDP/GEF/SGP institutional
arrangements in more detail. Although the institutional arrangements for the Nile Transboundary
Microgrant Program will build on the UNDP/GEF/SGP experience, the specific arrangements
will vary by country.
i. Riparian Countries with an existing UNDP/GEF/SGP (see Appendix A)
In Egypt, Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda it is expected that the existing national UNDP/GEF/SGP
will be used as a delivery mechanism for the Nile Transboundary Microgrants. UNOPS is
executing the UNDP/GEF/SGP and the present project will avail itself of the established
UNDP/GEF/SGP mechanism.
In these countries, the UNDP/GEF/SGP has agreed to manage the Nile Transboundary
Microgrant Program as a separate funding window. The UNDP/GEF/SGPs in these four
countries already have experience in managing other small grant funds for donor agencies in
addition to their core grant making on behalf of GEF. In Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda the
UNDP/GEF/SGPs are based at or close to the UNDP Country Offices, while a national NGO, the
Arab Office for Youth and Environment, has hosted the Egyptian GEF/SGP since 1992. The
membership of the existing National Steering Committees will be reviewed and may be
expanded to service the needs of the Nile Transboundary Microgrant Program. The present
project will fund the hiring of a Nile Transboundary Microgrant Local Coordinator in Egypt,
Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda, to work under the guidance of the UNDP/GEF/SGP National
Coordinator.
In both Kenya and Tanzania, the Nile Basin occupies a portion of the country at a considerable
distance from the national capital. It is therefore planned that a local NGO located within the Nile
Basin will host the Nile Transboundary Microgrant Local Coordinator (probably in Mwanza in
Tanzania and in Kisumu in Kenya). The national UNDP/GEF/SGP Coordinator and the Nile
Transboundary Microgrant Local Coordinator will undertake a market survey, reviewing
potential NGOs which could host the program in these two countries. A proposal will be drawn
up and will be presented to the PMU for approval. Host NGOs will be selected based on criteria
stated in the Microgrant Operational Manual. Local Steering Committees may be appointed to
guide the project's activities in these two countries, although strategic and grant making
decisions will continue to be made by the National Steering Committee. This arrangement is
based on the best practice example of the model established by the COMPACT project which is
operational in Kenya and Tanzania and which is - like the Nile Transboundary Microgrants - an
- 64 -



add-on to the ongoing UNDP/GEF/SGP with a specific geographical focus.
ii. Riparian Countries without an existing UNDP/GEF/SGP
Institutional arrangements for the Nile Transboundary Microgrant Program in the riparian
countries without an existing UNDP/GEF/SGP will be based on the UNDP/GEF/SGP model but
will not be associated in its management with the global UNDP/GEF/SGP. In these countries a
national NGO will be selected to host the Nile Transboundary Microgrant Program based on
criteria outlined in the Microgrant Operational Manual. UNOPS will administer a contract with
the host NGO that outlines the technical support and administrative services to be provided and
an operating budget. The sub-contract contains rules of collaboration with the host organization
as defined in the offer or terms of reference, both of which are integral parts of the contract. This
contract will be supervised by UNOPS. All National Nile Transboundary Microgrant Programs,
whether based in the UNDP or in a host NGO, will respond equally to the Nile Transboundary
Microgrant Strategy and Microgrant Operational Manual.
Based on careful assessment and interviews during the three-year project preparation period, the
host NGOs for Ethiopia and Sudan have been identified and selected. In Ethiopia the Christian
Relief and Development Association (CRDA) will host the program, while in Sudan the Sudan
Environmental Conservation Society (SECS) will be the host. Each of these are umbrella NGOs
with a broad and inclusive membership. Their selection has been discussed with and agreed with
the two respective governments. Further work will be required to identify suitable institutional
arrangements in Burundi, DR Congo and Rwanda. Selection of the host NGO through a
consultative process will be approved by the Nile-TAC members, the PMU, UNDP and World
Bank. Appendix D describes the selection criteria to be used in selecting the host NGO.
Selection in the three remaining countries will aim to identify a suitable national umbrella NGO,
environmental fund, or foundation, although an independent academic/scientific institution could
also be appropriate. With the objective of strengthening Nile riparian local institutions and
NGOs, the Nile-TAC and Nile-COM have agreed that local representation of international NGOs
would not be eligible.
- 65 -



Annex 2 - Appendlix C
Sub-component 2.3
Nile Transboundary Microgront Actvities
The types of activities to be supported by Nile Transboundary Microgrant Program will include:
o   Strengthening or helping to establish national and transboundary networks of NGOs working
on environment and sustainable development.
o   Capacity building and training for NGOs, communities and community-based organizations,
with special attention to the participation of women and women's groups.
O Transboundary workshops and other activities that enhance NGO-government collaboration
on environmental management.
o   Rapid assessment studies of transboundary soil erosion to identify priority sites, processes
and opportunities for interventions, mainly based on existing information, in Ethiopia,
Rwanda and Sudan.
o   Support for local enviromnental planning and awareness raising.
O Local-level pilot initiatives, adoption of best practices and exchanges of lessons learned in
relation to measures to prevent and mitigate desertification or land degradation, defined as
any form of deterioration of the natural potential of land that affects ecosystem integrity,
specifically reducing its sustainable ecological productivity or native biological richness and
resilience.
o   Environmental education and awareness raising (in coordination with Component 3).
O Support for exchanges and dissemination of ideas, best practices and lessons learned through
a variety of media: written, audio, video, etc., including modest equipment purchases (in
coordination with Component 3).
Specific measures, including:
o   Water weed control
o   Land management, soil conservation, reforestation, afforestation and land degradation
control.
o   Physical and biological soil conservation measures.
o   Production/procurement of multi-purpose tree seedlings.
o   Water harvesting to decrease soil erosion.
o Development and use of alternative energy and construction materials.
o   Mitigation of non-point source pollution from agriculture.
o   Integrated Pest Management (IPM) demonstration sites.
o   Environmentally sustainable farming demonstration sites (inter-cropping etc.).
o   Agroforestry demonstration plots.
o   Extension services to promote agricultural practices leading to less soil loss, better nutrient
retention, and less fertilizer and pesticide use.
- 66 -



Annex 2 - Appendix D
Sub-component 2.3
Nile Transboundary Microgrant Program Institutional Arrangements
Selection of Host NGOs
Factors to consider in selecting the best candidate national NGO to host the Nile Transboundary
Microgrant Program in Countries where UNDP/GEF/SGP does not operate:
o   Established NGO with at least 10 years of operational experience.
o   Umbrella NGO with broad based membership preferred.
o   Independent of party politics/political movements.
o   Broadly recognized credibility and demonstrated leadership among NGO community in
country.
o  Demonstrated compatibility with the procedures, objectives, and grant-making functions
of the Nile Transboundary Microgrant Program.
o   Significant experience in community-based, participatory environment and development
activities.
o   Substantial involvement and technical expertise in environmental issues related to the
Agenda for Environmental Action described in the Nile Basin Initiative's Transboundary
Environment Analysis (2001).
o   Proven program management and administrative capacity with reliable and demonstrated
accounting systems in place.
o   Good working relationships with other NGOs and community-based organizations,
including participation in environmentldevelopment networks, and established credibility
in previous grant administration based on donor funding.
o   Established relationship with UNDP, the World Bank or CIDA.
o   Experience with small grant administration.
- 67 -



Annxex 2 - Appendix E
Summsary B3uidget Tlables
Table 2.1 - Overall Project Budget (US$millions)
Components               Riparian  SVP     NBTF3   GEF WB    GEF     TOTAL    GRAND
(In kind)' Coordin                  UNDP     NBTF&   TOTAL
(in kind)  .  2                  ~~GEF    TOA
, gtion
1. Institutional Strengthening
1.1 Regional coordination (GEF/UNDP)     3.55       0        0       0      6.92    6.92    10.47
1.2 Knowledge management (GEFNWB)          C _               a     0.99        0     0.99    0.99
1.3 Decision Support System - River Basin  C      0.0     2.70     3.6               6.33    6.33
Model (GEFNVB & NBTFIWB)                     .
1.4 Macro/sectoral policies and the        0        0        0     0.45       0      0.45    0.45
environment (GEFNWB)
Component I subtotal     3.55    0.07     2.70     5.07     6.92    14.69    18.24
2. Community Level Land, Forests and
Water Conservation
2.1 Enhanced Basin-wide capabilities and  0.75      0        0        0     2.07     2.07     2.87
cooperation (GEF/UNDP)
2.2 Priority Actions for Addressing Soil       .                      0     0.31     0.31     0.31
Erosion (GEF/UNDP)                   _
2.3 Nile Transboundary Microgrant          0      0.20    7.40        0     1.32     8.72     8.72
Program (NBTF/WB)                              I,. 
Component 2 subtotal     0.75     0.20    7.40        0      3.7    11.10    11.85
3. Environmental Education and Public
Awareness (GEF/UNDP)
3.1 Public information and awareness       0 .   ,. 0        0        0     2.20     2.20     2.20
3.2 Secondary Schools                        ___             0        l     0.78     0.78     0.78
3.3 Networking universities and other      0        0        0        0     0.45     0.45     0.45
research institutions                        I
Component 3 Subtotal       0        0        0        0     3.43     3.43     3.43
4. Wetlands and Biodiversity
Conservation
4.1 Enhanced regional cooperation and               0        0        0     1 33     1.33     1.33
capabilities (GEF/UNDP)
4.2 Wetlands in sustainable development           0.0     2.71                      2.71     2.71
(GEF/UNDP and possibly NBTFNVB -
Phase 2)                            .          .
4.3 Management of wetlands &               0 .      0        0        0     3.11     3.11     3.11
cross-border protection areas (GEF/UNDP) 
Component 4 Subtotal       0      0.07     2.71       0     4.44     7.15     7.15
5. Water Quality Monitoring Basin-wide
(GEFNVB)
5.1 National capacity building for water   0        0        0     1.51        0     1.51     1.51
quality monitoring
5.2 Transboundary water quality            0        0        0     1.42        0     1.42     1.42
monitoring                                                                      I
Component 5 Subtotal        0       0        0     2.93        0     2.93     2.93
Total SVP Coordination Support                    0.38                                _ ___   0.38
TOTAL                                     4.3     0.38   12.81     8.00    18.49    39.30     43.6
1 For detailed breakdown of Riparian contribution, see table 2 2
2 SVP Coordination costs will be deducted from NBTF.
3 NBTF includes SVP Coordination.
4 Riparian (in kind) plus Total NBTF & GEF
- 68 -



Table 2.2 - Riparian Contribution (US$equivalent)
Contributions from Nile   10 NBI countries PMU Host country         NGO              TOTAL
countries                                               contributions
PMU Office and staff                       C           330,000                  0            330,000
National project offices             900,000                  0                 0            900,000
National staff                        60,000                  0                 0             60,000
Nile-SEC Contribution              1,750,00(                  0                 0          1,750,000
NGO contributions to                                                      750,000            750,000
Microgrants
Office Fumiture                       20,00              3,000                 0             23,000
Travel                               100,00                   0            30,000            130,000
Utilities                            305,00 __                00                             305,000
Misc. Expenses                        10,00              20,000            25,000             55,000
Total                              3,145,00             353,000           805,000          4,303,000
Annex 2 - Appendix E
World Bank Implemented Component Budget Tables
(includes both NBTF/World Bank and GEF/World Bank financed components)
Component 1.2 - Knowledge Management
World Bank GEF
Totals Including Contingencies (USS Million)
2003    2004    2005    2006    2007    2008   Total
I. Investment Costs
A. KM Project Staff /a
KM Staff - Writer/editor                          -    0 04    0.05    0.05    0.05   0.02     0 21
KM Intemational Consultants                       -    0.01    0.01    0.01    0 01      -    0 03
KM Basin Consultants                              -    0.01    0 01    0 01    0.01    0 01    0 07
Communications/Web Page Lead Specialist           -    0 06    0 06    0 06    0 06    0 02    0.25
Subtotal KM Project Staff                           -    0.12    0.13    013     013    0 05    0 56
B. KM Equipment
KM Software Installation lb                       -    0 01       -      -       -       -     0 01
KM PC/DTP Equipment                               -    0.02      -       -       -       -    0 02
Subtotal KM Equipment                               -    0 03      -       -       -       -    0.03
C. KM Expenses
KM SVP Network                                    -    0 04    0.04    005     0 05    0.05    0 23
KM Printing/Translation/dissemination             -    0 01    0.02    0 02    0.02    0.02    010
Total                                                 -    0.21    0.19    0 20    0 20    0.12    0 92
UNOPS Fee (Estimated)                                -    0.02    0 02    0 02    0.02    0 01    0.07
SVP Coordination Support                                     -       -       -       -       -
TOTAL INVESTMENT COSTS                                    0.22    0.21    0.21    0.22    0.13    0.99
\a KM Travel will be covered by component 1 1
\b Assumes installations at 10 country offices and PMU
- 69 -



Componont 1.3 - River Basin Modellng
World Bank GEF and NBTF
Totals Including Contingencies (US$ Million)
2003     2004    2005    2006     2007    2008     Total
I. Investment Costs
A. RBM Consultants
Database Specialist                               -       -     0 07    0 07        -       -     0 14
GIS Specialist                                    -       -     0 05       -                -     0 05
Water Resources Modelling Specialist              -     0.05    0 21     0.21    0.22    0.06     0 74
Socio-Economist                                   -       -        -    0.11     0.11       -     0 21
Code Developers                                   -       -     0.09     0.09    0 09       -     0.26
Regional Sector Specialists /b                    -       -     0 04    0.04     0 02    0 02     0 12
Subtotal RBM Consultants                            -     005     045      0.52    043      008     1 53
8 RBM Travel /c                                  0 02     0.06    0 07     0.07    0.07     0 04    0 33
C. RBM Training
Study Tours /d                                    -     0.11    0 11     0.11       -       -     0.32
Overseas Internships le                           -     0.09    0 09     0.09       -       -     0 28
MS in WRM at overseas universities                -     0 18    0.18     0.24       -       -     0 60
Subtotal RBM Training                               -     0 38    0 38     0 44       -        -    1 20
D RBM Modelling Contract                            -     0.49    0.49     0.49    0 49     0 49    2 43
E. Oversight and M&E
Independent Reviews/                              -       -        -     0.05    0.05     0.05    0 14
Panel of Experts                                  -     0 03    0.03     0 03    0 03     0 03    0 17
Subtotal Oversight and M&E                          -     0.03    0 03     0.08    0.08     0 08    0.30
Total                                               0 02    1.01     1 42    1 59     1.07    0.68     5 80
UNOPS Fee (Estimated)                              0.00    0.08     0 11    0.13     0.09    0.05     046
SVP Coordination Support                              -    0.01     0.01    0.01     0 01    0.01     0 07
TOTAL INVESTMENT COSTS                             0.02     1.11    1.55     1.73    1.17    0.75     6.33
\a GEF Contribution to the RBM/DSS SVP Project.
\b Includes specialists in AG, water supply, hydropower, environment, etc.
\c Assumes an average of 5 trips/year @ US$10,000/trip.
\d Assumes 2 week tours for ten participants.
\e Assumes 3 month intemships for 10 people.
U Assumes 2 people per review including fees and travel.
- 70 -



Component 1.4 - Macro & Sectoral Pollces and the Environment
World Bank GEF
Totals Including Contingencies (USS Milion)
2003    2004     2005    2006    2007     2008    Total
I. Investment Costs
A Macro & Sectoral Studies /a                      -     0.10    0.10       -        -            0.21
B. Macro & Sectoral Travel
Intemational Trips                               -     0 01    0.01     0 01       -       -     0 03
Basin Trips                                      -     0 01    0 01       -        -       -    0 02
Subtotal Macro & Sectoral Travel                   -     0 02    0 02    0.01        -       -    0 04
C. Macro & Sectoral Tralning
Training and Workshops                           -        -    0.08     0 08       -       -     0.16
Printing, Translation, Dissemination             -        -    0.01     0 01       -       -    0.01
Total                                                 -    012      0 20    0 09       -       -     0 42
UNOPS Fee (Estimated)                                -    0.01     0 02    0 01       -        -    0 03
SVP Coordination Support                             -       -        -       -       -        -       -
TOTAL INVESTMENT COSTS                               -    0.13     0.22    0.10       -        *    0.45
\a Assumes 2 topics and 4 countries/topic
Component 2.3 - Micro-grant Fund for NGOs
NBTF - CIDA
Totals Including Contingencies (USS Mlillion)
2003    2004     2005    2006     2007    2008    Total
I. Investment Costs
A. National Microgrant Coordinators
NMGC - Burundi                                      -        -    0.02     003     0 02       -     0.07
NMGC-DRC                                            -        -    0 01     0.04    0 04    0.02     0.10
NMG Coordinator - Egypt                             -        -    0 06     0.06    0 06    0 03     0 20
NMGC-Eritrea /a                                     -        -       -     0 02    0 02    0 01     0.04
NMGC - Ethiopia                                                   0 03     0 03    0 03    0.01     0 09
NMGC - Kenya                                                      0.04     0.05    0 05    0 03     017
NMGC - Rwanda                                       -        -    0 01     0.02    0.02    0 01     0 07
NMGC - Sudan                                              0.01    0.03     0.03    0.03    0 01     0.10
NMGC - Tanzania                                     -     0.02    0 04     0.04    0 05    0 02     0.18
NMGC - Uganda                                       -     0 01    0 03     0 03    0 03    0 01     010
Subtotal National Microgrant Coordinators             -     0 03    0.25     0 34    0 33    0.16     1.12
B. Micro-grant Administrative Costs
Microgrant Travel /b                                -     0 03    0 03     0 03    0 02    0 02     012
Monitoring/Evaluation of Grants /c                  -        -    0.03     0 03    0 08    0.08     0.22
Subtotal Micro-grant Administrative Costs             -     0 03    0.06     0 06    0 10    0.10     0.34
C. Micro-Grants
Micro-Grants (Canadian CIDA)                        -     1.30    1 30     1 30    1 30       -     5 20
Total                                                    -    136      1.61    170      173     0.26    6 67
UNOPS Fee (Estimated)                                         011     0.13    014      0.14    0 02     0 53
SVP Coordination Support                                -     0.04    0.05    0 05     0.05    0 01     0 20
TOTAL INVESTMENT COSTS                                  -     1.51    1.79    1.89     1.92    0.28     7.40
\a Eritrea currently has observer status and is expected to become a full member of the NBI; therefore, this position is budgeted
If Eritrea does not become a full member of NBI dunng the course of this Project, these funds will be re-allocated into the Micro-grants
\b Assumes identification and supervision missions for MG LS
\c Independent evaluation of Grants
- 71 -



Component 4.2 - Wetlands In Sustainable Development
NBTF
Totals Including Contingencies (USS Million)
2003     2004     2005      2006     2007     2008     Total
I. Investment Costs /a
A. Wetlands Studies                 -        -        -     1 24     1.20        -     2.44
Total                                 -        -         -     1 24     1.20        -     2.44
UNOPS Fee (Estimated)                -         -        -     0 10     0 10        -     0.20
SVP Coordination Support              -        -        -     0.04     0.04        -     0.07
TOTAL INVESTMENT COSTS               -        -               1.38     1.33        -     2.71
ba The NBTF financed wetlands activities are to be designed during the first three years of the project
and implemented along with the UNDP GEF funded Wetlands activities, which come in Phase II
of the UNDP GEF project funding
ConTiwpmt 5.1 - Water Quality Czpacity Building
World Bank GEF
Td2als IncludiOg Contingnies (US$ Mllion)
2C03    2004     205     20S     207     208      Total
l. lrnsnr    Costs
A Was Qulity StF
Water Quality Lead Specialist                                     -     0.10    0.10    011      0.11    0.08    0.47
Water Quality Intemational Corsultants                            -     002     0.03    003         -       -    0.08
Water Quality Basin Consultants                                   -     0.05    0.11    0.11        -       -    0.27
Suh2otal Watr Quality Staff                                         -     017     0.24    0.25     0.11    0.08    0.83
B. Water Quality Trael/a                                            -     0.01    001     0.01     0.01    0.01    0.05
C. Waar Quality Training and Waxkshops
Water QUlity WorlrngGroup Maeings                                 -     0 04    004     0.04       -        -    0.12
Water Qudity Basin-Wide Woakshops                                 -        -    004      004     0.04       -    0.12
Water Quality National Wakshops                                   -        -    0.08    003      0.03       -    0.11
Water Quaity Prinrtng, Translation, and Dssenination              -     003     0.03     0.03    003     0.03    0.14
Sundry Exanses                                                  0 00    0.00    001     001      0 01    0 01    0 03
Total                                                               0 00    0.25    0.42     040     0 22    0.10     1.40
ULNS Fe (EsUmated)                                                 000     0.02     0.03    0.03    0.02     001     a11
SVP COrdfinaion Support                                         __-               -        -       -       -            -
TOTAL INVESM23VT COSTS                                             0.00    0.27    0Q45     QL43    0.24    0.11     1.51
\a Assumns 3 internation and 4 basin tnps over the life of the project. Note that Lead Speialist's travel is largely funded from Prqect Mna nt
(ornnent 1 1) budget.
- 72 -



Component 52 - Water Quality Monitoring
Totals Includng Contingencies (US$ Million)
2003    2004    2005    2006    2007     2008   Total
1. Investment Costs
A Transboundary Water Quality Consultants
Tranbowy Water Quality Intemational  Consultants                         002     0 02    0.02    0 02     002     0 08
TransboundaryWaterjaM ttyBasinConsuhants                            -    001     005     0.06    0.04     0.03    0.19
Subtotal Transboundary Water Quality Consultnts                       -    0.03    0.07    0 07    0.06    005      028
B. Transboundary Water QualIty Training and Workshops
Transboundary Water Quldity Basin Workshops                                 -    0.04    0.04       -       -     0 08
Transboundary Water Quality National Workshops                  _           -    0 04    0.04     0.04    0 04    0`15
Subtotal Transboundary Water Quality Training and Workshops           -       -    0.07    0.08    004     004      0 23
C. Transboundary Water Quality Expenses
TransboundaryWaterQuafityEquipnent                                  -    0.06    0.15    025      025     0.10    081
Total                                                                   -    0.09     0.29    0.40    0.35    0.18    1 31
UNOPS Fee (Estimated)                                                  -     001     0.02    0.03    003     001     0.10
SVP Coordination Support                                          _   _    _        __     _     _    _   _     _    _
TOTAL INVESTMENT COSTS                                                       0.10    Q32     0.43    0.37    020     1.42
- 73 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
NILE BASIN INITIATIVE: Nile Transboundary Environmental Action Project
-8         - ' ' ,f'^,, <>  .,s, i _1,' 4  t   s  1   z  Local  Foreign  Total
';'- ~ -.. .  Project Cost By Component           US $million'  US $million   US $million
1. Institutional Strengthening                             3.50         13.83         17.33
2. Community Level Land, Forest, and Water Conservation     0.80        10.72         11.52
3. Environmental Education and Awareness                    0.00         3.14          3.14
4. Wetlands and Biodiversity Conservation                   0.00         7.14          7.14
5. Water Quality Basin-wide                                 0.00         2.77          2.77
Total Baseline Cost                                         4.30        37.60         41.90
Physical Contingencies                                     0.00         0.74          0.74
Price Contingencies                                        0.00         0.96          0.96
Total Project Costs'              4.30         39.30         43.60
Total Financing Required               4.30         39.30        43.60
N   ,~-  ,  --/  9     ................   .  *-       Local       Foreign        Total
K  Project Cost By Category i               US $million   US $million  US $million
Equipment                                                    0.00           1.95          1.95
Staff                                                        0.00           6.99          6.99
Consultant Services                                          0.00          14.46         14.46
Training and Workshops                                       0.00           4.63         4.63
Travel                                                                      2.12         2.12
Microgrants to NGOs                                          0.00           7.10         7.10
Miscellaneousexpenses                                                       2.05         2.05
In kind from riparians'                                      4.30           0.00         4.30
Total Project Costs       4.30         39.30         43.60
Total Financing Required       4.30         39.30         43.60
*See Table 2.2, Appendix E, Annex 2.
Identifiable taxes and duties are 0 (US$m) and the total project cost, net of taxes, is 43 6 (US$m). Therefore, the project cost sharing rato is 18 35%
of total project cost net of taxes.
- 74 -



Annex 4 Incremental Costs
NILE BASIN INITIATIVE: Nile Transboundary Environmental Action Project
Broad Development Goals
The Nile River Basin is home to about 160 million people in Burundi, D.R. Congo, Egypt,
Eritrea, Ethiopia, Kenya, Rwanda, Sudan, Tanzania, and Uganda, with six of these countries
among the world's poorest. The Basin contains an extraordinarily rich and varied range of
ecosystems, with mountains, tropical forests, woodlands, savannas, high and low altitude
wetlands, arid lands and deserts, culminating in a delta partially below sea level. Extreme
poverty, combined with rapid population growth, war, civil strife, drought and famine, has put
enormous pressure on these environmental resources, which in turn represent the only source of
livelihood for many millions of Africa's most impoverished people. As a result, there is an urgent
need to integrate environmental concerns into poverty alleviation and sustainable economic
development strategies, specifically through improved land and water resource management
practices.
Recognizing their common concerns and interests, the Nile riparian countries have taken a
historic step towards cooperation with the establishment in 1999 of the Nile Basin Initiative
(NBI), which provides an agreed framework to fight poverty and promote economic
development. The NBI provides a transitional institutional mechanism, an agreed vision and
basin-wide framework, and a process to facilitate substantial investment in the Nile Basin to
realize regional socio-economic development. The establishment of the NBI begins the complex,
challenging and long-term process of building confidence and realizing mutual benefits through
shared projects. To translate its shared vision into action, the NBI has launched a Strategic
Action Program, which includes two complementary components: (1) a basin-wide Shared
Vision Program (SVP), and (2) Subsidiary Action Programs (SAPs).
The SVP includes a series of technical assistance and capacity building projects to be
implemented basin-wide to help establish a foundation for transboundary regional cooperation
and provide a common vision to ensure long-term sustainability; they incorporate common
analytical frameworks, practical tools and demonstrations, and institutional and human capacity
building. The SVP project portfolio includes seven projects. Four of these projects are thematic
in nature, addressing issues related to transboundary water and environmental management (the
subject of this proposal), power trade, efficient use of water for agriculture, and water resources
planning and management; the remaining three are facilitative, supporting efforts to strengthen
confidence building and stakeholder involvement, applied training, and benefit sharing and
integration.
The SAPs will be initiated in parallel to the SVP, implementing investment projects that confer
mutual benefits at the sub-basin level while following the guidance of the overall NBI Policy
Guidelines endorsed by the Nile-COM. The Nile riparians have formed two SAPs. The Eastern
Nile (EN-SAP) includes Egypt, Sudan and Ethiopia; while the Nile Equatorial Lakes Region
(NEL-SAP) includes the six countries in the southern portion of the Basin-Burundi, D.R.
Congo, Kenya, Rwanda, Tanzania and Uganda-in cooperation with the downstream riparians,
- 75 -



Sudan and Egypt.
The identification of environment and development synergies and sustainable development
opportunities has emerged as a major NBI priority. Although political, economic and social
differences persist between them, the Nile riparian countries share several critical environmental
problems and threats that reinforce the need for regional collaborative efforts. The riparians have
recognized that focusing on issues of common concern provides them with a major opportunity
to make significant progress towards their economic and environmental goals in ways that have
proved difficult to achieve independently.
A Transboundary Environmental Analysis (TEA) has been carried out by the Nile riparians as
part of the SVP, with support from UNDP, World Bank and other international partners, and
with funding provided by the Global Environment Facility. This process identified the elements
of an Agenda for Environmental Action in the Nile Basin, based on a collective synthesis of
environmental trends, threats and priorities. This Agenda includes a recommended program of
complementary preventive and curative actions to address current and emerging environmental
issues. It delineates key measures for institutional strengthening, human resource development
and expansion of public awareness at regional, national and local levels. The Agenda is to be
implemented over the next decade or more under the NBI's Strategic Action Program in
coordination with other development activities.
The project will support the priority transboundary activities to be addressed in the initial
implementation phase of the Agenda for Environmental Action. The objectives are to provide a
strategic environmental framework for environmentally sustainable development of the Nile
River Basin, improve understanding of the relationship of water resources development and
environment in the Basin, and provide a forum to discuss development paths for the Nile with a
wide range of stakeholders. The project seeks to conserve the Basin's unique but critically
threatened environmental assets while helping to ensure that its natural resources are used in an
optimal and sustainable way to foster economic development and mitigate the appalling levels of
poverty that pervade the region.
BSaseline Situation
The baseline situation consists of existing projects and prograns for the riparian countries
included in country-level plans and strategies for economic development, environmental
conservation and natural resource management, supplemented by other activities being planned
or conducted by individual governmental agencies at national and local levels as well as private
enterprises and NGOs. The total baseline is estimated at US$403 million as detailed in Table 1,
Project Baseline Summary at the end of this Annex. This amount includes US$77 million for the
estimated costs of defined NBI NEL-SAP projects currently under preparation. The total
estimated costs of the NBI EN-SAP projects also form part of the baseline, however, finalized
cost estimates are still not available.
Perpetuation of the baseline would limit the NBI's ability to encourage more effective integrated
land and water management within overall economic development strategies on a basin-wide
- 76 -



scale. The majority of support for natural resource management and environmental conservation
would continue to focus on independent national-level activities. Some sub-regional activities
will be implemented through the NEL-SAP and the EN-SAP projects in addition to important
existing East African activities involving Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda (such as the GEF-funded
Lake Victoria Environmental Management Project and the Sida-funded Lake Victoria Initiative).
However, none of these activities will be implemented on a basin-wide scale, which is the key to
success of the entire NBI. The ability of the Nile riparians to effectively address transboundary
environmental issues requiring coordination at the basin-wide level would remain limited,
especially for those environmental issues related to future investments in land and water
management. Key cross-border environmental issues such as environmental information sharing,
commnunity-level land and water management (including the spread of aquatic weeds),
environmental education and awareness, transboundary benefits from wetland conservation
(including threats to migratory species) and water quality monitoring would not therefore be
addressed adequately or at the appropriate scale.
1. Institutional Strengthening to Facilitate Regional Cooperation
The baseline for this component amounts to US$93 million, with two main types of project
intervention: first, capacity building and institutional support to the water resources and
environment sectors; second, water resources assessments combined with planning, modeling,
forecasting and simulation, including environmental planning and monitoring. This baseline of
action is, significantly, largely national in character and is unevenly distributed within the Basin.
Apart from Bank and FAO-funded regional projects that were specifically designed in the context
of the wider Nile program, there are no other projects in the institutional strengthening category
which specifically target the coordination of transboundary elements required for cooperative
management of shared water resources.
2. Community-level Land, Forest and Water Conservation
The baseline is very large under this rather broad category, as would be expected, consisting of
projects totaling US$206 million, including three sub-regional NEL-SAP projects with estimated
costs of US$61 million. Many of these projects target agricultural productivity or expansion
through irrigation or other intensification as the basis for food security and poverty alleviation.
Other projects in this category attempt integrated land and water management with an emphasis
on soil conservation, as well as land rehabilitation and community-based efforts in afforestation,
reforestation and forest management. While it is recognized as cross-cutting, multi-sectoral and
interdisciplinary, the IDA portion of the Lake Victoria Environmental Management Project is
categorized as baseline under this component.
- 77 -



3. lEnvironmental Education and Awareness
The TEA identified less than US$1 million in current, externally-funded baseline activities for
this category. This is mainly because most environmental education and awareness activities are
being undertaken on a relatively small scale by large numbers of NGOs and community
organizations and are widely dispersed within the Basin. There is no central project database
documenting these activities. While existing and emerging environmental NGOs are undoubtedly
very active in environmental education and awareness in a number of the Nile Basin countries,
their activities seem almost exclusively to be limited to local and national levels. There is no
program beginning to build awareness of interdependence and opportunities for cooperation
across national boundaries. The proposed NBI project on Communication and Stakeholder
Involvement will be the first of its kind, attempting to develop common messages and common
dialogues among the people of the Nile Basin.
4. Wetlands and Biodiversity Conservation
Non-GEF-funded baseline actions under this component are comparatively large at US$74
million, including a US$16 million NEL-SAP fisheries project for Lake Albert. This is an
impressive total for a region as pervaded by poverty and food security concems as the Nile Basin.
The focus of these projects is mainly environmental management and planning, targeting
wetlands and other protected areas, with an emphasis on both conservation and sustainable uses.
The projects are distributed very unevenly within the Basin, however. Apart from the Lake Albert
initiative, the only project with a transboundary focus is a GEF project addressing East African
cross-boundary protected areas (since this is GEF-funded, however, it does not form part of the
baseline). The critical linkages between transboundary water resource management and the
Basin's acutely threatened and dwindling natural ecosystems is of such importance that the
significance of the transboundary wetland conservation (including biodiversity) issues can
scarcely be overestimated.
5. Water Q9uality Monitoring basin-wide
The baseline of action for this component amounts to US$29 million, almost entirely in Egypt,
indicating the low priority given to the transboundary aspects of water quality in the wider Nile
Basin. At a sub-basin level, the GEF and IDA-funded Lake Victoria Environmental Management
Project addresses water quality issues in the Lake Victoria basin (again, the GEF portion does not
form part of the baseline). Relatively little attention has been given to this issue in the wider Nile
Basin, however, even though it is of growing concern, particularly in the Basin's more heavily
populated and farmed areas. Pollution and water quality issues are becoming especially critical at
and around large-scale irrigation schemes with intensive use and storage of agrochemicals (e.g.,
in Egypt and Sudan), as well as larger urban and industrial settings throughout the Basin. Only in
Egypt is a large water quality monitoring program in place. Although the adverse impacts are
often fairly local and not basin-wide phenomena, water quality issues are major human health
and environmental concerns at these sites.
- 78 -



Alternative Scenario
The alternative consists of the steps needed to establish a sound basin-wide environmental
framework consistent with current and projected patterns of economic development. This would
be accomplished through GEF support to facilitate the priority transboundary actions outlined in
the Agenda for Environmental Action in the Nile Basin through the present Transboundary
Environmental Action Project, together with additional resources from the projects identified in
the table below, which are funded through the International Consortium for Cooperation on the
Nile (ICCON) mechanism by other international as well as domestic sources. This joint effort
would generate sustainable global benefits embodied in mitigation of the environmental
problems identified in the TEA. GEF participation would finance the incremental costs needed to
remove barriers to regional environmental conservation and sound natural resource use,
including transaction costs for joint planning activities, development of common approaches to
sectoral policies, further cross-border data collection and analysis, knowledge management and
information sharing at a regional level, and coordination of efforts among the participating
countries.
Non GEF-Funded Alternative - NBI Shared Vision Program
As noted above, the project alternative is augmented by a significant part of the project portfolio
of the NBI's Shared Vision Program (SVP) and the Cooperative Framework project. This
consists of seven technical assistance and capacity building projects aiming to create a
basin-wide enabling environment for cooperative development. It should be noted that while
these projects form a firm part of the project alternative, they are not reflected in the financing
plan (PAD cover page and PAD cost tables on pages 10 and 14), since separate Project Appraisal
Documents will be processed for each of these projects. However, a description of these projects
(as well as of the Subsidiary Action Program) is provided in Annex 14.
Non-GEF-funded portion of the Alternative (Co-financing, in US$m)
NON GEF-FUNDED ALTERNATIVE           AMOUNT      CORRESPONDING COMPONENT
.                    _           ($US m)         OF PRESENT PROJECT
NBI/SVP Socio-Economic Development -     11.0    Institutional Strengthening I
Macroeconomic Integration
Water Resources Planning and Management  21 7    Institutional Strengthening I
Nile River Basin Cooperative Framework, Phase I  3 5  Institutional Strengthening I
Nile River Basin Cooperative Framework, Phase 11  0.4  Institutional Strengthening I
NBI/SVP Efficient Water Use for Agnculture  5 0  Land Management 2
NBI/SVP Confidence Building & Stakeholder  15 0  Awareness 3
Involvement
NBI/SVP Applied Training                 20 0    Awareness 3
Sub-total                                76.6
NBI/SVP Transboundary Environmental Action  12 8  Institutional Strengthening, Land&Forest,
Biodiversity 1,2 & 4
Total                                    89.4
As described in the body of this Project Brief, the NBI's Strategic Action Program includes
Subsidiary Action Programs in addition to the SVP. The EN-SAP and NEL-SAP have identified
sub-basin projects. Funding for initiating project pre-feasibility studies and/or preparation has
- 79 -



been secured at the first International Consortium for Cooperation on the Nile (ICCON) in June
2001. Details of the SAP projects had not become available at the time of drafting the Project
Brief and PAD. However, it is already evident that the SAP projects in water resources
management, agriculture, communications, macro-economic planning and other economic
development sectors will add significantly to the alternative as well as to the baseline, depending
on project type.
GEF-Funded Alternative - Nile Transbomndary Environmental Action Project
The GEF alternative would support a regionally led initiative to promote more effective
management and conservation of the natural resources and environmental assets of the Nile
Basin. This would greatly facilitate the ability of the NBI and the cooperating countries to
address transboundary environmental issues and common natural resource management concerns
at a basin-wide level. The GEF alternative would allow the Agenda for Environmental Action in
the Nile Basin to be initiated and undertaken with support from a variety of sources. GEF support
would also increase the visibility of and demonstrate the opportunities for more effective
transboundary environmental management in the Basin. In this way the project would
complement the innovative and far-reaching regional NBI investment programs currently being
prepared and about to be undertaken on a significant scale in a variety of economic development
sectors, including water, agriculture and hydropower. The alternative would also test and
demonstrate a variety of approaches to Nile transboundary environmental management issues, of
which the most successful and promising could be scaled up or replicated in subsequent NBI
Strategic Action Program investments.
The project is supported by GEF resources as outlined below (in million US$):
GEF Resources
World Bank          UNDP               Total
Phase 1            8.0                8.8                  16.8
Phase 2                               9.7                  9.7
Project total      8.0                1 8.5               26.5
The project will encourage more effective basin-wide stakeholder cooperation on transboundary
environmental issues by supporting implementation of actions prioritized by the TEA in the
following areas:
1. Institutional Strengthening to Facilitate Regional Cooperation
Transboundary threats to be addlressed. Overall basin-wide capacities for environmental
management are quite limited and there have been relatively few efforts to exchange
environmental information and experiences among and between key resource users, research
institutions and other stakeholders throughout the Basin. Understanding of the dynamics of the
river system is insufficient to assess the downstream environmental impacts of future river
system interventions or changes in watershed management regimes. The environmental impacts
of macro and sectoral policies on the Nile Basin's land and water resources are poorly
- 80 -



understood.
Objective and global benefits. This project component will strengthen NBI's capacity in
basin-wide program management, regional coordination, knowledge management, understanding
of the Nile Basin system and policy analysis. The largest sub-component will link with the
non-GEF-funded SVP Water Resources Management Project to develop a basin-wide Decision
Support System, with GEF resources used to support the development and application of a River
Basin Model including the training of management teams from the riparian countries. This will
help provide a regional perspective on water resources management as well as the assessment of
transboundary environmental impacts of investment projects, and will support the exploration of
alternative development strategies. A Nile Basin environrmental knowledge base accessible to all
key stakeholders will be developed. Transboundary impacts of national economic and sectoral
policies linked to trade, transport and migration will be further analyzed and regional dialogues
initiated with policymakers and other donor organizations. The component will also facilitate
effective implementation and coordination of all project activities at a national level. The active
participation of basin-wide Thematic Working Groups will further enhance regional cooperation
and technical transfer among the countries involved with respect to each of the other five project
components. Baseline costs of this component are US$93 million and incremental costs are
US$51.3 million (including US$28 million for the Decision Support System) of which US$9.7
million are requested from the GEF for Phase 1 funding, while additional US2.32 million will be
requested from the GEF for Phase 2 funding.
2. Community-level Land, Forest and Water Conservation
Transboundary threats to be addressed. Relatively few local stakeholders have access to
adequate means of communication. For local stakeholders, tenure is often unclear and access to
resources inadequate. Soil erosion is a chronic problem throughout the Basin. Deforestation and
soil erosion can lead to increased sedimentation and greater flood risks downstream, while
sediments also accumulate in wetlands and reservoirs. Water hyacinth and other invasive aquatic
weeds have spread throughout many parts of the Nile Basin.
Objective and global benefits. This component will help to strengthen national and
international NGO networks within the Basin. Regional land and water conservation training
workshops will emphasize transboundary cooperation as well as govemment-NGO partnerships.
The component will also support in-depth examination of transboundary soil erosion and
sediment transport. Major sources and root causes will be further analyzed by teams from the
participating countries, and priority sites will be identified for pilot activities. A Microgrant Fund
will be established with GEF and Canadian support to finance pilot initiatives in the priority land
and water conservation areas identified by the TEA, including aquatic weed infestations. Key
grant selection criteria will include participation of local communities, targeting of issues with
direct cross-border impacts, identification of lessons and best practices, and the potential for
promising initiatives to be scaled up or replicated within the NBI SAP. Baseline costs of this
component are US$206 million and incremental costs are US$16 million of which US$1.7
million is requested from the GEF for Phase 1 funding, while an additional US$2 million will be
requested from the GEF for Phase 2 funding.
- 81 -



3. Environmental Education and Awareness
Transboundary thireats to be addressed. In all the riparian countries, lack of awareness and
understanding of the transboundary environmental consequences of decisions concerning land
and water resource management is a major barrier to strengthening environmental management.
Objective and global benefits. This component will develop and deliver education and
awareness programs that emphasize the way in which environmental issues are shared by the
Nile riparian countries. Economic and ecological linkages with neighboring countries upstream
and downstream will be emphasized, as well as the riparians' mutual dependence on the natural
resources and environmental assets of the entire Basin. A variety of media will be used in
programs developed by basin-wide teams of educators for delivery throughout the Basin
(translated to appropriate languages). This component aims not only to highlight the importance
of sustainable environmental management, and the role of every individual and community in
trying to achieve this, but also contribute to breaking down the mistrust between countries that
has long proved a constraint to more effective basin-wide collaboration. The component will also
support basin-wide networking among universities engaged in environmental education, with
exchanges of information, teachers and students. Baseline costs of this component are US$1
million and incremental costs are US$38 million of which US$2.5 million are requested from the
GEF for Phase 1 funding, while an additional US$1 million will be requested from the GEF for
Phase 2 funding.
4. Wetlands and Biodiversity Conservation
Transboundary threats to be addressed. Water-dependent ecosystems throughout the Nile
Basin contribute to the stability, resistance and resilience of both natural and human systems to
stress and sudden changes. In particular, significant transboundary benefits derive from the Basin
wetlands' role in maintaining water quality, trapping sediment, retaining nutrients, buffering
floods, stabilizing micro-climates and providing storm protection. The ecological and economic
role of wetlands in supporting sustainable development in the Basin is not well understood or
widely appreciated. Key plant and animal species with habitats in adjoining countries often
require cross-border protected areas and other conservation measures for effective management.
Adequate management of protected areas and other environmental hot spots is generally lacking.
Objective and global beneflts. This component will support further analysis of the key
economic and ecological role of wetlands in the transboundary Basin system and promote
awareness of the need to conserve and manage these natural resources, building on the promising
national wetland programs that have already been established in a few of the riparian countries.
The regional capacity for monitoring and managing wetland resources will be strengthened
through technical assistance and training. Programs emphasizing the multiple-use management of
internationally significant wetlands will be developed and presented through basin-wide
workshops attended by wetland managers and other key stakeholders. Pilot activities will be
undertaken to demonstrate best practice management. Baseline costs of this component are
$US74.2 and incremental costs are $US7.2 million of which $US4.4 million will be requested
- 82 -



from the GEF for Phase 2 funding.
5. Water Quality Monitoring Basin-wide
Transboundary threats to be addressed. Physical impacts from land and water management as
well as aquatic pollutants can cross national boundaries downstream. Urbanization,
industrialization and increased use of agricultural chemicals all lead to increased runoff and
pollution that harm downstream water users. In addition, waterbome diseases are prevalent
throughout the Basin. Data and understanding related to the transboundary aspects of these issues
is lacking. Only limited work has been done to identify environmental hot spots or to carry out
systematic water quality monitoring at environmentally sensitive transboundary sites.
Objective and global benefits. This component will augment the collective capacity of the
riparian countries to monitor a limited set of agreed key water quality parameters on a basin-wide
scale. Teams from the participating countries will work together on developing common
analytical methods, identifying parameters to be measured, and preparing and delivering training
programs for key national stakeholders through regional workshops. GEF resources will also be
used to provide a systematic overview of existing monitoring stations in the Basin, to identify
gaps and to strengthen water quality monitoring in relation to transboundary environmental
threats. The result of this component will be to substantially upgrade basin-wide capacity to
make high quality and consistent water quality information available to inform decision making
and thereby target future investments more effectively. Baseline costs of this component are
US$29 million and incremental costs are US$2.9 million, requested from the GEF for Phase 1
funding.
Domestic Benefits
Domestic benefits arising from the project are expected to be largely incidental. The project
sub-components that are expected to generate measurable domestic benefits will be financed
from non-GEF sources. These are:
(a)   Training/resources provided to NGOs under component 2.
(b)   Approximately 50-80 percent of the microgrant activities under component 2.
Scope of Analysis
The scope of analysis includes the geographic, institutional, market, policy and legislative issues
having a transboundary impact on the Nile Basin's environmental resources. This includes
actions at the national and regional levels, as well as actions undertaken on the ground as part of
the national development and/or conservation efforts within the parts of the countries that fall
within the Nile Basin itself. The defined baseline includes non-GEF projects outside the NBI that
were still active in 1999. Reference to the NBI's investment program, the SAP, has been made in
the text where figures exist, such as for the NEL-SAP. The size of the investment program is
expected to total several billion US dollars over the coming decades, but it is only in the
definition stage, and actual figures have therefore not been fully reflected in the incremental cost
- 83 -



analysis. Some of the projects in the investment program will form the baseline while others will
be part of the altemative.
Relevant actors/elements in the program include (a) national governments; (b) local governments
for sub-national jurisdictions within the Basin; (c) local (and community-based), national and
international NGOs active in the Basin; (d) the private sector; (e) universities and other research
institutions; (f) government policies, laws, regulations and development plans; (g) other donors
active in the Basin and (h) relevant international conventions and agreements entered into by the
Nile countries related to land and water management.
Costs
The costs of the action are over and above those incurred by the countries to implement their
national environmental policies and environmental action plans and to comply with existing
environmental laws and regulations. The incremental cost, by which the alternative scenario
exceeds the costs of the baseline situation, is estimated at US$115.9 million'. In addition to the
US$350,000 grant from the PDF Block B, already disbursed, GEF is requested to finance
US$26.5 million. Project co-financing is expected to amount to US$89.4 million (of which
US$76.6 million will support other NBI/SVP projects, while an additional US$12.8 million has
been raised for the project through the ICCON process to complement the GEF increment
(Funding by Canada has been confirmed and additional funds from the Netherlands are under
discussion). The costs of monitoring and evaluation, supervision and quality control,
contingencies and execution are included in these amounts. The project builds on a substantial
baseline and is complemented by significant associated financing. The nine participating Nile
Basin country governments are fully committed to the project and to the sustainability of
activities undertaken beyond the life of the project.
In line with the above, therefore, the GEF project total for Phase 1, which is requested in the
present project proposal, amounts to a total of US$16.8 million, while the GEF resources which
will be requested for Phase 2 amounts to a total of US$9.7 million.
Incremental Cost Matrix        SW)
Component/      Category   Amount   IDomestic Benefits                    Global Benefits
Other Costs
1. Institutional  Baseline     93.0   The institutional framework in
Strengthening to                       most riparian countries
Facilitate                            includes national legislation,
Regional                               environmental plans and
Cooperation                            strategies, and projects for
natural resource management
and environmental
conservation.
Alternative   116 3   Some gains in institutional and  Establishment of an environmental
human capacity through training  framework that will promote: (a) enhanced
and involvement of National  basin-wide cooperation essential to
Experts in the project.    successful implementation of the Agenda
for Environmental Action in the Nile Basin
through the SVP, SAPs and other programs,
and (2) a basin-wide institution (NBI) with
- 84 -



substantially enhanced environmental
management capacities.
Increment       23.3
la. Decision     Baseline        0.0     Currently insufficient
Support System                           understanding of nver basin
(DSS)                                    dynamics to assess the
downstream environmental
impacts of future river system
interventions or changes in
watershed management regimes.
Existing efforts are fragmented
and have not included all
npanans
Altemative      28.0    Some incidental domestic    Improved technical foundation for
benefits.                    transboundary water resources planning and
management, including environmental
assessments Improved access to information
within and between the nparian countries,
improved knowledge of shared biological
resources, enhanced understanding of nver
basin dynamics, especially transboundary
effects. Also regional, integrated planning
and management of water resources.
Increment       28.0
2.               Baseline        205.9   Local-level capacities and access
Community-level                          to resources and information
Land, Forest and                         throughout the Basin are mostly
Water                                    inadequate
Conservation
Altemative     222.0    Emphasis will be on          Improved understanding of transboundary
transboundary soil erosion hot  soil erosion processes and land and water
spot sites and areas with    conservation. Increased knowledge from
biodiversity of global       exchanges of lessons and experiences
significance. There will be some  among and between national NGO
incidental domestic benefits.  networks. Improved environmental
Equipment provided to NGO    management involving activities designed
networks will be funded from  and implemented by local stakeholders plus
non-GEF sources and 50-80% of enhanced govemment-NGO collaboration.
micro grants will be funded from
non-GEF sources.
Increment       16.1
3. Environmental  Baseline        0.9    Low level of environmental
Education and                            awareness and education on issu
Awareness                                of shared water resources among
the public, students, officials and
professionals.
Alternative     39.3    Some incidental domestic     Deepened public awareness and
benefits.                    understanding of npanan countnes'
co-dependence on sound environmental
management. Strengthened transboundary
education and research initiatives.
Increment       38.4
4. Wetlands and  Baseline        74 2    There is generally inadequate
Biodiversity                             informnation, awareness and
Conservation                             management of wetlands and
protected areas.
Altemative      81.4    There will be some incidental  Enhanced information and knowledge of
domestic benefits.           economic and ecological contnbution of
wetlands to conservation and development.
Increased basin-wide appreciation of
- 85 -



wetland functions. Improved protection of
key transboundary conservation areas and
key sites for migratory species.
Increment       7.2
5. Basin-wide    Basehne         29.0    Existing water quality
Water Quality                            monitonng efforts are
Momtonng                                 inconsistent, uncoordinated and
mainly do not include the shanng
of transboundary information.
Alternative     31.9    Monitoring at selected sites will Improved water quality information for
provide some incidental domesti basin-wide natural resource and
and capacity building benefits,  environmental management, especially at
net of domestic contributions.  transboundary and globally-significant hot
Non-GEF funding will be sought spot sites.
for investments in monitoring
equipment that generate domesti
I benefits
Increment       2.9
TOTALS           Baseline        403.0
Alternative    518.9
Increment      115.9
GEF             26.5
Non-GEF         8.
Note 1: Reflecting donor (GEF&non-GEF) contributions The total increment is $US 120.2 million if local contributions of
$US 4.3 million of the present project are included However, figures for recipient contributions for the other SVP projects will
have to be added once they become available.
Project Baseline Summary
Baseline ($US millions)
Component                        Total Base:ine
Institutional Strengthening to Facilitate Regional                      93.0
Cooperation
Land, Forest, and Water Conservation                                    205.9
Environmental Education & Awareness                                        0.9
Wetlands and Biodiversity Conservation                                    74.2
Water Quality Monitonng Basin-wide                                        29.0
TOTAL                                             403.0
- 86 -



Other Baseline Projects
Country        Project                        Year       Budget    Implementing Agency      Donor   Location & Issues Rel. Proj.
(USSM)                             Agency      Addressed      Comp.
BURUNDI      hitegrated Development - Bututsi 2000-2002  5.6                                     Agnculture, Land     2
(1)                                                                                 mgt
Support to the Mgt and Rehab of Ongoing     3.0    General Directorate for  UNDP    Biodiv.fNature       4
Env (wetlands component)                           Land and Environment               onservation
Mgt (DGATE)              _
Rural Development Program    Ongoing        5 0    Provincial Directorate for  IDA-  Wetlands            4
(wetlands component)                               Agriculture and Livestock  OPP
(DPAE)
Agncultural Development -.  2000-2002       0 1   -                                 Agnculture, Land     2
Muyinga (I)                                                                         mgt
Soil Erosion Program (2)    2000-2002       0 1    General Directorate for           Soil erosion        2
Land and Env. Mgt
Forestry - World Bank (2)   2000-2001       0 1    Forestry Department     IDA       Forest mgt          2
National Biodiversity Strategy &  1996-2000  0.22 (GEF) National Institute for Env  GEF  Biodiv /Nature  4
Action Plan                                        and Nature Conservation           Conservatbon
Sb-total of known non-GEF projects            13.9                                         _
CONGO       National Biodiversity Strategy &         0 25(GEF) Ministry of Tounsm and   GEF       iodiv [Nature      4
Action Plan                                        Environment                       Conservation
Range Management and Pasture  5 years       2.5    Ministry of Agriculture           Land and Water      2
Improvement                                                                          Conservation
Sub-total ofknown non-GEF projects             2.5
EGYPT       Capacity building/Env        1998-2000      1.1    Mm  of State for                 Instit Strengthening  1
Sector/Upgrade NEAP                                Environmental Affairs,
Egyptian Environmental
Affairs Agency
Lake Manzala Engineered      1997-2002   4 5 (GEF) Mm of State for          GEF      Pollution           5
Wetland                                            Environmental Affairs,
Egyptian Environmental
Affairs Agency
Developing Renewable                     1 84 (GEF) Mm. of Water Resources  GEF/     Water Resources     2
Groundwater Resources in Arid                      and Irrigation           UNDP     Management, Land
Lands a Pilot Case - the Eastern                                                     and Water
Desert of Egypt                                                                      Conservation
Natonal Oil Spill, River Nile &  2000-2002  0 9    Egyptian Environmental            Disaster mgt        5
Lake Nasser                                        Affairs Agency
Used Oil & Domestic          1999-2001      0 6    Mm. of Water Resources,           Pollution            5
Waste/Along Nile                                   Egyptian Environmental
Affairs Agency
National Environmental Disaster 1999-2002   4 4    Egyptian Environmental            Disaster mgt         5
Plan                                               Affairs Agency
Organic Agnculture           Ongoing        0 5    Mm  of Agriculture                Land and Water       2
._____ ______ ______ _____   _____ ____   ___ ____ _   ___ _C onservation
National water Quality and   1997-2004     21.3    National Water Resources  Canada  WQ Monitoring,      5
Availability Management                            Centre (NWRC)            Egypt    Water resources
(NAWQAM) Project                                                                     Management
National Water Resources Plan  1998-2002    3 9    Ministry of Water        Neth./   Water Resources      1
for Egypt                                          resources and Irrgation  Egypt     lanming
(MWRI)
DSS for Water Resources      1998-2001      1 5    National Water Resources  Italy/  DSS development      I
Planning based on                                  Centre (NWRC)            Egypt
Environmental Balance
Monitonng, Forecashng and    Ongoing        15 0   FAO/ Ministry of Water   USAID    Water resources
Simulation of the Nile River                       resources and Inigation           management
(MWRI)
Updating Meteorological      Ongoing        1 4    Government of Egypt      Egypt    Hydrological         I
Network                                                                               etwork
METAP HII                    1996-2001      4 2    Egyptian Enviromnmental  UNDP/   Instit Strengthening  1
Affairs Agency           WB
Wetlands &                   1997-2002   2 8 (GEF) Egyptian Environmental   GEF      Instit. Strengthening  4
Coastal/Mediterranean Region                       Affairs Agency
- 87 -



National Biodiversity Stategy  1995-1997  3 5 (GEF) Egyptian Environmental  GEF    Biodiv /Nature       4
& Action Plan                                     Affairs Agency                   Conservation
Local Initiative Facility to Urban 1993-1998  0 9  GOs                    UNDP     Env.                3
Environment                                                                        Education/Awarenes
s
Italian Cooperation Project  1998-2002     2 0     EAA, Mm Water Res. &   Italy                         I
Irrigation, Mm. of Culture
Sub-total of known non-GEF projects          57.7
ETHIOPIA     Conservation Strategy for   1989-to date   0.5    IUCN and Environmental  BNORAD     modivlNature       4
Ethiopia (CSE) project                            Protection Authority             Conservation
(EPA)
Regional Conservation Strategy  1994-1999  1.5   IUCN and National          ORAD   BiodivlNature        4
Projects                                           egional Governments             Conservation
ith the Technical Support
from EPA
National Action Program to  1997-1999      0.3    EPA                     UNDP/    BiodiviNature        4
Combat Desertification                                                    UNSO     Conservation
Environmental Support Project  1999-2003   12 3   Ministry of Water       NethJ    Water supply &       I
esources (MOWR)         thiopia  snitation master
plan; water res &
env meta database
Flow Forecasting            2000-2001      0 2    Ministry of Water       UNDP     Flow forecasting     1
Resources (MOWR)
Capacity Building of The    1998-2001      0 7    Ministiy of Water       NORAD/ Data Collection        I
Hydrology Department                              Resources (MOWR)        Ethiopia
Soil Conservation for Hydrology  Ongoing   1 4    Ministry of Water       EU/      Sediment transport   2
Resources (MOWR)        Ethiopia in nvers
Ecological Sustainable Industrial 2000-2002  1 5  EPA                     Neth./     stit. Strengthentng  I
Development                                                               UNIDO
National Biodiversity Strategy &  2000-2002  0.33(GEF) Institute for Bio-diversity  GEF  Biodiv./Nature  4
Action Plan                                       Conservation and                 Conservation
Research (IBCR)
Bird Life Project           2000-2002   0 2 (GEF) Ethiopian Wildlife and  GEF      Biodiv /Nature       4
atural History NGO              Conservation
(EWLNHS)
Conservation of Plant Genetic  1994-1999  2.45 (GEF) National governmental  GEF    Biodiv./Nature       4
Resources                                         departments                       Conservation
Conservation of Plant Genetic  1994-1999   3 9    National governmental   UNDP/    BiodivJNature        4
Resources                                         departments             GOV      Conservation
Sub-total of known non-GEF projects           22.3
KENYA       National Biodiversity Stategy &  Recently         Min. of Env. and Natural  GEF    Biodiv. /Nature      4
ction Plan                  concluded              esources (National              Cons.
Environment Secretanat)
Integrated Water Resource   2000-2003      0.6    Ministry of Environment  Sida/   Watershed            2
Management                                        and Natural Resources   Kenya    management
(MENR)                           I
Water Resources Assessment  1996-2000      0.3    Ministry of Environment  Neth./Ken Water Resources    I
roject (WRAP 5)                                  and Natural Resources    a       database & water
(MENR)                            res. assessment
National Action Program to  Five Years     8 3    Min of Env. And Natural  UNDP/   Land and Water       2
Combat Desertification                            Resources               UNSO      Conservation
Sub-total of known non-GEF projects           9.2
RWANDA       National Biodiversity Strategy &  Ongoing  0.17 (GEF) Ministry of Lands and  GEF   Biodiv./Nature      4
Action Plan                                       Environmental Protection         Conservation
Environmental Law Formulation 2000-2001    0.1    Ministry of Lands and   UNDP     Biodiv.fNature       4
Environmental Protection         Conservation
Implementation of National  1996-2001      0.8    Ministry of Lands and   UNDP     Biodiv.fNature       4
Environmental Action Plan                         Environmental Protection         Conservation
Potable Water Supply (A.E.P.)  1999-2001   0 1      mistry of Water, Energy  Rwanda  Land and Water     2
and Natural Resources            Conservation
Capacity Building for the    Ongoing       0 3    Ministry of Public Works,  UNDP   Capacity building   I
National Meteorological Service                   Transport and
Communications
_(MINITRACO)
- 88 -



Database for Geology and      Ongoing       0 3    Ministry of Public Works,  IDA     Information systems  I
Mining                                             Transport and
Communications
(MINITRACO)
Rehab & Rcforestation         Ongoing       0.4    Ministry of Geology and   EU       Environmental        2
Mining, Energy, Water              onservation
and Natural Resources
(MINERENA)
 E P Umutara                1999-2001       1 2   Mmistry of Water, Energy  Denmark Land and Water        2
and Natural Resources              Conservation
A E.P A partir du lac Mugesera  1998-2000   2 0    Ministry of Water, Energy  RFA     Land and Water       2
(Karenge-Kigahi)                                   and Natural Resources              Conservation
A E.P. Umutara-Kibungo-Kigali 1998-2000     3 0    Ministry of Water, Energy  IDA     Land and Water       2
rural                                              and Natural Resources              Conservation
National Program for Soil and  1999-2001    4 3    Ministry of Agnculture    Rwanda   Land and Water       2
Water Conservation                                                                    Conservation
Management of natural Forests  2000-2001      2     Ministry of Agnculture   EU       Land and Water       4
in Nyungwe (cross-border w                                                            Conservation
natural forest of Kibira in
Burundi)
Agro-forestry in the Onental  1997-2001      1 0   Ministry of Agnculture    EU       Land and Water       2
High Plateau                                                                          Conservation
Sub-total ofknown non-GEFprojects              14.7
SUDAN       Biodiversity Mgt - Dinder    1999-2002    0 8 (GEF)  igher Council for       GEF      Biodiv./Nature       4
National Park                                       Environment & Natural             Conservation
Resources
Biodiversity Mgt - Dinder    1999-2002      0 5    Higher Council for        UNDP     BiodivlNature        4
National Park                                        nvironment & Natural             Conservation
Resources
Lower Atbara Area Development 1995-2003     4 5     Ministry of Intemational  UJNDP   Land and Water       2
Scheme                                              Cooperation and federal           Conservation
states
Area Rehabilitation Scheme -  1998-2001      1.5    Ministry of Intemational  UNDP    Land and Water       2
Juba                                                Cooperation and federal           Conservation
states
Area Rehabilitation Scheme -  1998-2001      1 5    Ministiy of Intemational  UNDP    Land and Water       2
Wau                                                 Cooperation and federal           Conservation
states
National Action Plan to Combat  1997-1999    0 3     ational Desertification  UNDP    Land and Water       2
Desertification                                     Unit                              Conservation
National Biodiversity Strategy  1999 - 2000  0 3 (GEF) Higher Council for    GEF      Biodiv /Nature       4
and Action Plan                                     Environment & Natural             Conservation
Resources
Sub-total of known non-GEFprojects              8.3
TANZANIA      Participatory Environmental  1997-1999      10 0    Mm  of Natural Resources  USAID   Biodiv [Nature       4
Resource Management Project                         & Tounsm                          Conservation
Natonal Action Plan to Combat 1997-1999      0 4    Division of Environment  UNDP/    Land mgt             2
Desertification                                     under Vice President's    UNSO
office
River Basin Management and   1997-2003      10 6    Minmistiy of Water       World    Water resources      2
mallholder Irrgation                                                        Bank      mgmt & imgation
Improvement Project.
Capacity Building for        1998-2003       1 8    Pnme Minister's office,  DANIDA Instit                 5
Environmental Management and                        Mwanza municipality               Strengthening,
Pollution Abatement in Mwanza                                                          ollution
Region
National Biodiversity Strategy  1995-1996  0.3 (GEF) Division of Environment  GEF     Biodiv 6Nature       4
d Action Plan                                     under Vice President's             Conservation
_                                                   office
Sob-total of known non-GEFprojects             22.8
UGANDA       National Wetlands Conservation  July        2 2     Min of Water Lands and   Neth     Biodiv./Nature       4
and Management Project       1996-2001              Environment              Govt     Conservation
Tree Seed Project               Oct          2.1    Forestry Dept, Min of    NORAD/ Forest mgt             2
1998-2003             Water, Lands and Env      G of
_Uganda  I
- 89 -



South East and South West    July 99 -      3.7    Forestry Dept, Ministry of  ADB    Land mgt             2
Integrated Watershed           2004                Water, Lands and
Management Project                                 Environment
Environment Management       1996-2000      8 4    Nat Environment          World    Instit Strengthening  I
Capacity Building Project                          Management Authonty      Bank
Integrated Water Resources   1999-2004      9 4    Ministry of Local Govt   DFID     Integrated basin      2
Management of Lakes George &                                                          management
Edward Basin
Strengthening Water Resources  1996-2003    12 0   Directorate of Water       anida   Water resources      I
Monitonng and Assessment                           Development (DWD)                  information
Services (WRAP)
National Environment         1998-2002       1 5   National Environmental    Uganda   Monitonng            1
Monitonng Agency                                   Management Authonty
(NEMA)
National Parks and Wildlife  1995-1999      5.0     Uganda Wildlife Authonty  USAID  Instit Strengthening  1
Management
Environment Laws and         1996-1999      0 4    Ministry of Water Lands   UNEP     Instit. Strengthening  1
Institutions Project                               and Environment
Kibali Wild Coffee              1999        0 8     Uganda Coffee Trade      IBRD/    Biodiv./Nature       4
Federation                 EF     Conservation
Pen-urban Plantations Project  1996-2000     1 8   Forestry Dept, Ministry of  NORAD/ Forest mgt           2
Water Lands and          G of
Environment (MWLE)       Uganda
Mt Elgon Conservation and    1996-2000       1 4   Ministry of Water Lands  IUCN      Biodiv [Nature       4
Development                                        and Environment                    Conservation
Biomass Study Phase m        1996-2000      0.7     Forestry Dept, Ministry of  EU    Forest mgt/Energy    2
Water Lands and
Environment (MWLE)
Development Through          1989-2002      2 8     Ministry of Tounsm,               Biodiv /Nature       4
Conservation Project                                Wildlife and Industry             Conservation
Water Resources Assessment   1996-2000       7 0    Directorate of Water      anida   Water resources      I
Project                                             Development                                _
Environment Management       1996-2001      11.8    Ministry of Natural     IDA       Biodiv.lNature       4
Resources                          Conservation
Bwindi Forest and Mgahinga   1995-1999    4 0 (GEF) Government of Uganda     GEF      Biodiv fNature       4
Gonila                                                                                Conservation
National Biodiversity Strategy           0 25 (GEF) Ministry of Water Lands  GEF      Biodiv /Nature       4
and Action Plan                                      nd Environment                   Conservation
(MWLE).
Cross-border Biodiv. Project  1998-2002  1 77 (GEF) Ministry of Water Lands  GEF      Biodiv./Nature       4
(Sango Bay)                                         and Environment                   Conservation
Protected Areas Management &  1999-2002     12.4    Ministry of Tounsm,      IDA      Biodiv [Nature       4
Sustainable Use                                     Wildlife and Antiquities          Conservation
Protected Areas Management &  1999-2002   2 0 (GEF) Ministry of Tourism,     GEF      Biodiv [Nature       4
Sustainable Use                                     Wildlife and Antiquities          Conservation
Small - Towns Water Supply   1995-2001      42 3    Ministry of Water Lands  IDA      Water resources      2
and Environment
Sub-total of known non-GEF projects            125.7
Regional    Strengthening of National    2000-2002       5 3    Nile-Council of Ministers  FAO     Instit. Strengthening  1
Capacities in Nile Basin                            through Nile-SEC
Operational Water Resources  1996-1999       3.6    Ministers of Water Affairs  FAO/ Italy Instit Strengthening  I
Management and Infonmation                          - Nile Countnes
Systems in the Nile Basin
Countnes Project (basin-wide)
Sub-basin    NBI Eastern Nile Subsidiary   Design        tbd     Relevant sector ministnes  tbd    Water Resources;
Action Program (Egy, Eth, Sud)  phase               rnder coordination by             Early waning
Ministers of Water Affairs         Systems and
Modeling,
ignculture; Land
&Water
Conservation,
Power
NBI Equatonal Lakes Subsidiary                      (relevant NEL-SAP
Action Program (Bur, DRC,                            rojects under design
Ken, Rwa, Tan, Ug):                                listed below-)
- 90 -



I Water Use in Agnculture      Design       46.2    Relevant sector ministnes  tbd     Soil & Water         2
phase                under coordination by              Conservation
Ministers of Water Affairs
2 Sustainable management       Design        16 0   Relevant sector ministnes  tbd     Wetlands and          4
and Conservation of Lakes       phase               under coordination by              Biodiversity
and Linked Wetlands                                 Ministers of Water Affairs
3 Watershed Management         Design        10.0   Relevant sector ministnes  tbd     Soil & Water          2
(three sub-projects)            phase                nder coordination by              Conservation
Ministers of Water Affairs
4 Water Hyacinth and Water     Design        4 7    Relevant sector ministnes  bd      Water Resources,      2
Weed Control                    phase               under coordination by              Soil & Water
Ministers of Water Affairs         Conservation
Lake Victoria Environment     1996-2001      35 0   Ministnes of environment  IDA      Water Res, Soil &     2
Management Project (LVEMP)                           ffairs Ken, Tan, Uga +            water conservation
many local partners
Lake Victoria Environment     1996-2001    35 (GEF) Ministnes of environment  GEF      Water Res, SolI &     2
Management Project (LVEMP)                           ffairs Ken, Tan, Uga +            water conservation
many local partners
Lake Victoria Water Resources  1996-1999     4 9    Ministnes of Water Affairs  FAO/    Instit Strengthening  I
Project (Ken, Tan, Uga)                             - Ken, Tan, Uga           Japan
Lake Victoria Development      Planned        -     EAC- Secretanat and       Sida      Instit. Strengthening  1
Initiative                                           member states
Reducing Biodiv Loss - Cross  1998-2002   12 6(GEF) Gov't Tan, Gov't Ken,     GEF       Biodiv fNature       4
Border Sites - East Afnca                            Gov't Uga                          Conservation
East African Sub-Regional     1997-1999      0 2    Division of Environment   Denmark/ Instit Strengthening  1
Project on Environmental Law                        under Vice President's     UNEP/
office                    UNDP
Institutional Support for the              10 (GEF) Gov't Tan, Gov't Ken,     GEF       Biodiv fNature       4
Protec. E Africa Biodiversity                       Gov't Uga                           Conservation
Afr NGO-Govt Partnerships    1994 - 1999  4 3 (GEF) Natl NGOs, Govt & intl.   GEF       Biodiv /Nature       4
Biodiv.Action/Birdlife (BkF,                        NGOs                                Conservation
Cam, Eth, Gha, Ken, Mad, SiL,
SA, Uga)
East Afncan Communities'       Planned .              GOs and CBOs with                 Instit Strengthening  I
Organization for Management of                       environment mandate
Lake Victoria Resources                              within the Lake Basin
(ECOVIC)
iSub-total of known non-GEF projects            125.9     ________________
Grand Total                                                 403.0                       _
Project budgets indicated as GEF funded are not added in the baseline.
- 91 -



Annex 5: FinanciaD Summary
NILE BASIN INOTIATIVE: Nile Transboundary Environmental Action Project
Years Ending
FY2008
IVIPLEVENTATION PERIOD
Year    | Year 2     Year 3    Year4   | Year 5   | Year 6  IYear 7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs           6.6        7.6       7.8       12.1       9.5       0.0       0.0
Recurrent Costs            0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0
Total Project Costs          6.6        7.6       7.8       12.1       9.5       0.0       0.0
,Total Financing             6.6        7.6        7.8      12.1       9.5        0.0       0.0
Financing
IBRD/IDA                  0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0      0.0        0.0
Government                0.7        0.7        0.7       0.7        0.7      0.0        0.0
Central                0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Provincial             0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Co-financiersNBTF         2.7        1.7        1.8       3.3        3.3      0.0        0.0
World Bank GEF               1.2        2.3       2.1        1.7       0.7       0.0       0.0
UNDP GEF                     2.0        2.9       2.9        6.1       4.6       0.0       0.0
NGO (Inkind)                 0.0        0.0       0.3        0.3       0.2       0.0       0.0
Total Project Financing     6.6        7.6       7.8       12.1       9.5       0.0       0.0
Main assumptions:
Government and NGO Contributions are inkind.
- 92 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
NILE BASIN INITIATIVE: Nile Transboundary Environmental Action Project
Procurement
A.    Procurement Methods (See Table A)
1. Procurement Arrangements
The Nile Transboundary Environmental Action Project is a stand-alone project. The Bank
financed portion will be executed on behalf of the Nile riparian countries by the NBI and is
funded from two distinct sources: the GEF Trust Fund in the amount of US$8.0 million
equivalent and the Nile Basin Trust Fund (NBTF) in the amount of US$12.81 million equivalent.
This Annex outlines Procurement for both the GEF and NBTF funded activities. Procurement of
works and goods financed through the World Bank by the GEF Trust Fund and through the
NBTF administered by the World Bank will follow the World Bank's "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" dated January 1995, and revised January and
August 1996, September 1997, and January 1999. Procurement of services financed by the GEF
Trust Fund and the NBTF will follow the World Bank's "Guidelines for Selection and
Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" dated January 1997, revised September
1997, January 1999, and May 2002. The Bank's latest editions of Standard Bidding Documents
and Request for Proposals will be used.
Initially, the NBI reviewed the possibility of hiring a Project Services Agency (PSA) following a
competitive process. The focus at that time was on the provision of technical services in financial
management, procurement, and overall management that are normally bid competitively.
However, after further discussions, it became apparent that the assignment was not so much to
provide mechanical, logistic assistance but a deeper and more substantial involvement. It was
realized that the thrust of the Shared Vision Program lay in the pursuit of dialogue, cooperation,
and trust among the Nile riparians. The main role of the PSA, therefore, shifted to a close
cooperation with the NBI to maintain and enhance further these development objectives.
This in turn raised the notion of establishing a partnership between the NBI and the PSA. The
decision to select the United Nations Office for Project Services (UNOPS) was reached by the
Nile-COM after serious consultations among themselves, taking full cognizance of the shift from
the traditional client/consultant contractual relationship to that of a partner to maintain and
enhance dialogue between the Nile riparians and to further the project's developmental
objectives. The Nile-COM further recognized the fact that this approach would open (rather than
restrict, due to possible conflict of interest issues) to participation all eligible consulting firms in
the various consulting opportunities under the proposed project. The decision from the
Nile-COM was given no-objection by the Bank with the approval of the Bank's Operations
Procurement Review Committee (OPRC).
All procurement will therefore be undertaken by UNOPS, on behalf of the NBI. While the
specific arrangements will be further detailed in the Management Services Agreement (MSA)
- 93 -



negotiated between the NBI and UNOPS, it is anticipated that UNOPS will outpost a senior staff
to the NBI at the Nile Secretariat in Entebbe. This senior staff will support the operations of the
PMU in Khartoum and will draw on UNOPS services (procurement, finance, logistics, etc.).
Overall management from UNOPS's side will be from UNOPS/New York. Please also refer to
paragraph 13.
2. Advertising of Procurement Opportunities
A General Procurement Notice (GPN) was published in the UN Development Business (UNDB)
on-line and print version in May 2002. The Executive Director of the Nile Secretariat, the NBI's
administrative body, was listed as the contact. The Executive Director has been advised of the
need for NBI to collect and file all inquiries that are received in response to the GPN. NBI will in
turn pass these to UNOPS for action once UNOPS has been appointed under the MSA. The GPN
will be updated when the final procurement plan is completed in order to indicate all the
procurement contracts estimated to cost the equivalent of US$100,000 or more, where
International Competitive Bidding (ICB) would be used. The GPN will be updated on an annual
basis to indicate all outstanding ICBs for goods, contracts and all International Consulting
Services.
Specific Procurement Notices (SPN) for goods to be procured under ICB and Expressions of
Interest for Consultants' Services estimated to cost the equivalent of US$200,000 and above
would also be published in UNDB as well as in the national press of the Nile riparian countries.
All consultancy assignments estimated to cost the equivalent of US$200,000 or more also will be
advertised in an international newspaper and in the UNDB. In addition, expressions of interest
may be sought from prospective consultants by advertising in national newspapers of riparian
countries or technical magazines. Assignments estimated to cost US$200,000 or less may be
advertised regionally in riparian countries and the shortlist may be made up entirely of
consultants from the Nile riparian countries, provided that no more than two individuals from
any one riparian are on the shortlist, at least three qualified firms or individuals from the Nile
riparian countries are available, and foreign consultants who wish to participate are not excluded
from consideration. Procurement notices for contracts below US$200,000 will be placed in the
regional press in each of the Nile countries.
3. Procurement Planning
An Overall Procurement Plan (OPP) for Consultants' Services and goods, which will be part of
the Project Implementation Plan (PIP) for the PMU, has been prepared by NBI and has been
made available in draft form at negotiations. The OPP includes relevant information on
Consultants' Services and goods as well as the timing of each milestone in the procurement
process. Similarly, the first year's Detailed Procurement Plan (DPP) has been made available in
draft form at negotiations. The DPPs for the remaining years of the project, indicating the
procurement method and processing time for each contract, will be prepared by UNOPS for NBI
and upon acceptance by NBI, will be submitted by the NBI to the Bank every year for the Bank's
review and comments. This will be received by the Bank not later than three months before the
end of each fiscal year.
- 94 -



The PIP, prepared during the project preparation period by consultants working for the NBI, was
made available in draft form at negotiations. NBI will review and finalize the PIP with UNOPS.
4. Goods and Equipment (GEF US$0.84 million & NBTF US$0.16 Million)
Technical equipment and other goods costing US$150,000 and more per contract will be subject
to ICB requirements. For goods in the range between US$80,000-US$ 150,000 contracts may be
awarded on the basis of National Competitive Bidding (NCB) - it should be noted that for this
project, NCB includes all of the participating riparian countries and bidding opportunities will
therefore be published in all riparian countries for NCB. For goods contracts below US$80,000
contracts will be awarded on the basis of the Bank's Shopping procedure, where price quotations
will be obtained from at least three qualified suppliers from at least two eligible countries or from
comparison of quotations obtained from three domestic suppliers from the riparian countries.
5. Consultants' Services, including training and workshops (GEF/WB US$5.4 million &
NBTF US$5.82 million).
As the majority of work undertaken in this project is capacity building and technical assistance to
the Nile riparian countries, a large percentage of the expenditures will be for Consultants'
Services, much of which will be based in the Nile Basin. Following agreed upon criteria, the
PMU will maintain and update a list of consultants that will be used to establish shortlists. The
shortlists will be established based on expressions of interests received through GPNs and
Specific Advertisements placed in the UNDB and/or regional newspapers, depending upon the
estimated value of such assignments. Consultant firms financed under the project will be selected
in accordance with Bank Consultant Guidelines through a Quality and Cost-Based Selection
(QCBS), and by using the Bank's Standard Request for Proposals. Specialized Consultants'
Services from the Nile riparian countries, below an estimated contract value of US$50,000
equivalent, will be selected on the basis of Consultant Qualifications (CQ) from the
predetermined roster of qualified consultants. Training under the project will be implemented
according to an annual training plan that the PMU will prepare and submit to the Bank for
non-objection before implementation. More specifically, the following selection procedures
would be used for Consultants' Services:
(a)   Quality-and-Cost-based Selection: All consulting service contracts valued at more than
US$200,000 equivalent would be awarded through the Quality and Cost Based Selection
(QCBS) method. QCBS will also be used for all contracts awarded to consulting firms
between US$50,000 and US$200,000 equivalent. To ensure that priority is given to the
identification of suitable and qualified national consulting firms, short-lists for QCBS
contracts estimated at or less than US$200,000 equivalent may be comprised entirely of
national consultants from the Nile riparian countries, with no more than two firms on the
short-list from any one riparian country, (in accordance with the provisions of paragraph
2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines), provided that a sufficient number of qualified
individual or firns (at least three) are available. However, if foreign firms have expressed
interest, they would not be excluded from consideration.
- 95 -



(b)   Consultant's Qualification Selection (CQ) may be used for Consultants' Services
contracts below an estimated contract amount of US$50,000 equivalent, for research and
targeted interventions for which organizations with specialized expertise, strong
capacities to work with multinational groups and proven track records would be recruited.
CQ may also be used for the selection of training institutions for contracts to provide
training services that are estimated to cost up to US$150,000 equivalent per contract.
(c)   Consultants for services meeting the requirements of Section V of the Consultant
Guidelines will be selected under the provisions for the Selection of Individual
Consultants method. Individual Consultants (IC) will be selected through comparison of
curriculum vitae against job description requirements of those expressing interest in the
assignment, or those having been identified directly by the PMU. Civil servants from the
riparian countries cannot be hired as consultants under the project.
(d)   Indefinite delivery contracts may be used for contracts on a retainer basis. Services under
this type of contract are likely to be those which will be required on a recurrent basis and
could include, but are not limited to, services such as translation, interpretation, workshop
facilitation and community training etc.
6. Training, Workshops, and Conferences (GEIF/WB USM8$1.2 million & NB3TIF U M$0.2
million)
Training, workshops, conference attendance and study tours will be carried out on the basis of
approved annual programs that will identify the general framework of training and similar
activities for the year, including the nature of training/study tours/workshops, the number of
participants, and cost estimates. For national training and workshops, preference will be given to
consultants from the country in which the training is being organized, provided that a sufficient
number of qualified individuals or firms (at least three) are available. For regional training,
preference will be given to consultants from the Nile riparian countries, provided that no more
than two consultants from any one riparian are shortlisted and a sufficient number of qualified
individuals or firms (at least three) is available.
7. Research tnstitutions and/or Government Owned Universities (GEF/WB approximately
US$1.0 million and NBTIF approximately US$2.0 million)
The regional and technical nature of this project will result in the possibility that a number of
tasks and activities may best be undertaken by existing state owned universities or research
institutions in the Nile riparian countries. The project thus will involve contracting research
institutions, think tanks and academic institutions that are government owned in the respective
countries where the services are required to be rendered. This work will likely be in the fields of:
(a) environmental economics, (b) water quality research, (c) hydrological data and modeling; (d)
environmental management with special focus on wetlands; and (e) environmental education.
As these unique assignments will be specific for the respective countries, it is very unlikely that
- 96 -



suitable expertise from private sector consultants will be available.
University professors or scientists from research institutes can be contracted individually under
Bank financing provided that they have full time employment contracts with their institution,
have regularly exercised their function for a year or more before they are contracted under Bank
funding, and selection is made on a competitive basis, with full justification, and in accordance
with relevant Bank policies.
8. Operational Expenses (GEF/WB US$1.76 million and NBTF US$1.06 million)
The project will establish and staff a PMU in Khartoum, Sudan and will also employ National
Microgrant Coordinators, through NBTF Financing, in the participating riparian countries. The
National Microgrant Coordinators will be nationals of the country in which they will work.
Project staff will be employed through UNOPS using standard UNOPS employment contracts
and those project staff employed under the World Bank funded portion of the project will be
hired in accordance with Section V of the Bank's Consultant Guidelines. Other operational costs,
such as utilities, fuel, office supplies, will be purchased based on standard UJNOPS procedures.
All the above positions will be advertised in SPNs.
9. Microgrants for Nongovernmental Organizations (NBTF US$5,77 million)
A large percentage of the funds made available from the NBTF is earmarked for Microgrants to
NGOs. The PMU will establish a formal procedure for awarding and supervising those
Microgrants based on the UNDP GEF Microgrant for NGO procedures in each of the
participating Nile riparian countries. The Microgrants will be limited in size to US$25,000 each.
A Microgrant Manual will be finalized no more than six months after effectiveness of the GEF
grant agreement. It is expected that the following arrangements will be established under the
NBTF grant agreement for the Project regarding the Microgrant Component: (a) the Bank will
review and approve the Microgrant Manual and the associated procedures prior to the
implementation of the Microgrant component; (b) no Microgrants will be released until the
Microgrant Manual has been finalized and approved; (c) an annual external audit will be
undertaken of the NGOs who are hosts to the Microgrant Program (including an audit regarding
proper utilization of funds); and (d) the cost of this audit will be financed by the project (through
NBTF funds), the audit will be supervised by UNOPS, and the report will be submitted to the
Bank for review.
10. Prior Review Thresholds (Table B)
The World Bank will conduct a prior review of the following procurement documentation:
(a)   Goods and Equipment: All Contracts above US$150,000 will be submitted for prior
review.
(b)   Consultants' Services: All contracts with firms above US$200,000, will be submitted for
prior review, while the first contract with firms below US$200,000 will be reviewed.
Individual consultant contracts above US$50,000 will all be subject to prior review.
- 97 -



Terms of Reference will be written by the appropriate PMU staff (in many cases by the
Lead Specialists) and UNOPS shall be responsible for review of all Terms of Reference.
A large portion of this project will consist of small stand-alone Consultants' Services. To
streamline project operations, the Bank will not review the Terms of Reference for any
contract less than US$50,000. Moreover, the Bank will only review the first Terms of
Reference for Consultants' Services which falls in the following broad categories:
o   Workshop facilitation (national workshop)
o   Microgrant workshop facilitation (regional workshop)
o   Water quality training workshop facilitation (national workshop)
o   Water quality training workshop facilitation (regional workshop)
o   Interpretation/translation
o   IT technical support to PMU
In all cases other than the above, the Bank's no objection to the Terms of Reference shall
be obtained.
(c)   Operational expenses: All individual long term contracts (greater than six months) for
professional project staff will be subject to prior review.
(d)   The contracts that would not be subject to prior review would be subject to ex-post
review.
11. Procurement Processing
All procurement packages will be prepared either by UNOPS directly or by the Procurement
Specialist at the PMU. All procurement will be carried out in accordance with the procurement
plan and as agreed with the Bank. The PMU/IJNOPS will forward the procurement packages to
the NBI for endorsement and for onward forwarding to the Bank for prior review and no
objection, as required. Detailed Terms of Reference for the PSA have been elaborated. A
summary of these is provided in paragraph 14 below.
112. SeRection of a PSA
The NBI will execute the World Bank GEF and NBTF financed portion of the project. The
Nile-COM decided to contract a PSA for the implementation of the SVP. The purpose of the
PSA is to support the NBI, acting on behalf of the Nile-COM, in the execution of the SVP
projects, through the provision of project services, in particular financial management,
procurement of goods and services and capacity building of the NBI to oversee basin-wide
projects.
In an effort to identify suitable candidates to serve as a PSA, the NBI undertook a market survey,
and based on expressions of interest, the Nile-COM expressed a preference for the selection of
UNOPS, on a sole-source basis, as the agency to support the NBI in the implementation of the
SVP. The Nile-COM has agreed that UNOPS will best provide the services for the project. This
is based on a number of factors, including:
- 98 -



* UNOPS has the capacity and extensive experience in the implementation of large regional
projects
* UNOPS will contract suppliers of goods and services from the private sector through
opportunities for capacity building of NBI procurement skills during the course of the project.
* UNOPS, through the UNDP network of offices, has a presence in all ten Nile countries,
which will greatly facilitate the implementation of this regional project.
As UNOPS is already implementing the GEF Small Grants Program (which is operational in
Egypt, Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda) and as the Microgrant Program of the proposed project will
utilize the same delivery mechanism, the selection of UNOPS as PSA will greatly facilitate the
implementation of the project.
As the project will be executed by UNOPS, and further as no procurement actions will be
undertaken directly by the NBI, a procurement capacity assessment of NBI is not required. (See
also below for a summary of the TOR for the PSA).
13. Summary of Terms of Reference for the PSA
Objective. The objective of the assignment is to support the efficient and effective
implementation of the SVP and build the capacity of the NBI to manage and implement similar
basin-wide technical assistance projects. In order to accomplish this, the PSA will: support NBI
in the effective execution and coordination of the SVP, particularly for general administration,
financial management, and procurement; build NBI capacity to execute and oversee basin-wide
projects; and support each SVP project in conferring tangible benefits to the riparian countries
and creating enabling environments for action on the ground.
Approach. The PSA will uphold the spirit of the NBI, by ensuring riparian ownership of the
Program; and enhancing cooperation and trust among the Nile countries while building capacity
within the Basin to manage and implement basin-wide projects and applying the highest quality
and fiduciary standards to the SVP.
Scope of Services. The PSA will support the NBI and each of the SVP PMUs in carrying out
standard project management activities in the following categories: general administration and
implementation support; financial management; procurement; monitoring and evaluation; and
capacity building. The PSA will strengthen NBI capacities in key administration, financial
management, procurement, coordination and monitonng functions and in adherence to specified
benchmarks. For this purpose, a periodic assessment of existing and potential capacity will be
made and a training plan will be developed and implemented for NBI and relevant PMU staff, in
areas such as project management, financial management, procurement, and monitoring. The
PSA will also encourage and develop suppliers and service providers in the Nile Basin countries.
In order to facilitate smooth project operations, the PSA, acting as NBI's Agent, will open
imprest accounts for the PMU and the National Project Coordinators. The PSA will bear full
responsibility and all business risks associated with those accounts.
- 99 -



Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category             ICB              NCB           Other2        N.B.F.    Total Cost
1. Works                              0.00             0.00           0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)           (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)      (0.00)
2. Goods                              0.00             0.30           0.65          2.00        2.95
(0.00)           (0.30)         (0.54)        (0.00)      (0.84)
3. Services                           0.00             0.00          10.70          8.36        19.06
(0.00)           (0.00)         (5.40)        (0.00)      (5.40)
4. Micro-grants to NGOs               0.00             0.00           5.77          2.08        7.85
(0.00)           (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
5. Operational Expenses               0.00             0.00           3.39         10.35        13.74
(0.00)           (0.00)         (1.76)        (0.00)      (1.76)
Total                              0.00             0.30          20.51         22.79        43.60
(0.00)           (0.30)         (7.70)       (0.00)       (8.00)
" Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Grant. All costs include contingencies.
2'Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of
contracted staff of the project management office, trairnig, technical assistance services, and incremental
operating costs related to (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government
units.
- 100-



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
,  , ,  Selection Method *' -   . .     . ''-
- c6nsu'lt'ant Services- .: .  -..- .    -  - .; . ,-I  ,,.  - .,    :;.           , ,I
Expenditure category, .QCBS  OBS      SFB6'   LCS      Ca     Other', N.B.F.  Total Cost
A. Firms               4.50    0.50    0.00    1.50     0.00    0.50    5.50     12.50
(2.50)  (0.25)   (0.00)  (0.50)  (0.00)   (0.25)  (0.00)   (3.50)
B. Individuals         0.00    0.00    0.00    1.00     2.00    0.70    2.86     6.56
(0.00)  (0.00)   (0.00)  (0.70)  (1.00)   (0.20)  (0.00)   (1.90)
Total  4.50    0.50     0.00    2.50    2.00     1.20    8.36     19.06
(2.50)  (0.25)   (0.00)  (1.20)  (1.00)   (0.45)  (0.00)   (5.40)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines), Commercial
Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Grant.
Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Contract Value.   ',,              ;.        ContractsSubject to,.,
"  Threshold -rProcunerement                   ,'.Prior Review '
r ExpenditurelCategory     (US$.thousands)       :  | Method*'             (US$-millions)-.
1. Works
2. Goods                        >150                    ICB                     All
80 - 150                 NCB                  Post review
<80                  Shopping               Post review
3. Services- Firms              >200                   QCBS                     All
100 - 200           QCBS, QBS, LCS       First contract (each type)
<100                    CQ                First contract only
4. Services - Individuals       <50                     CQ             All professional project
long-term staff (>6
months)
Total value of contracts subject to prior review: approx. US$3.50 Mill.
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment: Average
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 12 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
- 101 -



Disbursement
Allocation of grant proceeds (Table C)
I. Allocation of GEF and NBTF Proceeds
The allocation of the Grants' proceeds is shown in tables C and C I below.
The project will be implemented over a period of five years. Disbursements will be against the
four main expenditure categories: Goods and Equipment; Consultants' Services including audit
fees; Training and Workshops; and Operating Costs.
2. Disbursement
Management Services Agreement (MSA) and Blanket Application for Withdrawal (BAW).
The details of the financial management arrangements between the NBI and UTNOPS are
described above under "Procurement" in paragraphs 12, "Selection of a PSA", and 13, "Summary
of Terms of Reference for the PSA", and below in paragraph 3, "Financial Management".
According to those arrangements and following the signing of the Grant Agreement between the
NBI and the Bank, the NBI will establish a Management Services Agreement (MSA) with
UNOPS. After the effective date of the Grant Agreement, the NBI will submit to the Bank a copy
of the signed MSA along with a Blanket Application for Withdrawal (BAW) covering the total
estimated cost of the services, such application to be copied to UNOPS. This will enable UNOPS
to request advances from the Grant proceeds for the purposes agreed in the MSA; however,
disbursement will not commence until the Bank Financial Management Specialist (FMS)
certifies that the accounting and financial management systems used for the purpose of the
implementation of the Project are operational and able to produce the agreed upon Financial
Monitoring Reports (FMRs).
lnitial request for advance. Upon receipt by UNOPS of a notice from the Bank that the
withdrawal application has been received in good order and accepted, UNOPS will submit a
request to the Bank, with copy to the NBI, for an initial advance necessary to cover project
expenditures for the first six months of the project life. This request will be supported by the first
set of FMRs. The estimate of funds required will be consistent with the initial work plan as
reflected in the PIP, which will have been agreed between the NBI and the Bank. UNOPS will
start making obligations against the project budget when the initial advance is received.
Quarterly replenishment requests. Replenishment of the project account will be on a quarterly
basis. UNOPS will submit quarterly replenishment requests for each calendar year to the Bank,
with copies to the NBI, reflecting expenditures paid during the previous three months and an
estimate of expenditures for the ensuing six months. These quarterly requests will be in the
agreed FMR format, which will include the following for disbursement purposes:
o   Statements containing Institutional Information
o Source of supply information
For contracts above the prior review threshold:
- 102 -



* The contractor/consultant's name, nationality, and (where applicable) the zip code
* The amount disbursed under each contract
For contracts below the prior review threshold:
* Aggregate disbursements by country of supply
* Breakdown of aggregate disbursements by legal disbursement category and disbursement
percentage
* Project Account reconciliation statement
* Forecast of expenditures for the next two FMR reporting periods (two quarters)
As part of each replenishment request, and in order to reconcile the advance amounts previously
made, UNOPS will submit cash-flow projections (estimate of disbursements for project
expenditures for the ensuing six months, less unspent balance of previous advances and interest
earned).
Deposit Account. Advances from the Grants' Accounts will be deposited into the UNOPS US
dollar denominated bank account with the JP Morgan Chase Bank, New York. UNOPS will
maintain separate ledger accounts for the GEF and NBTF funding of the project.
Bank Guidelines. Advances to UNOPS from the Grants' Accounts will be managed by UNOPS
in accordance with Bank Guidelines as set forth in the MSA between UNOPS and the NBI and
the Disbursement Letters to be issued by the Bank.
3. Financial Management:
For financial management of the program, the services of UTNOPS would be retained by NBI
under the MSA (see above: 2. Disbursement).
Bank staff has visited UNOPS and interviewed its management and staff and is satisfied with the
capacity and systems in place and procedures and practices for project management services.
With regard to the assigrnent and required business standards, as part of documentation for the
negotiations of the MSA, UNOPS will produce a statement of capability, describing its capacity
and the salient features of the systems it maintains, and demonstrating its ability to perform at the
highest standards all responsibilities conferred to it through the agreement. Furthermore, along
with the proposal, financial management manuals and a copy of the FMRs will be submitted to
the Bank for review.
Prior to project effectiveness the following two actions will take place: (1) in order to ensure the
strengthening of FMS systems and procedures at Nile-SEC and the PMU for long-term
sustainability, UNOPS and NBI will develop a time-bound action plan to be implemented during
the course of the project; and (2) the Bank project team will further review the systems operated
by UNOPS and will satisfy itself that those are operational and able to produce the FMRs.
- 103 -



Financial Monitoring Reports. UNOPS will report on the financial progress of the project
using the quarterly FMR and the Bank will reimburse UNOPS for project expenses based on
those FMRs, the content of which has been discussed between the Bank and UNOPS. The FMR
and any supporting documentation must be provided to the NBI, with a copy to the World Bank.
The FMR format will be customized in a format to be agreed between the Bank, the NBI and
UNOPS, adapted to the specific needs of the project. The FMR will be submitted on a quarterly
basis by the UNOPS Finance Section and is forwarded directly by the UNOPS Finance Section to
the Bank.
UNOPS will be responsible for preparing quarterly and annual budgets and Project Monitoring
Reports, including FMRs, and the annual consolidated financial statements to be submitted to
NBI and the World Bank. All documentation relating to financial transactions, procurement,
contracts and invoices will be retained and made available to supervision missions and auditors.
Audit Reports. As UNOPS will be acting as the NBI's agent, an annual audit of the Grant will
be conducted by the UNDP Division for Audit and Management Review and/or by auditors or
audit firms contracted by it for this purpose in accordance with established practice in similar
arrangements involving UN agencies acting as project service providers under Bank financed
projects.
Flow of Funds. Upon receipt of the Blanket Application for Withdrawal from NBI and the
subsequent request for project advance from UNOPS, the Bank shall deposit the requested
project advance to a Deposit Account (see below) - funds will be advanced to the project because
of the time that it will take UNOPS to collect documentation and confirm accountability of funds
disbursed by the PMU in the recipient countries. Thereafter, the Bank shall reimburse UJNOPS
for project expenses based on the quarterly FMRs and Payment Request. Separate sub-ledger
accounts will be maintained for GEF and NBTF funds (separate accounts for GEF/Bank and
NBTF/Bank resources). UNOPS in turn, based on agreed work plans and acting on behalf of the
NBI, will be responsible for contracting goods and services to achieve the project objectives.
Major expenses (salaries, ICB Contracts, QCB Contracts, etc.) shall be paid directly by UNOPS.
In order to facilitate smooth project operations and cover minor expenses, UNOPS will open
imprest accounts for the PMU and the National Project Coordinators. UNOPS will bear full
responsibility and all business risks associated with those accounts.
lDeposit Account. UNOPS maintains a bank account at the JP Morgan Chase Bank to receive
funds, including funds for NBI Projects from UNDP and the World Bank - this account is
maintained in United States dollars. Therefore, UNOPS will be required to maintain separate
ledger accounts for the various funding streams for the project (GEF/World Bank, NBTF/World
Bank). It should be noted that UNOPS only serves as the project management agency, which
means that it is not the owner of any funds by mandate. Rather UNOPS is the custodian of the
funds on behalf of the NBI.
Management Fee. The level of the fee, which will be paid to UNOPS, will be agreed through
negotiations between UNOPS and the NBI, to the satisfaction of the Bank. The fee will be based
on the workload and the level of services to be provided. The fee will be requested as part of the
- 104 -



Quarterly Payment Requests.
Table C: Allocation of Grant Proceeds
| ; a ^ o jxeiiureat 11t4W  t    ht,WU     if, . .t.k . - Financing Percentage.
Goods                                  0.84                       100
Consultants' Services                  3.12                       100
Training and Workshops                 1.82                       100
Operating Costs                         1.69                      100
Unallocated                             0.53
Total Project Costs                    8.00
Total                                   8.00
The above table summarizes the Allocation of GEF Grant Proceeds (US$8.0 million) for the WB
implemented parts of the overall project, which total US$20.81 million (GEF - US$8.0 million
and NBTF - US$12.81 million).
Tables C 1 provides an additional breakdown for the GEF/WB and the NBTF/WB funds
respectively.
Table C I - Allocation of grant proceeds GEF/WB and NBTFIWB
Resources to support the implementation of the project ("SVP Coordination") totaling
US$380,000 will be made available from the NBTF resources as depicted below.
Expenditure Category        Amount in US$ Million
GEF/WB                 NBTF/WB
1. Goods                    0.84                 0.00
2. Consultants' Services
including audit fees        2.48                  5.07
(a) Project Activities                          4.80
(b) SVP Coordination                            0.21
Training and Workshops       1.82                 0.00.
Microgrants to NGOs         0.00                  5.20
(a) Project Activities                          5.20
(b) SVP Coordination                            0.00
Operating Costs"            2.33                  2.39
(a) Project Activities                          2.22
(b) SVP Coordination                            0.17
Unallocated"                0.53                  0.15
Total Project Costs                               12.81
(a) Project Activities                          12.43
(b) SVP Coordination                            0.38
-105-



I Total                        I     .O                     12.81             l
* 1 Operational Expenses include office rental, fuel and maintenance for vehicles, equipment operation and
maintenance, miscellaneous office expenses (communication, office supplies and utilities).
*2 Unallocated: total of contingency amounts.
- 106-



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
NILE BASIN INITIATIVE: Nile Transboundary Environmental Action Project
Project Schedule       -                          Planned   '   -           'Actua l-
Time taken to prepare the project (months)     33                           35
First Bank mission (identification)             12/15/1999                  12/15/1999
Appraisal mission departure                     04/15/2002                  05/19/2002
Negotiations                                   08/19/2002                   08/19/2002
Planned Date of Effectiveness                  07/31/2003
Prepared by:
Preparation assistance:
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                    Speciality
Inger Andersen                    Sector Manager, AFTU2, TTL
Astrid Hillers                    Water Resources Specialist, AFTES
Modupe A. Adebowale               Senior Financial Management Specialist - (Disbursements), LOAG2
Hassane Cisse                     Senior Counsel, LEGAF
John Bryant Collier               Operations Officer, MNSRE
Katherin Golitzen                 Production Coordinator/Editor, ESDQC
Jeffrey Lecksell                  Cartographer, GSDGP
Stephen F. Lintner                Senior Advisor, ESDQC (peer review)
Barbara Miller                    Senior Water Resources Specialist, AFTUl
Hisham A. Abdo Kahin              Consultant, LEGAF
Kristine Schwebach                Program Assistant, ESDQC
Ashok Subramanian                 Lead Water Institutions Development Specialist, MNSRE (peer review)
Iraj Talai                        Lead Financial Management Specialist, AFTQK
V.S. Krishnakumar                 Lead Procurement Specialist, AFTPC
Michael S. Mengesha               Senior Procurement Specialist, AFTPC
People from outside the Bank who worked on the document:
Michael Wells, Lead Consultant, World Bank and  Hesham El Badry, National Consultant, Egypt
UNDP                                            Mateos Mekiso, National Consultant, Ethiopia
Meraji Msuya, Executive Director, Nile Secretariat  Sylvester P.M. Kiai, National Consultant, Kenya
Marcel Alers, Regional Manager, GEF, UNDP       Tharcisse Urayenaza, National Consultant, Rwanda
Anne Fouillard, CIDA Consultant                 Babiker A.Ibrahim, National Consultant, Sudan
Hakizimana Gabriel, National Consultant, Burundi  Francis J.Gumbo, National Consultant, Tanzania
Katsuva Kilala, National Consultant, D. R. Congo  Justin Ecaat, National Consultant, Uganda
- 107-



Annex 8: Documents in the Project FRIe*
NILE BASIN INITIATOVE: Mile Transboundary Environmental Action Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
A draft Project Implementation Plan (PIP) has been prepared by the NBI and has been appraised. The PIP
is a "living" document that will be amended and updated during the course of project implementation.
B. Bank Staff Assessments
C. Other
Nile Basin Initiative
The following background and project documents have been prepared through a consultative process involving the
Basin stakeholders, international development organizations, and bilateral donors, as the basis for the Nile Basin
Initiative's Shared Vision Program. They are available on request. For copies, please contact Ms. Inger Andersen at
iandersen 1 l(aworldbank.org.
SVP Documents: The SVP Project Briefs were prepared under the guidance of the Council of Ministers of Water
Affairs of the Nile Basin States.
O Nile Secretariat and World Bank (May 2001). International Consortium for Cooperation on the Nile (ICCON)
Nile Basin Initiative Strategic Action Program: Overview.
O Nile Basin Initiative (May 2001). Nile River Basin Transboundary Environmental Analysis.
O Nile Basin Initiative (May 2001). Nile Transboundary Environmental Action Draft GEF Project Brief.
O   Nile Basin Initiative (March 2001). Nile Basin Regional Power Trade Project Document.
O Nile Basin Initiative (March 2001). Efficient Water Use for Agricultural Production Project Document.
O   Nile Basin Initiative (March 2001). Confidence-Building and Stakeholder Involvement (Communications)
Project Document.
o Nile Basin Initiative (March 2001). Applied Training Project Document.
O Nile Basin Initiative (March 2001). Socio-Economic Development and Benefit-Sharing Project Document.
o Nile Basin Initiative (March 2001). Water Resources Planning and Management Project Document.
Subsidiary Action Program Documents. The Subsidiary Action Program Documents for the Eastern Nile and the
Nile Equatorial Lakes sub-regions were prepared under the guidance of the Eastern Nile Council of Ministers and the
Nile Equatonal Lakes Council of Ministers, respectively.
o   Nile Basin Initiative (May 2001). Eastem Nile Subsidiary Action Program (EN-SAP) Project Identification
Document.
o Nile Basin Initiative (May 2001). Nile Equatorial Lakes Subsidiary Action Program (NEL-SAP) Project
Identification Document.
Transboundary Environmental Analysis Country Reports
The country reports were prepared for the Nile Basin Initiative Shared Vision Program - Environmental Analysis
and Management Component by the national environmental experts and with funding provided by the Global
Environmental Facility. These country reports each reference the key background documents and other information
sources used at a national level, which are therefore not repeated here. The sources include National Environmental
Action Plans, National Biodiversity Strategies and Action Plans, National Action Plans to Combat Desertification,
National Communications to the Climate Change Framework Convention, and Tropical Forestry Action Plans.
O   Hakizimana, Gabriel (2000). Environmental Analysis and Management Component of the Nile Basin Shared
Vision Program: Country Report for the Republic of Burundi.
O Kilala, Katsuva (2000). Environmental Analysis and Management Component of the Nile Basin Shared Vision
- 108-



Program: Country Report for the Democratic Republic of Congo.
*   El Badry, Hesham (2000). Environmental Analysis and Management Component of the Nile Basin Shared
Vision Program. Country Report for the Arab Republic of Egypt.
*   Mekiso, Mateos (2000) Environmental Analysis and Management Component of the Nile Basin Shared Vision
Program: Country Report for the Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia.
*   Kiai, Sylvester P.M. (2000). Environmental Analysis and Management Component of the Nile Basin Shared
Vision Program: Country Report for the Republic of Kenya.
*   Urayenaza, Tharcisse (2000). Environmental Analysis and Management Component of the Nile Basin Shared
Vision Program: Country Report for the Republic of Rwanda.
*   Ibrahim, Babiker A. (2000). Environmental Analysis and Management Component of the Nile Basin Shared
Vision Program: Country Report for the Republic of Sudan
*   Gumbo, Francis J. (2000). Envirownental Analysis and Management Component of the Nile Basin Shared
Vision Program: Country Report for the United Republic of Tanzania.
*   Ecaat, Justin (2000). Environmental Analysis and Management Component of the Nile Basin Shared Vision
Program: Country Report for Uganda.
Background Documents and Web Sites
Abu-Zeid, M., A. Hamdy and C. Lacirignola. 1996. "Research needs in irrigated agriculture for developing
countries " In M.A. Abu-Zeid and A.K. Biswas, eds. River Basin Planning and Management. Oxford: Oxford
University Press.
Akech, M., D. Calamari and P. Ochumba. 1992. Preliminary Report on Conservation ofAquatic Environment:
Winam Gulf Basin Area. FAO/TCP Assessment of Pollution in Lake Victoria Basin. Rome: FAO.
Alerstam, T. 1990. Bird Migration. New York: Cambndge University Press.
Andjelic, M.M 1998. "FAO Regional Lake Victoria Resources Project Achievements and Challenges." Paper
presented at the EAC Secretanat/Sida High Level Seminar on Assessment of Initiatives for Environmental
Cooperation on Lake Victona. Arusha: Commission for East African Cooperation.
Ayres, W. S. 1997. Integrated Lake and Reservoir Management: World Bank Approach and Experience. World
Bank Technical Paper No. 358 Washington, DC: World Bank.
Baltic Marine Environrmental Protection Commission (Helsinki Commission). 1993. The Baltic Sea Joint
Comprehensive Environmental Action Programme Baltic Sea Environment Proceedings No. 48. Helsinki:
Helsinki Cornmission.
Beadle, L. 1974. The Inland Waters of Tropical Africa. London: Longmans.
Bertold, P. 1993. Bird Migration: A general survey. New York: Oxford University Press.
Brooks, K.N., P.F. Folliott, H.M. Gregersen, and L.F. DeBano. 1997. Hydrology and the Management of
Watersheds, Second Edition. Ames, Iowa: Iowa State Press.
Brooks, K.N. and K. Eckman. 2000. "Global Perspective of Watershed Management." Land Stewardship in the 21st
Century: the Contributions of Watershed Management. March 13-16, 2000; Tucson, AZ. Proc. RMRS-P-13.
Fort Collins, CO: U.S. Department of Agriculture, Forest Service, Rocky Mountain Research Station
Brooks, K.N., H.M. Gregersen, P.F. Ffolliott and K.G. Tejwani. 1992. "Watershed Management: A Key to
Sustainability." In N.P. Sharma, ed. Managing The World's Forests, Dubuque, Iowa: Kendall/Hunt Publishers.
Burgis, M.J. and J.J. Symoens, eds. 1987. African Wetlands and Shallow Water Bodies. Paris: ORSTOM, Collection
Travaux et Documents.
Conway D. and M. Hulme. 1996. "The impacts of climate variability and future climate change in the Nile basin on
water resources in Egypt." Water Resources Development 12: 277-296.
Crafter, S.A., S.G. Njuguna and G.W. Howard. 1991 Wetlands of Kenya: Proceedings of the KWWG Seminar on
Wetlands of Kenya. Gland: IUCN.
Davis, S.D., V.H. Heywood and A.C. Hamilton, eds 1994. Centres of Plant Diversity. A Guide and Strategy for
their Conservation. Vol. 1. Gland: Worldwide Fund for Nature/World Conservation Umon.
Demissie, A. 1999. "In situ conservation: the Ethiopian experience." ILEIA Newsletter Vol. 15(3/4): 30-31.
Eckmnan, K., H.M. Gregersen and A L. Lundgren. 2000. "Watershed Management and Sustainable Development:
Lessons Learned and Future Directions." In Land Stewardship in the 21st Century: the Contributions of
Watershed Management March 13-16, 2000; Tucson, AZ. Proc. RMRS-P-13. Fort Collins, CO: U.S.
Department of Agriculture, Forest Service, Rocky Mountain Research Station.
Elphick, J., ed. 1995. The Atlas of Bird Migration Tracing the Great Journeys of the World's Birds. New York:
Random House
- 109 -



Eltahir, E A.B. 1996 "El Nibio and the Natural Variability in the Flow of the Nile River," Water Resources Research
32(1) 131-137.
Encyclopaedia Brittanica [http:// www brittanica com/]
Erbach, J. and J Gaudet. 1998. Urbanization and Environmental Problems in Africa: A Strategy for the Africa
Bureau. Report prepared for USAID. Washington, DC: International Resources Group.
Ethiopia Forestry Action Program. 1993. Volume I - Executive Summary. Final Report. Addis Ababa- Ethiopian
Ministry of Agriculture.
Falkenmark, M. and C. Widstrand. 1992 "Population and Water Resources: A Delicate Balance " Population
Bulletin. Washington, DC: Population Reference Bureau.
Famine Early Waming System Network [www.fews.net].
Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia 1996. The Conservation Strategy of Ethiopia, Volume 11. Federal Policy
on Natural Resources and the Environment. Addis Ababa: Environmental Protection Authority.
Gardner-Outlaw, T and R. Engelman. 1997. Sustaining Water, Easing Scarcity. A Second Update Washington, DC:
Population Action International.
Garstin, W. 1901. Report as to Irrigation Projects on the Upper Nile, etc. (In a Despatch from His Majesty's Agent
and Consul-General at Cairo). Parliamentary Accounts and Papers 1901, 91, 1149 et seq.
Gaudet, J., 1992. "Structure and Function of African Floodplains." Journal of the East Africa NaturaL History
Society 82:1-32.
Germts, A. 1999. "Biodiversity for Income Generation." ILEIA Newsletter Vol. 15(3/4): 34-35.
German Foundation for International Development. 1998(a). Global Water Politics: Cooperation for Transboundary
Water Management. Ist Petersberg Round Table. Berlin: DSE.
Gernan Foundation for International Development. 1998(b). Transboundary Water Management, Experience of
International River and Lake Commissions Berlin Recommendations. Berlin: DSE.
Gleick, H.P. 1993 Water In Crisis: A Guide to the World's Fresh Water Resources. Oxford: Oxford University
Press.
Gleick, H.P. 1998 The World's Water, The Biannual Report on Freshwater Resources 1998-1999. Washington,
DC: Island Press
Gutonga, J K. 1992. "Agricultural Chemicals and Wetlands: A Review." In G.W. Howard, ed., Wetlands of Kenya
Nairobi: IUCN.
Greenwood, P.H. 1976. "Fish Fauna of the Nile." In J Rz6ska, ed, The Nile, Biology of an Ancient River. The
Hague: Junk.
Griffin, C.B 1999 "Watershed Councils: An Emerging Form of Public Participation in Natural Resource
Management." Journal of the American Water Resources Association 35(3): 505-518.
Groomridge, B, ed. 1992. Global Biodiversity: Status of the Earth's Living Resources. London: Chapman & Hall.
Hecky, R, F. Bugenyi, P. Ochumba, J. Talling, R. Mugidde, M. Gophen and L. Kaufman. 1995. "Deoxygenation of
the Deep Water of Lake Victoria, East Afnca " Limnology and Oceanography 39(6): 1476-1481.
Hillel, D. 1994. Rivers of Eden. New York: Oxford University Press.
Hirji, R. 1995. River Basin Management in Sub-Saharan Africa: Challenges and Opportunities. Working Paper No
14. Washington, DC: World Bank.
Hirji, R., F.-M. Patorni, and D. Rubin. 1996. "Seminar on Water Resources Management in Kenya." Washington,
DC: Economic Development Institute of the World Bank.
Holmes, A. 1965. Principles of Physical Geology. New York: Ronald Press.
Howell P P. and J.A. Allan, eds. 1994. The Nile Sharing a Scarce Resource. Cambridge: Cambridge University
Press.
Howard, G. In press. Environmental Considerations in Relation to Development in the Nile Basin. Nairobi: IUCN.
Hughes, R.H., J.S. Hughes, and G. Bemacsek. 1992. A Directory of African Wetlands. Gland: IUCN.
Joint United Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS. [http://www.unaids.org.].
Kamukala, G.L. and S.A,. Crafter. 1993. Wetlands of Tanzania: Proceedings of a Seminar on the Wetlands of
Tanzania. Gland IUCN.
Kaufinan, L and P. Ochumba 1993 "Evolutionary and Conservation Biology of Cichlid Fishes as Revealed by
Faunal Remnants in Northern Lake Victoria," Conservation Biology 7: 719-730.
Le Moigne, G.J.M 1994. A Guide to the Formulation of Water Resources Strategy. Washington, DC: World Bank.
Leitmann, J 1995. "Urbanization and Environment in Sub-Saharan Afnca. Determinants, Conditions and Pnorities."
Urban Environment Workshop, Dakar. Urban Management Program. Washington, DC: World Bank.
Lintner, S. F, S Anf, and M. Hatziolos. 1995. The Experience of the World Bank in the Legal, Institutional and
- 110 -



Financial Aspects of Regional Environmental Programmes: Potential Application of Lessons Learnedfor the
ROPME and PERSGA Programmes. Background Papers from the Sea to Sea Conference, Jeddah.
Lowe-McConnell, R.H 1993. "Fish Fauna of the African Great Lakes: Ongins, Diversity, and Vulnerability."
Conservation Biology 7: 634-643
Madete, A. and R. Kisanga. 1998. "Pollution of the Lake Victorna Environment " In G.W Howard and S. Matindi,
eds. Water Hyacinth, Nile Perch and Pollution: Issues for Ecosystem Management in Lake Victoria.
Proceedings of a workshop on Prospects for Sustainable Management in Lake Victoria. Nairobi: IUCN.
Meigh J R, A A McKenzie, B.N Austin, R B Bradford and N.S Reynard 1998. Assessment of Global Water
Resources - Phase II: Estimates ofpresent and future water availability for eastern and southern Africa. Report
DFID 98/4 Wallingford, UK: Institute of Hydrology.
Miller, B.A and R B. Reidinger 1998 Comprehensive River Basin Development the Tennessee Valley Authority,
World Bank Technical Paper No. 416. Washington, DC: World Bank.
Ministry of Natural Resources Development and Environmental Protection. 1994 "Ethiopian Forestry Action
Program (EFAP)." Proceedings of the EFAP Donor's Conference. Addis Ababa: EFAP Secretariat.
Montgomery, D.R, G.E. Grant and K Sullivan. 1995. "Watershed Analysis as a Framework for Implementing
Ecosystem Management." Water Resources Bulletin 31(3): 369-386.
Morris, G.L. and J. Fan 1998 Reservoir Sedimentation Handbook New York: McGraw-Hill.
Nile Basin Initiative website [http //www.nilebasm.org].
Sharma, N. P. 1996. African Water Resources: Challenges and Opportunities for Sustainable Development. World
Bank Technical Paper No. 331 Washington, DC: World Bank.
Sutcliffe, J.V. and Y.P. Parks. 1999. The Hydrology of the Nile. IAHS Special Publication No 5 Wallingford, UK:
International Association of Hydrological Sciences.
The Africa Water Page [http:// www.africanwater.org/index.htm]
Twongo, T. 1998. "Status of Water Hyacinth in Lake Victoria and Update on Control Measures: the Uganda
Experience." In G.W. Howard and S. Matindi, eds Water Hyacinth, Nile Perch and Pollution Issues for
Ecosystem Management in Lake Victoria. Proceedings of a Workshop on Prospects for Sustainable
Management in Lake Victoria Nairobi: IUCN.
United Kingdom Department for International Development. 2000. Achieving Sustainability: Poverty Elimination
and the Environment. Strategy Paper. London: DFID Information Department.
United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs, Population Division 1998. World Population
Projections to 2150. New York: United Nations.
United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs, Population Division. 1996 World Population
Prospects: The 1996 Revision Annex I (Demographic Indicators). New York: United Nations
United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs, Population Division. 1997. World Urbanization
Prospects The 1996 Revision. New York: United Nations
United Nations Development Programme. 2000. Human Development Report 2000 Human Development and
Human Rights. New York. Oxford University Press. Website: [http:// www.undp.org/hdrol.
United Nations Development Programme/ European Commission. Poverty and Environment Initiative
http://www.undp org/seed/pei].
United Nations Environment Programmne. [http//www unep.org]
United Nations Environment Programme 1998 Biannual Bulletin of Environmental Law, Special Issue No. 3.
UNEP/UNDP Joint Project on Environmental Law.
UNEP/UNDP/Dutch Joint Project on Environmental Law and Institutions in Africa. 1999. Volume I The East
African Sub-Regional Project: Development and Harmonization of Environmental laws, Volume 2. Report on
the Legal and Institutional issues in the lake Victoria Basin; Volume 3: Report on the Development and
Harmonization of Environmental Standards in East Africa. Nairobi: United Nations Environmental Program.
United Nations Food and Agricultural Organization 1998. Information System for Water Resources Monitoring and
Planning in the Lake Victoria Basin. FAO Trust Fund Project RAF/304/JPN. Rome: FAO [http://www fao.org].
United States Agency for International Development. Greater Horn Information Exchange Website:
[http://gaia.info.usaid.gov/HORN].
USAID/NEMA. 1998. Environmental impact assessment water hyacinth control program. Entebbe: National
Environmental Management Agency, Ministry of Agriculture, Animal Industry & Fisheries.
Walter, Y.S. and H.J. Gillett, eds. 1998. 1997 IUCNRed List of Threatened Plants. Gland: World Conservation
Union.
Watson, R T., M.C. Zinyowera, R. M. Moss, D J. Dokken, eds. 1997 Regional Impacts of Climate Change- An
- 111 -



Assessment of Vulnerability - Summary for Policy Makers. Geneva: Intergovernrnental Panel on Climate
Change.
World Bank. 1993. Water Resources Management: A World Bank Policy Study. Washington, DC: World Bank.
World Bank. 1996. African Water Resources. Challenges and Opportunities for Sustainable Development.
Washington, DC: World Bank.
World Bank. 1997. Water Pricing Experiences. Washington, DC: World Bank.
World Bank. 2000. African Development Indicators 2000, Washington, DC: World Bank.
World Conservation Union [http:// www.iucn org].
World Resources Institute. 1999. World Resources 1998-99. Washington, DC: WRI.
World Resources Institute. 2000. World Resources 2000-2001. Washington, DC: WRI.
Worldwide Fund for Nature [http:/f www.wwf.org].
*Including electronic files
-112-



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
AFRICA: Nile Transboundary Environmental Action Project
02-Oct-2002
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in USS Millions                       disbursements
Project ID   FY   Purpose                                  IBRD       IDA                       Cancel.  Undisb      OrIg  Frm Rev'd
P074602      2003 BURUNDI- ERC                                 000      54 00                        0 00    53 86      0 00     0.00
P071371      2002 BURUNDI - HIVIAIDS and Orphans               0 00     36 00                        0 00     38 63     0 00     0 00
P065789      2001 Regional Trade Fac Proi - Burundi            0 00     7 50                         0 00     5.70      0 50     0 00
P064961      2001 PUBLIC WORKS AND EMPLOYMENT CREATION         0 00     40 00                        0 00     36 34    -4 78     0 00
P064556      2000 BI-EERC                                      000      3500                         000      026     -1397      0.00
P064510      2000 Soaal Aclon Project II (BURSAP)              0 00     12 00                        0 00     5 00      1 48     a 00
P000216      1995 HEALTH/POPULATIONII                          000      2130                         000      1.25      345      348
Total.      000     20580                         0.00     14103     -1332      348
AFRICA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
Burundi
Jun 30 - 2002
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                               Disbursed
IFC                                    IFC
FY Approval             Company                             Loan    Equity     Quasi     Partic     Loan    Equity     Quasi     Partic
2001                    AEF Florex                          0.32      0 00      0 00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
2000                    AEF V&F Export                      0.49      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.49      0.00      0.00      0.00
Total Portfolio:              0.81      0.00      0.00       0.00      0.49      0.00      0.00      0.00
Approvals Pending Comrmtment
FY Approval            Company                                 Loan      Equity       Quasi       Partic
Total Pending Commutment.                0.00       0.00        0.00        0.00
- 113-



Egypt
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in USS Millions                     disbursements
Project ID  FY   Purpose                                IBRD       IDA              GEF    Cancel   Undisb     Orig  Fnrn Rev'd
P056236      2002 HIGHER EDUCATION ENHANCEMENT PROGRAM     50 00     0 00              0.00     0 00    49 50     240      0 00
P045499     2000 EG-NATIONAL DRAINAGE II                   5000      000               000      000     4157     -1 18     000
P052705      1999 SOCIAL FUND III                           000     50.00              0.00     000     4890     4981      000
P053832     1999 PRVTSECT&AG DEV                          22500     7500               000      000    16926    128.46    1579
P050484     1999 Secondary Educabon Enhancement Proled      000     5000               000      0.00    3983      838      000
P066336      1999 SOC PROT INITPROJ                         000      500               000      000      4.42     167      080
P040858      1999 SOHAG RURAL DEV                           000     2500               000      000     2099      845     .151
P041410     1999 P S REHAB III                            12000      000               000      0.00   10341     7391      000
P054958     1998 POLLUTIONABATEMENT                        2000     1500               000      000     16.56    1319     -050
P049166      1998 EG-EASTDELTAAGSERV                        000     1500               000      000     1277     1172      091
P045175     1998 EG.HEALTH SECTOR                           000     9000               000      0.00    8244     6283      000
P005169     1997 EG-EDENHANCEMENTPROG                       000     7500               000      0.00    35.81    3797     3530
P005163     1996 POPULATION                                 000     17.20              000      000     1122     1262     1141
P005173     1995 EGYPTIRRIGATIONIMP                        2870     5330               000      000     3392     3633     -639
P005168     1993 PVTSECTOURISMINF&ENV                     13000      0.00              500    18950      800     67.50     559
P005161     1993 BASIC EDUCATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT        0 00    55.50              0.00     0 00     7 00    10 29     4 91
P005153     1993 MATRUH RESOURCE MANA                       0 00    22.00              0 00     0 00     0 26     0 79     0 76
Total     621 70   548 00             5 00    189 50    685 87   52513     67.05
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
Egypt
Jun 30 - 2002
In Millions US Dollars
Commiitted                           lDisbursed
IFC      .FC
FY Approval           Company                            Loan    Equity    Quasi     Partic    Loan    Equity    Quasi     Partic
1983/91/92/94/96/98   ANSDK                              000      11.15     0.00      0.00     0.00     11.15     0.00      0.00
1994/96/99            Abu Soma Develop                   0.00      0.07     0.00      0.00     0.00     0.07      0.00      0.00
2001                  Amreya                              5.31     0 00      0.00     0.00     5.31      0.00      0.00     0.00
1999                  CIL                                0.00      1.65     0.00      0.00     0.00      1.65     0.00      0.00
1992/97/98            Carbon Black-EGT                   7.50      0.00     0.00      0.00     7.50     0.00      0.00      0.00
2002                  Ceramnica Al-Amir                   6.00     0.00      0.00     0.00     3.00      0.00      0.00     0.00
1994                  Club Ras Soma                      2 45      2.37     0.00      0.00     2.45     2.37      0.00      0.00
1993                  Cmrcl Intl Bank                    0.00     15.59     0.00      0.00     0.00     15.59     0.00      0.00
2001                  EFG Hermes                         10.86     0.00      0.00     0.00     10.86     0.00      0.00     0.00
1999                  HC Investment                      0.00      1.41     0.00      0.00     0.00      1.41     0.00      0.00
2001                   IT Worx                            0.00     2.50      0.00     0.00      0.00     2.50      0.00     0.00
1997                  MGDK                               0.00      1.47     0.00      0.00     0 00      1.47     0.00      0.00
1986/88/92            Meleiha Oil                        0.00     13.00     0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00
1992                  Misr Compressor                    9.70      0.00     0.00      0.00     9.70      0.00     0.00      0.00
2002                  OCIC                              25.00      0.00      0.00    30.50    25.00      0.00      0.00    30.50
1997/99               Orascom                            0.00      0.85     0.00      0.00     0.00      0.85      0.00     0.00
- 114 -



1996/01            Orix Leasing EGT               6.00    0.00    0.00     0.00    1.00    0 00    0.00     0.00
2001                Port Said                    45.00    0.00     0 00  152.50   21 65    0.00     000    73.35
2001                SUEZ GULF                    45.00    0 00     0.00  152 50   30 76    0.00     0.00  104 24
1997/01            UNI                            3 00    0 00    0 00     0.00    3.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:       165.82   50.06     0.00  335 50   120 23   37.06    0.00  208.09
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval        Company                          Loan     Equity    Quasi     Partic
2002               Metro                            15.00     0.00      0.00      0.00
1999               Sidi Knr                         70.00     0.00      0 00    122.00
2000               ACB Expansn III                   9.00     0.00      0.00      0.00
2001               Suez Gulf                         3 00     0.00      0.00      0.00
2001               Port Said                         3 00     0 00      0.00      0.00
2002               SEKEM                             4.00     0 00       1 00     0 00
Total Pending Commutment:       104 00     0.00       1.00   122 00
- 115-



Ethiopia
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions                           disbursements
Project ID    FY   Purpose                                     IBRD        IDA        SF       GEF     Cancel.   Undisb       Orig  Frm Rev'd
P050938       2003 Capaaty Building for Dec Ser" Del                0 00     26 20      0 00      0 00      000      27 38       0 00      0 00
P049395       2003 ENERGY ACCESS PROJECT                            000     13270       000       000       000      13802       000       000
P057770       2002 CULTURAL HERITAGE                                0 00      5 00      0 00      0 00      0 00      5 43       018       0 00
P050383       2002 FOOD SECURITY PROJECT                            0 00     85 00      0 00      0 00      0 00     8976        0 00      0 00
P074585       2002 Ethiopia Structural Adjustment Credit            0 00    120 00      0 00      0 00      0 00     127 50      0 00      0 00
P052315       2001 CONSERVATION OF MEDICINAL PLANTS                 0 00      2 60      0 00      0 00      0 00      2 48      -019       0 00
P073196       2001 Demobilization and Reinlegrabon Project          0 00    170 60      0 00      0 00      0 00      7099      33 28      0 00
P069886       2001 ETHIOPIAMULTISECTORALHIV/AIDSPROJ                000      5970       000       000       000       4668      1122       000
P069083       2001 GLOBAL DISTANCE LEARNING                         0 00      4 90      0 00      0 00      0 00      4 81       2 07      0 00
P067084       2001 EMERGENCY RECOVERY AND REHAB PROJECT             000     23000       0 00      0 00      000      14724     11625       000
P050342       2001 WOMEN'S DEVELOPMENT INiTIATIVES PROJ             0 00      500       0 00      0 00      0 00      4 61       1 03      0 00
P035147       2001 CONSERV & SUSTAIN USE OF MEDIC PLAN              0 00      000       0.00      1 80      0 00       1 74      0 30      0 00
P000756       1999 HEALTH SECTOR                                    0 00    100 00      0 00      0 00      0 00     48 33      47 23      0 00
P000732       1998 EDUCATIONSECTORINVESTMENT                        000     10000       000       000       000      2839       3049       000
P000733       1998 AG RESEARC & TRAIN                               0 00     60 00      0 00      0.00      0 00     33 06      24 73      0 00
P000736       1998 ET ENERGY II                                     0 00    200 00      0 00      0 00      0 00     81 86      66 46      0.00
P000755       1998 ROAD SEC DEV PROG                                000     30920       000       000       000      134 58    14545      65 59
P000771       1996 Soaal Rehab (ESRDF I)                            000     12000       000       000       1148      1317      3783      1827
P000764       1996 WATER SUPPLY DEV&REH                             0.00     35 70      0 00      0 00      0 00      612       1017       0 00
P000734       1993 ROAD REHABIUTATION                               0 00     96 00      0 00      0 00      0 00      14 43     2010      -2 23
Total        0 00    1,662 60     0 00     1.80      11 48    1,026 57   546 60      81 63
- 116 -



STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
Ethiopia
Jun 30 - 2002
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                        Disbursed
IFC                              IFC
FY Approval         Company                       Loan   Equity    Quasi   Partic   Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic
Total Portfolio:         0 00     0.00     0.00    0 00     0.00    0.00     0.00    0 00
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval        Company                           Loan     Equity    Quasi     Partic
Total Pending Commitment:         0 00      0.00      0 00      0.00
- 117-



Kenya
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions                           disbursements
Project ID    FY   Purpose                                     IBRD        IDA        SF       GEF     Cancel    Undisb.      Orig  Frm Rev'd
P066490       2002 PUBSEC.MGMTTA                                    000      1500       0.00      000       000       1327       615       000
P066486       2001 Decentralized Repr Health and HIVJAIDS           000      5000       000       000       0 00     47 08      1597       000
P069501       2001 Kenya Economc & Public Sector Reform             000     1S00        000       000       0 00     101 45     97 62      000
P070718       2001 RegionalTradeFac Proq -Kenya                     000      25.00      000       000       000       1908       156       000
P070920       2001 HIV/AIDS Prject (Umbrella)                       0 00     5000       0 00      0 00      0 00     34 85       1 39      0 00
P046838       1997 LAKE VICTORIA ENV                                000      1260       000       000       000       464        539       000
P046871       1997 LAKE VICTORIAENV                                 000       980       000       980       000       646        714       00o
P034180       1997 EARLYCHILDHOODDEV                                000      2780       000      0o00       0o        1146      1397       473
P001354       1997 NARP II                                          0 00     3970       0.00      000       0 00      7 24      .1.06      0 00
P001344       1997 KEENERGYSECTORREFORM                             000     12500       00o       000       000       5103      6083       000
P035691       1996 NAIROBIMOMBASAROAD                               000      5000       000       000       0.00      605       1059       394
P001319       1996 URBANTRANSPORT                                   000     11500       000       000       000       22.75     28.75      000
P001331       1996 ARID LANDS                                       0 00     22 00      000       0 00      0 00       1 55      4 07     .0 45
P001353       1994 MICRO&SMALLENTERP                                000      2180      0o00      o0          783      262       1194       231
Total.       0.00     71390       0.00    9so         783      32973     26430      1052
-118      -



STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
Kenya
Jun 30 - 2002
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                        Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval         Company                       Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic   Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic
2001                Gapco Kenya                  15.00    0 00     0.00    0.00    0 00    0.00     0.00    0 00
1982/01            IPS(K)                         0.00    0.66     0.00    0.00    0.00    0 66     0 00    0.00
IPS(K)-Allpack                 0.00    0.05    0.00     0.00    0.00    0.05    0.00    0.00
1986               IPS(K)-Frigoken                0.00    0 06     0.00    0.00    0 00    0.06     0 00    0 00
1986               IPS(K)-Prem Food               0.00    0.11     0 00    0.00    0.00    0.11     0.00    0.00
1986               Intl Hotels-Ken                4.29    0.00     0.00    0.00    4.29    0.00     0 00    0 00
1994               K-Rep Bank                     0.00    0.43     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.12     0.00    0.00
1996/99            KCL                            4.63    0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00
2002                LIK                           0 00    0.03     0.00    0.00    0 00    0 03     0.00    0.00
1983/91            Mabati                         6 50    0 00     4 50    0.00    6.50    0.00     4.50    0 00
2000                Magadi Soda Co.               1.80    0 00     0.00    0.00     1 80   0.00     0 00    0.00
1995               Panafrican                    12 64    0.00     0.00    0.00   12.64    0.00     0.00    0.00
1970/74/77/79/81/88/8 TPS (Kenya)                 0.00    0 04     0.00    0 00    0.00    0 04     0.00    0.00
9/94/96             Tsavo Power                   0.00     0.00    0.03    0 00    0.00     0 00    0.03    0 00
1972               AEF AAA Growers                0.48    0.00     0.00    0.00    0.48    0 00     0.00    0 00
AEF AAR Clinic                 0.00    0 50    0.00     0.00    0.00    0.50    0.00     0 00
2000                AEF Bawan Roses               0.05     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.05    0.00     0.00    0 00
2000                AEF Ceres                     0.93     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.93    0.00     0.00    0.00
1998               AEF Deras Ltd.                 1.00    0 00     0.00    0.00    1.00    0.00     0.00    0.00
1995               AEF Equiltea                   0 24    0.12     0.00    0 00    0 24    0.12     0.00    0.00
1997               AEFFutureHotel                 0.13    0.00     0.00    0.00    0.13    0.00     0.00    0.00
1997               AEF Landmark                   0 28    0.00     0.00    0.00    0.28    0 00     0.00    0 00
1996               AEF Lesiolo                    2.50    0.00     0.00    0.00    2.50    0.00     0.00    0.00
1992               AEF Locland                    0.38    0.00     0.00    0.00    0.38    0.00     0.00    0.00
1996               AEF Magana                     1.25    0.00     0.00    0.00    1.25    0.00     0.00    0.00
2000                AEF Makini                    0.34     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.34    0.00     0.00    0.00
1998               AEF Multi Hauler               0.25    0.00     0.00    0.00    0.25    0.00     0.00    0.00
2000                AEF Redhill Flrs              0.22    0.00     0.00    0.00    0.22    0.00     0.00    0.00
1997               AEF Transenergy                0.38    0.00     0.00    0.00    0 38    0 00     0.00    0 00
1999                ANSPAR                        2.00    0.67     0.00    0.00    2.00    0 67     0.00    0 00
1997               DBK                            4.20    0.00     0.00    0.00    4.20    0.00     0.00    0.00
1999               Diamond Trust                  0.00    0.80     0.00    0.00    0.00    0 80     0.00    0.00
1999               EARC                           0.00    0 05     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.05     0.00    0 00
1980/83/98         GBHL                           4 67    0.00     3.00    0.00    4.67    0.00     3.00    0.00
1982
1994/99
1998
Total Portfolio:        64.16    3.52     7 53     0.00   44.53    3.21     7.53    0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval        Company                          Loan     Equity    Quasi     Partic
2002               Eberege Tea                       1.80      0.00      0.00     0.00
2002               Itumbe Tea                        1.70      0 00     0.00      0 00
Total Pending Commitment.         3.50      0.00     0.00      0.00
- 119 -



Rwanda
Difference between expected
and actual
Onginal Amount in US$ Millions                               disbursements
Proect ID     FY    Purpose                                       IBRD        IDA         SF       GEF     Canrcel.  Undisb.       Ong   Frm Rev'd
P075129        2002 DemobIlizaton and Reintegraiion                   0 00      25 00      0 00       0 00      0 00      26 38       0 00      0 00
P064965        2001 Rwanda-Rural Sector Support Project               000       4800       0 00       0 00      0.00      46 89      11 28      000
P057295        2001 Competbvaness & Enterprise Development            0 00      40 80      0 00       0 00      0 00      40 67      10 56      0 00
P065788        2001 Regional Trade Far. Proj R-wanda                  0 00       7 50      0 00       0 00      0 00       5 73       0 50      0 00
P058038        2000 AGRICULTURAL AND RURAL MARKET DEVELO              0 00       5 00      0 00       0 0t      0 00       2 68       2 72      0 00
P045091        2000 Human Resource Dev                                000       3500       000        000       000       30 06      11 16      000
P045182        2000 RW-Rurat Water Supply & Sanitation Prote          000       20 00      0 00       0 00      0 00      18 33       0 06      0 00
P051931        1999 Community Reintegration (CRDP)                    0 00       5 00      0 00       0 00      000        0 62       0 77      0 00
Total         0 00     186 30       0 00    0 00        0 00      17136      37 06       0 00
- 120-



STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
Rwanda
Jun 30 - 2002
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                        Disbursed
IFC                              IFC
FY Approval         Company                       Loan    Equity   Quasi   Partic   Loan   Equity   Quasi    Partic
2001                AEF Dreamland                  0.80    0 00     0 00    0 00     0.00    0.00    0 00     0.00
Total Portfolio:         0 80     0.00     0.00    0.00     0 00    0.00     0.00    0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval        Company                           Loan     Equity    Quasi     Partic
Total Pending Commitment          0 00      0.00      0.00      0.00
- 121 -



Tanzania
Difference between expected
and actual
Onginal Amount in IJS$ Millions                           disbursements
Project ID    FY   Purpose                                     IBRD        IDA        SF       GEF     Cancel    Undisb       Ong   Frm Revd
P002797       2002 TZ SONGO SONGO GAS DEV & POWER GEN              0 00     183 00      0 00      0 00      0 00     184 56     62 14      0 00
P058706       2002 Forest Conservabon and Managerment              0 00      31 10      0 00      0 00      0 00     31 38      017        0 00
P071012       2002 Primary Education Developmient Program           0 00    150 00      000       0 00      0 00     105 23     12 50      0 00
P073397       2002 Lower Kihansi Environmenial Managmenit           000       630       000       000       000       613        110       000
P047762       2002 RURAL WATER SUPPLY                              0 00      26 00      0 00      0 00      0 00     26 43       0 63      0 00
P065372       2001 SOCIAL ACTION FUND PROJECT                      0 00      60 00      0 00      000       0 00     39 84       1 46      0 00
P069982       2001 Regional Trade Fac Proq - Tanzania               000      15 00      000       0 00      0 00      11 39      0 94      000
P049838       2000 PRtVATIZATION                                   0 00      45 90      0 00      0 00      0 00     33 29      19 25      0 00
P050441       2000 RURAL& MICRO FIN SVC                             0 00      2 00      0 00      0 00      0 00       144       146       146
P057187       2000 FIDP II                                          0 00     27 50      0 00      0 00      0 00      17 25     15 31      0 37
P058627       2000 Health Sector Development Program                0 00     22 00      0 00      0 00      0 00      10 85     -3 91      0 00
P060833       2000 PUBLICSERV REF PROG                              0 00     4120       0 00      0 00      000      3114       -816       0 00
P002822       2000 TANZANIA PSAC I                                  0 00    190 00      0 00      0 00      0 00     118 68    -68 24      0 00
P047761       1999 TAXADMINISTRATION                                000      4000       000       000       000      2600       1929       000
P002804       1998 AGRIC RESEARCH                                   0 00     2180       0 00      0 00      0 00      8 27       5 53      0 00
P002789       1998 HUMAN RESOURCE DEV I                             0 00     20 90      000       0 00      0 00      252        0 42      0 00
P002753       1997 NAT EXT PROJ PH II                               0 00     3110       000       000       000        352       609      -040
P038570       1997 TZ RiVER BASIN MGM SMAL                          0 00     26 30      0 00      0 00      0.00       6 21      7 08      0 00
P046872       1997 LAKE VICTORIA ENV                                000       9 80      0 00      9 80       0 00      0 06      0 56      0 00
P046837       1997 LAKEVICTORIAENV                                  000      1010       000       000       000        467      -000       000
P002758       1996 URBAN SECTOR REHAB                               0 00    105 00      0 00      0 00      0 00      2172      22 60      000
P002770       1994 ROADS II                                         000     170 20      000       000       63 53     41 15    112 79     3654
P002757       1991 RAILWAYS RESTRUCTURI                             000      76000      000       000       1126       220      1137      -196
Total        000     1,31120      000     980        7479      73391     22039      3601
- 122 -



STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
Tanzania
Jun 30 - 2002
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                        Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval         Company                       Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic   Loan   Equity   Quasi   Paric
1998               AEF Blue Bay                   1 45    0 00     0 00    0.00    1 45    0.00     0.00    0 00
2001                AEF Boundary Hil              0.20     0.00    0.00    0.00    0 20    0 00     0.00    0 00
1996               AEF Contiflora                 0 35    0.00     0.00    0.00    0.35    0.00     0.00    0 00
1998               AEF Drop Zanziba               0 32    0.00     0 00    0 00    0 32    0 00     0 00    0 00
1997               AEF Hort. Farms                0 19    0 00     0.00    0.00    0.19    0 00     0.00    0 00
1998               AEF Maji Masafi                0.27    0 00     0.00    0.00    0.27    0 00     0.00    0 00
1996               AEFMilcafe                     0.18    0 00     0 00    0 00    0 18    0.00     0 00    0.00
1994               AEF Moshi Lthr                 0.00    0.19     0 00    0.00    0 00    0 19     0 00    0 00
1999               AEF MusomaFish                 1 50    0 00     0 00    0 00    1.50    0 00     0 00    0.00
1997/99            AEF Pallsons                   0.32    0.00     0.00    0.00    0.32    0.00     0 00    0.00
1995               AEF Tanbreed                   0 70    0.00     0 00    0 00    0.70    0.00     0 00    0 00
2000                AEF Zan Safari                0.70     0 00    0.00    0 00    0 70    0 00     0.00    0 00
2002                Exim Bank                     2 50     0.00    0.00    0 00    0 00    0 00     0 00    0 00
1996               IHP                            0.82    0.60     0.00    0.00    0 82    0 60     0 00    0 00
2000               IOH                            2.50     0 00    0.00    0.00    2.50    0 00     0 00    0 00
2000                NBC                           0.00    10.00    0.00    0.00    0 00     3.44    0.00    0 00
1993               TPS (Tanzania)                 5.69    0.87     1 04    0.00    5 69    0 87     1.04    0.00
1991/97            TPS Zanzibar                   0.00    0.03     0.00    0 00    0.00    0 03     0.00    0 00
1994               Tanzania Brewery               0.00    6 00     0.00    0.00    0 00    6 00     0 00    0.00
1998               Tanzania Jubilee               0 00    0 29     0 00    0.00    0.00    0.29     0 00    0 00
1994               ULC Leasing                    0 00    0.38     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.38     0.00    0.00
2001                AEF 2000 Indust               1.60     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00     0 00    0.00
1996/99            AEF A&K Tanzania               0 15    0.00     0 00    0 00    0.15    0.00     0.00    0 00
1997               AEF Aquva Ginner               0 68    0.00     0.00    0 00    0 68    0 00     0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:        20.12    18.36    1.04     0.00   16.02   11.80     1.04    0 00
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval        Company                          Loan     Equity    Quasi     Paric
2002               Exim Bank                         0.00      1.00      0 00     0 00
Total Pending Comnutment          0.00      1.00     0.00      0.00
- 123-



Uganda
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions                           disbursements
Project ID    FY   Purpose                                     IBRD        IDA        SF       GEF     Cancel    Undisb       Orig  Frm Revd
P065437       2003 PAMSU                                           0 00      27 00      0 00      0 00      0 00     28 70       2 33     0 00
P073671       2003 UG-PRSCII                                       000      15000       000       000       000      15923       000      000
P002952       2003 Northem Uganda Soclal Action Fund               0 00     100 00      000       0 00      0 00     105 62      323       0 00
P069996       2002 UG Energy for Rural TransforrmaUon               000      4915       000       0 00      000      5008        1 30      0.00
P002984       2002 UG FOURTH POWER PROJECT                          0 00     62 00      0 00      0 00      000      59 57       6 68      a 00
P070222       2002 UG EnergylRurTrans                               0 00      0 00      0 00     12 12      0 00      12 39      0 40      0 00
P065436       2002 2ND PHASE OF THE RD DEVELOPMENT PROG            0 00      64 52      0 00      0.00      0 00     67 46       8 99      0 00
P074078       2002 Makerere Pilot Decentril Service Delivery        0 00      5 00      0 00      000       0.00      5 28       0 55      0 00
P044695       2001 Natonal Agnc Advisory Services Prol              0 00     45 00      0 00      000       0 00     46 65       0 27      0 00
P050439       2001 PRIVATIZATION & UTILITY SECTOR REFORM            0 00     48 50      0 00      000       0 00      38.15     24 34      0.00
P070627       2001 Regional Trade Fac - Uganda                      0 00     20 00      0 00      0 00      0 00      15 09      110       0 00
P073089       2001 EMCBP 11                                         0 00     22 00      0 00      0 00      0 00      19 20      8 59      0 00
P072482       2001 HIV/AIDS Control Project                         0 00     47 50      000       000       000      4338       18 57      000
P002992       2000 LOCAL GOV DEVE PROGRAM                           0 00     8090       000       0 00      000      24 56     -51 96      000
P044679       2000 Second Economic and Fin. Mgnt. Project           0 00     34.04      0 00      0 00      0 00     25 42      1960       0 00
P002941       1999 ICB-PAMSU                                        0 00     12 40      0 00      2 00      000       0 46      -1 24     -1.51
P059223       1999 NAKJVUBO CHANNEL REH                             0.00     22 40      000       000       0 00      11 29     1217       0 00
P059127       1999 AGRIC RES& TRNG II                               0 00     26 00      0 00      0 00      0 00      17 09      717       0 00
P002970       1999 ROADS DEVT PROGRAM                               0 00     90 98      0 00      0.00      0 00      67 44     30.91      6.95
P040551       1998 NUTRIT CHILD DEV                                 0 00     34 00      0 00      0 00      0 00       7 89      2 34      0 00
P049543       1998 ROAD SECTANST SUPP                               0 00     30 00      o0        0 00      0 00      18 47     19 98      3 38
P057007       1998 EL NINO EMERG RD REP                             0 00     27 60      0 00      0 00      16 98      5 70     24 08      055
P046836       1997 Lake Victona Env.                                0 00     1210       0 00      000       0 00       5 65      183       0 00
P046870       1997 LAKE VICTORIA ENV                                0 00      9 80      0 00      9 80      0 00       1 46      2 27      0 00
P035634       1996 PRIV SECTOR COMPETI                              000      1230       000       000       218        109       451       189
P002971       1995 DISTRICT HEALTH                                  0 00     45 00      0 00      000       0 00       0 00      2 93      a 00
P002963       1994 SEXUAL TRANS IN                                  0.00     50 00      0 00      0 00      0 00       0 35      117       0.00
P002957       1994 SMALLTOWNSWATER                                  000      4230       000       000       000        148       237       000
Total:       000     1.170.49     000     2392       1916      83914      15425      1126
- 124 -



STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
Uganda
Jun 30 - 2002
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                        Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval         Company                       Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partlc   Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic
1996               AEF Agro Mgmt                  0.60    0.40     0.00    0.00    0.55    0.40     0.00    0.00
1992                AEF Clovergem                 0 84    0.00     0.00    0.00    0.84    0.00     0.00    0.00
1997                AEF Conrad Plaza              0.88    0.00     0 00    0.00    0.88    0.00     0.00    0.00
1998                AEF Exec. Invmnt              0 79    0.00     0.00    0 00    0.79    0.00     0.00    0.00
1999                AEF Gomba                     1 40    0.00     0.00    0.00    1.40    0 00     0.00    0 00
2001                AEF Kabojia                   0.33    0.00     0.00    0.00    0.33    0.00     0.00    0.00
AEF Kiwa II                   0.07     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.07     0.00    0.00    0.00
1997                AEF Ladoto                    0.80    0 00     0.00    0.00    0.80    0.00     0.00    0.00
2000                AEF LongFreight               0.80    0.00     0 00    0.00    0 00    0.00     0.00    0.00
2000                AEF Makss                     1.35     0.00    0 00    0.00    0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00
2002                AEF Mosa Court                0.40     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.40    0.00     0.00    0.00
1998               AEF Rainbow                    0 79    0 00     0.00    0.00    0.79    0.00     0.00    0.00
1995               AEFRwenzori                    0.17    0.00     0.00    0.00    0 17    000      0.00    0.00
1993               AEF Skyblue                    0 51    0 00     0.00    0.00    0.51    0.00     0 00    0.00
1994               AEF White Nile                 0.22    0.00     0.00    0.00    0.22    0.00     0 00    0.00
1998               CelTel Uganda                  2 50    0 70     0 00    0.00    2 50    0.70     0.00    0.00
1994/00            DFCU                           0.00    0.60     0 00    0.00    0.00    0.60     0.00    0.00
0/84/92            Jubilee                        0.00     0.10    0 00    0 00    0.00    0.10     0.00    0.00
1993               Kasese Cobalt                  8.00    3.60     0.00    0.00    8.00    3.60     0.00    0.00
1996               Tilda Rice                     1.43    0.00     0 00    0 00    1.43    0.00     0 00    0.00
1998                Uganda Sugar                  4.02    0.00     0.00    0.00    4.02    0.00     0.00    0.00
1983
Total Portfolio:        25.90    5.40     0.00     0.00   23.70    5.40     0.00    0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval        Company                          Loan     Equity    Quasi     Partic
2002               Bujagaii                         70.00      0.00      0.00    40.00
Total Pending Comnmtment:        70.00      0.00     0.00     40.00
- 125-



Annen 10: Country at a Giance
MOLE BASIN INITIATIVE: Hile Tranaboundary Environmental Action Project
Country at a Glance llnformnation for Buirundli, D.R.Congo, Egypt, Ethiopia, IKenya,
Rwanda, Sudan, Tanzania and Uganda is aRso available in the project filles and on the
Bank's website.
-126-



Burundi at a glance                                                        9120)02
Sub-
POVERTY and SOCtAL                                    Saharan     Low-
Burundi    Africa  Income     Development diamond'
2001
Populabon, mid-year (millions)                    6 9     674     2,511               Life expectancy
GNI nercapia (Atas method, USS)                  100      470      430
GNI (Atlas method, US$ bilitons)                 0 69     317     1,069
Average annual growth. 1995401
Populabon %)                                      2 0      2 5      1 9    GNI                           Gross
Labor force (%)                                   2 5      2 6      23 3
per                          pnimary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1995-01)                      capda                      enroUment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line)
Urban populabon (% oftotal population)             9       32       31
Life expectancy at birth (years)                  42       47       59
Infant mortality (per 1.000 live births)         102       91       76
Child malnulntion (% of children under 5)                                       Access to Improved water source
Access to an improved water source (% of population)       55       76
lliteracy (% ofpopulation age 15+)                51       37       37
Gross pnmary enrollment (% ofschool-age populabon)  62     78       96                Burundi
Male                                            69       85       103          - - Low4ncome group
Female                                          56       72       88
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1981    1991      2000     2001
Economic raHtos
GDP (USS billions)                      0 97      1 2     0 68     0 69
Gross domestc investment/GDP            17 0     14 4      91       6 9                   Trade
Exports of goods and servtces/GDP        91       9 9      9 2      7 5
Gross domestic savngs/GDP                4 1     4 2      -5 7     -3 8
Gross nabonal savings/GDP                                 13 7     23 1
Curent account balance/GDP               -6 8    -8 2     4 5      -1 5     Domhsi
Interest paymentslGDP                    0.2      1 0      06       07        mes c                  Investment
Total debt/GDP                          18A      82 5    1621     154 5
Total debt servicelexports               8 1     30 6     38 8     36 0
Present value of debbGDP                                  94 9
Present value of debttexports                           1168 2
Indebtedness
1981-91 1991-01    2000      2001  2001-05
(average annual growth)
GDP                              4 2     -2 4    -0 9      3 2      1 3                Burundl
GDP per capita                   1 3     -4 4    -2 8      1 3     4 6              --  Low-income group
Exports of goods and services    2 5     9 7     31 7     19 9     -3 4
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1981    1991      2000     2001     Growth of Investment and GDP (%)
(% of GDP)
Agnculture                              61 3     54 3     50 7     50 0
Industry                                134      196      185      187 
Manufactunng                            7 7    142 2
Services                                253      261      308      313                      9     9   0    01
Prvate consLunpbon                      86 8     93 4     91 0     90 3     so
General govemment consumpbon             91      108      147      135                   rGDI       GDP
Imports of goods and services           22 0     28 5     23 9     18 2
(average annual growth)              1981-91 1991-01     2000     2001     Growth of exports and Imports I%)
Agnculture                               2 9     -1 1      38       3 8    15D
Industry                                 4 4     4 4       41      161     100
Manufactunng                            5 6     -8 7
Services                                 5 2     -16       3 5      3 5     so
Pnvateconsumpbon                         3 5     -4 7      3 0      -7 3               57 ;       5   Qa   5
General govemment consumpbon             4 4     -2 2    -22 7     14 7    -so
Gross domestic investment                4 3     -01       8 5      -8 6               ENxps    I  mpors
Imports ot goods and services            0 9      2 7     40 3     -5 7
Note 2001 data are preliminary estmates
Ths table was produced from the Development Economics central database
' The diamonds show fourkey indicators in he county (In bold) compared  th its income-group average If data are missing, the diamond vil
be incomplete
- 127-



Burundi
PRiCES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1981    1991      2000    2001      Inflatlon(%j
Domestdc prices                                                             40
(% change)
Consumerppnces                           122      90       24.2    140      30
Implicft GDP deflator                    -61      41      226      134      20
Government finance                                                         10
(96 of GDP, includes current grants)                                         0
Current revenue                          14 7    20 0      20 1    21 4            96   97    95   99 09   o   1
Current budget balance                    2 7     5 5       0.7     3 8            -     GP deflator  OCPI
Overall surplus/deficit                   6 7     -5 8     -41      -3 0
TRADE
1981    1991      2000    2001      Export and import levels (US$ mill.)
(US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                        76      90       49       48     250
Coffee                                   66      73        47       52
Tee                                       2       8        14       14    200
Manufactures                              2       4         1        1     150
Total Imports (cif)                       161     239      144      157     100
Food                                     19      1 5       1 1      1 2-
Fuelanid energy                          32      29        20       2 1    so
Capital goods                            32      91        59       66
9s  95   97   99   99  oo   01
Export price index (1995=100)
Import pnce index (1995=100)                                                         nE,ports     o in-orts
Terms of trade (1995=100)
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1981    1991      2000    2001      Current account balance to GDP (%)
(US$ millions)
Exports of goods and services              89     116       54       60     2
Imports of goods and services            214      333      145      160
Resource balance                         -125    -217      -91     -100      0
Netincome                                  -3     -11       -15      -12    -2-
Net current transfers                                      146      196
Current account balance                   -66     -95       -30      -10
Financingitems(net)                        36     121       13       17
Changes inet reserves                      30     -26       17        -7     .
AMemo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)
Conversion rate (DEC, locallUSS)         90 0   181.5     720.7    830.4
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOVS
1981    1991      2000     2001
(USS millions)                                                               Composition of 2001 debt (US$ mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed      179     964     1,100    1,065
IBRD                                      0       0         0       0
IDA                                      47     440      601      582                  G 89
Total debt service                          8      38       21                              23   E t177
IBRD                                                             
IDA                                       0       4        13      14
Composition of net resource flows                                                                        B 582
Officil grants                           59     117       59
Official creditors                       29      63        27       0         D 274
Private creditors                        -2      4         0        0
Foreign direct investment                11       1        12
Portfolio equity                          0       0         0                         C 2
World Bank program
Commitments                               0      55        35      48      A - IBRD                  E - Bilalsal
Disbursements                            10      40        36       12     B - IDA  D- Obwfrrnfudtiata  F - Pnvate
Pnncipal repayments                       0       1         9      10      C - IMF                   G- Short-tw
Netflows                                 10      38       28        2
Interest payments                         0       3        4        4
Net transfers                            10      35       23        -2
Note This table was produced from the Development Economics central database                              9120/02
- 128-



Congo, Dem. Rep. at a glance                                                               9124102
Sub,
POVERTY and SOCiAL                              Congo, Saharan       Low-
Dem. Rep.     Africa  Income      Development diamond'
2001
Populabon, mid-year (millions)                     52 4      674     2,511                Life expectancy
GNI per capita (Atlas method, US$)                 107       470      430
GNI (Atas method. US$ billions)                     67       317     1.069
Average annual growth, 1995401
Population(%)                                       30       25        19
Laborforce i%)                                      26       26        23      GNI            i    .          Gross
per         .                 primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 199541)                           capitarm
Poverty (9 ofpopulabon below natonal poverty line)
Urban population ('Y of total population)           30        32       31
Lrfe expectancy at birth (years)                    46        47       59
Infant mortality (per 1,000 ive births)            127        91       76
Child malnutnbion (9 of children under 5)           34                              Access to improved water source
Access to an improved water source (% of populabon)  45       55       76
Illiteracy (% ofpopulation age 15+)                 37        37       37
Gross prmary enrollment (% of school-age population)  46      78       96           -     Congo, Dem Rep
Mate                                              50        85      103            --    Low-income group
Female                                            32        72       88
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1981     1991     2000      2001
EconomInc ratios'
GDP (USS billions)                        125       91        6 7      50
Gross domestc investment/GDP              10 5      56       19 8
Exports of goods and services/GDP         14 1     204       19 9     17 8                    Trade
Gross domesUc savAngs/GDP                  7 5      1 8      14 9
Gross nabonal savings/GDP                  5 7     -7 1      16 9
Current account balance/GDP                - 3    -11 4      -2 9     -2 5
Interest payments/GDP                      10       06        00       27      Domes-c                   Investment
TotaldebtVGDP                             406     1193      1920     2582      savings
Total debt servicelexports                21 9      95       737      733
Present value of debtVGDP                                   163 4
Present value of debttexports                             1,117 0
Indebtedness
1981-91  199141     2000      2001  2001-05
(average annual growth)
GDP                                07      -4 3    -6 0      -4 5      42            -     Congo, Dem Rep
GDP per capita                    -2 5     -7 2    4 5       -7 1      05             - -- Low-income group
Exports of goods and services      77      17      -3 7     -34 8
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1981     1991     2000      2001     Growth of Investment and GDP (%)
(% of GDP)                                                                     40
Agnculture                                24 7     413       55 5     56 3
Industry                                  321      174      17 8      188      20
Manufacturing                            149      7 3       4 2      39
Services                                  43 2     412      26 7      249       o
Pnvate consurmpton                        82 5     84 9     78 9              -20
General govemment consumption             100      133       62                             GDl       *-GDP
Imports of goods and services             17 1     241       187      167
1981-91 199141       2000      2001     Growth of oxports and Imports (%)
(average annual growth)
Agnculture                                 2 6      03       -2 8     -5.4    75
Industry                                  -12      -6 3      -1.7      38     so              /    -0
Manufactunng                             -0 5                                25
Services                                   03     -10 3     -14 9     -8.7  -          9       94
-25               g     o   0
Private consumptIon                        2 6     -5 0      3 7     -28 3    -so     l
General govemment consumption             -1 9      0 8     -11 8     -5 2    -75
Gross domestc investment                  -8 6      0 9      15 6    -12 1               Eoris      -   - Imors
Imports of goods and servces              -1 6     -6 6     17 2      50o0
Note 2001 data are prellminary estimates
- The diamonds show four key indicators In the country (in bold) compared with its Income-group average If data are missing, the diamond vwll
be incomplete
- 129 -



Congo, Dem. Rep.
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1981    1991      2000    2001      Inflation (%)
Domestic prices
(% change)                                                                  00
Consumerlpnces                                            554 0    357 0    600
Implicit GDP deflator                    33 2  2,202 3    630 1    386.6    400
Government finance                                                          200
(% of GOP, Includes current grants)                                           0                I
Current revenue                                             4 5      5 9            96   97    Da   99    00   01
Current budget balance                                     -5 3     -0 8          -     GOP detlaor   -CPi
Overall surplus/deficit                                    -3 6      0 5
TRADE
(US$ millions)                           1981    1991     2000     2001      Export and Import levels (US$ mill.)
Total exports (fob)                             1,649      892      940     2,0o0
Copper                                                    444      489
Coffee                                          590       207      206     1.500
Manufactures                                    297        97      129
Total Imports (crf)                                        669      702     1,000     ,        1
Food                                                                         0
Fuel and energy                                            49       43
Capital goods                                                                04
Export pnce index (1995=100)
Import pnce mdex (1995=100)                                                           nEEports       lrrpo rs
Terms of trade (1995=100)
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1981    1991      2000     2001     Current account balance to GOP (%)
(US$ millions)I
Exports of goods and seMces             1,772    1,841     963     1,015     0
Importsofgoodssrndservices              2,148   2,066      905      953              96
Resource balance                         -376    -224       58       62     -2
Net income                               -346    -756      -388     -416     4--
Net current transfers                     244     -57       136     228
.0
Current account balance                  -478   -1,037     -194     -126
Financing items (net)                     243     994      107      137     -a
Changes In net reserves                   236      43       87       -11    -lo
Memo:
Reseives including gold (US$ millions)
Conversion rate (DEC,locallUSS)      1 46E-11  520E-8      500     3120
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1981    1991      2000     2001
(US$ millions)                                                               Composnion of 2000 debt (US$ mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed    5,092   10,840   12,862   12,880
IBRD                                     80      87        78      78                     A 78
IDA                                     176    1,183    1,188    1,151                          8 1,188
Total debtservice                         401     177      722      756          G 3C413       ;      C 391
IBRD                                     14      20         0       0
IDA                                       1      11         0       0
Compositon of net resource flows                                                                         D 72 02076
Official grants                                           199     256        F 496
Official creditors                      220     276         0       0              \.               *j
Pnvate creditors                         77     -13         0       0
Foreign direct investment                                  74      83
Portfolio equity                                            0       0                      E 5220
World Bank program
Commitments                              27      78         0      50      A- IBFD                  E - Bilaterai
Disbursements                            17     114         0       0      B-IDA    D- OterrrsjLEateral  F-Prnvat
Pnncipal repayments                       7      17         0       0      C - IMF                  G - Sorlt-tarm
Netflows                                 10      97         0       0
Interest payments                         8      14         0       0
Net transfers                             2      82         0       0
Development Economics                                                                                      9/24102
- 130 -



Egypt, Arab Rep. at a glance                                                         9/13/02
M. East  Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                    & North  middle-
Egypt    Africa  Income     Doevelopment diamond
2001
Populabon, mid-year (millions)                  652       301    2.164               Life expectancy
GNI per capita (Alas method, USS)              1.530    2,000    1,240
GNI (Attas method, USS billions)                99 9      601    2,677
Average annual growth, 1995401
Population (%)                                   1 9      2.0       1 0
Laborforce (%)                                   2.9      2 9       1 2    GNI         ,                 Gross
per                          primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 199541)                       capita                     n enUroment
Poverty (% of populabon below natonal poverty Ine)  23
Urban populabon (36 of total population)          43       58       46
Ldfe expectancy at birth (years)                  67       68       69
Infant mortaliy (per 1,000 live births)           42       43       33
Child malnutriUton (% of children under 5)         4       15       11          Access to Improved water source
Access to an Improved water source (% of populabon)  95    89       80
Illiteracy (% ofpopulabon age 15+)                44       34       15
Gross primary enrollment (36 of school-age population)  100  97    107      -Egypt, Arab Rep
Wale                                           104      103      107        - -- Lower-middle-income gmoup
Female                                          96       90      107
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1981    1991     2000     2001
Economic ratlos-
GDP (USS billions)                      23 4    37 0      99 3    98.5
Gross domesticinvestmenVGDP             295     212       183      169
Exports of goods and services/GDP       33 4    27 8      16 3     17 4                  Trade
Gross domestic savmngs/GDP              141     132       117      122
Gross national savings/GDP                      32 3      17 4     17 1
Current account balancelGDP              -9 1   10 3      -1 2      0 0
Interest payments/GDP                    2 5     2 5      0 7      0 7     Domestic           -      Investment
Total debtUGDP                          94 3    67 3      29 2     28 6    savings
Total debt servce/exports               17 0    48 3       8 3      8 4
Present value of debt/GDP                                23 1
Present value of debtexports                             106 5
Indebtedness
198141 1991-01     2000     2001   200145
(average annual growth)
GDP                              50      47      51        3.5     4 5             Egypt Arab Rep
GOP per capita                   2 4     2 7     3 1       1 6      3.1            Lower-middle-ancome group
Exports of goods and serAces     6.3     31      3 8       3 3     41
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1981    1991     2000     2001      Growth of Investment and GDP I%)
(36 of GOP)
Agnculture                              201     176       167      169     30
Industry                                37 7    33 2      331      332 22
Manufactuinng                          130     166      193      193 3    x
Services                                42 2    49 2      50 2     500      o                 a0
Private consumpbon                      66 9    75 6      78 6     77 7    -1
General govemment consumption           19 0    11 2       9 7     10 1
Imports of goods and services           48 8    35 8      22 9     221                  GDI       * GW
(average annual growl/i)             198141 199141       2000     2001     Growth ofexports and Imports(%)
Agnculture                               2 7     3 2       3 4      3 3    15
Industry                                 3 9     4.4      121       3 6
Manufactunng                                    6 8      7 9      4 5     5
Services                                 6 6     51        16       31
Pnvate consumpton                        3 9     3 8       5 8      11           95   97 6      99
General govemment consumpton             1 6     2 6       0 4      5 7
Gross domestc investment                -2 3     7 4      -4 6      6 8               iD;prs      3-inports
Imports of goods and services           -1 9     2 8      -3 4     -1 1
Note 2001 data are prehminary esbmates
*The diamonds showfour key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average If data are missing, the diamond will
be Incomplete
- 131 -



Egypt, Arab Rep.
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1981    1991     2000     2001    Inflation(%)
Domestic prices
(96 change)                                                              15
Consurnerprices                                 147       28      24 4    o
ImplicitGDPdeflator                      1.2    145       66      32
Government finance
(6 ofGDP, Includes current grants)
Cunentrevenue                                   23 0     217     20 3           ss    a7   98   D9    00   01
Current budget balance                          -3 7      1 1     -2 1               GDP Wiator   *  CPi
Overall surplus/deficit                   .    -15 2     -3 9     -S 5
TRADE
1981    1991     2000     2001     Export and Import levels (US$ mill.)
(US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                            4,250    6,388   7,078    20,000
Cotton                                       2,334     2,273   2,650
Otheragriculture                                83      167     145     15000
Manufactures                                 1,163     2,844   3,108           _
Total imports (cf)                        .   11,425   17,860   16.432    10000
Food                                         1,802     1,395   1473 50iI
Fuel and energy                              1.062     2,451   3,233
Capital goods                            .   3,340    5,639    3,696       o
D5  9B  97   08  W9  00   01
Exportprlceindex(1995=/00)                      105      101      104
Importpriceindex(1995=100)                       91       87       79               QExports   oDIports
Termssoftrade(1995=100)                         115       116     132
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1981    1991     2000     2001     Current account balance to GDP (%)
(ESS mllf2ons)                                                                                               I
Exports of goods and services        61536    10,236   15,981   16925 17
Imports of goods and services         10.405  13,472   22,755  21.772      nE                 ,    ,,.  
Resource balance                      -3,869  -3,236   4,774   -4,847     o       s    9i                0
Net income                              -497   -363      932     1,072   -1 - .                     i
Netcurrenttransfers                    2,230   7,419    4,679   3,742     --
Cumrentaccountbalance                 -2,136   3,820   -1.163     -33
Financing items (net)                  2.606     23    -1,862    -832
Changes in net reserves                -470   -3.843    3,025     865    .4 -
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)         4,763   15,795   14,927
Conversion rate (DEC, locallUS$)         0 7     3 0      3 4      3 7
EXTERMAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1981    1991     2000     2001
(USS millions)                                                            ComposItIon of 2001 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed  22,078  24,869   28,988   28,124
IBRD                                  540    1,887    1,686    1,596                    A 1,596
IDA                                   393     902     1.334    1,369             G 3.045      8 1369
F 272
Totaldebtsermce                        1,551   6.748    1,793    1,627         F 2               .D 894
IBRD                                   48     339       189     201
IDA                                     3      15        29      35
Compostion of net resource flows
Official grants                       201       0         0                     .        
Offcial creddors                     1,518    135      -587    -774
Private creditors                     617     -202     -201     -90
Foreign direct investment             753       0         0                        '     ..
Portfolio equity                        0       0         0                          E 20,948
Word Bank program
Commitments                           235      31         0       0     A- IBRD                  E - Bilsterai
Disbursements                         217     105       107     264     8-IDA   D-OOter muStlatersl F- Pnate
Pnncipalrepayments                     12     203       153     138     C-IMF                    G-Short-term
Netflows                              205      -98      -46     125
Inteest payments                       39     151        65      98
Net transfers                         166     -249     -111      27
Development Eoonomics                                                                                  9/13/02
- 132-



Ethiopia at a glance                                                         9/24/02
Sub-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                     Saharan     Low-
Ethiopia   AfrIca  Income      Development diamond'
2001
Populabon. mid-year (millions)                   65 8      674     2,511               Life expectancy
GN per capita (Atlas method, USS)                 100      470      430
GNI (Alas method, USS billions)                   67       317     1,069
Average annual growth, 1995-01
Population(16)                                    25        25       19
Labortonce (S6)                                   22        26       2 3     GNI                           Gross
per    I    .                primary
Most recent estimate (ateatyear avallabta, 1995-01)                          capita                    enrollmond
Poverty (96 of populabton below naDonal povery line)
Urban populabon (% of total population)            16       32       31
LVe expectancy at brtl (yearns)                    42       47       59
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)           98       91       76
Cthd mainutnbon (% of children under 5)            47                            Access to improved water source
Access to an improved water source (% of populaton)  24     55       76
llideracy (6 ofpopulabon age 15+)                  60       37       37
Gross prmary enrolment (56of school-age populabon)  71      78       96                Ethiopia
Male                                             85       e5      103            -- - Low-income group
Female                                           57       72       88
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1981    1991      2000     2001
EconomIc retles'
GDP (US$ billions)                        52      95        64       6 2
Gross domestic lnvestmentiGDP            133      99       15 3     10 o
Exportsofgoodsandse rvceslGOP            107      57       155      154                    Trade
Gross domestic savngs/GDP                 7 3     2 7      -0 1      2.2
Gross naionad sanngslGDP                  81      44       100      137
Current account balance/GDP              4 8      -5 5     -5 3     4 4      Domesbc   Fretr
Interest paymentlsGDP                     0 3     04        0.8      1 0    svings                     Ivsmen
Total debtWGDP                           35 6    959       86 2     914                       *
Totat debt servlce/exPorts               10 3    25 2      13 8     189 
Presendvalue of debUGOP                                    513
Present value of debtlexports                             326 5
Indebtedness
1981-91  1991.01   2000      2001  2001-05
(average annual growth)
GDP                               10      53      54        7 7      6 3                Ethiopia
GDP per capita                   -2 1     29      29        52       3.5                 Low-income goup       J
Exports ot goods and services     06     119     23 6      -1 6      67
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1981    1991      2000     2001     Growth of Investment and GOP (%)
(% of GOP)                                                                   30
Agriculture                              561     591       52 3     523 3      .
Industry                                 12 3    10 1      11 1     111      20-
Manufacturing                            79      54       70       70       r   sj               (
Services                                 316     30 8      36 5     36 5     o
Private consumDton                       790 o    1 8      76 6     60 3    .-i    sr,   n   s     n   oo    i
Generalgovemmentconsumption              137     155       232      17.5                  GDI       *   iDP
Imports of goods and services            167     129       308      312
1981,91 1991-01     2000     2001      Growth of export andlmporl I%)
(average annual growth)
Agdcutlure                                07      23        22      115
Industry                                 -1 0     64        1 8      58
Manufacturing                           -2 5     76       21      217 20
Servioces                                 25      82        9 5      46                  ,
Pnvate consumptbon                        08      27       -1 9     114            go   97          n  to   01
Genera govemment consumption              30     130       293     -185     2
Gross domestic Investment                 0.2    109       -12      274           -     Expor t
Importsof goods anddservices              12      71        83      -18
Note 2001 data are preliminary esumates
'The diamonds ahowfourkayindicators In the country n bold) compared wth is income-roup sverge If data are missing the dlamond vwl
be incomplete
133 -



Ethiopia
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Domesdic prices                         1981    1991     2000     2001     Inflation (%)
(9S change)                                                                 15
Consumerpnces                             6.1    209       42      -72      10
Implicit GDP deflator                            161       1 7     -7(0     6
Govenmmenttftance                                                           o
(% of GDP, Includes curent grants)                                         55            57        9    0
Current revenue                          164     137      18.3     19 6    -10
Cument budget balance                    -0 2     4 7      -8 2    *0 4           -    GDP drr      C   Pi
Overall surplus/defci                    -4 9   -10 9     -14.8   -10 0
TRADE
(USS millions)                          1981    1991      2000    2001      EsPort and ImPort levels (US$ mill.)
Totalexports (fob)                       411     276       486     441     2D00
Coffee                                    .     130      262      175
Leather and leather products                     45       35       38     1,S0D
Manufactures
Total imports (cif)                      744    1,029    1,611    1,558    1 000
Food                                            152      116      241 5_
Fuelandenergy                                   102      213      265
Capital goods                             .     466      755      589        0
Export price index (1995=t00)             82      77        64      59           95  96   97  as   99  oo   ol
Importpnceindex(1995=100)                112      99       116      117                rsta,t      irrtt
Terms of trade (1995=100)                 73      78        55       50                 =
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                          1981    1991      2000    2001      Current account balance to GDP I%)
Exports of goods antd services           554     543       984     957       2
Imports of goods and services            845    1.226    1,960    1,945 
Resource balance                         -291   -683      -976     -987                         s             |
Net income                                 -7     -73      40       -59     -2
Net current transfers                     50     229       701      774    '4
Current account balance                  -249    -528     -335     -272     -5
Financing items (net)                    190     681       110      259     -8
Changes in net reserves                   59     -153      225       13    .10
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)   370     106
Conversion rate (DEC, locallUS$)          21      21       8.2      8 3
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOW
1981    1991      2000    2001
(USS millions)                                                              Compositlon of 2001 dobt (US$ mIll.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed    1,842   9,119    5.483    5,697
IBRD                                    52      20         0        0                     G r0
IDA                                    276     883     1,779    2,151                F 100
Total debt service                        58      138      138      183
IBRD                                     7       9         0        0                 _2,161
IDA                                      2       11       34       36                                215.
Composiion of net resource flows                                             E 2.334
Official grants                         135     781
Official creditors                     894      145      122      435
Private creditors                       63     212       -4       -10
Foreigndirectinvestmren                  0        6       50        0
Portfolio equity                         0       0         0        0                     D S46
World Bank program
Commitments                             76        0      465      202     A- IBRD                  E - BSilaisl
Disbursements                           28      59       137      455     6 - IDA  D - 06ar nmujbsasral F - Pnrtel |
Pnncipalrepayments                       4       12       21       22     C- IMP                   G-Short-term
Netflovs                                23      46       116      433
Interest payments                        5       8        13       14
Nottransfers                             18     38       103      419
Development Economics                                                                                    9124102
- 134-



Kenya at a glance                                                         9/24102
Sub-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                    Saharan      Low-
Konya     Africa  Income     Development dlamond'
2001
PoPulabon, md-year (millrons)                    30 8      674    2,511               Life expectancy
GNI per capita (Alias method, US$)               350       470      430
GNI (Alas method, USS billions)                  107       317    1,069
Average annual growth, 1995-01
Popuiabon (%)                                     2 4      2 5      1 9
Laborforce (%)                                    2 7      2 6      2 3     GNI          .'               Gross
Most recent estimate (iatest year available, 1995-01)                       capir         -   .        e primery
Poverty (% of population below nabonal poverny line)
Urban population (96 of toal populabon)           31        32       31
Life expecancy at birth (years)                   57        47       59
Infant mottality (per 1,000 live births)          78        91       76
Child malnutriton (% of children under 5)         22                             Access to improved water source
Access to an Improved water source (% of population)  48    55       76
Illiteracy (% ofpopulahon age 15+)                17        37       37
Gross primary enrollment (% ofschool-age population)  69    78       96                Kenya
Male                                                      85      103                Low-income group
Female                                                    72       88
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1981    1991      2000     2001
GDP (USS billions)                       6 9      8 0     10 4     11.4
Gross domestc investmentlGDP             22 9    20 0     13 7     12 8
Exports of goods and serviceslGDP        30 5    27 7     26 3     26 0                   Trade
Gross domestic savingslGDP               19 6    19 0      3 8      4 2
Gross national savingslGDP               17 9    15 1     10 6      9 6
Current account balancelGDP            -11 5     -3 8      -3 1     -32 2.
Interest paymentslGDP                    2 3      3 2      1 5      0.9     Domestc                   Investment
Total debtUGDP                           47 0    92 7     60 7     52 9     savings
Total debt service/exports               25 1    33 2     24 3     19 9
Present value of debVGDP                                  44 8
Present value of debt/exports                            167 9
Indebtedness
1981-91 199141     2000      2001  2001-05
(average annual growth)
GOP                              44       21     -0 2      1 1      2 7                 Kenya
GOP per capit                    1 0     -0 5    -2 5      -0 9     0 4                 Low-income group
Exports of goods and seMces      5 5      12      8 9      6.8      3 5
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1981    1991      2000     2001     Growth of lnvestment and GDP(%)
(X of GDP)                                                                  20
AAncuLture                               32 5    27 0      197      19 0
Industry                                 203     200      185      182      1s
Manufacturing                          12 3    12 2      12 9     12 5
Services                                47 2     53 0     61 8     62 9      o
Pnvate consumpbon                       61 9     64 0     78 7     790      -10
General govemment consumpbon             186     170      17 5     168                   G01      G   DP
Imports of goods and services           33 8     28 7     361      34 6
1981-91 199141      2000      2001     Growth of exports and Imports(%)
(average annual growth)
Agncuture                                 31      15      -2 0       12     20
Industry                                 4.2      16      -1 2      0 7     10
Manufactunng                            51      19       -14       0 8
Services                                 4 9      31       10       13      0 /
Pnvate consumpbon                        5 7      2 4      5 4      -6 8    0
Generai govemment consumpton             3 2      7 6      4 3      4 3    -20
Gross domestc investment                  1 5     4 3      -4 8     2 3           -Exports         oImpor s
Imports of goods and services            4 5      6 9     18 1      -12
Note 2001 data are preliminary estimates
*The diamonds show four key idicators in bte country (In bold) compared withsi income-group average If data re missing, the diamond will
be incomplete
- 135 -



Kenya
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1981    1991     2000     2001     Inflation t%)
Domesdc prices
(% change)                                                                 20
Consuomerpnces                          129     196        62      08      15
Implicit GDP deflator                   109     115        77     113      1O
Government finance                                                         5
(% of GDP, includes cuffent grants)                                                        0
Current revenue                         26 6    26 4      25 0    23 3            9L   97    go   99   00    01
Current budget baiance                   -04     -0 3      2 6     0 9                GDP deftor       C
Overall surplus/deficlt (excl capital grants)  -9 8  -5 7  -3 9    -4 5
TRADE
(USS millons)                           1981    1991     2000     2001     Export and Import levels (US$ mill)
Total exports (fob)                     1.044   1,056    1,774   1,879     . oo
Fuel                                   306      76       127      175
Coffee                                 214      159      154      94      ,.000
Manufactures                            145     171      252     274
Total imports (cf)                    1,812    1,956    3.318   3.393     2,000
Food                                    86      149      278     326      D
Fuel and energy                        669     385       850     721
Capital goods                          321      527      730     604         L                   -      E
9s  99   97  593  99  oo   51
Export price mdex (1995=100)              75      75       80       74
Importpnce index(1995=100)               120      95      102      100               oEnonx       Dlrporlr
Tenms of rade (1995=100)                  62      79       78       74
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1981    1991     2000     2001     Current account balance to GDP (%)
(USS milodons)
Exports of goods and services           1,876  2,227     2,743   2,966     o 0 
Imports of goods and services          2,545   2,307     3,769   3,939         --                       I .|
Resource balance                        -669    -41     -1,026    -973     -|
Net Income                              -215    -372     -133     -147
Net current transfers                     99     144      837      761
Current account balance                 -785    -309     -323     -359     4 -
Financing items (net)                    614     219      417      550
Chianges In net reserves                 171      91      -94     -191     4
Memo:
Reserves including gold (USS millions)   263     184      925    1.097
Conversion rat (DEC, locallUSS)          90     27 5      76 2    786
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1981    1991     2000     2001
(iS$S millions)                                                            ComposItion of 2001 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed   3,224   7,453     6,343   6,029
IBRD                                   351     783       50       26                    A 26
IDA                                    234    1,370    2,439   2,491              G 859
Total debt service                       485     741      677      598
IBRD                                    42     165       47       28         f 177
IDA                                      2      16       52       56    |                              2,491
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                        171     418
Official creditors                     203     347      -74        7       E 1,714
Private creditors                      -32     317     -109     -266
Foreigndimactinvestment                 14      19      111
Portfolio equity                         0       0                                              C 63
World Bank program
Commitments                            130     287      150       45    |A-IBFiD                  E-Bitsra  |
Disbursements                           76     178      149      103     B -IDA   D- therniulblateral F-Pnyawt
Pnncipalrepayrnents                     12     101       70       61    CC-IMF                    G-Shor-tarm
Net flows                               64      77       79       42
Interest payments                       32      80       29       23
Net transfers                           32      -2       50       19
Development Economics                                                                                   9/24/02
- 136 -



Rwanda at a glance                                                          9118/02
Sub-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                    Saharan     Low-
Rwanda     Afrkca  Income      Development dlamond
2001
Populabon, mid-year (milions)                     8 7     674     2,511               LHfe expectancy
GNI per capita (Atlas method, USS)               220      470       430
GNI (Atas method, USS billions)                   1 8      317    1,069
Average annual growth, 1995-41
Populailon (96)                                   5 2      2.5      1 9
Labor force f%)                                   55       2.6      23      GN I                          Gross
per         ,       '        primay
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1995.01)                       capita          .          enrollment
Poverty (% of populabon below neaonal poventY line)  60
Urban population (% oftotal population)           10        32       31
Life expectancy at birth (years)                  49        47       59
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)         107        91       76
Child malnutirlon (% of children under 5)         29         .                   Access to improved water source
Access to an Improved water source (% of populaton)         55       76
Illiteracy (% of populabon age 15+)               31        37       37
Gross pnmary enrollment (% ofschool-age population)  100    78       96             Rwanda
Male                                             ..       85      103          --    Low-income group
Female                                                    72       88
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1981    1991      2000     2001
Economic ratios'
GDP (USS billions)                        13      19       18        17
Gross domesbc investment/GDP             13 3    14 0     17 5     18 4
Exports of goods and services/GDP        9 8      7 3      8 3      93                    Trade
Gross domesbc savings/GDP                 1 4     3 3      1 4       1 9
Gross nabonal savings/GDP                9 8     12 3     12 5     11.9
Current account balance/GDP              -5 1    -1 7      -4 0     -6 5
Interestpayments/GDP                     02       03      128      122                                 Investment
Total debtlGOP                           14 9    42 4     72 1     77 3      afg
Total debt servce/exports                 4 7    16 0     28 1     24 9
Present value of debt/GDP                                 12 1     14 0
Present vaiue of debt/exports                            176 4    180 2
Indebtedness
1981-91 1991-01    2000      2001  200145
(average annual growth)
GDP                               16      19      6 0      6 7      6 4           -     Rwanda
GDP per capita                  -1 3     -0 5     3.5      4 1      3 8                 Low-income group
Exports of goods and services    2 3      1 5     9 4     39 9       18
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1981    1991      2000     2001     Growth of Investment and GDP (%)
(96 Of GOP)                                                                 o
Agnctture                                43 5    33 0     414       40 5
Industry                                 22 2    215      20 5     216       so
Manufactunng                           168      166       97       98
Services                                 34 3    45 5     381       37 9     o
96   97   9e   99        ti 
Private consumpbon                       78 6    84.7     88 0      86.4    -so
Generalgoverrtmentconsumption            200     121       105      117                   Ga       r-GDP
Imports of goods and services            21 8    181      24 4     25 8
1981-91 199141      2000      2001     Growth of exports and Importa(%)
(average annual gnowth)                                                      s
Agnculture                                0 4     4 2      91        83 3
Indusbry                                 0 9     -0 2      3 4      7 6 o
Manufactunng                            12      -17      -41       9 5            96   97   95  99    Y    1
Services                                  4 2     2 1      3 6      4 4
Pnvate consumpbon                         17      19       4 6      2 0
Generalgovemmeniconsumptlon               47     -08       1 1      182    -150
Gross domestc investment                  0 2     4.9    -15 1       3 0          -Eixr   r      --nerts
Imports of goods and services            3 2              -11 4     4 0
Note 2001 data are preliminary eshmates
* The diamonds show four key indicators In the country (in bold) compared with Its income-group average If data are missing, the diamond will
be Incomplete
- 137 -



Rwanda
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1981    1991     2000     2001     Inflation (%)
Domestic prices
(% change)                                                                 60
Consurmerprices                          6 5    19 6       3 9     3 4     40
Implicit GDP deflator                    7 7    15 0       3 2     0 2          \
Government finance
(6 of GDP. Includes cunent grants)                                                98   97    98   99   00    01
Currert revenue                         12 2    15 1      18.7     19.8   -20
Current budget balance                    1 2    -1 1      6 1      5 6               GDP deflator  e  CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                          -6 2      0 1     -1 1
TRADE
(USS mlliion.s)                         1981    1991     2000     2001     ExportandImportlevels(US8mill)
Total exports (fob)                      113      96       90       93     400
Coffee                                           58       23       19
Tea                                              22       24       23    300
Manufactures                                      2       42      48
Total imports (cif)                              302      328      340     200
Food                                            35        47      52     100
Fuel and energy                                  39       94       73
Capital goods                                    54       53      51       e 
Exportpnceindex(1995=100)                         71      107      108         95   D8   97   98  9D   00  01
Importpncemidex(1995=100)                         89      105      108               oE)ports     Oirrports
Temmsoftrade(1995=100)                            79       102     100
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(USS mitons)                            1981    1991     2000     2001     Curront account balance to GDP (%)
Exports of goods and services            151     140      150      159      o I
Imports of goods anrd services           329     345      441      440
Resource balance                        -178    -205     -291     -281
Netincome                                  9     -11       -15      -20
Netcurrenttransfers                      103     183      217      191
Current account balance                  -67     -33       -90    -110    -1_
Finencing items (net)                     46      99       100     121
Changes in net reserves                   21     -66       -10      -11    15
Memo-
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)   173     110      191      212
Conversion rate (DEC, /ocallUS$)        92 8    125 1    390 0    443 0
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1981    1991      2000    2001
(USS millions)                                                             Compoaltlon of 2001 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed     197     810     1,305    1,316
IBRD                                     0       0         0       0
IDA                                     65     390      692      713              E 148 F
Total debt service                         8      23       42       40
IBRD                                     0       0         0       0
IDA                                      1       4        1 1     14
Composibon of net resource flows                                              D 370
Official grants                                          267     234
Official creditdors                     25      78        32      51
Private creditors                        0       -1        4      13
Foreign direct investment                                  8       4
Portfolio equity                                                                  C 84
World Bank program
Commitments                             14     147        77      96     A- IBRD                  E- Bilateral
Disbursements                            7      48        37      53     a- IDA   D - Other mulateral F - Pnvate
Principal repayments                     0       2         6       8     C- IMF                   G- Short-term
Netflows                                 7      47       31       45
Interest payments                        1       2         5       5
Net transfers                            7      44        26      40
AFTP3                                                                                                    9/18/02
-138 -



Sudan at a glance                                                        9t23/02
Sub-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                    Saharan     Low-
Sudan     Africa  Income     Development dbamond'
2001
Population, mid-year (millions)                  31.7      674    2.511               Lufe expectancy
GNI per capita (Atlas method, US$)               340       470      430
GN (Atdas method, USSbiliions)                   10.7      317    1,069
Average annual growth, 1995-01
Population I%)                                    2 1      2 5      1 9
Labor force I%)                                   2.7      2 6      2 3     GNI          .'               Grmss
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1995-01)                       capita                       p epmary
Poverty (36 of populatfon below national poverty line)
Urban population (6 oftotal population)           37        32       31
Lrife expectancyal birth (yeams)                  56        47       59
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)          81        91       76
Child malnutrion (6 of children under 5)                          .              Access to Improved water source,
Access to an Improved water source (6 of populaton)  75     55       76
Illiteracy ( ofpopulation age 15+)                41        37       37
Gross pnmary enrollmert N ofschool-age population)  56      78       96                Sudan
Male                                            60        65      103                Low4ncome group
Female                                          51        72       88
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1981    1991      2000     2001
GOP (US$ blitions)                        9.5    11 4     11 2     125
Gross domestic nvestmentlGDP             19 3             17 7     177
Exports of goods and servAces/GDP         9 6     5 1     16 0     13 5                   Trade
Gross domestic savingstGDP                5.3             20.0     13 9
Gross nationai sav1ngslGDP                4 9              6.0      6 7
Current eccount balance/GDP                     -13 5     -14 2    -10.2
Interest paymenistGDP                     1,0     0.1      0 0      0 0     DomesUc              I. investment
Totaldebt/GDP                            64.9   1334     1399     1225      savtngs        . .'
Total debt service/exportB               28.9     4 2      3.2      3.3
Present value of debt/GDP                                1318
Present value of debttexports                            781.5
Indebtedness
1981-91 199141     2000     2001   200145
(average annual growth)
GDP                               10      5 5     61       6.9       72                 Sudan
GDP per capita                   -1 3     3 1     4 2      4 9      4.7                 Low-Income group
Exports of goods end services    -7 5    19.2   121 0      -9 8     -2.4
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1981    1991      2000     2001     Growth of Investment *nd GDP (%)
(Y6 ofGOP)
Agriculture                              36 4    414      414      391      20
Industry                                 143     114      180      163
Manufacturring                          74       55       9.9     101 I
Services                                 49 3    47 2     40.6     42 6            s- f s   ;%s/se 9   a9 oo 
Private consumpbon                       61 6    73.5     74 1              .20
General govemment consumption            12.9    101       5 9
Imports of goods and services            23 7     9 7     13 7      19 5                 GO      -0-GDP
1981-91 199141      2000     2001      Growth of exports and Imports  '
(average annual growth)
Agricuiture                              -14      9 7      5 4      8A     150
Industry                                  2.2     8 3      5 6      9 8    100
Manufactunng                            3 2      9 5      5.2      8 6
Services                                  18      6 9      6 7      4.3     so
Pnvate consLumpion                       -0 9              -11                              as       ao
General govemment consumption             0 7       .     29.0         .    -50
Gross domestc investment                 -2 2    10 0     14.9      6.9           -   iortsr
Imports of goods and services            -7 7     9 6      4 7     37 S
Note 2001 data are prelimInary esttmates.
The diamonds show four key Indicators In the country (in bold) compared with it Income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond wil
be incomplete
- 139 -



Sudan
PRiCES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1981    1991     2000     2001     Inflatlon (%)
Domestic prices
(% change)                                                                 1-
Consumer prices                         22 4    119 0      7 9      5 0    o -
Implicit GDP deflator                   25 0    55 7       4 8     4 8
Government flnance
(% of GDP, includes cunentgrants)                                           o
Currentrevenue                                   7 2      113      114             o    907  Oa   99    00   0
Current budget balance                          -12 2      1.8      1.5          -    GDP deflator  --0CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                         -15 3     -0 8     -1 0
TRADE
(USS millions)                          1981    1991     2000     2001     Export and Import lovels (US$ mll.)
Total exports (fob)                              329     1,864    1,635    2,500
Sesame                                          124      146      149                                        I
Cotton                                          257       53       65
Manufactures                  .                          10S
Total Imports (ci)                              1,433    1,553    1,543    1DO 
Food                                            275      340      311
Fuel and energy                                 356      137       99      soo
Capital goods                                   348      492      520       o
95  09   97  98   90  00   01
Export price Index (1995=100)                     35       80       82
Import price index (1995=100)                              82       84               DE,ports     oln,ort
Terms of trade (1995=100)                                  98       98
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                          1981    1991     2000     2001     Current account balance to GDP (%)
Exports of goods and services            708     400     1,892    1,649     0
Imports of goods and services          1,907    1.480    1,921    2,023                               l
Resource balance                       -1,199  -1,080      -29     -374
Net income                              -254    -819    -1,887   -1,363   -10
Net current transfers                    328     361      319      461
Current account balance                        -1,538   -1,598   -1,276
Financing items (net)                           1,560    1,688    1,367     0
Changes In net reserves                  270     -23       -90      -91    25
Memo:
Reserves Including gold (USS millions)    19      18       116     176
Conversion rate (DEC, locellUSS)      6 30E-2     2 7    257 1    258 7
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1981    1991     2000     2001
(US$ millions)                                                             Composition of 2001 dobt (USf mill.)
Totaldebtoutstandinganddisbursed        6,194  15,227   15.741   15,348
IBRD                                    48      15         1       0
IDA                                    254    1,105    1,167    1,138                       B 1,138
Total debt service                       303      22       61       56               zf\O 702
lBRD                                     7       6         3       2       G 5,811/
IDA                                      7      14         5       5 .
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                        253     549
Official creditors                     393     116        -4      -2
Private creditors                      180       0         0       0                                 E 5,304
Foreign direct Investment                0       0       392
Portfolio equity                         0       0         0       0              F 1,782
Wodid 8ank program
Commitments                              0      16         0       0      A- IBF0                E - Eiaaral
Disbursements                           76     100         0       0     8 - IDA  D - Oeter miulateral F - Privats
Principal repayments                     9      11         5       4     C - IMF                  G - Short-term
Netflows                                67      89        -5      -4
Interest payments                        5       9         2       3
Net transfers                           62      80        -8      -7
Development Economics                                                                                    9/23/02
- 140 -



Tanzania at a glance                                                         9/19J02
Sub-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                    Saharan     Low-
Tanzania    Africa  income      Development diamond'
2001
Population. mid-year (millions)                  34 5      674    2,511               Lffe expectancy
GNI per capita (Atlas method, US$)               270       470      430
GNI (Atas method, US$ billions)                   94       317    1,069
Average annual growth, 1995-01
Populaton ()                                      25       25       19
Laborforce (%)                                    25       26       2.3     GNI                           Gross
per                 .        pnmary
Most recent estimate (iatestyear avaliable, 1995.01)                        capit             '        enrollment
Poverty (36 of populaion below nabonal poverty line)  35
Urban popuaton ( of total population)             29        32       31
Life expectancy at bolth (years)                  44        47       59
Intant mortayit (per 1,000 live births)           93        91       76
Child malnutribon (fX of childten under 5)        29                             Access to Improved water source
Access to an Improved water source (36 of populabon)  54    55       76
Illiteracy(3% ofpopulation age 15+)               24        37       37
Gross pnmary enrollment (X ofschool-age population)  65     78       96          -TanzanIa
Male                                            65        85      103          --    Low-Income group
Female                                          65        72       88
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1981    1991      2000     2001
Economic ratios'
GDP (USS billions)                        5.5     5 0      9 1      9 3
Gross domestc investment/GDP                     26 3     17 6     15 8                   Trade
Exports of goods and services/GDP        14 0    103      14.6     15 9
Gross domestc savings/GDP                13 5     3 0      9 2      7 0
Gross natonal savingslGDP                22 7     3 9      8 5      6 7
Cufrent accountbalance/GDP                00    -165      -91       -92
Interest paymentslGOP                     0 9     11       0.5      11      Domesi                    Investment
Total deb/GOP                             0 0   132 3     81 9     662      savigs
Total debt service/exports               31 2    38 7     14 2     211
Present value of debtlGDP                                 28 9     43.2
Presentvalue of debt/exports                             1891     1370
Indebtedness
1981-91 199141     2000      2001  200145
(average annual growth)
GOP                                       3 4     5.2      5 6      5.8                 Tanzania
GDP per capita                            0 6     3 0      2 9      3 6                 Low-income group
Exports of goods and servces              9 6    18.4     17 8      2 7
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1981    1991      2000     2001     Growth of Investment and GDP (%)
(36 of GDP)                                                                 2
Agricuiture                              45 4    48 1     45.0     44 8
Industry                                 162     169      157      158      1_
Manufactunng                           10 6     9 0       7 5      74       5
ServIces                                 38 3    35 0     39.2     39 4                           ;9 /   9   a 5  050  0
Pnvate consumpton                        73 8    78 1     84 3     83.4    -20
Generalgovemmentconsumptlon              127     189       6.5       96                   GDI       c     GDP
Imports of goods and services            24 4    33 6     23 1     24 8                           -C   O
(1981-91  199141    2000     2001      Growth of exports and Imports (%)
(average annual growth)
Agncuiture                                        3 4       3 4      5 4    60
Industry                                          41       7 3      6 5     40
Manufacturing                                    3 4      4 8      5 0    s0
Services                                          3 2      6 0      5 5
Pnvate consumption                                2 4      -0 9     31     -20                    go   00   01
General goverrment consumption                    3 6      5.0      6 6    -40
Gross domestc investment                         -0 9      7 5      5 8            -E*orts         -   I-iports
Imports of goods and services                     1 3      0 1      8 1
Note 2001 data are preliminary estimates
'The diamonds show fourkey indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average If data are missing the diamond will
be incomplete
- 141 -



Tanzania
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1981    1991     2000     2001     InfloUon(%)
Domesfk prices                                                             40
(% change)                                                                 4T
Consumer pnces                          25 6    28 7       5 9     5 2     30
Implicit GDP deflator                           28 1       7 4     6 7     20
Government finance                                                         IS
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                        0
Currentrevenue                           192     123      106     114             96   97    sa   99   0o    01
Current budget balance                   -3 3    -0 2     -0 5     -0 7          -    GDP deflator  -*-CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                 -13 7    -1 7     -5 4     -4 2
TRADE
1981    1991     2000     2001     Export and Import levela (US5 mill.)
(US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                      562     394      663      772     2,000
Coffee                                  165     77        84       57
Cotton                                   78     63        38       33    1.500
Manufactures                            60      70        34      56
Total imports (cd)                     1,111    1,276    1,592    1,726    1.000                        i
Food                                    104      32      176      169      50D
Fuel and energy                        261      189       95      106                           -_
Capital goods                           563     579      638      755       0
Exportpncelndex(1995=100)                103      75      130      136          ss   96   07  98  s9   oo   o
Importpnceindex(1995=100)                 93      98       90      100               OEwots       0impoirt
Termsoftrade(1995=100)                   112      77      143      136
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                          1981    1991     2000     2001     Current account balance toGDP(%)
Exports of goods and services            572     529     1,330    1,487     o     ,'
Importsof goods and services            1,192   1.569    2,094   2,316          -
Resource balance                        -619   -1.040     -765     -829     5         t     i
Net income                                 0    -185      -83      -44   ,          -1'       -
Netcunrenttransfers                      510     408       18       1         -
Currentaccountbalance                   -110    -818     -830     -858
Financing items (net)                     94     825     1,179    1,058    02
Changes in net reserves                   16      -8      -348     -201   .25
Memo.
Reserves including gold (USS millions)           209      974     1,157
Conversion rate (DEC, locallUSS)          8 2   219 2    800 4    876 3
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1981    1991     2000     2001
(USS millions)                                                             Compoaltion of 2001 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed    5,822   6,558    7,440    6,185
IBRD                                   210     208        11       8                G 475 A 8
IDA                                    319    1,434    2,593    2,588
Total debt semce                         179     207       198     331           F 395
lBRD                                    23      56         5       4
IDA                                      3      17        52      57                 _                 2,588
Composibon of net resource flows
Official grants                                 67       685     709
Officialcreditors                      524     170       111     125
Prvate creditors                        59      .9                          E 2,373
Foreign direct investment                        ,       193     203
Portfolio equity                                                                           D S C 341
World Bank program
Commitments                             91     334       329     360      A - IBRD                E - Bilateral
Disbursements                           98     181       131      75     |B-IDA   D-Otherniultiateral F-Pnvats
Pnncipal repayments                      8      43        37      40      C - IMF                 G - Short-term
Net flows                               89     137        94      35
Interest payments                       17      29        20      21
Nettransfers                            72     108        74      14
Development Economics                                                                                    9/19/02
- 142 -



Uganda at a glance                                                         9123/02
Sub-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                     Saharan     Low-
Uganda     Africa  Income     Development dlamond'
2001
Population, mid-year (millions)                  22 8      674    2,511               Lrfe expectancy
GNI per capita (Atlas method, US$)               260       470      430
GNI (A as method, USS billions)                   60       317    1,069
Average annual growth, 1995-01
Population (%)                                    2 9      2 5       1 9
Labor force (%)                                   2 7      2 6       2 3    GNI         ,                 Gross
per                          pnmary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1995-01)                       capita       '    .        enroiment
Poverty (% of populabon below national poverty line)  35
Urban populabon (% oftotal population)             13       32       31
Lde expectancy at birth (years)                   42        47       59
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)          88        91       76
Child malnutnbon (% of children under 5)          38                             Access to improved water source
Access to an improved water source (% of populabon)  52     55       76
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)              38        37       37
Gross pnmary enrollment (% ofschool-age population)  128    78       96          -   Uganda
Male                                            132       85      103            -   Low-income group
Female                                         124        72       88
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1981    1991      2000     2001
EconomIc ratios'
GDP (US$ billions)                                3 3      5 9       5 7
Gross domestc invastmentlGDP                     15 2      19 9     20 4
Exports of goods and serviceslGDP                 7 5     11 1      111                   Trade
Gross domesbc savings/GDP                         0 7      6 7       5 9
Gross nationalsavingslGDP                         14       11 7     127
Current account belance/GDP                     -13 5     -12 3    -14 5    D             'e                 n
Interest paymentslGDP                             1 6      0 8      04      Domestc   I               Investment
Total debtlGDP                                   78 0     61 3      55 0    savings
Total debt servicelexports                       94 3      10 4     10 5
Present value of debttGDP                        39 0      16 8     20 4
Present value of debt/exports                   641 1    1421      1714
Indebtedness
1981-91 1991-01    2000      2001  2001-05
(average annual growth)
GDP                              4 5      71      5 0       5 6      6 5                Uganda
GDP per capita                    1 6     3 9     2 2       2 9      4 0                 Low-income group
Exports of goods and services     16     17 3     41       9 0       7 5
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1981    1991      2000     2001     Growth of lnvestnent and GDP(%i
(% of GDP)                                                                  r,
Agnculture                                       52 8      37 7     36 6
Industry                                         12 4     20 4      210     40
Manufactunng                                     5 8      9 8      9 9     20
Services                                         34 8     419       42 3     o
Pnvateconsumpbon                                 90 5      810      817     -20    go   97   go   99   00   Ot
General govemment consumption                     88       120      125                   GDI       GDP
Imports of goods and services                    21 9     24 0      257             -
u1981-91 199141     2000      2001     Growth of exports and Imports (%)
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                               3 5     3 9       5 6      4 6     s0
Industry                                  7 0    12 0       31       6 5    40
Manufactunng                            5 5     13 6      3 5      8 8
Services                                  4 5     7 8       6 5      7 2    20
Pnvate consumpton                         4 2     6 5       3 9      4 5                          97        51
General govemment consumpbon              2 2     6 0       5 0     12 3    -20
Gross domestc investment                  9 7     9 3      -2 1      4 4          -       EN orts  I n   s
Imports ot goods and services             4 5    10 9      -6 6      1 1
Note 2001 data are preliminary estimates
The diamonds show four key indicators in te country (In bold) compared with its income-group average If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete
- 143 -



Uganda
PRiCES and GOVERNMENT FINACE
1981    1991      2000    2001     Inflation (%)
Domestdc prices                                                             10
(% change)
Consumer pnces                                   24 5       6 3     4 6
Implict GDP deflator                             26 0       4 4     6.3
Government finance
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                ss   97    98   99    oo   oi
Current revenue                                   75       114      10.9    -5
Current budget balance                            0 0       0 4     -0 6          -    GDP deflator  -O-CP1
Overall surplus/defIckt                           -7.6    -12.9    -9 3
TRADE
1981    1991      2000    2001      Export and Import levels (US$ mill.)
(US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                               175      454      442     2,000
Coffee                                          127       187      110
Cotton                                            8        23       14     1. 00
Manufactures
Total imports (cif)                               545     1513     1501     1
Food
Fuel and energy                                  83       143      170
Capital goods
Os  95   97   8   955  c 00  1
Export price index (1995=100)                      56       58       51
importpnceindex(1995=100)                          87      104      102               Eipors       rDniports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                          64       56       50
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1981    1991      2000     2001     Current account balance to GOP (%)
(US$ mlli/ons)
Exports of goods and services                     199      651      630      o      I          -_
Importsofgoodsandservices                         671     1,410    1,454
Resource balance                                 -472      -759    -825     -5
Net Income                                        -58      -60      -119
Net curfent transfers                              81       95      124     10    
Current account balance                          -449      -724     -819     is
Financing items (net)                             412      710      860
Changes in net reserves                            37       15       41     20
Memo:
Reserves including gold (USS mililons)             50      719      739
Conversion rate (DEC, locallUS$)                550 9   1.511 4  1.762 9
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1981    1991      2000     2001
(USS millions)                                                              Composttlon of 2001 debt (US$ mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed            2.592     3,602    3,107
IBRD                                      0      18        0        0                      F 29
IDA                                     119     957     2,098    2,101                E 179
Totaldebtservice                                  191       68       71           D 504
IBRD                                      0       8         0       0
IDA                                       0       9       31       37 5
Composition of net resource flows           03
Officit grants                            .     262      312      405        C 294
Official creditors                              203       151     151
Pnvate creditors                          0     -18         2       11             '7IB 2,101
Foreigndirectinvestment                           1       194     169
Portfolio equity                                  0         0       0
Worid Bank program
CommitRments                             17     277       107     575      A- IBfD                  E- Bilteraal
Disbursements                             0     169      139      151      B-IDA   D-O5Oermutr latra  F-fPivle |
Principalrepayments                       0       7        16      22      C-IMF                    G-Short-term
Net flows                                 0     162       123     129
Interest payments                         0       9        15      15
Net transfers                             0     152       108     114
Development Economics                                                                                      9123/02
-144 -



Additional Annex 11: Strategic Action Program
NILE BASIN INITIATIVE: Nile Transboundary Environmental Action Project
A "Transboundary Environmental Analysis (TEA)" has been prepared by the Nile Basin
countries in preparation for the GEF Transboundary Environmental Action Project. The TEA has
been endorsed by the Nile Council of Minister of Water Affairs of the Nile Basin States
(Nile-COM) and forms the basis for the present project. The TEA includes an "Agenda for
Environmental Action," which will serve to inform the other SVP projects, as well as form the
initial transboundary environmental context for the subsequent Subsidiary Action Programs
(SAPs). Copies of the TEA are available on request from Astrid Hillers
(ahillers(worldbank.org) and John Bryant Collier (jcollier(worldbank.org).
- 145 -



Additional Annex 12: Public Involvement Plan Summary
NILE BASIN INITIATIVE: Nile Transboundary Environmental Action Project
The preparation of this project, as well as the other projects within the SVP project portfolio, was
directed by the institutions of the NBI and involved the active participation of technical experts from
across the Basin. This complex, multi-country, multi-sectoral process, which is described below,
demonstrates riparian ownership and commitment to successful project implementation.
1. Evolution of the Shared Vision Program: B3road basin-wide consu1tation throughout
project formulation
The SVP evolved from four thematic areas, or pillars, as described in the NBI Policy Guidelines for a
coordinated program of seven basin-wide projects, between February 1999 and December 2000. The
process, as summarized in the table below, was executed and coordinated by the Nile-SEC, involved
active participation of and guidance from the Nile-TAC, and received formal endorsement by the
Nile-COM at critical milestones (the various organizational components of the NBI are explained in
Annex 14).
Date      Meeting/        Location              Key Outcomes
Activity
July 1998  Nile-TAC        Dar es Salaam,        Drafting of Policy Guidelines that define the SVP and 4 major
Tanzania             thematic areas of the program.
Feb 1999   Nile-COM and    Dar es Salaam, Tanzania Adoption of the NBI Policy Guidelines, and instruction by
Nile-TAC                             Nile-COM to prepare a portfolio of pnonty SVP projects for ICCON.
May 1999    SVP Planning   Sodere, Ethiopia      Prelimunary list of pnority projects, including project goals and
Meeting                              objectives, based on consultation and brainstorming by Nile-TAC
members and 2 additional sectoral experts from each country.
May 1999   Nile-COM and    Addis Ababa, Ethiopia  Approval of list of prionty projects and project preparation process.
Nile-TAC                             Nile-COM endorses GEF PDF-B project for submission to GEF
Secretariat
Sept 1999  Nile-TAC        Entebbe, Uganda       Based on output from Sodere Planning Meeting, development of
Project Concept Notes for 7 pnonty projects and approval of a
detailed project preparation process and schedule for each project
Nov 1999   PDF B Review    Washington DC         GEF SEC approved PDF B funding.
meeting
Dec 1999    Project        Entebbe, Uganda       Review and further development of Draft Project Concept
Preparation I                        Notes/Documents by Working Groups (WG). For each project, the
WGs included a Nile-TAC member and National Expert(s) from
each country. A total of 8 National Experts were involved from
each country. Each project was assisted by a Lead Consultant.
Dec 1999 - National        (Basin-wide) Nile     Lead Consultants together with National Experts prepare Draft
Nov 2000    Analysis and   Basin countres        Project Documents. Depending on the project and country,
Consultations                        National Experts provided inputs through preparation of National
Reports, country consultations and/or country visits by Lead
Consultants.
Jan 2000   Nile-TAC        Entebbe, Uganda       Review of progress in project preparation and further refinement of
Project Concepts, as warranted
Jan - Apr  National        In all Basin countnes  GEF PDF-B funds facilitated the holding of national consultation
2000        Consultations                        workshops in each of the Nile ripanan countries This allowed for
further stakeholder involvement and consultation.
Mar 2000   Environment     Entebbe, Uganda       Review of draft National Reports. Agreements of common
Experts                              transboundary pnorities.
Mar 2000   Nile-TAC        Delft, The Netherlands  Review of progress in project preparation and further refinement of
project concepts/design, as warranted.
luly 2000  Project         Addis Ababa, Ethiopia  Review and further development of detailed Draft Project
- 146 -



| Preparation 2                 Documents by WGs
Aug 2000  Nile-COM and  Khartoum, Sudan  Approval of SVP Project Portfolio and updated Project Summanes
Nile-TAC
Oct 2000  Nile-TAC    Via electronic mail  Review of Final Project Documents.
Feb 2001  Nile-COM and  Khartoum, Sudan  Final approval of SVP Project Portfolio and Project Documents
Nile-TAC
June 2001  First ICCON  Geneva, Switzerland  Forum to solidify the partnership between the ripanan states.
Meeting to raise donor support for the NBI and its portfolio of
cooperative projects.
Nov 7-Dec Pre-Appraisal  All NBI Countries  Preparation of the Transboundaiy Environmental Action Project
7 2001   Mission                         Implementation Plan
The Transboundary Environmental Analysis
Participatory. The TEA was prepared through a participatory and transparent process to ensure
maximum consultation and involvement, which in turn can translate into maximum relevance, ownership
and comrnitment.
Political commitment. The decision to carry out a process of environmental analysis was taken by the
Nile-COM based on the recommendations by the Nile-TAC at meetings held in Addis Ababa in May
1999, which prepared the strategic guidance for the overall SVP.
National Experts. During October - November 1999, the national ministries of water affairs consulted
with their national environment authorities for the nomination of a National Environment Expert from
each of the nine countries who would serve as National Expert and Drafting Group member.
Initiation of Transboundary Analysis. The TEA process was formally launched with a one-week
workshop in December 1999 at the Nile-SEC in Entebbe, Uganda. During this workshop, participants
from each of the Nile countries studied GEF guidelines and operations, and started initial identification
of common Nile-related transboundary environmental priorities. The National Experts participated in this
workshop, together with UNDP and World Bank staff. Members of the Nile-TAC participated in several
of the workshop sessions. One of the key workshop outputs was a preliminary characterization of the
major basin-wide environmental threats by the National Experts. The workshop participants also agreed
on a basic approach and methodology for the process ahead; decided to hold broad national consultations
in each of the nine countries to ensure that the report would emerge reflecting national concerns and
priorities, and agreed on the format for the National Report which each National Expert would produce;
and, finally, committed to a challenging work plan for the following six months. For the riparian
countries, this workshop began the critical process of working together on shared environmental concerns
at an operational level, complementing the commitment to political cooperation that had already been
established through the NBI.
National Consultations. The national consultation process varied between countries, reflecting national
traditions and preferences as well as the nature of individual Nile Basin issues within each country. In
each case the National Experts started by identifying the major stakeholder groups. The national
ministries or departments responsible for water resources and for environment were usually facilitators of
the consultation as well as being important stakeholders themselves. Other key stakeholders included
national government agencies responsible for natural resources and for planning, local government
agencies, national and local NGOs, universities and other research institutions, participants in related
projects and programs, and selected individual experts (see table below for a list of stakeholders involved
- 147 -



in the national consultations).
Broad Participation. At least one stakeholder workshop was held in each riparian country. All of the
workshops were led by the national Nile-TAC representative and many had ministerial-level
participation. The workshops served the dual purpose of explaining the relatively complex context for
and background to the consultations, including making sure that the NBI itself was well understood, as
well as soliciting inputs and suggestions on environmental priorities. In some cases workshop
participants were able to respond to early drafts of the National Reports. In all cases the workshop
participants were encouraged to contact the National Experts directly to request information about
progress or to provide further inputs. In countries where the national capital is outside the Nile Basin, the
National Experts traveled to the Nile Basin region of their countries for consultations. In some cases
additional workshops or briefings were conducted for NGO groups.
Coordination with Environmental Planning Initiatives. All of the riparian countries had previously
undertaken comparable national environmental planning processes aimed at diagnosing and prioritizing
environmental problems. These include national environmental action plans, national conservation
strategies, national desertification action plans, national biodiversity strategies and action plans, tropical
forestry action plans, etc. Many of these processes had themselves been based on broad consultations.
The findings from these planning frameworks were reflected in the National Reports.
National Reports. The National Experts prepared their National Reports to reflect the results of the
consultations as well as prior analytical work done in their respective countries. These reports in draft
form were made available to and reviewed by the stakeholders who had participated in the consultations.
By March 2000, the National Reports were received from each of the nine countries and a second
workshop for the National Experts was therefore held in Entebbe. The purpose of this workshop was to
review the environmental analysis in each of the reports and begin to identify conmmon themes and
priorities, around which joint and common environmental management action could be taken.
Consolidation of Findings. Following the March 2000 workshop, a draft Consolidated Report was
produced and shared with the Nile-TAC members and the National Experts. This was followed by a final
workshop held in Addis Ababa in July 2000, during which the Consolidated Report and the project action
components were carefully reviewed and revised to fully reflect the national and basin-wide priorities.
Throughout the process, policy guidance was provided by the national Nile-TAC members and close
interaction took place between the Nile-TAC members and the National Experts. Moreover, the
Nile-SEC provided administrative and logistical support and facilitated links to related NBI activities
while UNDP and World Bank staff provided technical guidance. Coordination between the countries was
provided by an international Lead Consultant who also prepared the Consolidated Report based on the
national findings and recommendations. The core funding for these activities was provided by the GEF.
Additional funding was provided by UNDP and the World Bank.
A parallel set of activities supported by USAID involved a scoping study preparing a multi-country
technical background paper based on readily accessible and public domain information. This activity was
carried out by a US-based consulting team that consulted with stakeholders in Burundi, D.R. Congo,
Egypt, Ethiopia, Kenya, Rwanda, Tanzania and Uganda. The National Experts worked closely with the
consulting teams during their country visits. The National Experts reflected some of the results of this
scoping study in the consolidated TEA report.
The impressive collaboration between the riparian countries' Experts laid a promising foundation for the
- 148 -



detailed design and implementation of the transboundary project activities proposed as a result of the
TEA.
Pre-appraisal Mission
A joint World Bank-UNDP-CIDA pre-appraisal mission visited all nine Nile countries during the period
November 7 - December 7 2001. The mission held information and dialogue meetings with the NGO and
academic community in each of the countries visited. An important part of the discussion with the NGO
community was the Microgrant Program and the Environmental Education and Awareness Component.
2. The Public Involvement Plan
Introduction. The strategic approach behind this project is to ensure as large and as broad an
involvement of community groups as feasible. This will be achieved through Components 2 (Land,
Forest and Water Conservation - the Microgrant Program) and Component 3 (Environmental Education
and Awareness). The overall outcome of project will be a broader civil society engagement in the NBI in
general and, specifically, increased transboundary environmental awareness and enhanced environmental
transboundary management The project increases cooperation and dialogue between the
nongovernmental and governmental sectors.
Community-Level Land, Forest and Water Conservation
The Microgrants under this component are specifically targeted at community based organizations. Each
grant will be no larger than $25,000 and will be given in accordance with agreed eligibility criteria which
will be established basin-wide. This criteria will clearly include the need for community participation, as
every Microgrant should be closely linked to a community's interest and participation. Special attention
will be paid to the needs of women and/or indigenous peoples. The main emphasis is on ensuring that
NGOs, academia and community groups in the Basin are encouraged to undertake actions that will lead
to improved environmental management and regional cooperation on environmental matters.
During the initial phase of the project, National Coordinators will be brought together to develop a
regional strategy for the Land, Forest and Water Conservation Component. This will provide an
opportunity to develop common approaches and understanding of the Microgrant Program. National
Steering Committees will be established in each country with representation from the nongovernmental
and governmental sectors and these commnittees will be responsible for the process of grant making based
on proposals received.
National NGO networks will be strengthened and NGO-government collaboration improved. These
grassroots activities will be profiled for the public through dissemination to the public on a regular basis.
The information on these Microgrants will be disseminated in a wide variety of ways:
* NGOs and their networks (i.e. National NGO networks)
* NGO extension workers involved in agriculture, forestry, relief, water-resources, environment, etc.
* Radio extension programs
* Television programs
* Print materials: posters, pamphlets, etc.
Environmental Education and Awareness
Environmental education will make an important contribution to deepening public awareness and
- 149 -



understanding of the community of interest and the ecospace which the Nile creates. It will also help
inform a generation that has broader Nile-related transboundary environmental understanding and to
create a constituency for environmental conservation. The project will support three sets of
transboundary activities: (a) environmental awareness campaigns, (b) an electronic network of selected
schools for transboundary environmental education, and (c) exchanges of university-level environmental
education researchers and students.
The development and delivery of a small number of transboundary environmental awareness campaigns
will be carried out by basin-wide teams of practitioners drawn from the participating countries. It will
include regional training for environmental education and awareness practitioners on the development
and delivery of programs and materials, regional briefings for media editors and journalists on
transboundary environmental issues, and exchanges of environmental journalists and other media
professionals between the Nile riparian countries. These programs will be launched through a variety of
delivery mechanisms, e.g., nature clubs, schools, youth movements, the scout movement, universities,
churches, mosques, etc. A variety of media will be used, including TV, radio, newspapers and web pages.
An electronic network of selected schools will be established for transboundary enviromnental education,
and support will be provided for exchanges of school staff and experiences between the Nile riparian
countries as well as community projects where students can apply knowledge acquired in the classroom
while developing values and skills for improving environmental conditions. An award scheme or
competition will be set up for outstanding Nile Transboundary Environmental Education projects in
schools and their communities. Informal reviews have indicated that schools with the requisite capacities
would be ready to participate in Egypt, Ethiopia, Kenya, Rwanda, Tanzania and Uganda. These schools
can form the basis of a Nile Schools Environmental Education and Awareness Network. Further work
will be required to assess the potential for schools in the other Nile countries to participate.
Exchanges of university-level environmental education professors, other researchers and students
between the Nile riparian countries will be supported. Emphasis will be put on supporting the
participation of individuals from Nile Basin countries which have had limited recent opportunities to
participate in such international programs. Participating individuals and their departmental hosts in other
Nile Basin countries will need to demonstrate the value of their proposed exchange program to building
transboundary environmental awareness and understanding in the Nile Basin. The project will also
support two regional workshops as a contribution towards the development of a university-level course
on one or more Nile transboundary environmental issues as a collaborative enterprise between
participating universities from the riparian countries.
- 150 -



NGOs and Community Groups
During the project fonnulation process, meetings, exchanges and consultations with community groups,
NGOs, and academic institutions were undertaken in all nine countries. The list below reflects the groups
with whom visiting missions have met or who have participated in national consultations. The project
will reach out to these institutions and seek their participation. The project will also seek the involvement
and cooperation of many additional community based organizations, academic institutions and NGOs
with whom contacts have not yet been made..
COUNTRY     STAKEHOLDER
BURUNDI     Institut G6ographique du Burundi (IGEBU)
Institut National Pour l'Environnement et la Conservation de la Nature (INECN)
D.R. CONGO Action Progressive pour la gestion de l'Environnement
AREC
Asmedi (eco-development NGO)
Association de Developpement Culturel
Association de la Paix, de la protection de l'environnement
Bureau d'Etudes de l'Association pour le Developpement de Beni et Lubero (ADEBEL)
CAIDECO
Centre National d'information Environnementale (CNIE)
Construction et D6veloppement Communautaire (CDC)
Eau Source de Vie
Femmes et Environnement
Foyer de la Culture
IDEE DR Congo Forests
Institut Geographique de Congo
Institut Superieur des Techniques Appliques (ISTA)
Notabilite de la Province du Nord - Kivu
Programme Source d'eau
SPCIE/ECN
EGYPT       Ain Shams University, Engineering Department
Ain Shams University, Environmental Institute
Arab Youth and Environment Office
Bassaisa
Cairo University, Engineering Department
Climate Change and Environmental Research Institute
Egypt Youth for Development and Environment
Egyptian Environment FederatNon
GEF Small Grants Programme
Kenoz Sinai 
Land and Water Resources Management Programme
ETHIOPIA    CARE - Ethiopia
Christian Relief and Development Agency (CRDA)-
ENDA-Ethiopia\
Ethiopia Environmental NGO (EENGO)
Ethiopian Aid
Ethiopian Wildlife and Natural History Society (EWNHS)
Ethiopian Wildlife Conservation Organization
HNDEE (Oromo Grass-roots Development Initiative)
Institute for Biodiversity Conservation and Research (18CR)
Inter Africa Group
- 151 -



OXFAM-Great Britain
University of Addis Ababa
KENYA       Africa Water Network
Care Kenya
Department of Civil Engineering - University of Nairobi
East African Cross-Border Biodiversity Project
International Network for Water and Sanitation (NETWAS)
IUCN - East African Regional Office
Kenya Association of Manufacturers
Kenya Wildlife Society (KWS)
Kipsaina Youth Conservation Group
Maseno University College
Moi University
National Museums of Kenya
Osienala Kisumu
World Wild Fund for Nature (WWF)
RWANDA      ARAMET
Association Rwandaise des Ecologistes (ARECO)
Catholic Relief Services
Intemational Rescue Committee (IRC)
Lutheran World Federation
Morris Animal Foundation Mountain
Programme International de Conservation des Gorilles
REIE/PGZ
SUDAN       Environment Forum
Environmental Information
Environmentalist Society
Farmers Union
Geologist Trade Union
Habitat Voluntary Organisation
Institute of Disaster Management
Institute of Environment and Natural Resource Research
uba University, College of Environment and Natural Resource Studies
Omdurman Ahlia University
Save the Children - Great Britain
Sudan University for Science and Technology (SUST)
Sudanese Council of Voluntary Agencies (SCOVA)
Sudanese Environmental Conservation Society
Sudanese Social Forestry Society
Union of Engineers
University of Khartoum, College of Agriculture
University of Khartoum, Faculty of Science
University of Khartoum, Institute of Environmental Studies
TANZANIA    Agenda for Environment and Responsible Development
ENV-TEC (NGO)
Green Shinyanga Group
Joumalist Environmental Association (JET)
Tanzania Association of Nongovernmental Organizations (TANGO)
Tanzania Institute for Education
Tanzania Traditional Energy and Environment Organization (TATEDO)
University of Dar es Salaam - Institute for Development
Wildlife Conservation Society (WCS)
- 152 -



World Wildlife Fund (WWF)
UGANDA       Action for Rural Development
Auxfound Environmental Awareness
Clean Lakes Kampala
Climate and Development Initiatives
Environment Policy Resource Center
Friends of Wetlands
Greenwatch
IUCN, Uganda
Jinja Urban Women Wetland Organization (JUWWO)
Living Earth
Lugazi Peoples Enterprise Development
Makerere University, Faculty of Environmental Education
Makerere University, Institute of Environment and Natural Resources
National Association of Professional Environmentalist
Panos, Kampala
Uganda Environmental Protection Forum
Uganda National NGO Forum
Uganda Neem Movement
Uganda Wetlands and Resource Conservation Association
Uganda Wildlife Society
_Uganda Women Tree Planting Movement
- 153-



Additional Annex 13: Institutional Arrangements for Project Implementation
NILE BASIN INITIATIVE: Nile Transboundary Environmental Action Project
A Decentralized Approach
In March 2001, at the Extraordinary Meeting of the Nile Council of Ministers, options for the
implementation arrangements of the SVP projects were further reviewed. The Nile COM
decided, as a basic principle, that the Project Management Units (PMUs) for each of the seven
SVP projects will be located in several Nile countries in accordance with a "decentralized
approach" to enhance ownership and commitment to the program in the region. In making its
decision on PMU location, the Nile Council of Ministers took into account issues such as country
commitment, project synergies, special expertise, and donor relations. The Nile Council of
Ministers decided that to be eligible to host a PMU, a country must at minimum: (i) be up to date
in its NBI Secretariat annual dues; and (ii) have committed to funding a National NBI Office that
will serve a coordination function among the various regional and national NBI activities.
Moreover, a country interested in hosting a PMU was requested by the Nile Council of Ministers
to demonstrate commitment to the project by providing office space and
administrative-secretarial support, water and power services, operation and maintenance of the
project's premises, and other support.
Following consultations between Nile Council of Ministers members, PMU locations have been
agreed as follows:
Shared Vision Program Projects and Project Management Unit Locations
Confidence Building & Stakeholder Involvement (Communications)  Uganda (Nile Sec)
Socio-Economic Development and Benefit Sharing              Uganda (Nile Sec)
Nile Basin Regional Power Trade                              Tanzania
Efficient Water Use for Agricultural Production             Kenya
Nile Transboundary Environmental Action Project              Sudan
Water Resources Planning and Management                      Ethiopia
Applied Training                                             Egypt
- 154-



Chart 1. Organizational chart illustrating the Shared Vision Program
NBI SHARED VISION PROGRAM
Implementation Approach from the Programmatic Perspective
Policy level   P                     Nile-COM    C
Nile-TACJ
lSNile-SEl a
PMU-                          |   BSVP Coordinatlionf
Regional level
Environment   Power      Agricultural [ aeri     Confidence   Applied     Benefit
Trade      Water Use   Resources I  Building  _  Training   Sharing
|          | ~~~~Special basinwide Working|
l          l   ~~~~~Groups, ad hoc l
NBI National Office
(one per country)
National level
|Evironmen ||  Power  ||Agricultural  | |  Wa-ter  ||  Confldence  | |  Applied  || Benefit l
l      l l  ~~~~Trade   WaterUs   Resources ||Building  ||Training  ||Sharing   l
Management at the Regional Level
The PMU for the Nile Transboundary Environmental Action Project will be located in
Khartoum. Key technical and administrative staff for the PMU will be hired under the UNDP
financed portion of the project, which, on behalf of the NBI, will be executed by UNOPS . The
PMU will operate at the basinwide level and, in support of the NBI, will be responsible for
managing and implementing the project in all participating countries. In order to facilitate
smooth operations, maintain and enhance dialogue between the Nile riparians, and further the
SVP's developmental objectives, the NBI is entering into a partnership with the United Nations
Office for Project Services (UNOPS). NBI will request UNOPS to oversee the daily management
of the PMU in order to facilitate local contracting, fund management, local procurement,
disbursement, program administration, and project-level monitoring.
The Project Manager, the regional Thematic Lead Specialists for the project and other staff,
including monitoring and evaluation, procurement and finance specialists, and a knowledge
management specialist, will be located at the PMU.
The PMU will report to the project Steering Committee, which will provide it with strategic
guidance. The Steering Committee will review and approve annual work plans and will receive
and review annual substantive and financial reports on project activities. The Steering Committee
will be composed of an environment sector focal point from each participating country (Heads of
environment agencies or departments or Permanent Secretaries of the environment ministries); an
NBI Technical Advisory Committee member from the PMU country to ensure coordination with
- 155-



the broader NBI and other SVP projects; and the NBI Secretariat. National Project Coordinators,
or the equivalent, may attend Steering Committee meetings as appropriate to the project. CIDA
(as well as any additional donor partners), the World Bank, UNOPS, and other appropriate
parties will be invited as observers to the meetings. The Steering Committee is expected to meet
at least annually in Khartoum and will be alternately chaired by the host country member of the
Steering Committee and the Nile-SEC representative. The member from Sudan will chair the
first meeting of the Committee. The PMU will provide secretariat support to the Committee.
To facilitate needs as determined by the PMU, special ad hoc basinwide Working Giroups can
be convened by the PMU. These Working Groups are intended to be temporary, existing only for
the duration necessary to address the identified need. For example, a Working Group may be set
up to identify transboundary migratory species.
Specific issues for the River B3asin Model component (component 1.3). The present project is
supporting the development of the River Basin Model within the DSS component of the SVP
Water Resources Planning and Development Project. To ensure integration of the model within
overall DSS development, GEF resources that are allocated to the River Basin Model will be
administered by UNOPS through the PMU for the Water Resources Project (located in Addis
Ababa). Procurement and financial management will be coordinated between the Regional
Project Manager in Addis Ababa and the Regional Project Manager in Khartoum. The Regional
Project Manager in Khartoum will receive reports from his Addis Ababa based colleagues and
will integrate these into consolidated reports to UNOPS, GEF and others (see below). NBTF
resources that fonn part of the Water Resources Project will be directly managed by the PMU in
Addis Ababa. The DSS Lead Specialist who will be hired by the Water Resources PMU/Addis
will coordinate with and support GEF project related reporting.
- 156-



Chart 2. Organizational chart illustrating the Transboundary Environmental Action
Project
Nile-COM
Policy level              Nlle-TAC
Nile-SEC
Project Steering
Commintee
PMU-                         I -
Regional             Project Management Unit
National          National Projct MCoaor
Level                  (one per ou.dPWHtr
Fl.,... & Procur m.n
I'UU Sbtif
BsinMod; Lad pechiist Led Sp.eclalls  Lead Speaist  L pecialist
Management at the) Nati Woal  eandslPA                    Quality
I                            i
National  a       National ProJect Coordinator w
Lavel            Ft     (one per country)         w
,                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
Management at the National Level
Project management at the national level. The project will employ a National Project
Coordinator (NPC) in each of the participating countries. The NPC will be responsible for
supervising and coordinating the implementation of project activities at the country level. The
NPC will also provide a critical link between the PMU and regional activities and national-level
organizations and project activities as well as between the Environment Project and the
respective national NBI office. The NPC will be a full-time position that is project-funded and
competitively hired. The NPCs will be housed in the Ministries of Environment or lead
Environment Agency in each of the participating countries.
- 157 -



Project Execution
Ownership
Ownership of the NBI by the Nile Basin countries is central to the progress made in Nile
cooperation. It is important, therefore, that this remains unquestioned as the process moves from
project planning to project implementation. Therefore, SVP implementation arrangement are
designed to maximize ownership and decision-making of the NBI institutions, the national
ministries and counterparts, and the PMUs. The implementation arrangements, in addition, aim
not to overburden these structures with unnecessary administrative and procedural functions and
to allow them to focus unhindered on the strategic guidance and daily management of the Shared
Vision Program.
NBI - Project Executing Agency
The NBI, through its executive arm the NBI Secretariat, will be the executing agency for the
World Bank GEF and Nile Basin Trust Fund (NBTF) financed portions of the Project. The
NBTF is a multidonor trust fund established for financing NBI activities. It is initially managed
by the World Bank with the understanding that management of the NBTF will be transferred to
the NBI at an appropriate time.
The NBI therefore will manage overall fund flow and disbursements, as well as information
sharing, coordination, integration, and monitoring and evaluation. As the executing agency for
the project, the NBI will define procedures for issues such as reporting, monitoring and
evaluating. In addition, the Nile-SEC will manage an integration matrix, to be developed in
cooperation with the Socio-Economic Development and Benefit Sharing Project to ensure that
the impact and benefits from the SVP projects are maximized throughout the Nile Basin.
United Nations Office for Project Services- (UNOPS)
In order to facilitate smooth operations of each of the eight SVP projects and strengthen the
capacity of the NBI to manage donor-funded regional programs, the NBI has decided to seek the
support of a Project Services Agency (PSA). Initially, the NBI reviewed the possibility of hiring
the PSA for the SVP following a competitive process. The focus at that time was on the
provision of the technical services in financial management, procurement, and overall
management that are normally bid competitively. However, after further discussions, it became
apparent that the thrust of the assignment was not so much to provide a mechanical logistic
assistance but support and project services with a view to long-term and sustainable
development. It was realized that the thrust of the SVP lay in the pursuit of dialogue,
cooperation, and trust among the Nile riparians. The main role of the PSA, therefore, shifted to a
close cooperation with NBI to maintain and enhance these development objectives.
This in turn raised the notion of establishing a partnership between NBI and the PSA. The
decision to select the United Nations Offnce for lFroject Services (UNOIPS) was reached by the
Nile Council of Ministers after serious consultations among themselves, taking full cognizance
- 158 -



of the shift from the traditional consultant contractual relationship to that of a partner to maintain
and enhance dialogue between the Nile riparians and to further the project's developmental
objectives. The Nile Council of Ministers further recognized the fact that this approach would
open the participation of all eligible consulting firms (and not restrict due to possible conflict of
interest issues) in the various consulting opportunities under the'proposed project. The
recommendation from the Nile Council of Ministers was given a no-objection by the Bank with
the approval of the Bank's Operations Procurement Review Committee (OPRC). The Nile
Council of Ministers decision is based on a number of factors, including:
* UNOPS has the capacity and extensive experience in the implementation of large regional
projects.
* UNOPS will contract suppliers of goods and services from the private sector through
opportunities for capacity building of NBI procurement skills during the course of the project.
*   UNOPS, through the UNDP network of offices, has a presence in all 10 Nile countries, which
will greatly facilitate the implementation of this regional project.
NBI will negotiate a Management Services Agreement (MSA) with UNOPS that will detail the
scope of UNOPS support for the project. UNOPS, through the PMUs, will be responsible for
contracting, fund management, procurement, disbursement, program administration, and
project-level monitoring. UNOPS will also support NBI by strengthening its capacity to manage
and implement basin-wide projects and apply high-quality and fiduciary standards. Overall
management from UNOPS will be from UNOPS in New York, drawing upon its extended
network of offices and staff around the world.
Reporting and Supervision
Financial reports
Financial Monitoring Reports. The NBI will be responsible for submitting quarterly FMRs as
well as annual budgets, project monitoring reports, and consolidated financial statements to the
World Bank. The NBI will request UNOPS to prepare this financial documentation for NBI
review and submission to the Bank.
Audits. Because UNOPS will be acting as the NBI's agent, an annual audit of the grant will be
conducted by the UNDP Division for Audit and Management Review and/or by auditors or audit
firms contracted by it for this purpose in accordance with established practice in similar
arrangements involving U.N. agencies acting as project service providers under Bank-financed
projects.
Project supervision
The project will be supervised in accordance with World Bank supervision rules adapted to the
unique character of the NBI Shared Vision Program. The following activities will support the
supervision process:
- 159 -



Annual supervision mission-Supervision missions will be fielded to review project progress.
The supervision missions will be joint undertakings consisting of the World Bank, donors
(UNDP, CIDA, etc.), and NBI Secretariat representation.
Annual Steering Committee meetings-In conjunction with the annual supervision mission, an
annual Steering Committee meeting will be held and will be attended by the Steering Committee
members, the supervision mission members, and other invited observers. The Steering
Committee will have received and reviewed the annual progress report before the meeting.
Midterm review-In accordance with standard Bank procedure, a midterm review will be
fielded. It is expected that the midterm review will take place approximately halfway through the
implementation of the project, after the completion of the independent midterm evaluation (see
below).
Project reports
During implementation, the following reporting will be required from each SVP project:
E-mailed monthly narrative report--outlining the work accomplished in the preceding month,
the work expected to be completed during the coming month, and if appropriate, comments
and/or recommendations relating to any unforeseen conditions which may affect the progress or
the quality of the work (maximum of two pages). The responsibility for reporting is with the
project manager.
Distribution-NBI Secretariat, national project coordinators, UNDP and World Bank. For
internal use only.
Quarterly IFMR-procurement and disbursement information for the preceding quarter and
projections for the following six months will be consolidated in the quarterly FMR. The FMRs
will also include a summary of the physical progress in project implementation, with an
explanation of variances from implementation targets.
Timing-quarterly for each fiscal year of project effectiveness.
Distribution-NBI Secretariat and World Bank.
Semiannual project implementation progress reports-Twice a year the e-mailed monthly
narrative reports will be expanded to include a narrative summary of activities undertaken during
the past six months. This narrative should include:
o   The status of implementation progress, problems encountered and corrective actions needed
o   The current costs of each project component and estimated costs for completion
o   The degree of achievement of project objectives, as measured by the status of project
indicators.
o   The most recent FMR also will be attached.
- 160-



Timing-July and January of each fiscal year of project effectiveness
Distribution-NBI Secretariat, National Project Coordinators, World Bank, UNDP and
all Steering Committee members.
Annual substantive project progress report-The Project Manager will complete an annual
substantive project progress report, which will clearly describe and assess project progress
against the established work plan, project documents, and the overall objectives of the project.
Every effort will be made to simplify and unify reporting arrangements; therefore, the project
manager will review the annual reporting requirements of the World Bank, UNDP, CIDA, and
the other relevant agencies and donors and design a unified reporting format acceptable to all that
meets most of the reporting requirements of the donors and agencies in one single report.
Timing-First report to be submitted 12 months after project signature and two months
ahead of the first annual project review and steering committee meeting.
Distribution-All steering committee members, including observers.
Substantive work plan-will include an updated procurement plan and be attached to the
annual substantive project progress report.
GEF Project Implementation Review (GEF PIR). The project will alos complete the annual
GEF PIR. In order to minimize duplication of effort, it has been agreed that UNDP will submit
the GEF PIR on behalf of the two agencies. The Bank will have the opportunity to review the
PIR prior to submission. The Project Manager will liaise with the UJNDP Task manager for this
purpose.
Timing-To be submitted annually. Normally in June of every year.
Distribution-All Steering Committee Members and obervers. UNDP will ensure onward
forwarding to the GEF Secretariat.
Midterm evaluation-Resources will be set aside for each project in accordance with standard
procedure to ensure that a midterm evaluation can be carried out. The terms of reference and
timing of this evaluation will be determined through the annual review process or by
correspondence. The evaluations will normally be independent and thus carried out by
consultants not previously associated with the project.
Timing-midway through project implementation.
Distribution-all Steering Committee members including observers. This report may be
shared with other parties, upon their request in accordance with established policy.
Ad hoc Reporting and Substantive Reports- The project will produce a large number of ad
hoc substantive reports in the thematic areas in which it is operating. These reports will be
produced at either the national or regional levels for a variety of purposes.
- 161 -



Distribution-As per intention of report.
Additional distribution-All Steering Committee members.
Recruitment of Project Management Unit Staff
Competitive and transparent selection
The PMU will be staffed by personnel who have been recruited competitively. Qualified
applicants will be shortlisted by UNOPS in cooperation with the NBI Secretariat. The World
Bank will be given the opportunity to comment on the shortlist of qualified candidates before the
final selection is made. Shortlists for regionally recruited staff will not contain more than two
candidates from any one country. In the interest of transparency, interview panels will be
established. For senior staff, the interview panels will include the NBI Technical Advisory
Committee member from Sudan, the NBI Secretariat, UNOPS, donor representatives,
international and regional organizations, and, for PMU staff, the Project Manager. Selection will
be made by these interview panels.
Selection therefore will be on a strictly competitive basis with a view to ensuring broad regional
coverage in the selection process. Preference will be given to staff from the region, with
assistance from regional or international consultants as necessary.
?MU Staff Reporting Lines. Most long-term PMU staff will be hired under the UNDP financed
portion of the GEF Project that, on behalf of the NBI, will be executed by UNOPS. Once selected
by the interview panel, the staff will be appointed by UNOPS.
PMU staff will be recruited as follows:
o   The Project Manager will be recruited competitively, preferably originating from the region
(other than from the country hosting the PMU), following advertisement in national, regional
and international press, seeking balance among the countries represented for the entire SVP.
o   The Lead Specialists and Procurement Advisor/Financial Specialist will be recruited
competitively, preferably originating from the region, following advertisement in national,
regional and international press.
o   Technical support staff will be competitively recruited from the PMU host country.
lBasin-wide Coordination
NBI Roles and Responsibilities
The NBI is the executing agency for the Bank financed portion of the project. With respect to the
implementation of the present project, the respective roles and responsibilities of the NBI
committees and councils are as follows:
- 162 -



Nile-COM. Will have overall oversight of the combined project portfolio and will provide policy
advice and guidance.
Nile-TAC. Will review the project portfolio and provide technical advice and guidance to the
Nile-COM.
Project Steering Committee. Will review and approve annual work plans and will receive and
review annual substantive and financial reports on project activities.
Nile-SEC. The NBI will sign agreements with UNDP and the Bank for the implementation of the
project. For the GEF/Bank financed portion of the Project and the associated NBTF funds, the
NBI will act as executing agency, through its executing arm the Nile-SEC. The NBI in turn, will
sign a contract with UNOPS for management support of the Bank financed components of the
project.
UNOPS. On behalf of the NBI, UNDP will execute the UNDP funded (GEF resources) project
components and will be sub-contracted by the NBI for delivery of the Bank funded (GEF and
NBTF resources) project components.
- 163-



Additional Annex 14: Description of the Mlile Basin lnitiative
MILE BASIN INITIATIVE: Nile Transboundary Environmental Action Project
The Nile Basin
The River Nile. The Nile is one of the world's great rivers. For millennia, this unique waterway
has nourished varied livelihoods, an array of ecosystems, and a rich diversity of cultures. As the
world's longest river, it traverses nearly 6,700 kilometers, covering more than 35 degrees of
latitude and draining an area of over 3 million square kilometers - one tenth of Africa's total land
mass. It is a Basin of varied landscapes, with high mountains, tropical forests, woodlands, lakes,
savannas, wetlands, arid lands, and deserts, culminating in an enormous delta on the
Mediterranean Sea. It is generally agreed that the Nile has several sources. The principle streams
are the White Nile, which begins in the Great Lakes region of Central Africa; and the Blue Nile
(Abbay) and the Atbara (Tekeze), both flowing from the highlands of Ethiopia. The most distant
source is the Kagera River, which winds its way through Burundi, Rwanda, Tanzania and
Uganda into Lake Victoria.
A Transboundary Resource. The Nile River is shared by ten countries: Burundi, Democratic
Republic of Congo (DRC), Egypt, Eritrea, Ethiopia, Kenya, Rwanda, Sudan, Tanzania, and
Uganda. It serves as home to world-class environmental assets, such as Lake Victoria (the second
largest fresh water body by area in the world) and the vast wetlands of the Sudd. It also serves as
home to an estimated 160 million people within the boundaries of the Basin, while about twice
that number - roughly 300 million - live within the ten countries that share and depend on Nile
waters.
Challenges and Opportunities. Despite the extraordinary natural endowments and rich cultural
history of the Nile Basin, its people face considerable challenges. Today, the Basin is
characterized by poverty, instability, rapid population growth, and environmental degradation.
Four of the Nile riparian countries are among the world's ten poorest, with per capita incomes in
the range of USD 100-200 per year. Population is expected to double within the next 25 years,
placing additional strain on scarce water and other natural resources. Only one other river basin
(the Danube) is shared by more countries than the Nile, and the transboundary nature of the river
poses complex challenges. Yet the Nile holds significant opportunities for 'win-win'
development that could enhance food production, energy availability, transportation, industrial
development, environmental conservation, and other related development activities in the region.
Cooperative water resources management can also serve as a catalyst for greater regional
integration, both economic and political, with potential benefits possibly far exceeding those
derived from the river itself.
Evolving Cooperation. Appreciating the benefits of cooperation, various sub-groups within the
Nile Basin have engaged in cooperative activities over the past thirty years. One of the early
regional projects in the Nile Basin was Hydromet, which was launched in 1967, with the support
of the United Nations Development Program (UNDP), to foster the joint collection of
hydrometeorologic data. Hydromet operated until 1992. In 1993, the Technical Cooperation
- 164 -



Committee for the Promotion of the Development and Environmental Protection of the Nile
Basin (TECCONILE) was formed in an effort to focus on a development agenda. Also in 1993,
the first in a series of ten Nile 2002 Conferences, supported by the Canadian International
Development Agency (CIDA), was launched to provide an informal mechanism for riparian
dialogue and the exchange of views between countries, as well as with the intemational
community. Within the framework of TECCONILE, a Nile River Basin action plan was prepared
in 1995 with support from CIDA. In 1997, the World Bank agreed to a request by the Council of
Ministers of Water Affairs of the Nile Basin States (Nile-COM) to lead and coordinate donor
support for their activities. Thus, the World Bank, the UNDP, and CIDA began operating in
concert as 'cooperating partners' to facilitate dialogue and cooperation among the riparians,
creating a climate of confidence within which an inclusive mechanism for working together
could be established.
A New Era of Regional Cooperation
Towards a Long-Term Legal and Institutional Framework. Aware that sustained Nile
cooperation requires a development focus, a permanent institution, and agreement on core legal
principles, the Nile riparians established a forum for a process of legal and institutional dialogue
in 1997, with UNDP support. With three-person teams from each country (typically senior
government lawyers and water resource specialists) a 'Panel of Experts' (POE) produced the
draft text of a 'Cooperative Framework' in early 2000. The draft framework has moved the
riparians a long way and important compromises have been reached. However, some key issues
remain to be resolved, and the Council of Ministers agreed in August 2000 to extend the dialogue
process to seek further agreement on the outstanding issues. A draft Transitional Committee
prepared a "Draft Agreement on the Nile River Basin Cooperative Framework" in 2001 which
was presented to the 9th Nile-COM meeting in February 2002. The Nile-COM recommended
that necessary steps be taken to form a Negotiations Committee, to resolve outstanding issues.
UNDP has pledged its continued support to the process, which by its nature requires time and
effort.
Establishment of the Nile Basin Initiative. In 1998, recognizing that cooperative development
holds the greatest prospects of bringing mutual benefits to the region, all riparians, except Eritrea,
'joined in a dialogue to create a regional partnership to facilitate the common pursuit of
sustainable development and management of Nile waters. In an historic step, they jointly
established an inclusive transitional mechanism for cooperation until a permanent cooperative
framework is established. The transitional mechanism was officially launched in February 1999
in Dar es Salaam by the Nile-COM. In May 1999, the overall process was officially named the
Nile Basin Initiative (NBI).
Developing a Shared Vision and Objectives. Following extensive consultations, the Nile-COM,
at its Extraordinary Meeting in February 1999, adopted a shared vision and policy guidelines for
the NBI. The shared vision is:
- 165 -



To achieve sustainable socio-economic development through
the equitable utilization of, and benefitfrom, the common Nile Basin water
resources.
The policy guidelines, which provide a basin-wide framework for moving forward with
cooperative action, set forth the primary objectives of the NBI:
o To develop the water resources of the Nile Basin in a sustainable and equitable way to ensure
prosperity, security, and peace for all its peoples;
o To ensure efficient water management and the optimal use of the resources;
o To ensure cooperation and joint action between the riparian countries, seeking win-win gains;
a To target poverty eradication and promote economic integration; and
o To ensure that the program results in a move from planning to action.
Pursuing Cooperative Development. The Initiative provides a unique forum for the countries of
the Nile to move forward a cooperative process to realize tangible benefits in the Basin and build
a solid foundation of trust and confidence. The Nile-COM serves as the highest decision-making
body of the NBI. Chainnanship of the Nile-COM is rotated annually. The Nile-COM is
supported by a Nile Technical Advisory Committee (Nile-TAC), which is composed of two
senior officials from each member country. The NBI maintains a secretariat, the Nile-SEC,
located in Entebbe, Uganda. The Secretariat began operations in June 1999 and was officially
launched on September 3, 1999.
The NBIf Strategic Action Program
From Vision to Action. To translate the Shared Vision into action, the riparians are developing a
Strategic Action Program that focuses on two complementary ideas - a shared vision and action
on the ground (Figure 1). The ideas are mutually reinforcing. A common vision provides a
framework for activities on the ground, and, in turn, these activities realize the vision. These
ideas are being translated into actions through two complementary programs: (i) a basin-wide
Shared Vision Program to create an 'enabling environment' for cooperative action through
building trust and skill, and (ii) Subsidiary Action Programs to plan and implement investments
and activities 'on the ground' at the lowest appropriate level, taking into account the benefits
from, and impacts of, these activities in all riparian countries (Figure 2).
- 166-



Figure 1. Strategic Action Program For The Nile Basin
SHARED VISION
Shared
Vision
Program
Subsidiary
Action
Programsr
ACTION ON THE GROUND
The Shared Vision Program (SVP). The primary purpose of the SVP is to create an enabling
environment for cooperative management and development in the Nile Basin through a limited
but effective set of basin-wide activities and projects. The Shared Vision Program project
portfolio includes the seven projects listed below and summarized in Table 1. These projects
address the major water-related sectors and cross-cutting themes deemed critical by the Nile
riparians to ensure an integrated and comprehen-sive approach to water resources development
and management. The projects may also serve as catalysts for broader socio-economic
development. The projects are:
*   Nile Transboundary Environmental Action;
*   Nile Basin Regional Power Trade;
*   Efficient Water Use for Agricultural Production;
*   Water Resources Planning and Management;
*   Confidence-Building and Stakeholder Involvement (Communication);
*   Applied Training; and
*   Socio-Economic Development and Benefit-Sharing.
Though each project is different in focus and scope, they build upon each other to form a
coordinated program. All SVP projects contribute to building a strong foundation for regional
cooperation by supporting basin-wide engagement and dialogue, developing common strategic
and analytical frameworks, building practical tools and demonstrations, and strengthening human
and institutional capacity. Together, the projects of the Shared Vision Program seek to lay the
foundations for the shared vision for - as well as build the capacity to achieve - the sustainable
development of the River Nile for the benefit of all.
- 167 -



Table 1. Overview of Shared Vision Program (SVP) Projet Portfolio
Function                      Project               Objectives                           Indicative
Cost,
(USD
million)
Creating an enabling          1. Nile Transboundary  Provide a strategic framework for   39
environment for               Environmental Action  environmentally sustainable development
cooperative                                         of the Nile River Basin.
development:                                        Support basin-wide environmental action
Basin-wide                                         linked to transboundary issues in the
engagement and                                      context of the Nile Basin Initiative
dialogue                                            Strategic Action Program.
Common strategic and          2. Nile Basin Regional  Establish the institutional means to  12
analytical frameworks         Power Trade           coordinate the development of regional
Practical tools &                                   power markets among the Nile Basin
demonstrations                                      countries.
Institutional and             3. Efficient Water Use  Provide a sound conceptual and practical  5
human capacity                for Agricultural      basis to increase availability and efficient
building                      Production            use of water for agricultural production.
4. Water Resources    Enhance the analytical capacity for  28
Planning and          basin-wide perspective to support the
Management            development, management, and
protection of Nile Basin waters.
5. Confidence Building  Develop confidence in regional     15
& Stakeholder         cooperation under the NBI and ensure full
Involvement           stakeholder involvement in the NBI and its
(Communication)       projects.
6. Applied Training   Strengthen institutional capacity in  20
selected subject areas of water resources
planning and management in public and
private sectors and community groups.
Create or strengthen centers with capacity
o develop and deliver programs on a
continuing basis.
7. Socio-Economic     Strengthen Nile River basin-wide     11
Development and       socio-economic cooperation and
Benefit-Sharing       integration through:
(i) joint identification, analysis, and design
of cooperative development options and
priorities.
(ii) development of criteria, methods, and
frameworks for sharing benefits/costs, and
managing aftendant risks.             .     -
Total                                                                                    S 130
* Foreign costs only. Government contributions will be shown in the individual PADs
The detailed preparation of the Shared Vision Program was accomplished through a unique,
multi-country, multi-sectoral and highly participatory process led by the Nile-COM and
Nile-TAC and executed by the Nile-SEC. More than seventy national experts, including eight
technical specialists from each of the nine countries, were involved in detailed project
preparation. For many, it was the first time that they have discussed common concerns and
potential opportunities with their colleagues from neighboring and co-riparian countries. The
creative energy, enthusiasm, and hope for the future engendered by this preparation process were
a visible demonstration of the strong ownership by the Nile riparian countries and their
commitment to jointly pursue their common goal.
- 168-



The Shared Vision Program and project documents for each of the seven projects were approved
by the Nile-COM at their Extraordinary Meeting held in Khartoum, Sudan, in March 2001.
Support is now being sought for the implementation of these projects.
The Subsidiary Action Program (SAP). In parallel to the SVP, groups of countries have initiated
Subsidiary Action Programs (SAPs) to cooperatively identify and implement investment projects
that confer mutual benefits. The objective of these programs is to translate the Shared Vision into
action, realizing transboundary development opportunities within the agreed basin-wide
framework. Potential types of projects identified by the riparians for 'bundling' into SAPs are
summarized in Table 2.
Table 2. Types of Projects for Consideration in Su sidiary Action Programs
1. Generic Water Resources Management  II. Other Related Joint Development Project
Project Possibilities                  Possibilities
Water Supply & Sanitation              Infrastructure:
Irrigation & Drainage Development      Regional energy networks, including power
Fisheries Development                  interconnection and gas pipelines
Hydropower Development & Pooling       Telecommunication development
Watershed Management                   Regional transport, including: railway and road
Sustainable Management of Wetlands &   networks; river and marine navigation; and
Biodiversity Conservation              aviation.
Sustainable Management of Lakes & Linked  Trade and Industry:
Wetland Systems                        Promotion of trade (including border trade)
River Regulation                       Industrial development
Flood Management                       Regional tourism development
Desertification Control                Promotion of prvate investment and joint ventures
Water Hyacinth & Weeds Control         Marketing and storage of agricultural products
Pollution Control & Water Quality Management Forest crop harvesting.
Water Use Efficiency Improvements.     Health, Environment, other
Malaria and other endemic diseases control
Protection of wildlife
Environmental management
Disaster forecasting and management.
The Eastern Nile Subsidiary Action Program (EN-SAP). The Eastern Nile Subsidiary Action
Program (EN-SAP) currently includes the countries of Egypt, Ethiopia, and Sudan.' As set out in
a jointly developed strategy adopted by the Eastern Nile Council of Ministers, the primary
objectives of EN-SAP are to: ensure efficient water management and optimal use of resources
through equitable utilization and causing no significant harm; ensure cooperation and joint action
between the Eastern Nile countries seeking win-win gains; target poverty eradication and
promote economic integration, and; ensure that EN-SAP results in a move from planning to
action.
The Eastern Nile riparians recognize that potential investments need to be assessed within a
regional context and that benefits of a win-win nature are most likely to be found in the bundling
of projects within a multi-purpose context. Consequently, consensus was reached that the
objective of a first EN-SAP project - referred to as the Integrated Development of the Eastern
Nile (IDEN) Project - will be to "initiate a regional, integrated, multi-purpose development
- 169 -



project through afirst set of investments which confer tangible, win-win gains and demonstrate
joint action between the Eastern Nile countries. " IDEN includes a preparation process that
facilitates integration, options analysis based on best practice, and prioritization of sub-projects
within an overall regional, integrated framework.
IDEN, the first EN-SAP project, will comprise seven major sub-projects listed below:
o Eastern Nile Planning Model Sub-Project;
o   Baro-Akobo Multi-purpose Water Resources Development Sub-Project;
o   Flood Preparedness and Early Warning Sub-Project;
o   Ethiopia-Sudan Transmission Interconnection Sub-Project;
o Eastern Nile Power Trade Investment Program;
o   Irrigation and Drainage Sub-Project; and
o   Watershed Management Sub-Project.
Each of the sub-projects will be prepared and implemented in a phased manner, and the
sub-projects will be more fully defined during the preparation process. Some sub-project
proposals, which can clearly be identified as contributing to an integrated, regional program and
are already at advanced stages of preparation, will proceed at an accelerated pace (fast-track) to
final stages of appraisal. This will ensure that tangible results are realized early, fostering
confidence in the process. Other sub-projects will require extensive preparatory work to ensure
and maximize win-win gains in a regional context. It is anticipated that additional activities may
be identified during the project preparation process, and prepared for appraisal or fast-tracked as
appropriate. An Eastern Nile technical regional office is being established to facilitate the process
of cooperative development and assist the Eastern Nile Council of Ministers (ENCOM) and
technical team (EN-SAPT) in the joint and coordinated preparation of IDEN.
The Nile Equatorial Lakes Region Subsidiary Action Program (NEL-SAP). The Nile
Equatorial Lakes Region (NEL) includes eight Basin countries: the six countries in the southern
portion of the Nile Basin - Burundi, DRC, Kenya, Rwanda, Tanzania and Uganda - as well as
the downstream riparians Egypt and Sudan. The water resources of the Nile Equatorial Lakes
region include one of the world's great complexes of lakes, wetlands, and rivers. The region's
economies are characterized by rain-fed agriculture, subsistence farming, low industrialization,
and poor infrastructure development.
The objectives of NEL-SAP, as defined by the NEL Council of Ministers (NEL-COM), are to
contribute to the eradication of poverty, promote economic growth, and reverse environmental
degradation. NEL-SAP is expected to be a long-term program, with multiplier effects in broader
economic integration as the program shows results on the ground.
Twelve NEL-SAP projects, as listed below, have been identified by the Nile Equatorial Lakes
riparians in a consultative manner, targeting investments in agricultural development, fisheries
development, water resources management, water hyacinth control, and hydropower
development and transmission interconnection. Preparation and implementation of the projects
will be through joint project steering committees set up by the participating riparian countries. A
- 170 -



small coordination unit is proposed to facilitate project preparation and implementation.
Preparation periods are, in most cases, between one and three years depending on the scale and
scope of the project.
These projects are being prepared within three types of programs:
(i) On-the-ground Investment Programs
* Efficient Use in Agriculture
* Power Development and Trade
(ii) Natural Resources Management Programs
* Lake Albert and Edward Fisheries
* Water Hyazinth Abatement in the Kagera River Basin
(iii) Water Resources Management and Development Program
* Development of a Framework for Cooperative Management in the Mara River Basin
*   Kagera River Basin Integrated Water Resources Management Project
* Sio-Malaba-Malakisi Water Resources Management Project
(It should be noted that these projects complement the GEF funded Lake Victoria Environment
Development Project (and its successor project the Sustainable Management of the Lake Victoria
Basin Program) and will incorporate the DRC, Burundi and Rwanda into the sub-basin
environmental management activities, since these countries are not covered by the LVEMP and
its successor project).
- 171 -



Figure 2: Nile Basin Initiative - Overview
NBI Overview - SVP and SAPs
Nlle-COM      Policy level (basin-wide)
Basinwide                 Ne-TAC D
Level /-
/     SVP ProgBram  ProJects (bDa3n-wido)
*Co.VId B.\
/     *E,o.Poo Tdo.
/       WRM
/        6.01Sh 0\
Sub-          /J
Regional   |EL-COM                     EN-COMA    Policy level
Level -     NEL-TAC                    ENSAPT     (sub-basin)
SAPs
NELCU                     ENTRO     Program
MEL. Cloo4 tW,t                    _   R T0g@mt Unit
NEL-SAP                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(sub-bDsin)
NW-SAl.                    EN-SA
-W- U00 h Aq             |   DEN 0 00-*
-S0t ad I W   WOO        iWRM
-.WW nhd      Mm      L       D a M
-Wat0 H_05 CoW 4ly           Or D.* A T
r-D.. -t & a             -Wao
Trod .Wd
Riparian Consultative Process. The NBI facilitates riparian dialogue and cooperative action at
multiple political and technical levels. The Nile-COM provides the main policy direction for Nile
Basin cooperation, including the Strategic Action Program. The Nile-TAC, which coordinates
joint activities, is responsible to the Council for preparing and implementing the basin-wide
Shared Vision Program. While the Nile-COM and the Nile-TAC have promoted the
identification of Subsidiary Action Program projects at the sub-basin level, the responsibility for
the Subsidiary Action Programs rests with the involved riparians, within the overall basin-wide
framework. Throughout the process, high priority has been - and will continue to be - placed on
strengthening the process of consultation in order to build trust and confidence. Figure 3
illustrates how country activities will take place within sub-basin frameworks, which will occur
within the broader context of the basin-wide framework. The basin-wide framework also
includes an 'international discourse' to promote broad based discussion on the sustainable
development and management of Nile waters. The international discourse is currently being
developed in cooperation between a number of national and regional NGOs of the Nile Region,
the World Conservation Union (IUCN), the World Wildlife Fund and the World Bank.
- 172 -



Figure 3. Levels of Cooperation within the Nile Basin Initiative
//Supotn  an\itrc rcs
|nasterNatioall Consortium fr Cnoerational Laonr eN  An  n
fosCoeration ou-Bsn teNl(CONil h qaenetorablisheds tob asupotteNn'  taei
(ENSAP)        /-(NELSAP) /
\  /    ( Egypt )               ( ~~~~~~~Kenya ),
\\          ~~~~~Nile Basln  
Supporting an Historic Process
International Consortium for Cooperation on the Nile (ICCON). An International Consortium
for Cooperation on the Nile (ICCON) has been established to support the NBI's Strategic
Action Program. Its first meeting took place in June 2001. The ICCON is a unique forum,
envisioned as a long-term partnership of the riparian states and the international community. The
first meeting of the ICCON raised funding for the portfolio of basin-wide Shared Vision Projects
and the preparation of projects identified under the Subsidiary Action Programs. The first
ICCON meeting also celebrated cooperation and demonstrated international solidarity for
cooperative development in the Nile Basin.
Partnerships. Support for the NBI has been characterized by partnership since it began. The
initial partners comprised the World Bank, UNDP and CIDA. These initial cooperating partners
have played the role of concerned facilitators, assisting the process of dialogue. As the NBI
moved into the preparation of the Strategic Action Program, the governments of Denmark,
Finland, Germany, Italy, the Netherlands, Norway, Sweden, the United Kingdom, and the United
States, together with the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) and the
Global Environmental Facility (GEF), have actively supported the Initiative, directly or through
World Bank trust funds. With the first ICCON, the circle of partners has widened as the
international development community committed further support for implementation of the
Shared Vision Program and for preparation of Subsidiary Action Program projects.
Riparian Ownership and Commitment. The Nile Basin countries have invested significant time,
effort, and resources in launching and sustaining the NBI. The Initiative provides a transitional
institutional mechanism for cooperation, an agreed vision and basin-wide framework, and a
process to facilitate substantial investment in the Nile Basin. The Initiative is based on the
- 173 -



recognition that the Basin has a shared past and a shared future, and that there is an urgent need
for development and for the alleviation of poverty. It represents deep commitment by the Nile
riparian countries to foster cooperation and pursue jointly the sustainable development and
management of Nile water resources for the benefit of all. Although various sub-groups of Nile
riparians have engaged in cooperative activities over the past thirty years, the Cooperative
Framework and the NBI process mark the first time that all riparians have joined together in a
joint dialogue and a cooperative initiative as equal members. The inclusion of all ten Nile
riparians holds the promise of meaningful, comprehensive cooperation in the Basin.
I Eritrea attended its first Council of Ministers meeting in August 2000. It is participating actively in the Nile Basin
Initiative in an observer capacity and has stated its intention to participate fully soon.
2 Policy Guidelines for the Nile River Basin Strategic Action Program, The Council of Ministers of Water Affairs of
the Nile Basin States, February 1999.
3 Eritrea, which is located in the Eastern Nile region, participated in its first meeting of the Eastern Nile Council of
Ministers as an observer in March 2001 and may join EN-SAP in the future.
4 Eritrea is participating actively as an observer in the NBI and has stated its intension to participate fully soon.
- 174 -



Additional Annex 15: Root Causes
NILE BASIN INITIATIVE: Nile Transboundary Environmental Action Project
Issue             Symptoms/ Impacts      Immediate Causes             Root Causes          Extent Specific locations are  Severity
Indicated on the country
maps attached to this report
1. Land Degradation
A.              * Decreasing          * Land use conversion   * Poverty and population     Basin-wide                Severe
vegetation/forest      due to increasing need  pressure leading to pressure on
Deforestation     cover, loss of density  for arable land and   resources, absence of      Cntical areas
and diversity          grazing areas, slash and  alternative livelihoods and  * Burundi. along Ruvubu
*Detenoration of         burn practices for land  weak capacity to increase unit  River and other nver
watershed. high        cleanng and shifting   agncultural production        basins, along steep slopes
nun-off associated with  cultivation          Insufficient energy altematives  of high mountains
increased erosion   * Uncontrolled logging    to fuelwood                * D R. Congo Temtones of
leading to loss of     for fuelwood and     * Unsustainable land use        Bent, Lubero, Rutshuru
fertile soils and      charcoal production    practices perpetuated through  and lrumu, Virunga
sedimentation and      (especially with       weak policies and laws and    National Park
siltation downstream   increased fuelwood     failure to enforce laws and  * Border area between D.R
aEnergy cnsis            pnces), construction   regulations, lack of forest   Congo, Rwanda, Uganda
associated with pnce   material and local     protection                 * Ethiopian highlands
increases due to       industry fuel needs  a Insufficient awareness and  * Rwanda. Nyungwe
decreased availability  * Unsustainable and   knowledge of sustainable land  National Forest, Gishwati
of fuelwood and        inefficient resource use  use practices and effects of  Forest
charcoal               (e g overgrazing,      deforestation              * Sudan Nile Basin south of
aLarge scale habitat     extensive cultivation on * Land tenure system leading to  Khartoum, Atbara River,
destruction and loss of  steep hillslopes and  allocation and use of marginal  Blue Nile
wildlife in tenms of   uncontrolled logging)  lands and lack of incentives for * Tanzania. Several
numbers and         * Lack of local planting/  sustainable land use practices  divisions in Mwanza
biodiversity,          replanting           * Large number of refugees and  region, some distncts in
progressive         * Human migration and     resettlements without basic   Kagera region
disappearance of       resettlement,          support                    * Uganda Mt. Elgon and
National Parks         encroachment into    * Drought and overall and       Rwenzon areas; SW
*Vanability in local     forested areas         climate and topography        highlands
climate and rainfall
pattems
B.                Loss of top soil and  * Massive continued loss * Population pressure and  Regional                  Severe
reduction of soil      of vegetative cover due  poverty leading to
Soil Erosion      fertility leading to   to deforestation and   unsustainable land use      Critical areas
decrease in agncultural  loss of other land cover,  practices            * Burundi Ruvubu River
production and food    detenoration of      a Topography (uneven relief,   region, steep slopes/
secunty                catchment buffer zones  high stream flow velocities)  hillsides
*Reduction of         * Inappropriate           and rainfall patterns (floods,  * D R. Congo. Lubero, near
vegetative cover and   agncultural practices  droughts, climate vanability)  Kasenyi (south shore of
loss of habitats and   leading to decreased  * Lack of land use policies and  Lake Albert)
biodiversity           soil quality and erosion,  improper land use      * Egypt River bank/nver
*Water quality           such as use of marginal  management; weak extension  bed erosion north of
degradation from high  lands, overgrazing and  service on soil conservation  Aswan dam
sediment loads,        free grazing           and lack of incentives for  * Ethiopia. Blue Nile and
siltation of shallow  * Lack of soil and water  conservation often connected  Tekeze area, Baro and
lakes, wetlands,       conservation measures  with prevalent land tenure    Akobo region
reservoirs, and low    and/or abandonment     system                     * Kenya Trans-Nzoia
lying lands            and poor maintenance  * High livestock density       distnct, Uasin Gishu
downstream             of anti-erosion works  * Lack of awareness of        distnct, Kakamega/Vihiga
*Degradation of nrver  * Bush fires and slash   land-water interaction        distncts, Kisti and Migon
beds and nver bank     and bum practices    c Lack of ElAs or systematic    distncts; lakeshore
erosion, desertification                      implementation of EIA for  * Rwanda Runymya,
and wind erosion                              infrastructure projects due to  Murama, Bulinga,
(northem and regions),                        lack of financial and human   Nyamutera, Kibali
sheet and nil erosion                         resources                  * Sudan Sobat region,
and gully formation                                                         along Blue Nile, Atbara
(after heavy rainfall) in                                                   region, wind erosion along
highlands                                                                   main Nile (Nile State and
Landslides and                                                              Northem State)
- 175 -



flooding leading to                                                      o Tanzania Steep hills in
destruction of                                                             Mwanza, Mara, and
infrastructure (houses,                                                    Kagera region; lakeshores
means of                                                                 o Uganda Mt Elgon and
communication,                                                             Rwenzori and SW
communal facilities)                                                       mountain areas
C.              aDestruction of       o Poor land use and       Lack of or insufficient national Mostly sub-regional  oderate to
vegetative cover       agricultural practices  land use plans, laws and                           severe
River Bank and    especially in npanan   such as dry season     regulations, and/or enforcement Cntical areas.
Lakeshore         and lakeshore buffer   cultivation near banks  of existing laws          o Burundi. Lake Cohoha
Degradation       zones                  and destruction of     Population pressure and rapid  o Ethiopia and Sudan: Atbara
Erosion, landslides, and  vegetative cover to  growth of urban centers     and Sobat, Blue Nile and
downstream             increase arable land   Expansion of farm lands and  trbutanes; main Nile
sedimentation leading  area; high animal      inadequate agncultural       (Sudan)
to change in nver      density                practices near nver banks and  o Egypt Nile below Lake
course              o Drop in water levels and  shores, including overgrazing  Nasser
Adverse effects on     drying up of waterways vLand subsidence, relief and  o Rwanda Nyabarongo Rive
rivenne aquatic life and o Increased urban    morphological structure of soil o Tanzania estuanes of
lake ecosystems        development and        Climatic variability and     nvers into Lake Victona
construction and       conditions; seasonal floods and o Uganda Severe in seasonal
industrial activities near  intermittent increase of lake  wetlands near shore of
nver banks, poorly     levels                        Lake Kyoga
planned tourism centers        .
D.               o Water and air      o Use of toxic chemicals o Inadequate policy guidance,  Localized              Overall
pollution             and lack of containment  lack of or insufficient                               ll
Mining           o Soil degradation and  and treatment facilities  safeguards (EIA,         Mming operations in the  low
Impacts            erosion of sites and  (esp. mercury use in   anti-pollution/ environmental  Basin include gold, coal,
adjacent nver banks;  gold mining)           legislation) and enforcement  copper, diamond, iron ore,  Severe in
deforestation and  o Lack of or inadequate  aNo regulation/ enforcement of  phosphate, manganese, tin,  certain
landslides leading to  site rehabilitation   pnvate mining entrepreneurs  wolfram and zinc        locations
nver siltation     o Inadequate mining     v Lack of (govemment) planning  Crtical areas mainly
o Adverse impact on      practices             and oversight              Ca Bunndi Kibira a
flora and fauna    o High demand for                                    o D.RCngo Irumua
construction materials                           oi D.R Congo Irumnu,
and indscriminate                                    Mahagi, and Aru regions
cleandingdfcrimitiate                             o Rwanda: Bisesero,
clearing of vegetation                               Rutsiro, Gatumba,
Rutongo, Nyakabingo,
Nemba, Rwinkwavu,
Musha
o Tanzania Mara, Mwanza,
parts of Shinyanga, and
Kagera regions
o Sudan Gissan and
Kurmuk on Blue Nile and
in northem Sudan; north
of town of Atbara
o Uganda. Lake George area
(past copper and current
____________________ _       _cobalt processing)
2. Water Quality Degradation
A.              DDegradation of water  o Discharge and run-off  Weak policies, laws and
quality, rendering     of untreated water from  regulations for environmental  Basin-wide           Moderate
Pollution (point  water unsuitable for   urban and industnal    protection (e.g EIA);
and non-point     domestic, agncultural,  sources containing    insufficient enforcement and
source)           industnal and other    dissolved nutrients,   monitonng especially in     Cintical areas
uses                   industnal pollutants,  respect to industnal facilities ;   Poit source polluton
v Adverse impacts on     agncultural            low budgetary provision for  localized around urban
water-dependent flora  chemicals/fertilizers;  enforcement of existing      centers, such as Kampala,
and fauna, loss of     lack of recycling of   regulations; lack of sufficient  Khartoum, Caero and other
habitats and           waste matter;          human resources               urban centers m Egypt
biodiversity; nutnent  uncontrolled dumping  oPoint sources: Inadequate  o Non-point sources:
discharges leading to  of waste               funding of investments; high  regoonal problem mostly
increased           o Non-point source        capital costs; high operation  from agncultural sources
eutrophicaton          pollution from         and maintenance costs,        Hotspots mclude large
Pollution of lakes and  agnculture due to     inadequate containment and    imgation schemes in
tnbutaries, resulting in  improper and high   treatment of wastes and lack of  Sudan and Egypt, and
-176 -



contamination of       application rates of   sanitary facilities            agncultural areas around
dnnking water          agro-chemicals       * Non-point sources.             Lake Victora and Its
* Lack of adequate    * Degradation of           Unsustainable land use
liquid and solid waste  vegetative cover      practices in combination with  tnbutanes
disposal systems and   especially npanan      lack of secunty of land tenure
accumulation of refuse  buffer zones and    e Inadequate zoning regulations
* Decrease in            wetlands in Basin      and/or enforcement,
environmental quality,  which could act as    inadequate environmental and
disappearance of       filters                land use planning
natural habitats and                        * Low environmental awareness
proliferation of water                        and sense of value of
hyacinth                                      environmental protection
B.               * Pollution of dnnking  * Lack of water supply  * Lack of environmental    Basin-wide - localized     Severe
water sources (ground  systems and/or other   regulations and laws,
Sanitation         and surface water) and  reliable dnnking water  monitonng and enforcement  Cntical areas
Concerns -         high dissolved nutnent  source, drinking water  and general waste management * All large urban centers,
Water borne        loads resulting in     contamination with fecal  strategies                 such as Kampala,
Diseases and      increasing              matter leading to spread * Rapid growth of urban centers  Khartoum, Cairo and urban
Environmental      eutrophication and     of pathogens           and lack of financial resource  centers in Nile delta
Health            spread of infectious  * Lack of or insufficient  base to build needed water  * Rural villages (local
diseases (diarrhea,    sewerage or altemative  supply and sanitation        threats)
malana, bilharzia,     sanitation systems; leaks  infrastructure, combined with
dysentery, intestinal  and insufficient       lack of planning for urban
worms)                 maintenance of existing  expansion and required
* Risks to public health  facilities, lack of urban  infrastructure
due to poor sanitation  stormwater sewers and  * High capital costs for
conditions, especially  solid waste disposal   investments, high operation and
dunng rainy season and  facilities             maintenance costs
floods               * Insufficient sanitation  * Previous low prionty given to
a Increased absence from  and hygiene training in  sanitation by govemment
work due to sickness,  conjunction with        agencies, lack of awareness of
increase in malnutntion  widespread poor sanitary  connection between sanitation
and death rates        conditions              and safe drnking water, need
especially among     * Increased breeding     for better hygiene education
vulnerable groups such  ground for mosquitoes  * Poverty and poor health
as small children, the  in water weed infested  condition of large parts of the
displaced and the      areas and imgation      population
elderly                canals
C.               * Algal blooms and    * Discharge of nutrients  * Inadequate environmental  Regional, sub-basin        Moderate
increasing invasion by  from domestic and      provisions in planning of
Eutrophi.          water weeds            industnal wastewater   industrial and urban centers  Critical areas.
cation           * Decreased water        sources and agncultural a Land degradation         * Lake Victona region,
quality                run-off               a Over-use of agro-chemicals    including Kagera basin
* Change/reduction in  * Degradation of        * Poor land use and fanming     (lakes and river),
fish stock             catchment area,         practices                  * Urban areas in delta area
especially wetlands                                   in Egypt
D.               * Continuing spread of  * High dissolved nutnent * Introduction of hyacinth  Regional                  Severe in
weeds and infestation  levels from pollutant  insufficient preventive                                certain
Water Weed         of lakes and nvers,    discharge from         measures against introduction  Cntical areas           ceas
Infestation        eutrophication         industrial and domestic  of foreign species in general  * Burundi. Ruvubu River,
* Interference with      sources and agncultural a Lack of capacity in water   Lake Cyohoha and
ecology and economy,   run-off due to poor land  resources and environment   Rwihinda
e g. mats on water     use practices and lack  departments in some countnes * D R Congo Lake Albert
surface impair         of water treatment     resulting in insufficient      (severe), Lake Edward
navigation and fishing * Inadequate response   enforcement of environmental  (moderate)
activities and lead to  mechanisms             regulations                * Kenya Winam Gulf (Lake
decrease in fish yields                      a Delay in mobilizing funds and  Victona)
as well as to                                  creating national/regional  * Rwanda/Tanzania/
eutrophication                                 programs to combat infestation  Burundi Kagera River
* Decrease in diversity                                                     * Rwanda Lake Cyohoha,
of certain fish species                                                      Lake Rwero, Nyabarongo
a Increase in occurrence                                                       River, entire stretch of
of water bome                                                                Kagera
diseases, increased                                                       * Sudan White Nile south
water evaporation                                                            of Jebel Aulia dam
* Tanzania Southem shore
of Lake Victoria,
- 177 -



especially in bays of Marm
and Mwanza regions
o Uganda: Lake Victoria,
Lake Kyoga and Victona
Nile
E.              v Decreased life span of o Climatic conditions and a Inappropriate land
dams and reservoirs as  topographic features  management practices and lack Basi-wide - localized  Moderate
SDltation         well as siltation of   upstream (heavy rains  of soil conservation practices  Cntical areas.       (vaies by
flooded fields, plains  and steep slopes) as  often perpetuated by specific  o Burundi: Shallow lakes in loration)
and imgation canals,   well as land practices  land tenure systems;        the NE
additional threat often  resulting in catchment  detenoration in catchment  o Egypt Aswan Dam
associated with toxic  degradation and soil  through deforestation (see    reservoir
pollutants adsorbed in  erosion (such as      above)                     o Ethiopia. Finchaa, Tekeze
silt particles         encroachment for     o Lack of stnngent enforcement o Kenya Lower reaches of
Siltation leading to   agncultural purposes)  of environmental regulations  Yara, Nzoia, Kuja,
decrease of wetlands                          and policies                  Sondu-Mmru, Nyando
and reduction of                              Lack of awareness of link  o Sudan: Roseires, Sennar,
beneficial functions                          between land based activities  Khasm el Girba reservoirs;
and uses                                      and water pollution          Gezira, Rahad and new
Heavy silt loads in                                                        Haifa imgation schemes;
water bodies,                                                              main Nile
sedimentation leading                                                    o Tanzama Mara River,
to formation of sand                                                        Simiyu River, Shinyanga
bars, changes in river                                                      and Mwanza regions
course and nver bank                                                     o Uganda: Nile River system
erosion                                                                     especially Kioga
3.Disaster Preparedness and Remediation
A.               Floods                Floods.                 Floods:                     Regional                   Severe
F  Direct impacts include o Heavy ratnfalls in  Irregular and large seasonal
Floods and        loss of life and       conjunction with       and year to year vanability in
Drought           property (crops/       specific natural terrain  rainfall pattems increased by  Most critical areas.
livestock and amble    features, increased by  climatic changes;
land, housing,         certain land use       mismanagement of land and  FBlue Nle and Atbaa from
infrastructure), other  practices; lack of    water resources leading to soil
results are food       planning of urban      erosion and increased nun-off  Lhiopan highlands to
insecunty (availability  settlements to prevent  Droughts:               o Flash floods in wadis in
and increased prices),  settlement in flood   Climatic zone/ geogrphy;      dry areas (e g. between
loss to economy and    prone areas, aggravated  effects from El Nifto       Aswan and Cairo)
environmental impacts  by population pressure                            o Floods from recent rise in
and lack of land                                     Lake Victoria lake levels
Droughts                 ownership                                         o Gambella plain in
Direct impacts are   Droughts.                                              Ethiopia, lower river
food insecunty, famine o Long/prolonged dry                                reaches in Kenya (Nzoia
and human migration,   season resulting in                                  and Nyando River)
long-term impacts      water shortage,
include change in      aggravated by improper                            Droughts
water availability (e.g.  management of land                             o Severe drought prone
permanently dned       and water resources                                  areas north of 8th pamiall
spnngs, perennial      (e g. deforestation,                                 N localized droughts m all
nvers becoming         overgrazing) leading to                              Nile countnu
seasonal)              decreases in vegetative
cover, water retention
Floods/droughts          cpct    n
Dislocation of people  capacity and
and problems           groundwater recharge;
and increased
associated with high   deincatio
number of disaster     desertification
victims, such as food  Floods/droughts
insecunty and high  o Poorly equipped
incidence of           meteorological services
waterbome diseases     and lack of efficient
and reliable early
waming systems
contributing to lack of
disaster preparedness
- 178 -



B.              * Pressure on and     * Sudden, large-scale   * Political instability, armed
destruction of         refugee influxes       conflicts, govemance problems Localzed               Moderate
Refugees and      surrounding            overwhelming local     and social unrest          Main areas of current     overa
Displaced         ecosystems, for fuel or  capacity to provide  * Natural catastrophes such as  settlements of refugees and
People            agnculture, threat to  protection, shelter and  famine                   displaced people.
wildlife habitats and  food                                              * Burundi Rivubu River
pressure on dnnking  * Inadequate basic                                    region
water resources        subsistence resources                             * Ethiopia Sudan /Ethiopia
Spread of disease in   such as fuelwood and                                cross-border area near
camps, especially      water, inadequate waste                             Dinder (=Alatish valley),
waterbome,             containment and                                     Gambella region,
contnbuting to poor    treatment facilities                                Ben-Shangul-Gumuz
health, malnutrition                                                       region, Baro/Akobo area,
and death                                                                   Dobus swamp area, SW
* Migration of large                                                         part of country
numbers of people to                                                     * Rwanda south of country
refugee camps and                                                          near Burundi border
establishment of new,                                                    * Sudan/Uganda border area
unplanned settlements                                                      and Sudan/ UgandalD R
leading to conflict with                                                    Congo area
existing population                                                      * Sudan Refugees in
eastem Sudan, Kassala
and Gedanf States,
displaced people along
selected areas of Nile
* Tanzania SW lakeshores,
Muleba Ngara and
Karagwe distncts of
Kagera region
C.              * Increase in severe  * Changes in              Global phenomenon related to  Basin-wide
floods and droughts   temperature,            anthropogenic activities                             Low to
Uncertain       * Potential negative     precipitation and wet  leading to increased emission
Impacts of        impacts may include    and dry cycles         of greenhouse gases
Climate           Ecosystems,          * Changes in weather and
Change                                   rainfall pattems
Changes in species  * Impacts and
distnbution and        vulnerability due to
composition; changes  floods and droughts
in migration pattems, * Population pressure on
wildlife habitat      limited resources
detenoration
Food security,
agriculture and
land-use.
Decreasing food
security; land
degradation, e.g
through landslides and
change in forest and
rangeland cover;
desertification
Water resources
Change in local water
availability,
deteriorating water
quality
Health and
settlements'
Increase in waterbome
diseases; possible
increase in
urbanization
Economy
Vulnerability of
-179 -



mostly agranan based
economies in
Sub-Saharan Afnca to
climate change related
impacts
D.                 Routine accidents    o Poorly separated traffic  Complex navigational hazards  Subregional            Low
(collisions,           and inaccurate          (e.g hidden channels)                                  overall
Navigation         groundings, wreckage)  navigation charts       combined with lack of
Risks, Aids, and   and associated       o Limited navigational    mapping and insufficient    o Cntical ncidcnts reported
Mapping (oil       pollution risks        devices and aids and    maintenance of waterways (e g  from Lake Victona and
spills, boat     o Navigation nsks        lack of technology      no regular dredging)           Egyptian river traffic,
discharges)      Oil discharg           o Old and poorly          No emergency response          generally relevant in large
dicare)   l dshrge  constructed ships and  system; lack of govemment   geners antheir
D Contamination of        additional overloading  control                       lakes rivers and their
surface and             as well as non-qualified                              ports
groundwater, river      noaoonesjui           Oil discharge:
banks and lakeshores     oat owners            Lack of technology for
Adverse impact on    Oil discharge             preventive and remediation
natural habitats and  o Discharge from tankers  measures, high cost of water
biodiversity and        (cleaning of tanks) and  treatment; lack of reception
species loss           bilge and ballast water  and treatment facilities at ports
as well as increasing   Industnalization of coasts and
incidences of oil spills  nver banks combined with
through accidents of    lack of EIA and inadequate
tankers (ships)         control and enforcement of
o Discharge of petroleum   environmental regulations
products from industnal  Lack of oil spill emergency
sectors and leaking     plans and measures
storage tanks
4 Loss of Biodiversity, Habitat and Wetlands
A.               Species loss and decline  Species loss and decline  vPopulation pressure and  Basi-wide                  Severe
ofecoystes an  ofeosysems nd uique   poverty combined with high  Bsnwd
Loss and         of ecosystems and        of ecosystems and unque  reliance on primary natural
DestructIon or~ ~~~ unique habitats  habitats'                 eore    n   noefo
Destrucalon of     Disappearance of     o Poaching and illegal    resources and ncome from    Areas are related to specific
ValuableisSea      unique animal and       trade in valuable      agriculture                  Issues of species loss".
Species, Special        speces,Low financial and staff                                        Spes      ecesosystems
Ecosystems and     especially endemic     intensive and           capacity in management of  uSique habitan eoss
ones, decline of       unsustainable resource  lack of control and moitoing  o Wetlands
species diversity       use and land           poor enforcement of laws    o Forest areas
Decrease in numbers     management, such as    protectmg gazetted forests and  o Specific protected areas
of large mammals with   deforestation, wetlands  game sanctuanest lack of  Agrodiversity.
negative impact on      conversion, expansion  financial resources for     o        Intense pnmary
tounsm and associated   of agnculture (crops   development and                agnculturl areas
decrease in revenue     and livestock farming,  implementation of effective
Decrease in forest     overfishing,           and relevant progrms
cover constituting      uncontrolled buming    Weak agricultural extension
decrease in food, fuel,  and forest fires)     servics                      For specific locations
timber and shelter   o Lack of altemative      Lack of awareness of        please refer to maps attached
Loss of agrodiversity    income sources          biodversty concems andort
Loss of genetic base    especially t areas of  benefits from conservation
(cattle breeds, crops,  resettlement         DLack of regulations to prevent
vegetables/ fruits); loss Loss of agrodiversity  introduction of exotic species
of benefits from local  o Expansion of hybrid/  Inadequate and unregulated
vanety qualities        high yielding crop and  land use practices, insufficient
(tolerance,             livestock vaneties     integrated programs for people
productivity,          leading to decrease of   living in protected areas
resilience);            genetic diversity of
dependency on exotic    domestic species
seeds and breeds/    o Introduction of exotic
imported vaneties       species (not only
restrcted to agicultural
species)
-180 -



B.               a Decrease and         * Reclamation of        * Lack of wetland protection and Basi-wide               Severe in
degradation of wetland  wetlands to expand     management regulations and                             most
Wetland            areas (reclamation,     agncultural production  measures and/or lack of    Important and/or degraded  countnes
Degradation        siltation, flood     * Deforestation, erosion  implementation              wetlands
damage, water weed      and sedimentation    * Poverty and population      * Burundi Ruvubu,
infestation)         * Overuse of natural      pressure, shortage of land,    Kanyaru valley and around
* Decreased benefits     resources (overfishing/  inadequate land use policies  Lake Rwihinda,
from functioning        hunting/ overgrazing,  a Lack of awareness of wetlands  Nyamuswaga wetland
wetlands, e g less      farming practices)     function and value          * D R Congo SW
groundwater recharge, * Pollution from                                        lakeshore of Lake Edward
decreased buffenng of   industrial, agncultural                            * Egypt Lake Nasser area,
floods, loss of filter  and domestic sources                                  Nile delta (shores of Lake
function to absorb and                                                        Manut, Burullus and
degrade pollutants and                                                        Manzala), Qarun and
associated decrease in                                                        Rayan
water quality,                                                             * Ethiopia Gambella flood
decreasing ability to                                                         plain (Baro and Akobo
act as sediment trap,                                                         River), Lake Tana,
destruction of habitats                                                       Finchaa area, Dobus
and loss of biodiversity                                                      Swamp/Alatish River
* Kenya Winam Gulf/
Kisumu, estuary of Nzoia
River, Yara swamp
* Rwanda Upstream of
Risumu Falls, lakes south
of Kagera National Park
(Lakes Rwehikama,
Ihema, Hago, and
Rwanyakizinga), Lake
Cyohoha and entire Lake
Bugesera area, Lake
Rweru, Lake Mugesera
* Sudan Sudd, Machar
Marshes, Dinder wetlands
* Tanzania Simiyu nver,
Lake Victoria shores,
banks of Kagera
River/swamps
* Uganda: shores of Lake
Victona, Kyoga, Lakes
Edward, George and
Albert
- 181 -



Additional Annex 16: Letters of Endorsement
NILE BASIN INITIATIVE: Nile Transboundary Environmental Action Project
The Letters of Endorsement for the Piroject from            ]3urundfl, D.R.Congo, Egypt, Ethlopiza
Kenya, Rwanda, Sudan, Tanzania and Uganda aiso are availablie in the project files.
Burunfdi
JItrJLlQF'lA l) DU R131tlNII
r     ltYlSqF t2,5)-1M0  filtl FwO 1'11241,0t2. Pl t
SfKI I>lti- I:i l>F.~I  .va' l@2l2>9pit
S             lI.P (,~Sci Ib'U rtl i2'r} t~i.tU.v r* vM,, l ii 0m..2m' R (, NtIViV"1
q  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~icjFga, IC . I/. t.J >ec 7
A Monsicur Ie Reprti1*eoaot
V. W~..
N.bjet.   -)/   >   ;{/tlJ'O                                 ?i Resd.il IJ 4i'Nl3 .
[do|ti<isstilo di irri
d'Aeloi7 ciwiroTnnmcntaie
tltriii nsirI.ivIc ii. Ra,in ai t Nil
Nltoin:Icor {ac Rq)r scild4ifl Rd>idci,l.
I's 1, pi'tikir, j'ai O'ItCliLIur do woacs win)Iu   i ic. qt i bimii SnLilc i) la dcmandc
1(t olOltit VFM411 dk ViMh916iWC du Bmssin di Nil, j'cndossc tmnoIn da Govcrnvtcneml du
l3umrud' hi propossition dc "Projet d'Actioui FIvitouInctnentalc 'rrmsCronitaIi&e dia
Bmsxsin dii Nil' qui ctS un ulei 7 lmroct-t pjxiparls par Ic Progminmric dc vision coLmitituc
$ILi sIii 4c iIO NsTA'TIV  DlMJ BA$SSIN DU Nil). (M3>N).
LC 6owiievncilt dii fr3au1mdi aulalc xiuo irics gn'tindo imnporlance i C' priojC
danr. Ic.pild il s'cst invesil eii pail1icipailo ;ctiveincit A sa forAmikation. If a u66 preparc
uIiwt IC C:Art' ti   c IlniliAtive iii 3n'siin dai Nil eii pattola t al avec le PNUJ>) *i la Banque.
Mondiab;
C' preJ.aI ,'inhgr- pal faiiIc   L1ciihns Ics Pr;I)i()1  di) pu   111n111KiTc d deloppcl
Cl Lciwl ixncincuit Ic (leU G liv'einmeiilt'ii IiiirtrTdi 1'cciiossc enli6mmeni.
(C1lliLc IlI cail dcnlulildlc a  (iut.tiloJiMlcu  dii i3uiriiiidi d'cnfdosscr li I'mrjct
ws oiiii 4al Rciioimi( l 4I'hilIClm sil I'11611,111w its 130u.sNils dit Nil quti tiat a licti di 30 an 3 l
J.iillcl 2(jot, je vl'u pliiC de h>icn vouiloir cn si-6.er Ic iEM (Jui fluiauxccra Ic projct aiunsi
I,,i: Iv-S Ou,ll.s l; Jirlics ' ; aic s Pro;)al.
V'tcillu..                                                     maii'I, ,1tusj,iit  Rcl 6.sniii It'si1, I' xlc,sloi tic hin. bauti.
LE1 DIREC('' }I , FT GENErRALJ DFl 13ION'C
1'1T PINT ISF l OiAl. 010O Ai' ..NNI'             0
:l1u3u ktA"kINIQ  /j.l5j$N(I ;  /
11w d'rn* ii* IaLta'n: l'.i5 757 Ijiquatburl  't'cL (257) 243(H  0 lis:  ,I57) I t4426 o If 1tlmil
- 182 -



D.R.Congo
"POOLiot) DOCRATOUE OU DU oo*              Xwixasale   Q , ;in z,
ONINITE DrSA AAICAEU rOCOA
INvIfRWEM?T Fr to~JLIPPr1 TOUR2STrnUW
TransmIs cole plour- info lon :
* Monsteur le RepWsentant ROsident
du Programme des Nations Unies
pour le DOveloppement en
Rdpubllque D4mocratque du Congo
* Monsieur le Secrdtaire GLndral 3
i'Environnement et Conservation de
la Nature
 Monsieur le Directer-Chef de
Service des Ressources en Eau et
Membre du Com1ttd Technique
Con5ultatif de lInltiave du Bassin
du Nil (AC-NIL)
* Monsieur le Point Focal GEF/ROC en
ROpubicque Oimocratlque du Congo
(RDC)
(Tous) XCInsbasafian me
A Madame Inger Andersen
Coordonnateur du Partenarlat
Partnership Coorc*1nator
VNDP-WorId Bank International
Watrs Partnership
Washington D.C. USA
Tel: 202 458 7405
Fatx, 202 522 0367
ConCetne r Approbation du PrOJet d'acIon
eneinom  entie TrarvfrontJ'e
Madame le Coordonnateur,
Le Gouvernement de la R1pubflque
Dmocratlque du Congo a le plalsir de vous annoncer que le projet d'aclon
envirannernentae transfrontallre du bassin du Nil est consId6-4 comme un projet
prioutalre et qull a particip acivement A toutes les dtapes de sa formulation.
Adtnte: Avenue PaK Ia Q(#- 4tes aw0u-) n' is Kmhama I GCnobo - 8P. 12 348 i'lnshaso I
PT: h.  20 -80 2394 -Tl.: 34 30 E-fnal%: ICON&@c.od
- 183 -



En effet, Ie prolet sus-mentonne qui
est l'un des 7 projets pr4paris dans la cadre du Prormm  de lsInitWtve du Bassin du Nil
a 4i* &bord avec la coli      ratOn du Progamme des NatUons-Unies pour ie
ODveloppement (PNUD) et de la Banqus MandIate partenairs de 1lniUaUve du Bassin du
Nil (WIM).
EWtnt donne que ce projet est en
accord avec les priorit4s nationales dans les secteurs de 'environnement a du
dtveloppemet, le Gouvemement de le - bUue Dtmocratique du Congo donne son
approation pour a Mssl en oeuvre dudit proet
C'ast pnunuoi, cet Iettre consiste
en une demande de soutien adress6s au PNJD et fb la anque Mondlale en vue de faciliter
la lltaon di financement du Fonds pour I'Environnemnent Mandiel (FEM) desUnM b la
mise en ceuvre de ceM importanta initiative.
Veuillez  ag*rIs,   Madamne    le
Coordonnateur, I'assurane de ma poailite conddrtIn.
Adr*SSD: Avwue Papa ULEO cE- dc*s cdintquoi) n i5 gKnzsazci I Gombe -3.P. SA2 34a Jinshav;
Tin: 680 2062 - e5 1104 - TM1 a4 390 r-mano: lCCM01c.r4
Egypt
- 184 -



Arab Repubfic ofEgypt Of                                          jaOw 2  J4 4L-4 .
Cahuiuct of Mlinst.trs                                    feJ% ..
Fj_gvjxfurn Envi4onnamWal A lhrin Agency                             l.4'
pDrnncshIu CotrdlnatDr
uNsc - World Uauik Inbamntionat Waters P6rttitlisi
Waihlneton 4:C
Cuitq,12h,hv 2001t
Ra: NIIG Ttaunui dary Enviroonuwn JnAcriu PI!ojac
QaF r4;;. tndcecsun,
lr r(AIsh'4w ,A LiTh Jlde Isi.n nitnci wi J arm ulcsed Ia ,PvItm yo Ihat W Ti G9wer hnti of
tayp  ha 0mAted    th jew a? Ftb tzerCCWfflIl prx, whichh is nie i47 prjai
that are fctodes williin hie sirAp u'thme NfLl's irga Programmc-
Glufecr tha bigI 0.tt  tat is a:UsslR   by Oh:tGovirmrtr! q Ejyp, Lto this :pro;eS nr P1s
degpa-  Rt ano  a.rcnntl agenda, I brn aleS to w5doet the at.Od pvfNrraI &Id
Iuo<; ftrWiv;r , cn' w)rtinUed cnAtMbo3a5on tn'%Dwa-drb uent 5rfiet2UpIl.
* ;adI  Ibis  V   W b: aCmmrOWeg Me erFecteiv coOdioaJcw enC(ts of tive wii ;k
anc4 the L:NLiP. as4 partnws k: the projetd Vcrmulatlfn phasc; aad oft bh&If or tN
p-,utpNg   EgyDrapn rlgan-;ciJsw   mwrd cr-;fr kppnc&wtin tD the YE: fbo SugiDtrg tU'1
drnpxo&hft ,r>tjaUve.
4m,1041tit~~, Sc-l>
. IcaAId i Coin
0t4 Exe4ut%  Vlftiec, MO.
GE.f Nan4naI Foe P&rtf
c.c    Dr. Mohameft E!l Ashy, CLO And 1 ChBinain
GPEF Sapeartat, WashiMinewx D
eng. Abrmnd fehirty, Chairman, Wc WaUer S,ecqt
MlSinLTy of WRYrr Re*ources nt*ttd Iftiglon
30 M     disr lcAwan. El - /5rse Rd., Mliaui4d Cakito ugypt P, Q 11118  rcl :S25G452  Fai , S2IJ4Y9O
- 185-



Ethiopia
FTAvaga         OfO;P    nfip  A10                        Datte
flu pedgv l3emocmtid Rcmalic of 2tbiov   _ c.W                        M     i      .
VfROMETAL ZOTEhCON AOl                                          lef. 
Dr. Mohammed T.ER-AshsT
Cbef Execuive Officr & Ch
Global Environmensta Facilty
1818t-l $1rmt, NW
Wasbhingta DC 20433 IJSA
FgmX: (20) 52 -3l0/522 3a4S
This is in reference to the lete of 26 July 2001, written to us by thel Minitry of Water
Resources. In this letter, the Miaistiy has reqUested 1s to write an endorsemhenr lonxer for
the Project Entitled Nrilje Transboundary RnvtronmetRal Action Project," whcJa is one
of the seven projecAs prepared within the Nile B3asini Initiative's Shtared Vision PrDgrarn
rhe propomal was fonnated m cooperauton with UND1t> ard the World Bank a. pannn;s
in the Nile Basin Initiative  Thie E &iiopian Goyveinwinnt paics high priontp, on this
project and the tnvironmntal Protection Authority has also panrtcipated sctively in its
formulation
I am wntng this lettcr sn my capacity as the Generel Manager of the Envircnmental
Protection Authority, which is a foctl point for the GEF
The Environmental Proteation Authority, therefore, endorse3 thTs proect proposal.
~~~~~~~~~in Rcly u
o Ms. [uger    A/ (4W
~        atership     2' MD}}
UNP-Worl         @       Je
W   ern Pae
Weishimgo    )'
Ft% 202 522  3S67
e Mr. Sam caE Nynmwbi
Resident Reprsntative
c Ministry eof Wnler IResorces Deelopment
v Ministry Of ElCOROMe Deva  tca: & Copearation
Arddit A ha a
jjzjj~~~~~~t 62jj
loom la $I a7                                                   4a..  a WAX
- 186 -



Kenya
MINISTRY OF ENVIRONMENT AND NA'T'URAL RESOURCES
NATXONAL ENVRONMENT SECRETARIAT
rt1eptinr Nairobi O243OS, 2438, .24t7P3                                           SMTNDA AOBS0  ET
1ax: 248551                                                                          P.(. BOX)( 78)9
ESwi: m"ei  Wb=bnrLw.ks                                                                 MAPROM KIRYA
Wbcn rpt;lyih$ pitaitPo0e
Rp?: NBS/oON'FIOtII WVoIYI1
Ref. Nil.a...   .................... -..
Daec      1'79"Januay, 2001
Ns. Ingar Aodcyficn
Partership Co-ordijislor
(tNDP World Bank
fnt0MtUoflal Waters Patnership
WcthflngtOfl DC,
-ax 020 522 0361?
F+iall j ag  kS0fr-So        en- lnderson l@worldbasflkorg
IUi:         TNPORXSMENTLEfER FOK THIE "NIE TRANMSBOUNDARY
RNVIRIONMENTAL ACtIN PRAOECT"
VhoNatonil UW Opetiop   l Focal Poinlt (Kenya) bsu revimwed the uflaehod proposal cntitled
")HiSteTrmfboufldtry Uwvnonrnmnitol Action PMJcfct; which 1a one of the 7 precls ptepared
witlwi the Hilr Basin Initiativc's shard viSi ogram. Tht goventmntplM'fliibpfofity en
this pojtt This Ptosnl w   forilanId in o-opoitllm with UND)? amd World Bank as
partrnm in te WNilt Basin buiWative. Tho proposal hilt within the naboial devcIopinent and
environnt tpnoritim and the National GEP Opoentional Fool Poini (Kenia) tbnfmoitily
tndorses it.
'rIho punpost othis ttte thereforKe is to request the sipport of UMNP and World to facilitatc lie
relcowa of GEP funding for this imporlanl itialifl.
1*'C
Acting leeN
FOR PrMANT SECRETARY
C-C.   The arstdentPlR4esental4v
UNEIP
P   Ilox 3)552
NAIROBI (AflVN: &M     C. G. GCAAM)
Vt CoaatykOp)SSCfltatilre
World BYatl,l (Kenya)
Hill Park Bullding
tIpper 1III)
P 0 Box 30577
NAIROBI (ATFN: DR, R. KAGUAMBA)
- 187-



~~~~~fo (wnxJ            lost
.w'4 fi:0 aM    Wlqiaa    "D$1
Pi%7y;         16n Pk5dlm5 aeql jmnbshi ci st5 E>g 'leqiil vn4j. 1W asadind atl
'tM<-A aqD QIXOtLkDGq PMQ'D@ GUOIMAV4 01 0 F$ J W^Mk1i
PL- 5@-31.4d jUW14tbSAAi& pUO ;USLUCi10jV%i tM4M OU .0 Aill-l- qjP; 10Mdw OL
'0ItOOSq!u WflT UN Ea4.$ C 2J4.vr-d
WC) tN -PetM SL4tw-P 4oj N4wr. t4lA 01404 dOpuA A>V PTeOIE;40141 A0 'DW[OfJd SUD
4       dCINflv Jt031sd 59 pt4 lon!i  c4i uo -eG0310401 'seo1w Wiilowdin alaeY
-uffi@el~~~~~t=t 6)jNf ,k ,56:d u ill LLWH
PaJad'DJd 1OOdQ 0 S4LW 0u '491!6 PA0 ,IzfbDatd d@s.oj.u5  40 IttS OQQ1V
eW~~~~~~~~~~.,lP1U J..            06I!Iu  MIAQe; lP*VtasV,. 45em idsA  .q0  i u+ua
Et   J f3!CgJd LMUQ4OUV lUN fUc' JOUIep toZiqC,g  u eg LNet Lo Iavqjp OdO4;$U
@MIzItIU  U!0 90 % Wfl 1A5 U sU.p
~O P,QgPIc~ 041940 ~CIflU.~  ou*dC;Li tp43*01(14401 5DM 5oAI $un. 4j
j=gu  0DX  6^ a-
USOSOJd "5~ P~~S 11AitUOrUtKo' moVN @Vq:0
p.t,n5 t8lwauN t7Nt
OE.OFte-g 'E 1D{1Y                            ' ....
parndrl 54GUI0Z F'  5[ AILA/A tf2t!O1H~  4  8SiQ1'WU
*.  ~~socoa p~BpoeqBp      * ^OM        .LWUBO    a



Sudan
....   ...  .  .  .   ,   ..),. b3...M... ...   -
ThVe Chief lCecutivcl Ol*" r                     *- 444414Mt
The GLObal Esvironmentas Faculty                 i    ,
IisBIN H  treet JNWFO
Wasbingtun DX                                     't  ,A    -      .
htit (0A
$ubjttcV; Nile Ri"tr Dis-lYansbouula   - t
E n Ern me -S1jn
-getllre cc 2s made lo the abwve mcngeton4 diutject.
As you know, tho NilJ Rhver is oic of tihe worldks groaotev rtiheas and i% of
urteschtahble mic for its peoples-a resouice which jnet-s to bc held in
tf1OMt (or NMkor seUrt.ons. Ws  ble devel.pwrlot zod rnalntmnert of
tilt Nite Bf3aht PreaWO11Is * git  ciwll:Crgo and thzere mmain many
{npp,rlumlg.tNs ct gto%t1h and dtnvlowpne.nt for the M-tuse, bsiagi. ilia
peomn se of reg3oua1 lwuhinoly an4d congprmae dovelqv pn2yt,
I wishl to endorse die Cotvrnwcai of Sudan's support to the above
;ncn:ioncd subje4t for GE!- Fund, I (tiercrtC supporth; tboimptewutation
of ibis progranmue in Sudan
' 33ank you for your usua coooperatioo
r "VysinEsnM,bamtod
Foll Un 1.de.oetcAany,
Mmnsstry of luternationlal C.operelioo
C.il ^ Rci4jp; R45prent.itIv  1
U;;OF9 0C17nk, Jtbarteorn.
- 189 -



Tanzania
Ti-I- UNfiTID RkWUISIJC OP TANZANIA
Tcle4rMaflls: '1xtgA%atX                                      VlJCEPlRErImW'IlsN Sr, ( tr,
TeIe,p1ott- 11 3p J       138T                                        B.O x! o5380,
r. 1128UsSfl.                                                        1)A)  SALAANI,
In r01y pkaw.qtaol                                                       TANPANIA,
Osur Ref. No A .......$4.. 781200/0).-..                                  20 June, 2001
To:    Ms. Jlger Andersen
P,1t11ers,hip Coordiinator
UINDV- World Ba3nk bIterntionial
Waters Paltnership
wlasington DC
Fax: 202 522 0367
The Crovenmnti   of' l'anrznin has reviewed the -attached pmposal en.titied tNil e
'Tralbofladlty E;rnnimiental Actdon Project' whtliich is. one of 7 projects prepared witbin the
Nile Basin Inilaive's .shared Viioml Pragrain. The Govetninert plecat Iiigh pitority oni this
projcmt and has participaldd adtively*in its formulation.
This prolposal wvasrfonnXlulated in cocperntioen witlIh IN'P and) ilte WV'orld Rank as pawlners
in tlit2 llc NEasin Itnitiative. Th1e proposal falls withll 1he ndtiorl d6velol)n1et anld emviioiaewnt
pjnotities anid thie GoVehnmenl of Taift4nia is thcrefre jlexised to endorSe ltlo i ropM6a31.
The pIpose of this letter, illeftibre, is to tequlest the sipIort of UIN[OP ani lhe World
Bank to ftacilitate thec rcldzLse of (3EF funidiiig for this itnponajn iunitiatitve
Yours sincerely,
PERttMANENT sECRtrV
cc:    Mlr. Peter Nguinbulht
Pennaneti Socrmiar
M9foi&ty of Fitnance
DARt 3;S SAl4AAM
"      Mr. Jarntes W. Adams
Country Directlor
World Bank
DABR 3ES S4AAAM
Ms. Sally-Pegyan-W^ayles
kcsident-Agpeenatx
DAR ES SALAAM
- 190 -



Uganda
Telephones: Kamnpala 234700(5 (t lInes)                             Ministry of Finance,
2350511414 lines)                                         Planning and Economic
Fxa     Ka611pala 230163                                           Development,
Te,oR:   61170
Telegrams,: "'FlNS!C'`                                              P.O. Box 8147,
.1 any corresnNnilie on                                            Kampala.
'.fits subaocl pl4ase quote NXlo lSSIS8i65iE 1 12                   Uganda.
THE REPUtBUC OP UGANDA
26," JIn 200A .
lax. 202 $22 0367
Ms. Igoer Anderson.
1artnership Cooordinator.
tNM)P - World Bank International Wkaters P`artnership
WaYslhington I)C.
1)eaar Nladmn.m
IRE    RIEQOU EST  FTO    ( ;E  FUNRINQ: 1P011 T      E  N ILE  IThANSBOI1INI)DA 
RN'71    NN                    DERT            B    IN IN - A'     VE.
I.hc (Govellrnent of' Uganda has reviea-cd the aitittached proposal "Nil3e Transbouildaoy
Fnvironment Action Pr.ojiect", which is one of thec seven projects prepared cvithin tile Nile
Basin Initiative's Shared Vision Program. The p)ropositl has bweeni developed ivilh the aclivc
participation of 1l.e (lovernnicit, And fonitnlatrd iln coOpelitiol) witlh I INIDlP anld thle World
Bank as partners in tlhe Nilc Basin Iiitiative.. The Govut-oenI i;laCCs high priority on ibis
protect, wvhich wvill addess some of the l;r.y 1Jaidan concerns: draining of wetlands,
deforesianion, soilt erosion1, pollution of wvater bodies. The projecl, thberefore islls withinl thC
national development strategy, and the cciuntrve's environmental priorities. lIek Government
of Ugantla is pleased to cndorsc thc proposal.
Jhe purpose of this letter is tO requcst the suppon to UNDF and the World Bank to iceilitate
itie release of GFF lunds for ihis iniporiani initial ive.
Y ours sincerely.
For    PERMANTENT .Is, REcc                  AR      TO TI'   IrtVtSUnv'
CC.    T   Ch J)eniainent Secaetn.y -Ministnr of Watoe; Lands and Environment, K.4,11P, L4A.
c.c.   T'hc Representative. UNI)P, TAYPA LA.
- 191 -



Additional Annex 17: STAP Roster Technical Review
MILE BASIN INITIATIVE: Nile Transboundary Environmental Action Project
GE1F Scientiflc & Technical Advisory Panel (STAP)
STAP Technical Review
STAP Reviewer:
Dr. Jan 0. Lunqvist
Professor, Department of Water and Environmental Studies
Linkoping University, Sweden
Nile Transhoundary Environmental Action. Diraft GEF Project IBrief (GEIF-PIB)
1.    Overall limpression
I am quite impressed by the level of commitment among the riparians. I am also enthused by the
systematic and coordinated approach to tackle significant development and environmental
challenges that people in the Nile Basin face. Apart from the impressions conveyed by the
GEF-PB report and also the Transboundary Environmental Analysis (TEA), I have had the
opportunity to meet colleagues who have been involved in the Nile Basin Initiative (NBI). Their
description of the NBI concurs with the tone in the GEF-PB and TEA. Actually, I have heard no
arguments which contradict this overall impression. Needless to say, it is a huge project and risks
have been identified (p. 25-27).
2.    ReDevance & Priority
This project is a core component of the NBI and the Shared Vision Program. Human livelihoods,
mutual trust and the stability in this part of the world hinge on the possibilities to effectively deal
with negative environmental trends. If not abated and reversed, these trends represent mounting
threats especially to those who live off and on (marginal) lands and whose livelihood is directly
linked to environmental goods and services. To abate and reverse the negative trends, the
pertinent question is not so much who is affected but: what are the root causes behind the trends
and what measures are likely to be effective to foster sustainable development? In TEA, it is
argued that poverty tends to be seen as the general cause for environmental degradation while the
production and consumption of the non-poor account for most environmental impacts (p. 26 ff.).
In Annex 1 (pp 89 - 96 of GEF-PB) various root causes are listed; poverty is mentioned but
production and consumption aspects are missing. Irrespective of the relative significance of the
root causes, it is essential that both poverty and production and consumption issues are
addressed. It seems that performance benchmarks (p. 32-33) could be shaped so that project
progress is assessed in this regard. This is also motivated by the repeated argument that poverty
alleviation is a major objective of the NBI.
The GEF-PB is one out of seven basin-wide projects. I have not read documents elaborating on
the other six projects. Judging from the titles of the other six projects and the overall NBI, it is
clear that the Environmental Action Program supplements the other projects and vice versa; the
- 192 -



success of the GEF-PB depends on how well it is co-ordinated with other projects.
3.    Approach
By and large, the approach seems appropriate. It builds on cooperative activities in the region
during the last couple of decades. Obviously, considerable effort has been devoted to make it a
transparent and participatory process. An active involvement of representatives from political,
scientific and other groups in ten riparian countries in the preparation of the GEF-PB, is the best
guarantee for promoting confidence and creating a sense of ownership and commitment in the
region. It is, however, not clear from the report how far down in the society that ownership
extends. Involvement and commitment of civil society is usually tricky but decisive for the
outcome. It is reassuring that the entire project has explicitly emphasized an extensive
participation by a wide range of stakeholders (p. 28; Annex F).The setting up of a Microgrant
Fund which is supposed to target communities and smaller NGOs is a very relevant component
in this connection.
Institutional Strengthening is a key component in the project and it is also the component which
has been allocated the largest share of the budget. The four issues (pp. v and 16-19) which
together make up this component are all relevant. But from the text, it is not possible to see if all
relevant institutional issues are addressed. One important issue concerns title to land. Similarly,
the institutional and legal frameworks regulating water rights (and responsibilities) are critical in
this connection. Both in GEF-PB and TEA, there is a concern about the negative effects of
unclear tenure situations and the failure to enforce laws and regulations.
4.    Objectives
The objectives are valid and focused. It is satisfactory to see that considerable thought has been
given to integrate the various projects so that the NBI can be a coherent undertaking.
5.    Background and justification
From what I have read and heard, the project fits with national priorities and commitments. The
background information, as presented in the report, is relevant. I would have liked to see more
inforrnation about land tenure, formal and traditional water rights (and responsibilities) and to
what extent existing (national) environmental policies have worked. Similarly, subsidies on
agro-chemicals, pricing of water and regulation of resource utilisation in general are important
for an understanding of the dynamics of resource utilisation and environmental trends. Many of
these aspects are of a national concern rather than transboundary issues. Maybe that's why they
are not elaborated upon in this report.
6.    Government Commitment and Sustainability
I see no reason to doubt the commitment of Governments in the basin. Mechanisms have been
established in the region, and mandates have been identified, which will make it possible to
co-ordinate national efforts. The GEF-PB gives a clear overview of how regional mechanisms are
- 193 -



created. Grassroots actions are described in more general terms, for instance, in terms of
demonstration projects, activities at schools, etc. But as mentioned, there is a noticeable
commitment in the project to mobilise and support grassroots activities.
7.    Activities
Activities are organised to promote more effective basin-wide co-operation in five main areas.
During the first phase, two areas are in focus: institutional strengthening (component 1) and
water quality monitoring (component 5). It is quite logical to start with these two areas. Once the
benchmarks have been achieved, the second phase will be launched, consisting of three areas:
Community level land, forest and water conservation, Environmental education and awareness,
and Wetlands and biodiversity conservation.
Water quality monitoring should be linked to a project/program, which has the task to identify
the sources and the pathways of the polluting substances. To be effective, water quality
management must focus on the source of pollution or treatment before environmental damage
occurs. As indicated in the GEF-BP and TEA, there are a number of activities and sources behind
the pollution and the ensuing water quality degradation. In addition to pollution and sediment
load from rural based activities, it is likely that urban and industrial development and also
consumption patterns will play an increasing role. On page 25 it is mentioned that: "It is expected
that SAPs will design follow-on investment programs addressing specific water quality
interventions in the future". This is a kind of activity which is valid in the ambition to deal with
root causes.
8.    PIroject funding
I find it difficult to have any clear opinion about this. I note that this project will promote and
support the commencement of activities for many years to come and that the total budget for all
these activities is expected to be several billion US dollars (p. 47). I also note that the indicative
cost of GEF PB is US$39 million and that the request to GEF is for US$26.65 million (out of the
39). Some cost estimates are still not available (p. 40).
9.    Replicability
There are 261 trans-boundary (international) river systems in the world. For many of these, some
kind of agreement for collaboration exists, but in most cases, the institutional set-up is weak and
the national political commitment is not as strong as could have been desired. As far as I know,
bi-lateral collaboration is rather common but multi-lateral co-operation is less apparent.
Experiences from the NBI and especially the explicit concern for the linkages between
environmental issues and development aspirations, could be used in other basins. Every basin is
unique - in several aspects - but the principles and the approaches to overcome barriers are of
universal interest.
- 194 -



10.    Time Frame
The first phase runs over three years. It consists of the full implementation of two components
(point 7 above). At the end of year 3, an assessment of the achievements will be made against an
agreed list of benchmarks. Depending upon the outcome of this evaluation, the intention is to
submit a new proposal for project funding. - The time-table and procedure is reasonable.
11.   Global Environmental Benefits and Goals of the GEF
Yes, this project does definitely address issues, which qualify for GEF support. I do not foresee
any negative environmental effects. The opposite is probable.
12.   Rationale for GEF support
With reference to what has been discussed above, the project fits quite well within the overall
strategic thrust of the GEF-funded International Waters project activities and the GEF
Operational Strategy. The answers to the four bullets raised under this point are affirmative.
13.   Secondary Issues to be Addressed
The project has linkages to the biodiversity convention and there are a number of sites in the
Basin which are declared Ramsar sites. Stakeholder involvement has been discussed above. The
innovative character of the project is perhaps primarily related to the fact that the ideas that have
been a recurrent feature in discussions about sustainability have been translated into a coherent
program, which has been widely accepted. Quite an achievement!
One aspect, which is quite innovative but which unfortunately is not elaborated in the report,
concerns the essential idea: "sharing benefits not sharing water" (p. 34). Translating this idea into
policy is probably quite challenging. But for countries where competition for limited and
vulnerable water resources is more and more stiff, this idea is quite valid. -- The proposal to
establish micro-credits\is not new, but it is very promising tool to reach the "grassroots".
14. Additional comments
It is a constructive and systematic project, which I do hope will progress as anticipated.
Linkoping, September 6, 2001
- 195 -



Additional Annex 18: Response to STAP (and MA comments as appropriate)
NILE BASIN INITIATIVE: Nile Transboundary Environmental Action Project
The project preparation team is pleased with the STAP reviewer's strong endorsement of the
project. It is anticipated that the reviewer will remain involved in an advisory capacity during the
implementation phase of the project. The observations and comments provided in the review are
of very great relevance to the project.
o   Addressing production and consumption aspects of environmental degradation.
Production and consumption aspects are highlighted in the Agenda for Environmental Action
identified in the GEF funded TEA. The present project will address a priority subset of
actions of the Agenda. Production/consumption issues are addressed in the context of the
'water quality' component, as well as the 'land and water' and 'wetlands' components.
o   Land tenure, effectiveness of national environmental policies and effect of subsidies.
This is a key issue and will to a certain extent be addressed through the 'macro/sectoral
policies and the environment' (component 1). However, as also noted by the reviewer,
aspects on land tenure and related policy matters are best addressed at the national level
rather than in a transboundary context
Additional note: Under points 7 and 10 of the STAP review, the reviewer outlines the
components included under phase I and 2 of the project. This is a slight misundersianding, since
Phase will include components 1, 2, 3, and 5, while Phase 2 will include 1, 2, 3 and 4. This is
clarified in the Project Brief under the sub-heading: "A Program Approach".
- 196-



Additional Annex 19: Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet
NILE BASIN INITIATIVE: Nile Transboundary Environmental Action Project
Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet
Section I - Basic Information
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated June 2002
A. Basic Project Data
COUNTRY: Burundi, Congo, Egypt, Ethiopia,   PROJECT ID P070073
Kenya, Rwanda, Sudan, Tanzania, Uganda
PROJECT: Nile Transboundary Environmental Action  TTL: Inger Andersen
APPRAISAL DATE May 2002                     GEF AMOUNT ($m): 8.00
BOARD DATE: April 2003                      TOTAL AMOUNT ($m): 43.6
MANAGING UNIT: AFTUI                        SECTOR: General water,sanitation and flood
protection
LENDING INSTRUMENTS: GEF Grant IW                 STATUS: PAD
Portfolio / 0 P. 9
Project Objectives
The objective of this project is to provide a strategic environmental framework for the environmentally
sustainable development of the Nile River Basin, to improve the understanding of the relationship between
water resources development and environmental conservation in the Basin, and to provide a forum to discuss
development paths for the Nile with a wide range of stakeholders. Focusing on transboundary issues provides
the riparian countnes with a major opportunity to make significant progress towards their economic and
environmental goals in ways that have proved difficult to achieve independently.
This project will strengthen riparian cooperation and coordination by supporting a series of measures
focusing on various aspects of transboundary environmental management. Project activities include capacity
building, training, education and awareness raising, knowledge and information sharing, development of a
decision support system, communications, environmental monitorng and microgrant activities undertaken at
community levels. Diverse stakeholder groups will be encouraged to work together, both within their own
countries and with counterparts in other riparian countries, to help build the mutual understanding,
relationships and trust that are essential to joint problem-solving.
Project Description
The Nile countnes recognize that future development of the Basin must be environmentally sustainable
Identifying the environment and development synergies, and thus the sustainable development opportunities
in the Basin, has therefore emerged as a major priority. A Transboundary Environmental Analysis (TEA) has
been carned out by the Nile riparians with funding from GEF PDF resources and with support from UNDP
and the World Bank The TEA report constitutes a collective synthesis of basin-wide environmental trends,
threats and pnorities The TEA also identifies the elements of an Agenda for Environmental Action in the
Nile Basin, to be implemented over the next decade or more under the NBI's Strategic Action Program in
coordination with other development activities.
The project will take a programmatic approach and will implement a first set of priority actions identified
through the Agenda for Environmental Action in the TEA. It will encourage more effective basin-wide
stakeholder cooperation on transboundary environmental issues by supporting priority actions through the
following project components, which will be funded through World Bank and UNDP resources respectively
1. Institutional Strengthening to Facilitate Regional Cooperation (Phases 1 & 2)
I Regional capacity building for transboundary environmental management (UNDP)
1.2 Knowledge management                                         (World Bank)
1.3 Decision Support System - River Basin Model                  (World Bank)
1.4 Macro/sectoral policies and the environment                  (World Bank)
- 197-



2. Land, Forest and Water Conservation (Phases I & 2)              (UNDP & World Bank)
3. Environmental Education and Awareness (Phases 1 & 2)            (UNDP)
4. Wetlands and Biodiversity Conservation (Phase 2)               (UNDP & World Bank)
5. Water Quality Monitoring Basin-wide (Phase 1)                   (World Bank)
The World Bank supported areas are highlighted above. The key elements of these components are:
Component 1 - Institutional Strengthening to Facilitate Regional Cooperation
Sub-Component 1.2 - Knowledge management (GEF/WB). This component will provide key project
participants and other stakeholders with improved access to relevant environmental and resource management
information as well as enhanced abilities to communicate with one another. Project activities will facilitate
the establishment of basin-wide environmental communication email/intemet, establish and maintain an
electronic environmental knowledge base and repository for resources and documents and publish an
environmental SVP electronic newsletter and establish a website.
Sub- Component 1.3 - Decision Support System(DSS) and River Basin Modeling (GEF/WB). This
component will afford a substantial learning process and support improved decision making by developing a
basin-wide decision support system (DSS), including a Riyer Basin Model. This first participatory,
basin-wide development effort of the River Basin Model aims at a simplified representation of the Basin's
hydrology and nver system behavior based on available data. The model will allow assessments of potential
future impacts of collaborative projects that may have transboundary implications, and will provide
quantitative river flow information to support more detailed environmental assessments.
Sub-Component 1.4 - Macro and Sectoral Policies and the Environment (GEF/WB). This component will
encourage strengthening of national policies that affect environmental conservation, as a component of
sustainable economic development and as a key step towards a more informed environmental policy debate.
Project activities will support a regionalltransboundary study of the national and intemational policies
determining the patterns of economic development and environmental change in at least three of the riparian
states (in coordination with the SVP Benefit-sharing/Integration project).
Component 2 - Community Level Land, Forest, and Water Conservation. This component includes
regional institutional strengthening and support to national NGO networks (Sub-Component 2.1 -
GEF/UNDP); and rapid soil erosion studies that build on the basin-wide transboundary environmental
analysis (Sub-Component 2.2 - GEF/UNDP). These activities will complement the community-level actions
to be financed by a Nile Transboundary Microgrant Program (Sub-Component 2.3 - GEF/UNDP; NBTF/WB
Canadian CIDA contribution - Phases I & 2). The community-based microgrants (not exceeding $25,000
per grant) will support pilot activities at selected transboundary sites to demonstrate the feasibility of
local-level approaches to land and water conservation, including mitigation actions for soil erosion,
desertification, non-point source pollution and invasive water weeds.
Component 4 - Wetlands and Biodiversity Conservation (GEF/UNDP and NBTF/WB - Phase 2). This
component will improve the understanding and awareness of the role of wetlands in supporting sustainable
development and improve management at three transboundary wetlands and cross-border protected areas to
be selected in Phase 2 of the project. The project component will build on the significant number of
nationally-focused wetland conservation and management initiatives in the Nile Basin. Networks based on
existing centers of knowledge and experience will be established The project will help provide a
transboundary overlay and set of perspectives to complement national conservation activities
Component 5 - Water Quality Monitoring (GEF/WB). This component will make an important contribution
to improving water quality monitoring across the Nile Basin. Capacities for water quality vary widely in the
Basin and this component will help upgrade the skills and capacities of key stakeholders. One essential
outcome will be the establishment of standard analytical methods and improved capacities to monitor a
limited number of key water quality parameters using uniform analytical methods across the Basin.
Additionally, cost recovery options for water quality monitoring and possibilities of creating incentives for
pollution prevention will be better understood. Improved water quality information will enable better decision
- 198-



making by governments and other resource users, particularly with respect to transboundary environmental
management. A limited basin-wide water quality monitonng program at selected enviromnental hotspots of
transboundary significance will be initiated.
Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key environmental and social characteristics
of the area and population likely to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites or critical
natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
The proposed project involves all the Nile Basin riparian countries (Burundi, Congo, Egypt, Ethiopia, Eritrea,
Kenya, Rwanda, Sudan, Tanzania, Uganda). Maps outlining the Nile Basin area, areas of critical
environmental threats as well as critical habitats have been prepared and are appended to the GEF brief as
well as the Transboundary Environmental Analysis report. The maps will be appended to the PAD.
B. Check Environmental Classification A [ ], B [ }, C [X], Fl [ ], TBD [ ]
Comments. The project enhances transboundary cooperation and environmental quality. Training,
networking, improving the management of ecologically sensitive areas and information management are
among the major activities of the project. The World Bank funded components will strengthen environmental
capacities and awareness through (i) enhanced information exchange, NGO networking and community level
capacity building, (ii) better understanding and broader awareness of the role of wetlands in supporting
sustainable development, and (mi) common analytical methods and transboundary information exchange for
water quality monitoring Resources will be made available through a Microgrant Fund for community
actions (grants< $20-25,000) for improved local land management, water weed control, soil conservation,
and land and water degradation control. The activities will be implemented at community and village levels.
Screening for environmental and social aspects will be part of the grant application process
C Applicability of Safeguard Policies (from PDS)
Click on Policy name for brief summary of objectives, triggers and requirements
Click on Policy reference number for full policy
Yes    No      TBD
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)                    [ ]    [X]     [I 
Forestry (OP/GP 4.36)                                       [ ]    [XI     [I]
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)                               [ ]    [X]     [ ]
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                 I1     [XI     I I
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                   []     [X]    [I]
Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4 30)                          [1     [XI     I 1
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                []     [X]    [I 
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                               [      [XI     [I 
Projects in Disputed Territories (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*           [ ]    [X]     [I]
Projects in International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)        [ ]     [XI    [I 
* By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the
parties'claims on the disputed areas
- 199 -



Section i1 - Key Safeguard Ifssues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions. If information is not available, describe
steps to be taken to obtain necessary data.
1. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project
There are no anticipated safeguard issues associated with the project.
2. Identify and descnbe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts. Descnbe any
potential cumulative or long termn impacts.
N/R
3. In light of I and 2, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if required)
N/R
4. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
The Nile Basin countries are committed to demonstrate excellence in implementing cooperative projects.
Intensive EA training has taken place in most of the Basin countries and enhancing capacity on all aspects of
project cycle management, including EA, in a transboundary context is additionally addressed within a major
component of another basin-wide project, the Water Resources Planning and Management Project.
5. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and disclosure on safeguard
policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people.
The project PAD including the ISDS will be made available through the World Bank Info Shop, will be
available from the Nile Basin Secretanat and through each National Shared Vision Program office which will
be coordinating activities of all Nile Basin Initiative basin-wide projects on the National level. The GEF
project bnef has been posted on the website of the GEF Secretariat All key documentation will be available
in English and French, the two agreed languages within the Nile Basin Initiative.
The following documents have been made available on websites or in printed versions during project
reparation:
Document                           Published through                   Date
Transboundary Environmental Analysis  GEF; hundreds of copies made available  5/2001
through the Nile-TAC members, UNDP
country offices/WB resident missions,
and distribution to donors and other
interested individuals; copies available
upon request through the GEF/WB and
GEF/[NDP
GEF Project Brief (draft)          Printed copies distributed at the ICCON  5/2001 (print);
meeting and through mailings; posted on  10/2001 (website)
NBI website
www.nilebasin.org
SVP overview of projects           NBI website                         4/2001
www.nilebasin.org
Project Information Document (PID)  WB Infoshop (PIC)                   9/2001; 4/2002
(updated)
Integrated Safety Data Sheet (ISDS)  WB Infoshop (PIC)                  9/2001; 3/2002
(updated)
GEF Project Bnef (final)           GEF website                          11/2001
(work program submission)          www.gefweb.org; document location
(Council work program Dec. 2001):
http://www.gefweb.org/Documents/Council
Documents/GEF_Cl 8/Regional_Nile_Tra
nsboundary Environmental.pdf
- 200 -



General Procurement Notice          UN Development Business and           5/2002
Development Gateway's dgMarket.
Extensive participation by a wide range of stakeholders is an explicit emphasis of the entire project. A rang
of stakeholders have already participated in the national consultation processes linked to the Transboundar
Environmental Analysis, and the implementation of the project will build on these contacts and relationships.
Significant project components aim to broaden and deepen stakeholder involvement in environmnental
management. The basin-wide Working Groups that will coordinate each of the project components will all
include a range of stakeholder representatives. Local stakeholders, especially communities and smaller
NGOs, are explicitly targeted beneficiaries for some of the components. A wide range of stakeholders is also
expected to be involved in and benefit from the information and knowledge management component as well
as the environmental education and awareness program. Representatives of major stakeholder groups will als
have opportunities to participate in monitoring and evaluating the project
E. Safeguards Classiflcation (select one). Category is determined by the highest impact in any policy. Or on basis o
cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards. Whenever an individual safeguard policy is triggered the provisions of that
policy apply
[ ] Sl. - Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or significant technical and institutional nsks in
management of one or more safeguard areas
( ] S2. - One or more safeguard policies are tnggered, but effects are limited in their impact and are
technically and institutionally manageable
[X] S3. - No safeguard issues
[ ] SF - Financial intermediary projects, social development funds, community driven development or similar
projects which require a safeguard framework or programmatic approach to address safeguard issues
F. Disclosure Requirements
Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management Plan:
Date of receipt by the Bank                   . . ./. .1...  or N/A
Date of "in-country" disclosure                ...! /. .     or N/A
Date of subrmssion to InfoShop                  ..!...       or N/A
For category A projects, date of distributing the Executive
Summary of the EA to the Executive Directors  . . ./. .1...  or N/A
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework:
Date of receipt by the Bank                   . . ./ ...     or N/A
Date of "in-country" disclosure               . / ...        or N/A
Date of submission to InfoShop                .. ./.../ .    or N/A
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:
Date of receipt by the Bank                   . . ./.. ./...  or N/A
Date of "in-country" disclosure               ...1 . ./...   or N/A
Date of submission to InfoShop                . . ./.../...  or N/A
Pest Management Plan:
Date of receipt by the Bank                   ... ./......   or N/A
Date of "in-country" disclosure               . .l.  .        or N/A
Date of submission to InfoShop                .../ ...        or N/A
Dam Safety Management Plan:
Date of receipt by the Bank                   . . ./.. ./...  or N/A
Date of "in-country" disclosure               .. .l ...       or N/A
Date of submission to InfoShop                . ./.. /...    or N/A
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please explain why.
Signed and submitted by.
Task Team Leader:                             Name Inger Andersen   Date: June 7, 2002
Project Safeguards Specialist I:              Name: Astrid Hillers  Date: June 7, 2002
Project Safeguards Specialist 2:              Name                  Date'
- 201 -



Project Safeguards Specialist 3:             Name                  Date.
Approved by:
Deputy Regional Safeguards Coordinator       Name: Serigne Omar Fye Date: June 19, 2002
Acting Sector Manager                        Name: Alain Locussol  Date: June 7, 2002
- 202 -



Additional Annex 20: Summary of GEF Co-Financing
NILE BASIN INITIATIVE: Nile Transboundary Environmental Action Project
Summary of GEF Co-Financing'
The GEF-funded environment component of the Shared Vision Program, the Trans- boundary
Environmental Action Project, forms a major part of the larger Nile Basin Initiative (NBI)
portfolio of projects. The NBI program today consists of seven regional (9-country) basin-wide
projects (the Shared Vision Program) as well as sub-basin level investment projects (the
Subsidiary Action Program). Both these programs are supported by a large and evolving donor
consortium and the majority of donor resources in support of the NBI are provided through a
World Bank managed Trust Fund, the Nile Basin Trust Fund (NBTF). The Environment
Component is one of the seven Shared Vision Program projects (the current Phase 1 is funded by
GEF and CIDA).
The Nile Basin Trust Fund (TF 027862) is a multi-donor Trust Fund supporting the Shared
Vision Program implementation and also project preparation on the sub-basin scale (the
Subsidiary Action Programs). Currently, Canada, Denmark, the Netherlands, Norway, Sweden
and the United Kingdom as well as the African Development Bank are all supporting the NBI
through the NBTF, while Finland, Japan, the African Development Bank, the Global
Environment Facility, and the World Bank are supporting the NBI outside the NBTF. For the
purposes of this project the total program co-financing through the NBTF will be 82.5 million.
The funding of the Nile Transboundary Environmental Action Component is summarized below
(three resource types). The GEF is financing the incremental costs needed to remove barriers to
regional enviromnental conservation and sound natural resources use as outlined in detail in the
Incremental Cost Analysis (Annex 4 of World Bank PAD and Annex 1.7 of the UNDP Project
Document).
1. GEF Resources'
Phase 1 (present proposal)
-     GEF/WB                                           $8.0 million
-     GEF/UNDP                                         $8.8 million
Sub-total Phase 1                                         $ 16.8 million
Phase 2
-     GEF/IJNDP                                        $9.7 million
Sub-total Pase 2                                           $9.7 million
GEF-total                                                     $26.5 million
2. Nile Country Contributions - Contributions (cash and in-kind) by the Nile riparian countries
are US$4.3 million (see PAD Annex 2 - Appendix E).
- 203 -



3. Total co-rinancin' of Council approved Transboundarv Environment Action Component of
the Shared Vision Prog'ram.:
NBIVSVP Socio-Economic Development                           $1 1.0 million
Water Resources Planning and Management                      $21.7 million
Nile River Basin Cooperative Framework (UNDP)5                $3.9 million
NBI/SVP Efficient Water Use for Agriculture                   $5.0 million
NBI/SVP Confidence Building &
Stakeholder Involvement                                      $15.0 million
NBI/SVP Applied Training                                     $20.0 million
Sub-total other basin-wide program                           $ 76.6 million
NBI/SVP Transboundary Environmental Action                   $12.8 million
Co-financing-total                                           $89.4 million
4. The funding sources for the GEF Project (UNDP and World Bank) can be summarized in
various sub-totals in accordance with the institutional project format requirements of the
agencies (see PAD cover page, UNDP signature page, and Incremental Cost Analysis). The
numbers provided below will facilitate comparison between the GEF Project Brief, World Bank
PAD and UNDP Project Document:
Total of Transboundary EnvironmentalAction SVIP component $ 43.6 million
(GEF+Nile country contributions+ NBI/SVP Transboundary Environmental Action
co-financing)
Nile country contributions + basin-wide program Co-financing $ 93.7 million
GEF + basin-wide program Co-financing                 $115.9 million
(Incremental Costs without Nile country contributions)
GEF+ Nile Countries + basin-wide program Co-financing  $120.2 million
(Incremental Costs with Nile country contributions)
- 204 -



5. Financing Summary:
GEF (Phase 1)                                                      (in $US million)
GEF/UNDP                                                                 8.80
GEF/WB                                                                   8.00
GEF PDF Block B                                                          0.35
GEF- Total                                                              17.15
Co-finance for SVP Program
NBTF (TF 027862)                                                         82.5
Germany                                                                  3.00
UNDP                                                                     3.90
Subtotal                                                                 89.4
Nile Country contributions                                               4.30
Co-finance total                                                         93.7
Total SVP Program                                                       110.85
Footnotes:
I This co-financing is labeled parallelfinancing in UNDP administrative terms and reflected in the UNDP project
document (see signature page 25 in UNDP project document)
2 Total GEF/UNDP contribution (Phases 1 and 2) would be $ 18.49 million - UNDP will make a second
submissionforphase 2funding
3 See GEF-Brief; Donor contributions only
4 Germany is contributing $US 3 million within this area
5 Consists of two UNDP allocation of $US 0.4 and 3.9 million.
6 This includes only the current Phase 1 GEF contribution and does not include non-relevant SVP components.
- 205 -






MAP SECTION






ME ITERRANEAN SEA  EtA  13W X                   41
-  TRAP.SEOUNDRV ENV1iROMENTAL -1G
ONSILEN ACIVITES  A I
ACTIOTEES DE CONSERPATION
ENWRONNEMENTAEE ERANSPRONTIERES
$5 t , RE~AS MIMPRTANT FOR RIOTIVERSITY TAUNAGEMENT 
ZONES ETMPORTANCE POUR LA GESTION DE LA EIOUIPERSEM AI
* IMPORTANT WETLAND AREAS
ZONES HLEMIDET DIMPORTANEI                 Shg-
COAV SER CONSAERATIO
EU]AREAS SUSCET AIRETO WATER WEED INFESTAkTION  0I                                                ---      -
ZONESSU)RTrESALE'INFPRTEATIONPAR LET    El-KIlRIgO                                      -.
SOIL EROSION                          AA
EROSION EEL 5TO                     tAEL                                         -
5__  SrAOREPUJELIC
-. SIEFATIONI 
A REFUGEES                           CF EG..AT                    I
F 1 NATIONAL PARES (N P I WIEDUFE RESERVES (W El,   -  4  .   
AND PROTECTED AREAS
PAREVS NATIONATUX (NFP, RESERV/ES PAUNIOUES fWE R                           RED SEA
RE AIRES PROTEGEES                                           -
DROUGHT PRONE AREAS                    II'
ZONEES SUJEITES AVE SECHERE5TSE
CLFLOOD PRONE AREAS
---ZONES EPOUEEES/AUXAA MERUERU
ZODEWS HU,D5WASHREI
AKET ROU7VERT PRINCIPAU
TRLECED CITIES
N AUTIOILALCAUTALS                          -
RIIOll  OR  AWA                                 - **~~~~~~~~~ih.H.  I 
Al   2RI, NE. RVE  O   RIROIO  O   MRo1E
V~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~lC- AE  ,  IAn
TUV EL..~~~~~~~~~~17.A,D
CETE     AL -_;.t
K~~~~~~
It                           I
DEMOCRATI  it. 1.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-P~DW
REUB ECPUBUC-~-                                                                     W
OFCONGO                        I                     A~                   A                      INIA
OC EAN
~~~~~~TA ~ ~ ~  ~    EsTo
Eoe-                   Rl



