Report No. 23861
Report No: I070073 <--Please check for duplicates!
Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Updated)
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 03/20/2002
Section I - Basic Information
A. Basic Project Data
Country: AFRICA Project ID: P070073
Project: Nile Transboundary Environmental Action Project          Task Team Leader:
Inger Andersen
Authorized to Appraise Date: April 5, 2002        IBRD Amount ($m):
Bank Approval: June 20, 2002     IDA Amount ($m):
Managing Unit: Nile Team         Sector: VY - Other Environment
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)        Status: PAD
I.A.2. Project Objectives:
The objective of this project is to provide a strategic environmental
framework for the environmentally sustainable development of the Nile
River Basin, to improve the understanding of the relationship between
water resources development and environmental conservation in the Basin,
and to provide a forum to discuss development paths for the Nile with a
wide range of stakeholders. Focusing on transboundary issues provides the
riparian countries with a major opportunity to make significant progress
towards their economic and environmental goals in ways that have proved
difficult to achieve independently.
This project will strengthen riparian cooperation and coordination by
supporting a series of measures focusing on various aspects of
transboundary environmental management. Project activities include
capacity building, training, education and awareness raising, knowledge
and information sharing, development of a decision support system,
communications, environmental monitoring and micro-grant activities
undertaken at community levels. Diverse stakeholder groups will be
encouraged to work together, both within their own countries and with
counterparts in other riparian countries, to help build the mutual
understanding, relationships and trust that are essential to joint
problem-solving.
I.A.3. Project Description:
The Nile countries recognize that future development of the Basin must be
environmentally sustainable. Identifying the environment and development
synergies, and thus the sustainable development opportunities in the
Basin, has therefore emerged as a major priority. A Transboundary
Environmental Analysis (TEA) has been carried out by the Nile riparians
with funding from GEF PDF resources and with support from UNDP and the
World Bank. The TEA report constitutes a collective synthesis of
basin-wide environmental trends, threats and priorities. The TEA also
identifies the elements of an Agenda for Environmental Action in the Nile
Basin, to be implemented over the next decade or more under the NBI's
Strategic Action Program in coordination with other development activities.
The project will take a programmatic approach and will implement a first
set of priority actions identified through the Agenda for Environmental
Action in the TEA. It will encourage more effective basin-wide stakeholder



cooperation on transboundary environmental issues by supporting priority
actions through the following project components, which will be
implemented by the World Bank and UNDP respectively:
1. Institutional Strengthening to Facilitate Regional Cooperation
1.1 Regional capacity building for transboundary environmental management
(UNDP)
1.2 Knowledge management (World Bank)
1.3 Decision Support System - River Basin Model (World Bank)
1.4 Macro/sectoral policies and the environment (World Bank)
2. Land, Forest and Water Conservation (UNDP)
3. Environmental Education and Awareness (UNDP)
4. Wetlands and Biodiversity Conservation (UNDP)
5. Water Quality Monitoring Basin-wide (World Bank)
The World Bank supported areas are highlighted above. The key elements of
these components are:
Component 1 - Institutional Strengthening to Facilitate Regional
Cooperation
Sub-Component 1.2 - Knowledge management (World Bank/GEF). This component
will provide key project participants and other stakeholders with improved
access to relevant environmental and resource management information as
well as enhanced abilities to communicate with one another. Project
activities will facilitate the establishment of basin-wide environmental
communication email/internet, establish and maintain an electronic
environmental knowledge base and repository for resources and documents
and publish an environmental SVP electronic newsletter and establish a
website.
Sub- Component 1.3 - Decision Support System(DSS) and River Basin
Modeling 1 (World Bank/GEF). This component will afford a substantial
learning process and support improved decision making by developing a
basin-wide decision support system (DSS), including a River Basin Model.
This first participatory, basin-wide development effort of the River Basin
Model aims at a simplified representation of the Basin's hydrology and
river system behavior based on available data. The model will allow
assessments of potential future impacts of collaborative projects that may
have transboundary implications, and will provide quantitative river flow
information to support more detailed environmental assessments.
Sub-Component 1.4 - Macro and Sectoral Policies and the Environment (World
Bank/GEF). This component will encourage strengthening of national
policies that affect environmental conservation, as a component of
sustainable economic development and as a key step towards a more informed
environmental policy debate. Project activities will support a
regional/transboundary study of the national and international policies
determining the patterns of economic development and environmental change
in at least three of the riparian states (in coordination with the SVP
Benefit-sharing/Integration project).
Component 2 - Community Level Land, Forest, and Water Conservation. This
component includes regional institutional strengthening and support to
national NGO networks (Sub-Component 2.1 - UNDP/GEF); and rapid soil
erosion studies that build on the basin-wide transboundary environmental
analysis (Sub-Component 2.2 - UNDP/GEF). These activities will complement
the community-level actions to be financed by a Nile Transboundary
Microgrant Fund (Sub-Component 2.3 - UNDP/GEF; World Bank/NBTF Canadian
CIDA contribution - Phases 1 & 2). The community-based microgrants (not
exceeding $25,000 per grant) will support pilot activities at selected
- 2 -



transboundary sites to demonstrate the feasibility of local-level
approaches to land and water conservation, including mitigation actions
for soil erosion, desertification, non-point source pollution and invasive
water weeds.
Component 4 - Wetlands and Biodiversity Conservation (UNDP/GEF and World
Bank/NBTF - Phase 2). This component will improve the understanding and
awareness of the role of wetlands in supporting sustainable development
and improve management at three transboundary wetlands and cross-border
protected areas to be selected in Phase 2 of the project. The project
component will build on the significant number of nationally-focused
wetland conservation and management initiatives in the Nile Basin.
Networks based on existing centers of knowledge and experience will be
established. The project will help provide a transboundary overlay and set
of perspectives to complement national conservation activities.
Component 5 - Water Quality Monitoring (World Bank/GEF). This component
will make an important contribution to improving water quality monitoring
across the Nile Basin. Capacities for water quality vary widely in the
Basin and this component will help upgrade the skills and capacities of
key stakeholders. One essential outcome will be the establishment of
standard analytical methods and improved capacities to monitor a limited
number of key water quality parameters using uniform analytical methods
across the Basin. Additionally, cost recovery options for water quality
monitoring and possibilities of creating incentives for pollution
prevention will be better understood. Improved water quality information
will enable better decision making by governments and other resource
users, particularly with respect to transboundary environmental
management. A limited basin-wide water quality monitoring program at
selected environmental hotspots of transboundary significance will be
initiated.
(Footnote 1 - Key components of the DSS development process include: (a)
strengthening of the institutional framework and human capacity for DSS
development and application; (b) development and application of a regional
Nile River Basin planning model; and (c) establishment of guidelines for
relevant data and information. The total costs of the DSS development are
estimated to be US$21 million US (out of the total costs of the Water
Resources Planning and Management project of US$28 million). This GEF
project will support the River Basin Model component of the DSS (US$6.3
million). The remaining components of the DSS will be funded from
different sources.)
I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key
environmental and social characteristics of the area and population likely
to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites or critical
natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
The proposed project involves all the Nile Basin riparian countries
(Burundi, Congo, Egypt, Ethiopia, Eritrea, Kenya, Rwanda, Sudan,
Tanzania, Uganda). Maps outlining the Nile Basin area, areas of critical
environmental threats as well as critical habitats have been prepared and
are appended to the GEF brief as well as the Transboundary Environmental
Analysis report. The maps will be appended to the PAD.
B. Check Environmental Classification: C (Not Required)
Comments: Comments: The project enhances transboundary cooperation and
-3 -



environmental quality. Training, networking, improving the management of
ecologically sensitive areas and information management are among the
major activities of the project. The World Bank managed components will
strengthen environmental capacities and awareness through (i) enhanced
information exchange, NGO networking and community level capacity
building, (ii) better understanding and broader awareness of the role of
wetlands in supporting sustainable development, and (iii) common
analytical methods and transboundary information exchange for water
quality monitoring. Resources will be made available through a Microgrant
Fund for community actions (grants< $20-25,000) for improved local land
management, water weed control, soil conservation, and land and water
degradation control. The activities will be implemented at community and
village levels. Screening for environmental and social aspects will be
part of the grant application process.
C. Safeguard Policies Triggered
Policy Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)         No
Forestry (OP/GP 4.36)    No
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)    No
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)      No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)        No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)    No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)     No
Cultural Property (OP 4.11)      No
Projects in Disputed Territories (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*         No
Projects in International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)       No
*By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice
the final determination of the parties' claims on the disputed areas
Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions.
If information is not available, describe steps to be taken to obtain
necessary data.
II.D.la. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the
proposed project. Identify and describe any potential large scale,
significant and/or irreversible impacts.
There are no anticipated safeguard issues associated with the project.
II.D.lb. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of
more than one safeguard policy or due to multiple project component.
N/R
II.D.lc Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future
activities in the project area.
N/R
II.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if
required)
N/R
II.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
The Nile Basin countries are committed to demonstrate excellence in
implementing cooperative projects. Intensive EA training has taken place
in most of the basin countries and enhancing capacity on all aspects of
- 4 -



project cycle management, including EA, in a transboundary context is
additionally addressed within a major component of another basin-wide
project, the Water Resources Planning and Management Project.
II.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for
consultation and disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on
potentially affected people.
The project PAD including the ISDS will be made available through the
World Bank Info Shop, will be available from the Nile Basin Secretariat
and through each National Shared Vision Program office which will be
coordinating activities of all Nile Basin Initiative basin-wide projects
on the National level. The GEF project brief has been posted on the
website of the GEF Secretariat. All key documentation will be available in
English and French, the two agreed languages within the Nile Basin
Initiative.
Extensive participation by a wide range of stakeholders is an explicit
emphasis of the entire project. A range of stakeholders have already
participated in the national consultation processes linked to the
Transboundary Environmental Analysis, and the implementation of the
project will build on these contacts and relationships.
Significant project components aim to broaden and deepen stakeholder
involvement in environmental management. The basin-wide Working Groups
that will coordinate each of the project components will all include a
range of stakeholder representatives. Local stakeholders, especially
communities and smaller NGOs, are explicitly targeted beneficiaries for
some of the components. A wide range of stakeholders is also expected to
be involved in and benefit from the information and knowledge management
component as well as the environmental education and awareness program.
Representatives of major stakeholder groups will also have opportunities
to participate in monitoring and evaluating the project.
E. Safeguards Classification. Category is determined by the highest impact
in any policy. Or on basis of cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards.
Whenever an individual safeguard policy is triggered the provisions of
that policy apply.
I Si. - Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or
significant technical and institutional risks in management of one or more
safeguard areas
I S2. - One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are
limited in their impact and are technically and institutionally manageable
[XI S3. - No safeguard issues
I SF. - Financial intermediary projects, social development funds,
community driven development or similar projects which require a safeguard
framework or programmatic approach to address safeguard issues.
F. Disclosure Requirements Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management
Plan:   Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the ED
(For category A projects)
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework:      Expected         Actual
- 5 -



Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:   Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Pest Management Plan:    Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Dam Safety Management Plan:      Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected,
please explain why.
Signed and submitted by          Name    Date
Task Team Leader:        Inger Andersen  March.15, 2002
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:        Astrid Hillers/Person/World Bank    March 15, 2002
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:
Approved by:     Name    Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator:         Charlotte S. Bingham     March 18, 2002
Sector Manager/Director:         Alain R. Locussol        March 15, 2002
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
- 6 -



