Report No. PID10635
Project Name                     AFRICA-Nile Transboundary Environmental Action (@)
Project
Region                           Africa Regional Office
Sector                           General water; sanitation and flood protection
sector (100%)
Project ID                       P070073
Borrower(s)                      NILE BASIN INITIATIVE
Implementing Agency
NILE BASIN INITIATIVE
Address: Nile Basin Secretariat,
P.O. Box 192, Entebbe, Uganda
Contact Person: Mr. Meraji Msuya,
Executive Director
Tel: 256 41 32 13 29
Fax: 256 41 32 09 71
Email: nbisec@nilesec.org
Environment Category             C
Date PID Prepared                February 20, 2003
Auth Appr/Negs Date              May 10, 2002
Bank Approval Date               April 8, 2003
1. Country and Sector Background
Cooperative management of the Nile River Basin is one of the greatest
challenges of the global international waters agenda. The Nile has
enormous potential to foster regional social and economic development
through advances in food production, transportation, power production,
industrial development, environmental conservation and other related
activities. To realize this potential, the riparians have come to
recognize that they must take concrete steps to address current challenges
and that cooperative, sustainable development holds the greatest prospect
of delivering mutual benefits to the region.
A Shared Vision. In an historic effort, the ten countries of the Nile have
come together within the Nile Basin Initiative to realize a shared vision
"to achieve sustainable socio-economic development through the equitable
utilization of, and benefit from, the common Nile Basin water resources."
Recognizing the tremendous benefits that can be reaped from cooperation,
yet fully aware of the challenges ahead, the Nile countries have embarked
on a remarkable journey to translate their shared vision into concrete
activities and projects that will build confidence and capacity across the
Basin (the Shared Vision Program), as well as initiate concrete
investments and action on the ground at local levels (Subsidiary Action
Programs).
The Shared Vision Program (SVP) includes 7 projects as listed below. An
eighth project will strengthen the capacity of the NBI to execute
basin-wide projects and ensure the effective oversight and coordination of
the Program:



1. Nile Transboundary Environmental Action
2. Nile Basin Regional Power Trade
3. Efficient Water Use for Agricultural Production
4. Water Resources Planning and Management
5. Confidence-Building and Stakeholder Involvement (Communications)
6. Applied Training
7. Socio-Economic Development and Benefit-Sharing.
Investments at Sub-basin Levels. At the same time, groups of countries -
one in the Eastern Nile and the other in the Nile Equatorial Lakes region
- have identified joint investment opportunities. These Subsidiary Action
Programs (SAPs) will consist of investment projects that confer mutual
benefits at the sub-basin level, each involving two or more countries.
Identified areas of cooperation include irrigation and water use in
agriculture, hydropower development and power trade, watershed management,
flood and drought management and sustainable management of lakes and
wetlands.
SVP - Building Regional Cooperation Across Sectors and Themes. As a whole,
the Shared Vision Program aims to create an enabling environment for
cooperative management of the Nile Basin, and for development and
investment at the Basin and sub-basin levels. Though each project is
different in focus and scope, all contribute to building a strong
foundation for regional cooperation by supporting basin-wide engagement
and dialogue, developing common strategic and analytical frameworks,
building practical tools and demonstrations, and strengthening human and
institutional capacity. Together, they pave the way for the realization of
the Vision through investments on the ground within the Subsidiary Action
Programs.
Strengthening Transboundary Environmental Management. This project will
strengthen riparian cooperation and coordination by supporting a series of
measures focusing on various aspects of transboundary environmental
management. Project activities include capacity building, training,
education and awareness raising, knowledge and information sharing,
development of a decision support system, communications, environmental
monitoring and field activities at selected pilot sites. Diverse
stakeholder groups will be encouraged to work together, both within their
own countries and with counterparts in other riparian countries, to help
build the mutual understanding, relationships and trust that are essential
to joint problem-solving.
The Main Regional Sector Issues. The main regional sector issues, as well
as their relationship to SVP projects, are summarized below.
Utilization of Water Resources. Water resources are utilized at a high
level in parts of the Nile Basin, and, throughout, the availability of
water is highly variable both in space and in time. These factors result
in considerable water stress across much of the Basin. Population growth,
urbanization, poverty, and environmental threats exacerbate the problem of
stress. These problems are extremely difficult to tackle effectively if
treated in isolation. However, the challenges can be effectively met by
taking a collaborative and integrated approach to sustainable economic
development of Nile Basin resources. Real opportunities will only be
apparent through cross-sectoral win-win planning and broad-based
investment projects. Such development scenarios and benefit-sharing will
be explored within the SVP Socio-Economic Development and Benefit-Sharing
- 2 -



Project, while the Water Resources Management Project as well as the
Transboundary Environmental Action Project will provide the tools and
strengthen capacity for improved environment and water resources planning
and management. This will support effective analysis of potential
development options.
Institutional Capacity. The institutions involved in planning and
management vary widely across the Basin, in terms of size, funding,
capacity, and legal and institutional framework. Strong national
institutions are an important element in achieving regional cooperation
and the joint planning and management of the Nile Basin's shared resources
and transboundary environmental issues. The SVP projects aim to increase
institutional capacity at local, national, and regional levels.
Information. The networks, databases, and facilities needed to process and
analyze environment-related information are not well developed or are not
functioning effectively in most of the Basin countries. The data that do
exist are often inconsistent and scattered across several government
departments and are difficult to access both within and from outside the
countries. More accurate information for informed decision making and
priority setting at national, sub-regional and regional levels will be
critical as the level of cooperation increases. Integrated management of
Nile Basin resources and joint investment planning at the subsidiary
(sub-basin) level will depend upon access to reliable information, as well
as adequate modeling, decision support tools, a supportive national and
basin-wide knowledge base, and effective networking between professionals.
Within the SVP, the present project, the Water Resources Project, the
Confidence Building and Stakeholder Involvement Project, the Applied
Training Project and the SVP Coordination Project, will each address some
of these issues.
Domestic Water Supply and Sanitation. Access to safe drinking water and
adequate sanitation facilities is a major challenge in most of the Nile
riparian countries. Diarrhea is one of the major causes of sickness and
death among small children. This is frequently related to consumption of
drinking water and foods prepared with water polluted by discharge of
partially treated or untreated sewage, and is often compounded by
insufficient hygiene education. Significant improvements have been
achieved in Egypt in recent years through programs specifically addressing
these issues, yet in other parts of the Basin waterborne intestinal
diseases and death of the young, the very old, and vulnerable groups, such
as people living with HIV/AIDs, remain a problem. Successful development
and initiatives in this sector require the commitment of national/local
governments and utilities to undertake institutional, financial and
technical measures, including public- private partnership models and
investment in technologies, which respond to local needs and capacities.
The present project addresses public awareness raising with regard to
environmental pollution and health.
Irrigation. Agriculture is by far the largest water user in the Basin, and
is of great economic and social importance. Irrigated agriculture is found
mostly in the northern part of the Basin, while rain-fed agriculture
prevails in the southern and eastern parts. There is heavy reliance on
local food production in the Basin, and food security is an important
issue. Efficient water use in agriculture is being addressed within the
- 3-



SVP Efficient Water Use for Agricultural Production Project, while
training and knowledge sharing aspects will be addressed in the Applied
Training Project. Furthermore, the Socio-Economic Development and
Benefit-Sharing Project is taking a strategic approach through
scenario-building and macroeconomic analysis, which will necessarily
include the role of agriculture in the Basin's future.
Hydropower. While hydropower is relatively undeveloped in the Basin, power
demand is increasing rapidly and the limited availability of electricity
is constraining development. There is substantial potential for increased
development of reliable, low-cost power, for example through expansion of
hydropower production and through exploring opportunities for regional
power trade. These options are being examined in the SVP project entitled
Nile Basin Regional Power Trade.
Environmental Concerns. Significant environmental issues related to water
resources include land degradation, water quality protection, aquatic
weeds infestation, wetland protection, and extreme events. Land
degradation due to deforestation and cultivation on steep slopes has led
to losses of biologically important habitats, high rates of soil erosion,
and sedimentation of rivers, lakes, and reservoirs. Water quality problems
are increasing, with localized pollution from agriculture, industry,
mining and domestic effluent. The proliferation of aquatic weeds,
particularly water hyacinth, is having major adverse consequences. The
region contains some of the world's largest and most ecologically
important wetlands. Pollution and changes in flow regimes due to water
resources development could have major effects on the human use and
biodiversity conservation value of these ecosystems. Poverty and
population growth impose additional pressures on natural resources,
compounded by a lack of awareness of land-water interactions and the
functioning of critical ecosystems. Furthermore, large-scale flooding and
periodic devastating droughts are a very severe problem in most of the
Basin. While the priority environmental concerns in the Basin are
primarily being addressed within this Transboundary Environmental Action
Project, this project will be complemented by all of the SVP projects.
Participation and Public Awareness. Increased public awareness of the
importance of conserving water and other natural resources is urgently
needed. This will be addressed in one of the components of the present
project. National and Basin-wide communication programs are also required,
to create a culture of awareness of the opportunities for beneficial
cooperation in the Nile Basin. This will be addressed in the SVP
Confidence-Building and Stakeholder Involvement (Communication) Project.
Stakeholder participation, with particular sensitivity to gender issues
and the effective participation of women, is an important part of all of
the SVP projects.
2. Objectives
The Nile Basin Initiative. The Nile Basin Initiative (NBI) is a
transitional mechanism that includes the ten Nile riparian countries as
equal members in a regional partnership to promote economic development
and fight poverty throughout the Basin. The vision of the NBI is to
achieve sustainable socio-economic development through the equitable
utilization of, and benefit from, the common Nile Basin water resources.
- 4 -



The Nile Transboundary Environmental Action Project will support the
development a Basin-wide framework for actions to address high-priority
transboundary environmental issues within the context of the Nile Basin
Initiative's Strategic Action Program. UNDP and the World Bank will
jointly implement the project while continuing to draw on the comparative
advantage of each of the organizations.
Nile River Basin Transboundary Environmental Analysis. The key challenges
were identified and prioritized by a Transboundary Environmental Analysis
(TEA) that was conducted jointly by the Nile Basin States in preparation
for this project. The main objective of the TEA was to help translate
existing national environmental commitments and interests into regional
and Basin-wide analytical frameworks, priorities and, eventually,
basin-wide actions. The TEA was initiated by the Nile Basin countries in
December 1999 with funding from GEF PDF, UNDP and World Bank resources.
The full report was published in May 2001.
A Prioritized "Agenda for Environmental Action in the Nile Basin" emerged
from the TEA process and was incorporated in the TEA report. Consistent
with this Agenda, the Nile Transboundary Environmental Action Project will
(a) provide a forum to discuss development paths for the Nile with a wide
range of stakeholders, (b) improve understanding of the relationship
between water resources development and the environment, and (c) enhance
basin-wide cooperation. The Agenda for Environmental Action in the Nile
Basin will also be reflected in the capacity building and investment
programs of the Nile Basin Initiative in key social and economic
development sectors.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The external support provided to the NBI is critical to the success of the
SVP as well as the SAPs since the Bank, UNDP and other donor partners are
able to provide a wide range of practical experience from a series of
jointly implemented regional GEF programs (Baltic Sea, Black Sea, Danube
River Basin, Mediterranean Sea, Mekong River Basin, Lake Victoria, Red
Sea, etc.). The global support provided by GEF facilitates the
mobilization of regional efforts and resources to overcome barriers to
addressing the management of transboundary environmental issues. Without
the combined resources of the Bank, UNDP, GEF and donor partners,
implementation of the Agenda for Environmental Action would proceed at a
slower pace and would not fully benefit from the experience gained from
other regional environmental programs worldwide.
The recent Second Biennial GEF International Waters Conference, held in
Dalian, Liaoning Province, China, on September 25-29, 2002, demonstrated
that the UNDP and the World Bank are leading agencies in implementing GEF
International Waters Projects. Considerable in-house expertise and
internationally-based knowledge of the main issues relating to such
initiatives has been developed. While the Nile Basin Initiative is by far
the largest of the ongoing international waters initiatives at the moment,
it is noteworthy that currently the World Bank is involved in the
implementation and/or preparation of some twenty-three GEF International
Waters Projects in Africa, the Middle East, Latin America, Europe and
South East Asia.
-5-



4. Description
The project will encourage more effective basin-wide stakeholder
cooperation on transboundary environmental issues by supporting the
implementation of the actions prioritized by the TEA, in the following
areas:
1. Institutional Strengthening to Facilitate Regional Cooperation
(GEF/UNDP; GEF/WB and NBTF/WB)
2. Community-level Land, Forest and Water Conservation (GEF/UNDP and CIDA
through
NBTF/WB)
3. Environmental Education and Awareness (GEF/UNDP)
4. Wetlands and Biodiversity Conservation (GEF/UNDP and NBTF/WB)
5. Water Quality Monitoring Basin-wide (GEF/WB)
(Note: NBTF - refers to the Nile Basin Trust Fund)
The project has been designed with a phased approach. This is largely a
function of funding constraints present in the GEF. The five-year project
has therefore been divided into two GEF funding phases. All Bank GEF
components are fully funded from the initial GEF allocation and will be
completed within the 5 year time span of the full project. At the end of
the third project year, a second submission to the GEF will be made by
UNDP for the additional GEF resources required.
To prevent confusion, the component and sub-component numbering of the
present World Bank PAD is being kept as it was in the discussions with the
Nile countries, the Nile-SEC, the donors and UNDP.
The overview of project funding is summarized in the table below:
Project Funding Overview
GEF/
World Bank       NBTF    GEF/UNDP        Nile
countries       Total
8.0     12.8    8.8      4.3     33.9
9.7 (Phase 2)            9.7
8.0     12.8     18.5    4.3     43.6
The total incremental cost of the project is US$43.6 million, of which
the Bank will manage $20.7 million as follows:
GEF resources:      US$8.0 million
CIDA contribution to NBTF:     US$7.4 million
NBTF contribution (non-earmarked): US$2.7 million
Netherlands contribution to NBTF:    US$2.7 million (to be confirmed).
The Bank managed (GEF and NBTF funded) project components are described
below.
1. Institutional Strengthening
1.1 Regional Capacity Building (UNDP)
1.2 Knowledge Management (GEF/WB)
This component will provide key project participants and other
- 6 -



stakeholders with improved access to relevant environmental and resource
management information as well as enhanced abilities to communicate with
one another. Project activities will facilitate the establishment of
basin-wide environmental communication email/internet, establish and
maintain an electronic environmental knowledge base and repository for
resources and documents and publish an environmental SVP electronic
newsletter and establish a website.
1.3 Decision Support System - River Basin Model (GEF/WB and NBTF/WB)
This component will afford a substantial learning process and support
improved decision making by developing a basin-wide decision support
system (DSS), including a River Basin Model. This first participatory,
basin-wide development effort of the River Basin Model aims at a
simplified representation of the Basin's hydrology and river system
behavior based on available data. The model will allow assessments of
potential future impacts of collaborative projects that may have
transboundary implications, and will provide quantitative river flow
information to support more detailed environmental assessments.
1.4 Macro/Sectoral Policies and the Environment (GEF/WB)
This component will encourage strengthening of national policies that
affect environmental conservation, as a component of sustainable economic
development and as a key step towards a more informed environmental policy
debate. Project activities will support a regional/transboundary study of
the national and international policies determining the patterns of
economic development and environmental change in at least three of the
riparian states (in coordination with the SVP Benefit-sharing/Integration
project).
2. Land, Forests and Water Conservation (GEF/UNDP and NBTF/WB through CIDA
contribution)
This component includes regional institutional strengthening and support
to national NGO networks (GEF/UNDP); and rapid soil erosion studies that
build on the basin-wide transboundary environmental analysis (GEF/UNDP).
These activities will complement the community-level actions to be
financed by a Nile Transboundary Microgrant Fund (NBTF/WB). The
community-based microgrants (not exceeding $25,000 per grant) will support
pilot activities at selected transboundary sites to demonstrate the
feasibility of local-level approaches to land and water conservation,
including mitigation actions for soil erosion, desertification, non-point
source pollution and invasive water weeds.
3. Environmental Education and Awareness (GEF/UNDP)
4. Wetlands and Biodiversity Conservation (GEF/UNDP and possibly NBTF/WB -
phase 2)
This component will improve the understanding and awareness of the role of
wetlands in supporting sustainable development and improve management at
three transboundary wetlands and cross-border protected areas to be
selected in Phase 2 of the project. The project component will build on
the significant number of nationally-focused wetland conservation and
- 7 -



management initiatives in the Nile Basin. Networks based on existing
centers of knowledge and experience will be established. The project will
help provide a transboundary overlay and set of perspectives to complement
national conservation activities with transboundary relevance.
Component 5 - Water Quality Monitoring (GEF/WB).
This component will make an important contribution to improving water
quality monitoring across the Nile Basin. Capacities for water quality
vary widely in the Basin and this component will help upgrade the skills
and capacities of key stakeholders. One essential outcome will be the
establishment of standard analytical methods and improved capacities to
monitor a limited number of key water quality parameters using uniform
analytical methods across the Basin. Additionally, cost recovery options
for water quality monitoring and possibilities of creating incentives for
pollution prevention will be better understood. Improved water quality
information will enable better decision making by governments and other
resource users, particularly with respect to transboundary environmental
management. A limited basin-wide water quality monitoring program at
selected environmental hotspots of transboundary significance will be
initiated and be closely linked to other project components (Nile
Transboundary Microgrants component; Wetlands component).
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
BORROWER/RECIPIENT $3.55
IBRD
IDA
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY $8.00
NILE BASIN TRUST FUND $12.81
UN DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMME $18.49
NON-GOVERNMENT ORGANIZATION (NGO) OF BORROWING COUNTRY $0.75
Total Project Cost $43.60
6. Implementation
The Transboundary Environmental Action Project will be jointly implemented
by UNDP and the World Bank, each with its specialized expertise and
comparative advantage in the thematic areas of intervention. In keeping
with the decentralized implementation arrangements made for the SVP, each
of the seven SVP Projects will be executed by the Entebbe based Nile-SEC
through separate Project Management Units based in the Basin.
The Bank managed portion of the project will be executed by the Nile-SEC.
The Nile-SEC will contract the services of a Project Services Agency for
the implementation of the World Bank funded portion of the project. A
Project Management Unit (PMU) will be established in Khartoum, Sudan, for
the entire project. The PMU is funded through the UNDP managed and UNOPS
executed portion of the project. The PMU will provide technical and
managerial support to the Nile-SEC in overseeing the implementation of the
project, with a Thematic Lead Specialist recruited from the region to
coordinate each major project component. The PMU will consist of a
Regional Project Coordinator/Manager, Thematic Lead Specialists, and other
staff, including knowledge management, monitoring and evaluation,
- 8-



procurement and finance specialists. The PMU will report to a Project
Steering Committee, which will provide strategic guidance to the Unit.
One National Project Coordinator in each country will provide a critical
link between the Thematic Lead Specialists based in the PMU and the
national specialists and organizations involved in implementing the
various project components within the respective countries. Project
implementation will prioritize the participation of all key stakeholders,
including local and traditional communities, Ministries of Water,
Agriculture, and Forestry, NGOs, educational institutions, and private
sector organizations.
A Project Steering Committee will be established to provide oversight and
guidance to project implementation.
7. Sustainability
Project Ownership. Sustainability of project initiatives will greatly
depend on the approach adopted during project design and implementation.
First and foremost is the question of project ownership. Through a
resolutely participatory process of project design, every effort has been
made to ensure that riparian country stakeholders genuinely "own" the
project. Local communities, NGOs and the private sector have been engaged
in the national and local consultations underlying the Transboundary
Environmental Analysis. These and other key stakeholders will need to be
genuinely engaged in project implementation and encouraged to take on
ownership. Project ownership will also be demonstrated through continued
national commitment to the Nile Basin institutional set-up.
Tangible Benefits. The second important concern is whether the project
outcomes will indeed result in tangible benefits for the local communities
and farmers. It is recognized that the initial beneficiaries of the
project will be selected local communities, NGOs, educators, government
agencies and ministries, and the private sector. For long-term
sustainability, project benefits must reach policy makers, financial
planners and private sector investors. Incorporating regional experiences
at the national level will need to form an important element of this
strategy.
Regional Cooperation. Project sustainability will depend on the growing
Nile cooperation being maintained and strengthened among the Nile Basin
countries. There is among the riparians a strong commitment and a clear
notion of "crossing the Rubicon", a sense that so much has been invested
already that the Nile Basin Initiative, including the present project,
must succeed for the process to move forward. Regional commitment to the
process is high, with the specifics of the cooperation anchored in the
Policy Guidelines endorsed by the Nile Council of Ministers. The core
institutions governing the overall Nile Basin Initiative (Nile-COM,
Nile-TAC and Nile-SEC) as well as the Policy Guidelines have emphasized
the importance of transparent operational procedures, open communication
networks and information sharing as key principles to guide long-term
regional cooperation.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
-9-



Lessons learned from the NBI to date, from the region and from the broader
GEF international waters project portfolio, were reflected in project
design. The lessons that are of the greatest relevance to the project
include:
(a) Development of a shared vision. This important step allows development
and expression of a common overarching goal for cooperation and a common
view of the objectives of riparian involvement in a transboundary dialogue
and/or institution. Goals need to take full account of historical,
environmental, and socio-economic development constraints and
opportunities.
(b) Moving from challenges and constraints to opportunities. Long-term
conflict over scarce resources creates challenges, but also provides
opportunity for cooperation, thereby unlocking a huge development
potential. In spite of a history of conflicting water demands and
difficulties, the Nile riparian countries have come together to forge a
new environment of cooperation, seeking win-win benefits. The Shared
Vision Program has been designed to provide the "software" and the
enabling environment that will foster sound transboundary cooperation and
development among the Nile riparian states.
(c) Sharing benefits not sharing water. A dialogue that moves away from a
stalemate in sharing a limited resource to sharing its benefits--especially
in situations where water quantity is at stake--can provide a much more
constructive base for continued cooperation and open an avenue for
regional integrated planning. This also implies the need for "widening the
circle" from water departments alone to broader sectoral involvement, such
as agriculture, environment, planning, energy, infrastructure, and
education.
(d) Preventive and curative measures. There is a need to identify and
undertake both preventive and curative measures to address environmental
management concerns, ensuring a careful balance of the two. Preventive
measures are by far the most cost-effective type of intervention and can
be complemented by curative actions to remediate existing problems. In the
Nile context, where the water quality concerns are not yet at critical
levels, except in isolated locations (largely centered on urban centers
around Lake Victoria, around large-scale irrigation along the Nile and in
the delta), the emphasis on preventive measures through sustainable
development planning presents a huge opportunity for preventive action.
(e) Long-term commitment to process and product. Involvement in regional
processes requires a substantial commitment in terms of time, and
long-term provision of financial and human resources. The dialogue process
and support for development of trust underpin an enabling environment for
cooperation, and a sense of ownership of and commitment by all parties to
a process that may require years to bear fruit. For donor agencies, a key
requirement is that they be able to stay with the process. Long-term
support that will not be subject to political and institutional changes
must be a mainstay of any donor involvement.
(f) Partnerships. Building broad partnerships among and within the
riparian countries and with key international agencies and donors is
essential for a coordinated process and implementation of programs and for
utilizing the comparative advantage of donor institutions. Public support
and broad ownership in the countries should be encouraged and built early
in the process.
(g) Management structures and implementation arrangements. Financial
sustainability, careful attention to institutional set-ups and selection
- 10 -



of staff, and consideration of efficient, transparent and accountable
management structures are all essential. Regional projects often have high
overhead costs given the inherent complexity of their tasks. The present
project has been designed with minimum organizational structures, and will
instead draw on consultancy expertise (preferably regional consultants)
when required.
9. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues         The project enhances transboundary cooperation and
environmental quality. Training, networking, improving the management of
ecologically sensitive areas and information management are among the
major activities of the project. The World Bank managed components will
strengthen environmental capacities and awareness through (i) enhanced
information exchange, NGO networking and community level capacity
building, (ii) better understanding and broader awareness of the role of
wetlands in supporting sustainable development, and (iii) common
analytical methods and transboundary information exchange for water
quality monitoring. Resources will be made available through a Microgrant
Fund for community actions (grants< $25,000) for improved local land
management, water weed control, soil conservation, and land and water
degradation control. The activities will be implemented at community and
village levels. Screening for environmental and social aspects will be
part of the grant application process.
10. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Inger Andersen
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 1 202 458 7405
Fax: 1 202 473 8249
11. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
- 11 -



