                                         Document of
                                       The World Bank




                                                                    Report No: 26285

                        IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                (IF-N0400; TF-24091; TF-21051)

                                              ON A

                                            CREDIT

                            IN THE AMOUNT OF US$6.7 MILLION

                                               TO

                                 BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA

                                            FOR A

                                     FORESTRY PROJECT




                                       September 29, 2003




Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development Sector Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region


                           CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                     (Exchange Rate Effective March 31, 2003))

                             Currency Unit = Konvertible Marka (KM)
                                     1 KM = US$ US $0.564
                                     US$ 1 = 1.7717 KM

                                   FISCAL YEAR
                             January 1    December 31

                      ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

BiH     -     Bosnia and Herzegovina
CAS     -     Country Assistance Strategy
CBD     -     Convention on Biological Diversity
CFC     -     Cantonal Forest Company
CFI     -     Cantonal Forest Institute
FBiH    -     Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina
FDCP    -     Forest Development and Conservation Project
FE      -     Forest Enterprise
FFI     -     Federation Forest Institute
FIS     -     Forest Inspection Service
FMIS    -     Forest Management Information System
FMU     -     Forest Management Unit
GEF     -     Global Environmental Facility
GIS     -     Geographic Information System
GTZ     -     German Development Cooperation
IUCN    -     The World Conservation Union
MAFW    -     Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Resources (RS)
MAWF    -     Ministry of Agriculture, Water Resources and Forestry (FBiH)
NEAP    -     National Environmental Action Plan
NGO     -     Non-governmental Organization
NP      -     National Park
NTFP    -     Non-Timber Forest Product
PCU     -     Project Coordination Unit
PIU     -     Project Implementation Unit
PRSP    -     Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
RS      -     Republika Srpska
SFE           State Forest Enterprise
SFM     -     Sustainable Forest Management
SSCAD   -     Small-Scale Commercial Agricultural Development Project
TA      -     Technical Assistance

                           Vice President:     Shigeo Katsu
                         Country Director      Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
                          Sector Manager       Marjory-Anne Bromhead
         Task Team Leader/Task Manager:        Gerhard Dieterle

                                 BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA
                                  FORESTRY PROJECT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            7
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            12
6. Sustainability                                                                14
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 15
8. Lessons Learned                                                               18
9. Partner Comments                                                              19
10. Additional Information                                                       19
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             20
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             21
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             23
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             24
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             26
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                27
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            28
Annex Summary of Borrower's Evaluation Report                                    29
Annex Economic Analysis                                                          44

Project ID: P045134                                                      Project Name: BOSNIA FORESTRY PROJECT
Team Leader: Gerhard Dieterle                                            TL Unit: ECSSD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                       Report Date: October 15, 2003


1. Project Data

                   Name: BOSNIA FORESTRY PROJECT                                  L/C/TF Number: IF-N0400; TF-24091;
                                                                                                     TF-21051
   Country/Department: BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA                                             Region: Europe and Central Asia
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Central government administration (73%); Forestry (27%)
                  Theme: Land management (P); Other environment and natural resources
                            management (P); Rural non-farm income generation (S);
                            Environmental policies and institutions (S)

KEY DATES
                                                                               Original               Revised/Actual
         PCD:    04/25/1996                                        Effective:                         07/20/1998
   Appraisal:    05/21/1996                                            MTR:                           12/15/1999
    Approval:    06/02/1998                                         Closing: 12/31/2000               03/31/2003

    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVT. OF BOSNIA (RBH)/FED. MIN. OF AGRICULTURE; GOVT. OF
                                           BOSNIA (RBH)/WATER MANAGEMENT AND FORESTRY; GOVT. OF
                                           BOSNIA (RBH)/RS MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE; GOVT. OF BOSNIA
                                           (RBH)/FORESTRY AND WATER MANAGEMENT
                      Other Partners:      European Union; Government of Italy; and Government of Norway

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Shigeo Katsu                                   Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:               Orsalia Kalantzopoulos                         Christiaan Poortman
Sector Manager:                 Marjory-Anne Bromhead                          John Hayward
Team Leader at ICR:             Gerhard Dieterle                               Francois Wencelius
ICR Primary Author:             Gerhard Dieterle; Sati Achath;
                                Christian Albert Peter


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                          Outcome:S

                     Sustainability:L

Institutional Development Impact:M

               Bank Performance:S

           Borrower Performance:S


                                                      QAG (if available)              ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                   S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The objectives of the US$20.2 million project (Credit US$7.0 million) were to resume sustainable
management and protection of forest resources in Bosnia and Herzegovina (BiH), in order to: (i) ensure the
sustainability of the rapid recovery of the wood harvesting and wood processing sectors; and (ii) control the
potential environmental impact of this recovery.

The objectives were clear and important to the country's economic and social development, and realistic in
scale and scope. They were also timely and appropriate for the needs of the Borrower, considering that
forestry resources in BiH are among the richest in Europe covering 50% of the land area, and as such, are
one of Bosnia's main natural resources. Forests are the basis for a considerable proportion of Bosnia's
economy, providing inputs to the wood industry, and constituting the basis of a potentially very substantial
landscape based tourism industry. The project was also responsive to the needs of the Borrower, including
responsible agencies at State level, government entities, cantons and municipalities.

The project was consistent with the Bank's first formal Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) (FY98-99)
discussed by the Board of Executive Directors on August 28, 1997. The CAS emphasized sustainability
and aimed to ensure the medium-to long-term viability of policies and investments. The project was also an
important element of the Bank's approach to move from reconstruction to sustainable growth as it was
expected to support forest policy reforms, institutional strengthening in forest conservation and
management, and sustainable management of forest resources to secure sustained provision of
environmental benefits and supply of raw material to the wood industry. In that respect, the project was an
essential complement to the IFC's Agency Line Project that supported the development of modern and
efficient wood processing in BiH.

The project was also in line with the 1997 World Bank's Bosnia Forest Sector Note, which aimed to help:
(i) re-establish the pre-war institutional framework of the forestry sector which was able to ensure
sustainable conservation and use of existing forests; (ii) resume environmentally sound management of
forests through communal participation; and (iii) restore and expand the pre-war system of protected areas
for biodiversity conservation.


___________________________________
1. The project was initially designed and prepared in 1996 as emergency assistance to the Bosnian forestry sector. Due to
delays in project approval because of the difficult post-conflict situation, the project design was revised in March 1998. The
project remained essentially a reconstruction operation; it however also focused on resuming sustainable management of forests
and no longer financed harvesting equipment. Funds which initially were available for such equipment were re-allocated to
support sustainable forest management operations, including an expanded forest management planning program, immediate
action to protect forests from insect attacks, protected areas development, rehabilitation of nurseries, and maintenance and
repair of war damaged forest roads.




                                                                - 2 -

The following economic and environmental benefits were envisaged:

(a)   Technical support for policy changes, institutional reforms and changes in marketing, pricing and
trade, would result in improved management of forest resources and, eventually, in increased revenues to
the State;

(b)   Technical support for improved forest management planning would permit more timely harvesting
and maintenance of trees and improve the unit values of harvested timber. Improved land-use planning
would also enhance the broader value of forests by permitting better multi-functional forest planning and
use. Technical and logistical support for the development of the protected areas systems would improve
management and land use planning and enhance the ecological and environmental value of these sensitive
areas;

(c)   Control of insect populations in 150,000 ha of highly infested forests would forestall spreading of
insect attacks over 350,000 ha of coniferous high forests and prevent a significant destruction of the
standing stock, which would in turn prevent the loss in annual marketable production of at least 100,000
m3 of logs. Reforestation of 500 ha of land susceptible to erosion would avoid further degradation.

(d)   The equipment for rehabilitation of forest roads funded under the project would permit rehabilitation
of about 4,000 kms of forest roads in high forests over an estimated 10 years. This would benefit
approximately 40,000 ha of high forests annually, making an estimated additional annual amount of
400,000 m3 of marketable wood in mature stands eventually available for harvesting. It would also lower
the cost of harvesting wood by reducing the required distance for "skidding" wood from the harvest site to
the roadside. The component also aimed to achieve two types of environmental benefits:                     2




    l First, by shorter skidding distance it would reduce soil disturbance and erosion in areas which are
          harvested. It also would reduce damage to remaining stands and permits more rapid regeneration.

    l Second, by rehabilitating roads it would permit geographically more balanced harvesting, avoiding
          over-harvesting at the (previously) limited accessible sites;

(e)   The provision of transport equipment would permit extraction of sanitary fellings of about 100,000
m3 per year, increasing also the growth rate and harvest value of the remaining healthy growing stock.

(f)    The nursery equipment would permit an increase in seedling production of about 6 million seedlings
per year. The telecommunications equipment and vehicles would improve overall forest management by
permitting improved monitoring and earlier detection of illegal harvesting and fires. It would also help
ensure overall law enforcement and implementation of management plans.




____________________________
2. The project was given the Environmental Category "B" status, which requires remedial measures for possible environmental
impacts. The Environmental Assessment (EA) of the project, was carried out in 1996, when the project was initially designed
as an emergency operation. The project's Environmental Category rating was again reviewed in early 1998, to take into account
the changes in the project design, and it was agreed that the project would retain its category "B" classification, which was
originally assigned taking into consideration the emergency nature of the project.




                                                               - 3 -

The project recognized and took into account the following two risk factors:

        The risk of hostilities still prevalent in BiH. As permanent political and administrative
institutions were gradually established and economic activities normalized, peace was expected to take hold
and consolidate over time. The project was expected to contribute to this trend by supporting sustainable
development of a key sector in BiH's economy.

        The risk of delays in implementing the project. This risk was minimized by: (i) establishing a
Project Implementation Unit (PIU) to manage project activities; (ii) detailed preparation of implementation
arrangements, such as the early selection of participating State Forest Enterprises (SFEs), and early
preparation of the technical specifications for the equipment; (iii) swift deployment of the technical
assistance; and (iv) the considerable capacity existing in the forestry sector including the availability of
skilled and experienced professionals and workers.

The project was demanding for both the Borrower and the implementing agencies in the early stages since
they were not familiar with the Bank's procedures, especially on procurement matters. Because of the
decentralization and differences between Croats and Bosniaks, this problem was more obvious in the
Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina (FBiH). In the Republika Srpska (RS), the procurement problem
was demanding only in the initial stages. The project was also very demanding in terms of inter-entity
cooperation as many of the foresters had been active soldiers, who may have fought against colleagues
involved in the project from other ethnic groups.

Implementation of the project was complex because there was a need to run two Project Implementation
Units (PIUs) at the same time. Furthermore, country office capacities needed to be developed to help
strengthen the Bank's supervision effort.

3.2 Revised Objective:
Not applicable (N/A)

3.3 Original Components:
The project consisted of the following four components designed to achieve project objectives.

Component 1: Support to Forest Management (US$3.3 million:16.3% of the project)

Support to Policy Changes. The project supported two studies on: (i) the institutional aspects; and (ii) the
fiscal and marketing aspects of the forestry sector in the Federation and in Republika Srpska (RS). These
studies aimed at providing the Ministry of Agriculture, Water Resources and Forestry of the Federation of
BiH (MAWF) and the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Resources of Republika Srpska
(MAFW) with operational guidance on developing the policy changes (regarding the institutional setting for
forestry and wood marketing, trading and pricing) necessary to adapt the forestry sector to the ongoing
transition of BiH into a market economy.

Forest Management Planning. The project supported the development of a Forest Management Planning
Study and the subsequent preparation of Forest Management Plans (FMPs) over about 600,000 ha in 24
State Forest Enterprises (SFEs) (about 320,000 ha in some 13 sumarstvos in the Federation, and about
280,000 ha in some 11 Sumsko Gazdinstvos in RS) during the project implementation period. About two
thirds of the FMPs in both the Federation and RS had lapsed, and the remainder were due to expire in the
next five years. In addition, the war had changed the boundaries and the forest conditions in some
management units, and these changes needed to be incorporated into new FMPs. Priority for new FMPs



                                                      - 4 -

was given to those SFEs with FMPs that had lapsed, which had large forest areas and a high degree of war
damage.

The project funded the re-establishment of a forest inventory and management planning unit in BiH Sume
in Sarajevo for the Federation, and strengthened the forest research and management unit in Srpske Sume
in Banja Luka for RS. Provisions included: (i) equipment; (ii) technical assistance and training, including
international expertise in forest management planning, national environmental expertise, data processing,
training of SFE staff and entrepreneurs in improved sustainable harvesting methods, and overseas study
tours for BH Sume and Srpske Sume staff to look at other management planning systems; (iii) funding for
specific FMP studies such as the study of the evolution of the forest cover based on aerial photography and
satellite remote sensing; sociological surveys; and (iv) recurrent costs associated with field data collection.
The project also supported exchange of information on forest management between the two forest inventory
and management planning units.

Support to the Forest Inspection Service. The project funded the re-establishment of the Forest Inspection
Service (FISs) in order to resume adequate enforcement of forestry legislation in the two Entities. The
project funded vehicles , field and office equipment including computers, national technical assistance,
training and recurrent costs associated with field work of the inspectors. The project also funded a training
program in order to ensure that new staff were properly prepared for their tasks, and to provide in-service
training for existing staff.

Component I1: Protection and Rehabilitation of Forests (US$3.6 million:17.8% of the project)

Protection of Forests from Insect Attacks. The project supported a comprehensive program to control
insect attacks on BiH's forests, mostly bark beetles that affect coniferous stands. The program was based
on a medium-term strategy, developed with the assistance of the EU, that combined standard forest
management practices (e.g., sanitary felling, debarking and swift removal of attacked trees) with measures
to control insect populations at the main sources of infestation. The project funded implementation of this
strategy based on biological insect control methods, by establishing a network of pheromone traps
(Pheromones are species-specific substances produced by female insects to attract males) over 150,000 ha
of infested coniferous stands, thus protecting a further 350,000 ha of forests from infestation. The project
funded the traps (either manufactured traps or the establishment of trap-trees), the artificial production of
pheromones, and forest works to establish the network.

Reforestation of Damaged Forests. The project provided funds for the reforestation of about 500 ha in
areas heavily damaged during the war. Project support included reforestation of land felled for fuel wood
during the war in the vicinity of major population centers, and reforestation of environmentally fragile areas
destroyed during the war.

Protected Areas Development. The project supported the re-establishment of normal surveillance and
protection of the National Park of Sutjeska in RS. The project also supported the identification of potential
protected areas in the Federation including: (i) a feasibility study for a Igman Bjelasnica National Park; and
(ii) ecological surveys in six biologically sensitive areas. The results from the surveys were used to propose
protection measures, including the creation of new protected areas, and were to be incorporated into the
FMPs in the corresponding Sumarstvos.

In the National Park of Sutjeska, the project funded vehicles, radio communication equipment,
reconstruction of three hunting lodges, technical assistance to develop a new management plan, and study



                                                       - 5 -

tours for Park staff to look at other National Parks abroad. In the Federation, the project funded: (i) the
feasibility study for the creation of the Igman Bjelasnica National Park; and (ii) field and office equipment,
a vehicle, training, and technical assistance for the development of the ecological surveys.

Component III: Rehabilitation of SFEs Operational Capacity (US$12.7 million:62.8% of the project)

This component aimed to restore the operational capacity of selected SFEs in both the Federation and
RS. It was also expected that the project would help restore pre-war accessibility to the forests and provide
SFEs and their staff with the equipment necessary to resume normal surveillance and protection of forests,
carry out forest regeneration and other silvicultural works, and organize and control sustainable forest
harvesting. The project funded: (i) equipment to repair and maintain existing forest roads damaged during
the war; and (ii) other forestry equipment to resume normal operation of SFEs.

Forest Road Repair and Maintenance Equipment. The project provided equipment to cope with urgent
needs for repairing and maintaining forest roads damaged either directly by war activities or indirectly
because of lack of maintenance during the war. Project support was expected to make it possible to repair
and maintain 4,000 km of forest roads (about 2,500 km in the Federation and 1,500 km in RS) over 10
years.

Other Forestry Equipment. The project also helped eligible SFEs resume normal management and
surveillance of their forests by providing basic equipment. The project funded the following:

(a) Vehicles including minibuses for personnel transport, 4WD cars for management and supervising staff
of the SFEs; and (iii) mopeds for forest guards in the SFEs.

(b) Wood Transport Equipment including trucks, for the Federation only, with cranes specialized for log
loading -- at road side in the forest -- and transport. These trucks were essential for SFE management of
forests with high levels of insect attacks, in order to ease swift extraction of logs from sanitary felling in
infested areas;

(c) Nursery Equipment including multiple purpose tractors and nursery equipment for substrate
preparation, seedling watering, and soil preparation.

(d) Telecommunication Equipment including one modem radio-communication system for each of the
selected SFEs.

Component 1V: Project Management and Monitoring (US$0.6 million:2.9% of the project)

The project funded: (i) incremental staff needed to implement procurement disbursement, auditing and
reporting procedures required under the project; and (ii) technical assistance to undertake studies and setup
a monitoring and evaluation system, including monitoring of the environmental impact of the
project.
3.4 Revised Components:
The following changes were made in the components during project implementation:

        During the last two years of project implementation, the Bank took over the responsibility for
supervising the implementation of the studies financed by the EU to improve the legal, institutional and
policy framework. The studies helped the authorities develop an approach for institutional reform process
and, assistance with the revision of the FBiH Forest Law. The rationale was that, without addressing the


                                                       - 6 -

institutional vacuum between the FBiH government and the Cantons, sustainability of investments would
be at risk. In order to deal with this situation, there were only two options: either clarify the roles of the
Cantons in a lengthy multi-year judicial process at the high court, or to find a mutually acceptable solution
through intensive negotiation and revision of the Forest Law. It was decided to opt for the latter, which
proved to be successful.

        Project components were modified to include: (i) construction of new roads in RS (after the
borrower conducted Environmental Impact Assessments and Environmental Management Plans); and (ii)
rehabilitation of existing roads in FBiH.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
The project design predates the inception of the Quality Assurance Group (QAG). Hence, there was no
official assessment of its quality at entry. Nevertheless, the ICR deems the quality at entry to be
satisfactory and the project as well conceived and well designed. Project objectives were consistent with the
country assistance strategy and government priorities, and met critical needs in the forestry sector.
Considering the prevailing political circumstances in the country, the quality of project design was adequate
to meet the project's overriding objective. The design was also flexible enough to accommodate the
involvement of other cofinanciers.

During preparation of the project, major risk factors were considered and incorporated into the project
design. Extensive stakeholder consultations at all levels, including government entities, cantons, and
municipalities, and the participatory process in project preparation substantially contributed to the quality
and readiness at entry.

Nevertheless, during project implementation it became apparent that the need for significant restructuring
of the forest sector had not been sufficiently foreseen in project design. Especially in FBiH, the implications
of the Dayton peace agreement were not visible when the project was conceived. The practical
consequences of establishing a new administrative structure at the cantonal level were not assessed with
regard to the responsibility for the management of public forests. The Constitution, based on the Dayton
peace Agreement, stipulated that the responsibility for the management of natural resources be shared
between the Federation and the Cantons. No plans for delegating forest management responsibilities at the
Cantonal level were prepared.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Satisfactory. Overall, the outcome of the project objectives was satisfactory. The project has brought
significant environmental and economic benefits for the country. It introduced policy changes in forest
management, helped resume sustainable forest management planning and harvesting to provide inputs for
the wood industry, and provided road maintenance and forest management equipment to implement and
monitor policy and management improvements. Major outcomes and achievements of the project are as
follows:

Legal and Administrative Reform Processes. Significant progress was made in advancing the reform
processes which will facilitate implementation of legal, institutional and policy frameworks aimed at
fostering increased competitiveness of the forest sector in international markets. With the approval of the
new Federation Forest Law in May 2002, changes were introduced related to: (a) the delegation of forest
management to cantonal forest companies (CFCs) for each canton consistent with the Dayton Peace
Accords; (b) the creation of new forest institutions at Federation and cantonal level ("forest offices");



                                                        - 7 -

(c) the abolition of the existing SFEs; and (d) the strengthening of forest inspection and protection.

Changes in the forest institutional arrangements were introduced in RS through amendments to the Forest
Law, also adopted in May 2002. These changes are mainly related to: (i) consolidation of forest inspection
at the ministerial level (i.e. abolition of municipality responsibility for forest inspection); (ii) clarification of
responsibilities in forest management and administration; and (iii) use of the "extended reproduction fund".
Forest management, nevertheless, remains centralized in RS, under the Public Forest Enterprise Srpske
Sume, which is an appropriate arrangement, and is common in many parts of Europe (e.g. Croatia, Austria,
France, and parts of Germany).

Forest Management Planning. The project helped resume sustainable forest management planning, and
provided equipment to implement and monitor policy and management improvements. Forest quality was
enhanced through pest and insect control, reforestation of areas affected by erosion, and the development of
protected areas. Forest accessibility was improved and resulted in improved management and a more
balanced production of wood, which partially helped revive economic activities in rural areas.

Compatibility between the Entities. Another major achievement of the project was to maintain
compatibility between the Entities through procurement of compatible equipment and standardization of
forest inventory classifications.

Forest Inspection Component. With the Project's support, the Forest Inspection Services (FIS) in both
entities were able to improve their performance significantly. In FBiH and RS, field presence, efficiency
and transparency of FIS have increased and reliable as well as objective data about forest management and
law enforcement is being collected and available. In addition to the provision of goods, the provision of
training will ensure long term sustainability of the investment. Illegal logging and forest crime activities,
although an issue in public discussions, have steadily decreased over the lifetime of the project and are not
threatening the sustainability of forest resources.

Forests and Protected Areas Development. The activities related to Forests and Park Development were
targeted at improving the management regime of already existing protected areas (PAs) in order to ensure
long term sustainability and existence of these areas. In addition, the importance of ecologically sensitive
areas in production forests, watershed protection, and biodiversity conservation were emphasized. The
project helped raise awareness in the BiH forestry community with the purpose of including environmental
and conservation concerns into forest planning and management. The project also confirmed the need to
expand the current protection of ecologically critical areas and developed concrete proposals.

4.2 Outputs by components:
Component 1: Support to Forest Management

Completion of the Forestry Policy Study (FPS), Forest Management Planning (FMP) and the Wood
Marketing and Pricing Study established a framework for forest sector reform and improvement of forest
management. In addition, equipment and vehicles purchased by the Project for both Entities contributed to
improving the mobility, efficiency and effectiveness of the Inspection Service, and consequently resulted in
better enforcement of forestry legislation.


Component II: Protection and Rehabilitation of Forests

Forest Protection from Insect Attacks: As a consequence of the war, it was not possible to carry out
biological monitoring of forests and large areas were and are still inaccessible due to mines. In order to



                                                       - 8 -

protect forests from biotic damage (in particular bark beetles), the project facilitated the provision of
pheromones, traps and other protection equipment (such as hand and motor sprayers) in both entities. As a
result, large areas in danger from insect infestation can now be protected. The project also supported the
establishment of an inter-entity committee to improve coordination of forest protection measures.

Reforestation: The reforestation of 550 ha on five sites averaging 2500 seedlings per hectare in RS and
600 ha averaging 2,600 seedlings per hectare in FBiH helped restore the production capacity of the areas
destroyed during the war.

Protected Areas Development: Planned outputs regarding repair and maintenance of forest roads,
nursery, telecommunications and transport equipment were largely achieved.

Component III: Rehabilitation of SFEs Operational Capacity

Rehabilitation of State Forest Enterprises: The purchase of road maintenance equipment helped restore
the capacities of some of the SFEs. In addition, the rehabilitation of 296 kilometers of forest roads in FBiH
and construction of 8 new bridges and 214 new culverts and rehabilitation of 64 existing culverts was
instrumental in improving access to forests which along with better forest management, helped revive
economic activity in the rural areas.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
At the time of project preparation, benefits of the project were not quantified and evaluated against project
costs. A comprehensive analysis of the commercial benefits derived from project support was not carried
out mainly because: (i) the project was prepared under an emergency approach which did not allow for a
comprehensive collection of relevant data; and (ii) reliable data on prices and marketing were scarce in a
post-war situation. Concepts such as "willingness to pay" and "existence value" could not be estimated
meaningfully for the same post-war reasons.

Nevertheless, a brief economic analysis was carried out for project activities where benefits could be
calculated -- with a reasonable level of confidence given the reliability of available data. The activities
analyzed were: (i) forest protection from insect attacks; (ii) forest roads maintenance and repair; (iii)
provision of wood transport equipment; and (iv) nursery rehabilitation. The cost of project investments in
these activities was estimated to be US$9 million or 45 percent of total project costs. The combined ERR
for these activities was calculated at 59%.

A new comprehensive economic analysis is not attempted here, in part due to the lack of a monitoring
system, which could have supplied the necessary data. At the same time, developments in the BiH forest
sector imply that, under today's conditions, some of the estimated returns may differ significantly form the
actual returns. At the time of appraisal it was assumed that the role of state forest enterprises would not
change. However, new Cantonal forest enterprises will now be based on increased degrees of outsourcing
and privatization of forest management functions.

During implementation, some transport equipment was cancelled, in addition, new procurement packages
were added based on a change in the loan agreement and an ERR analysis was carried out for the following
investments: (a) rehabilitation of forest roads in FBiH; (b) construction of new forest roads in RS; and (c)
the purchase of fire fighting equipment; and (d) protection from insect infestation.

A summary economic analysis was carried out on the basis of available data for the full project.

The following benefits have been taken into account:



                                                      - 9 -

1.      Amount of hectares and annual m3 of wood saved due to control of insects populations;
2.      Amount of hectares of annual marketable forests made accessible by creation of forests roads and
annual           amount of m3 of additionally available wood;
3.      Amount of hectares of forests and annual m3 of wood saved from destructions by forest fires due
to new           forest fire equipment
4.      General rehabilitation of wood production as a result of the project.

Total project costs have amounted to USD 20.2 m over the past four years. For operational costs, the costs
of cutting, logging and transport to forest roads and saw mills have been taken into account.

The following prices and costs have been taken into account based on estimations from both PIUs and
expert opinions on costs of transportation and felling.

Item                       Annual m3 of wood         Costs                     Year from which
                           prevented                 Saved/Additional          impact can be
                           loss/increased            Revenues Created per      expected
                           production                m3 in USD
RS
Control of insects         70,000                    37                        2001, 15% decrease
populations                                                                    until zero benefits in
                                                                               2008
Rehabilitation of forest 19,000                      37                        40% in 2003, 100% in
roads                                                                          2004
Forest fire equipment      9,000                     37                        2004
FBiH
Control of insects         85,500                    37                        2001, 15% decrease
populations                                                                    until zero benefits in
                                                                               2008
Rehabilitation of forest 58,800                      37                        2003
roads
Forest fire equipment      117,600                   37                        2005
General rehabilitation     189,955                   37                        2004
of wood production

Applied discount factor is 10% and applied exchange rate is 1 KM=0.564 USD.

The results of the analysis are shown in the following table

Parameter                                            Result
Economic Net Present Value (ENPV)                    34,542,362 USD
Economic Internal Rate of Return (EIRR)             28%

The positive ENPV and the EIRR of 28% demonstrates the positive results of the economic analysis.
Although it is lower than the original estimated figure of 59%, this investment showed strong benefits for
the forest sector in both Entities. Given the overall sound organizational structure of the forest
administration in BiH the investments made can be regarded as sustainable.

4.4 Financial rate of return:



                                                      - 10 -

N/A

4.5 Institutional development impact:
Modest. The project laid the foundation for substantial forest sector reform. The implementation of the new
Forest Law in the Federation and the amendments to the existing Forest Law in RS, and the creation of new
institutions, will have a positive institutional development impact. The new Laws are expected to facilitate
the strengthening of the capacity of the country's agencies, forest enterprises, and enable them to make
effective use of human and financial resources. Nevertheless, at the time of project completion the reforms
had only started to materialize. Recognizing this, the client has requested the Bank for continued support
through a follow-on TA project, the Forest Development and Conservation Project.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Positive factor:

(i). Involvement of the Bank. Support from the Bank in helping the authorities frame the country's sector
policy was a positive factor which contributed to the success of the project.

(ii). Co-Financing from bi-lateral donors: The project received co-funding from the Italian and
Norwegian Governments. Used to complement Bank and EU financing, the flexibility of both donors made
these funding sources very important, since they allowed improvement of the legal, institutional and policy
framework during the last 18 months of the project.

Negative factors:

(i). Political Climate. The project was influenced by the overall political climate and the complex situation
existing between political parties in the country. There were tendencies at political levels to avoid close
cooperation between the entities, and, in the case of FBiH, between the Croat and the Bosniak factions,
especially in the first years of project implementation.

(ii). Start-up Delays. The Bank Credit, and Norwegian and Italian grants were in place by early 1999,
however release of EU funds was affected by delays in recruiting the TA team, and did not start until July
1999.

(iii). Economic Situation of Forest Enterprises. The implementation was affected by the difficult
economic situation of the state forest enterprises, mainly related to uncertainties regarding their financial
viability for purchasing forestry equipment through commercial credits. Reasons contributing to this were
(i) the fact that state forest enterprises were forced to supply raw material at no or low cost to the wood
industry and (ii) uncertainties regarding privatization of parts of the operational capacity of state forest
enterprise.

(iv). Additional Factors. Other factors which adversely affected implementation were: the post-war
hostilities between decision makers, the unclear Dayton peace agreement and the very traditional thinking in
the forest service. In addition, to a certain extent, there was in the beginning a resistance towards all
external influence and it took time for Bank staff to build a relationship of trust with the project authorities.


5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
(i) Delays in Procurement of Goods and Mobilizing the Technical Assistance team. Preparations for


                                                       - 11 -

project start-up was restricted by counterpart funds problems. This resulted from the government rule
prohibiting use of borrowed funds for operating expenditures and delays in activating grant co-financing
agreements, especially with EU which was financing the bulk of these costs. The need for the PIUS, one for
each Entity, also affected the speed of communication, efficiency of procurement and effectiveness of the
pest control measures along the borders.

(ii) Repeated Changes in Personnel in the PIUs. Within the PIUs, there were frequent changes in staff
due to political interference, which affected project implementation in the first year. However, this situation
improved significantly from early 2000.

(iii) Uncertainty Regarding the new Forest Law also Contributed to Delays in Implementation. For
example, there were two conflicting drafts, one which favored a forest concession system, and another
which supported a state forest management system. Differences between the two drafts were rooted in the
approach to privatization and restructuring of the forestry sector. It took time to reach a satisfactory
compromise.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
N/A

5.4 Costs and financing:
The total cost of the project was about US$17.8 million compared with the MOP estimate of US$20.2
million. The Bank financed about US$ 6.7 million (38%), EU contributed US$6.6 million (37%), Italian
Trust Fund contributed US$2.2 million (12%), and Norwegian Trust Fund contributed US$2.3 million.

There were no major changes in the composition and design of the procurement packages. The costs were
slightly lower than predicted. The main problem with equipment was that, planning for equipment was done
under the assumption that the pre-war organizational structure of the forest sector (vertically integrated
enterprises) was maintained. In reality, some of the equipment would not have been necessary (for example
trucks for timber transport, nursery equipment) if the new organizational structures had been anticipated.
There were, therefore, some savings which have been invested in forest road rehabilitation and
construction. As works were not foreseen in the original project agreement, the Loan Agreement had to be
amended.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Likely. The project is likely to be sustainable. It both contributed to the recovery of an important economic
sector and helped lay the groundwork for a basic reorganization of the forest sector. The Dayton peace
agreement also helped to successfully stabilize forest health in FBiH.

The follow-up Forest Development and Conservation Project (FDCP) approved by the Board on June 10,
2003 and effective as of October 2003, is highly likely to ensure sustainability of the institutional reforms.
It will focus on interventions which will support financial, institutional and economic reforms, and pave
the way for a possible GEF supported project focused on protected areas management in the future. The
latter is now possible as BiH has ratified the Convention on Biological Diversity (CBD). Specifically the
FDCP will support:

         Implementation of Institutional Reform. Actors in the forest sector are now confronted with a
     variety of challenges to implement the new legislation, including decentralization of forest management



                                                     - 12 -

    to cantonal levels, greater transparency of management, separation of commercial operation from
    supervisory/administrative functions, and incorporation of biodiversity conservation into forest
    management activities. The project will assist the government to implement the institutional reforms
    and improve transparency of financial flows in the sector.

        Development of Modern Information Technology for Sustainable Forest Management.
    Transparent forest management information systems, drawing on data obtained through a National
    Forest Inventory, will help implement the above-described institutional and economic reforms. To
    ensure the sustainability of the decentralization, the government has decided to introduce these systems
    to permit more effective planning and monitoring of forests and multi-purpose uses of the forest
    resource, efficiency in management decisions. These systems would reduce costs (per hectare or cubic
    meter) of planning, harvesting and protection, and increase revenues derived from forest resources.

        A Comprehensive State-wide approach to Biodiversity Conservation. Building upon the
    experience of the National Environmental Action Plan (NEAP), the project will incorporate
    consultative approaches in landscape, forest and biodiversity planning processes through the
    development of a National Biodiversity Strategy, and participatory forest management plans. The
    project would pilot participatory approaches to forest and protected area management planning in the
    Igman/Bjelasnica area. Lessons learned from the development of participatory methodologies will be
    applied elsewhere in BiH in the future. The learning outcomes also have relevance for the wider
    ecosystems of the West Balkans.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Same as Sec. 6.1

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Satisfactory. The Bank's performance in the identification, preparation, and appraisal of the project was
satisfactory. The identification process focused on critical gaps and opportunities for interventions in the
forestry sector. The project's consistency with the government's development priorities and the Bank's
country assistance strategy was assured. With a well-coordinated team and good skills mix, it brought in
state-of-the-art expertise into project design, providing for flexibility and responsiveness to local needs.

During preparation and appraisal, the Bank took into account the adequacy of project design and all major
relevant aspects, such as technical, financial, economic, and institutional, including procurement and
financial management. In addition, during the appraisal, the Bank assessed the project's risks and benefits.
The Bank had a consistently good working relationship with the Borrower during preparation and
appraisal. Extensive stakeholder consultations at community, state and national levels were highly
productive, and initiated a process of ownership that proved invaluable at the implementation stage. The
Bank partnered with EU, Italy, and Norway in financing the project and coordinated well all the project
activities. The Project design was appropriate for an emergency operation. During implementation,
however, the need for broad forest sector reform became evident, and the Bank responded to these issues.

7.2 Supervision:
Satisfactory. The Bank's performance during the implementation of the project was satisfactory.
Sufficient budget and staff resources were allocated, and the project was adequately supervised and closely
monitored. Over the four years of project implementation, there were eight supervision missions, with an
average of about two missions per year. The Bank's client relationship was cordial and productive. Review


                                                      - 13 -

teams included specialists in forestry, agricultural economics, operations, financial analysis, financial
management, and procurement. External consultants were used for specific aspects of project components.

Implementation progress was reported with much detail and care by all Task Team Leaders (TTLs) dealing
with the project. Aide-Memoires were regularly prepared and transmitted, flagging outstanding issues and
underscoring benchmarks for actions. These alerted the government and the implementing agencies to
problems with project execution and facilitated remedies in a timely manner. The Aide Memoires were used
by the client as a guideline for action during the period between missions. The PSRs realistically rated the
performance of the project both in terms of achievement of development objectives and project
implementation. The Bank paid sufficient attention to the project's likely development impact. The quality
of advice, and the follow-up on agreed actions were adequate, and loan covenants and remedies were
enforced.

The Bank team undertook joint supervision missions with the EU representatives in Sarajevo. Gradually,
the Bank team took over responsibilities also for supervision of Component 1, dealing with forest policies
and reform.

The Bank supported the request of the BiH government to extend the project and took the leadership for all
project components after the EU terminated its assistance to the BiH forest sector due to a refocusing of its
priorities. In this phase, the restructuring process became the main priority of the project, and a very
substantial but still difficult policy dialogue with the two entities took place. The RS reform gained much
momentum and the collaboration with the Bank was characterized by a very good spirit of collaboration.
For political reasons the work in the Federation was more difficult and required a strong day-to-day
involvement of the Bank team. The Bank team had to react very flexibly to accommodate the aspirations
and needs of the different factions. In the second half of the project it became clear that the imperfection of
the BiH constitution was the main bottleneck as the responsibilities for forest management were not clearly
defined between the Federation government and the Cantonal governments.

The Bank team, together with the client, identified the drafting of a new FBiH Forest Law as a top priority.
In a flexible way, the remaining resources were re-allocated to accommodate a very intensive mediation
process between the stakeholders (FBiH, Cantons, political parties etc.) to finalize the new Forest Law.

With the decentralization of Bank functions to the Resident Mission in BiH, the Bank could provide quick
response and follow-up. The staff also showed flexibility in suggesting needed modifications in
implementation. They worked closely with the government and the implementing agencies, and provided
them with extensive assistance including technical advice. The Bank conducted workshops at the early
stages of implementation on specific subjects, such as procurement, disbursement and technical subjects
including forest sector reform, and geographic information systems (GIS).

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Satisfactory. Overall, the Bank's performance was satisfactory during project preparation, appraisal and
implementation and there was good coordination between the project team and all relevant sector and
operations units.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Satisfactory. The willingness of the borrower to undertake substantial efforts to rehabilitate and
re-construct the forestry sector across entity boarders in a post war situation was a major achievement.
Even though the Borrower did not have a clear view about the future orientation of the country, the



                                                       - 14 -

government officials and staff of the implementing agencies overcame their initial hesitance to work with
the Bank's project team and with colleagues from other ethnic constituencies. Initial mistrust and hesitance
gradually was replaced by a spirit of cooperation and support for the project.

As already explained, the project design did not anticipate the complexity of the political situation resulting
from the Dayton peace agreement. It rightly put emphasis on technical aspects because this was, in the very
difficult post-war situation, this was the only way to start recovery of the sector on the ground.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
Satisfactory. In the beginning, since the government was preoccupied with post-conflict priorities, it was
not able to address forest sector problems strategically, and there was not much understanding of the
macro-economic context in which the forest sector could best operate. Instead, the government actions were
characterized by initially avoiding bold steps to implement reforms. This was understandable because of
the social implications and risks of such a process. On the more technical side, the government showed
strong support for the project. During project implementation leadership grew stronger and increasingly
stable in both entities, although project implementation in the FBiH always remained more challenging than
in RS due to its more decentralized structure.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
Satisfactory. After a very difficult start in both entities, the PIUs grew stronger over the course of project
implementation. The PIU directors' confidence levels increased, and, in the case of RS, the director
developed strong technical leadership. The work in the FBiH represented a greater challenge because of the
complex political situation. Nevertheless, the FBiH PIU acted very skillfully and diplomatically to mediate
between Bosniak and Croat constituencies. Procurement and disbursement for a long time lagged behind
targets but, during the second half of the project, the performance of both PIUs improved significantly. No
major problems were recorded with regard to reporting, accounts, and audits.

The PIUs worked closely with the three SFEs (two in Federation and one in RS). They were properly
staffed with qualified people, including one procurement specialist, and one FMS specialist in each PIU.
The staff were receptive to the Bank's advice, and highly collaborative with respect to meeting demanding
benchmarks and deadlines. They monitored and evaluated final beneficiaries on a regular basis. They also
evaluated state enterprises and assessed their capacities to receive equipment on a credit.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Satisfactory. Based on the above, the overall performance of the Borrower was satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

        In a country, like Bosnia and Herzegovina, with strong traditions in the forest sector, benefits of
    Bank assistance lie in sector reform and institutional strengthening as well as the introduction of
    modern technologies. Nevertheless, the lesson is that initial emphasis on technical investments can
    achieve immediate impacts on the ground and can build trust as well as momentum for institutional
    reforms.

        In the BiH forest sector, the Bank was seen as a trusted broker, and as a result, it helped achieve
    consensus between varying stakeholder interests, as well as among sub-sectors. The lesson is that
    support for a participatory approach to institutional reform is more likely to be successful than a purely
    technical approach.




                                                      - 15 -

       Project implementation was initiated in a post-conflict situation, yet it was successful. The lesson is
    that Bank support for technical issues in a divided country can help bring about broader based trust
    and collaboration between stakeholders.

       Reform processes need enough time to mature and to convince all stakeholders and that the speed
    of change varies from country to country. Therefore, facilitators of reforms need to stay involved in
    order to sustain processes after they are initiated. The lesson is that patience and continued support are
    needed to bring about sustainable reform.

       The project included a range of financing instruments including grant funding for capacity
    building. The lesson is that projects seeking to achieve institutional reform benefit from a mix of credit
    and grant funding.


9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

The Ministry of Finance and Treasury: The Draft Implementation Completion Report for the Forestry
Project in BiH, which included the Entity reports, showed the overview of the results acquired by this
Project. After reviewing the draft report we have a pleasure of informing you that this Ministry had no
comments.

(b) Cofinanciers:
Government of Italy: We would like to congratulate the World Bank for the extremely successful work
carried out through this important initiative. We have no specific comments on the draft report, since we
found the document very exhaustive, detailed, and frank.

Building on the very positive outcomes achieved by this initiative, we agree on the decisive importance of
the follow-up Forest Development and Conservation Project for ensuring further sustainability to the work
already undertaken. In this context, we invite the World Bank to remain in close contact with the Italian
Ministry of Foreign Affairs, so as to support the quick finalization of the Italian contribution to this project
and particularly to its component C concerning the development of a national biodiversity strategy for BiH,
to which we all attach the highest importance also in view of the definition of the next-coming GEF
programs. On top of its participation in the World Bank's projects, Italy is deeply engaged in supporting
nature conservation in BiH, as shown by the "Conference of the Natural Protected Areas" jointly organized
by Italian and Bosnian environmental authorities (Sarajevo, 24-25 July 2003).

Government of Norway: There are no major comments from our side.

European Union: We agree with the Bank's Draft Implementation Completion Report.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information

A. The Bank's ICR Team consisted of the following members:

Gerhard Dieterle (Task Team Leader)
Christian Peter (Forestry Specialist)



                                                     - 16 -

Sati Achath (Consultant)
Katelijn Van den Berg (Young Professional)
Irene Bomani (Program Assistant)

B. List of Task Team Leaders of the project in chronological order:

(i) Francois Wencelius
(ii) Severin Kodderitzsch
(iii) Michael Nightingale
(iv) Gerhard Dieterle




                                                  - 17 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                      1
               Indicator/Matrix                              Projected in last PSR                          Actual/Latest Estimate
Multi-purpose management of forests             Procurement finalized, forest planning units   Forest management resumed based on
resumed (forest health improved, degradation in both entities operational; forest inspections updated mgmt. plans; insect infestation and
of forest resources halted)                     fully operational (decrease of illegal forest  forest fire outbreaks decreased; illegal
                                                activities), National Committee on Forest      logging reduced
                                                Management Standardization operational

Technical assistance to forest policy reform    New forest legal frameworks in both entities   New forest law in both entities approved.
in both entities lead to improvements in forest approved, regulations and by-laws issued,      regulations and by-laws under development.
legal frameworks and institutional              implementation underway. Decentalization of Implementation in RS well under way, while
reorganization.                                 forest management in FBiH initiated,           FBiH lacks progress. Separation of admin.
                                                separation of economic and administrative      and econ. functions initiated, well advance in
                                                function finalized.                            RS and some Cantons

Conservation of forest diversity fostered       Commissioned studies and plans finalized,      PA mgmt. plans developed under the project
                                                findings and recommendations are integrated under implementation; awareness of
                                                into forest management planning, Convention biodiversity and conservation issues
                                                on Biological Diversity signed and ratified.   integrated part of forest management
                                                                                               planning.




Output Indicators:
                                                                                      1
               Indicator/Matrix                              Projected in last PSR                          Actual/Latest Estimate


Forest management plans developed. SFEs         New forst management plans for all forest      Mgmt. Plans for RS public forests available;
manage forests according to plans.              management areas available.                    in FBiH about 20% of necessary mgmt. plans
                                                Recommendations of FMPS taken into             finalized, additional 50% under preparation;
                                                account and integrated in forest               Staff training initiated.
                                                management, digitalized forest data available.
                                                Forest staff trained in new planning and
                                                management procedures.


Improve forest protection services.             Forest inspection teams in both Entities fully Forest inspection teams in both Entities
                                                operational (illegal fellings halted, disease  trained, equipped and operational; Pest
                                                status reporting initiated, fire observation   infestations and forest fires reduced);
                                                active). Forest guards play an integrated role coordination of forest inspection between
                                                in forest protection. Forest protection        entities initiated; forest accessibility improved.
                                                coordinated between entities.
Purchase equipment and vehicles to improve All procured equpment delivered and used by All procured equipment used by SFEs,
efficiency of SFEs.                             SFEs to improve their operational capacity     operational capacity improved




1End of project




                                                                    - 18 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                              Appraisal    Actual/Latest Percentage of
                                                              Estimate      Estimate      Appraisal
                        Component                             US$ million   US$ million
I Support to forest management                                   0.30            0.40         133.3
Support to policy reform



Forest management planning                                       1.70            1.90         111.8
Support to Forestry Inspection Service                           0.80            1.00           125
II Protection and rehabilitation of forests
Protection of forests
Protection of forests                                            1.80            1.90         105.6
Afforestation                                                    0.50            0.60           120
Protected areas development                                      0.90            1.10        1222.2

III Rehabilitation of forestry operational capacities
Road maintenance equipment                                       6.10            4.00          65.6
Other forestry equipment                                         7.50            6.40          85.3
                                                                 0.60            0.50          83.3
IV Project administration and monitoring


Total Baseline Cost                                             20.20          17.80
                           Total Project Costs                  20.20          17.80
                    Total Financing Required                    20.20          17.80


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                        1
                                                    Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category               ICB             NCB                2       N.B.F.   Total Cost
                                                                   Other
1. Works                              0.00             0.00          0.00         1.10        1.10
                                      (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)     (0.00)
2. Goods                              5.95             0.00          1.05         8.90       15.90
                                      (5.95)           (0.00)      (1.05)         (0.00)     (7.00)
3. Services                           0.00             0.00          0.00         2.40        2.40
                                      (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)     (0.00)
4. Miscellaneous                      0.00             0.00          0.00         0.80        0.80
                                      (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)     (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                      0.00             0.00          0.00         0.00        0.00
                                      (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)     (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                      0.00             0.00          0.00         0.00        0.00
                                      (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)     (0.00)
   Total                              5.95             0.00          1.05         13.20      20.20



                                                    - 19 -

                                          (5.95)             (0.00)             (1.05)           (0.00)             (7.00)


   Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                   1
                                                         Procurement Method
        Expenditure Category               ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                               Other
    1. Works                               0.00               0.00              0.00             8.14              8.14
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
    2. Goods                               4.88               0.33              0.10             1.90              7.21
                                          (4.88)             (0.30)            (0.10)            (0.00)           (5.28)
    3. Services                            0.52               0.00              0.00             0.60              1.12
                                          (0.52)               ()                 ()             (0.60)           (1.12)
    4. Miscellaneous                       0.00               0.00              0.30             1.03              1.33
                                             ()                ()              (0.30)              ()             (0.30)
    5. Miscellaneous                       0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                             ()                ()                 ()               ()             (0.00)
    6. Miscellaneous                       0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                             ()                ()                 ()               ()             (0.00)
       Total                               5.40               0.33              0.40             11.67            17.80
                                          (5.40)             (0.30)            (0.40)            (0.60)           (6.70)

    1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

    2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
      of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
      managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                      Percentage of Appraisal
       Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                               Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
I Support to forest                                      3.30                                3.30                         100.0
management
II Protection and                                        3.60                                3.60                         100.0
rehabilitation of forests

III Rehabilitation of          7.00                      5.70        6.70                    3.80       95.7               66.7
forestry operational
capacities

IV Project administration                                0.60                                0.50                          83.3
and monitoring




                                                          - 20 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits


Please see Annex 9




                                      - 21 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle               No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                    (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                  Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Supervision

              09/21/1998               4    SR. FORESTRY SPECIALIS           S               S
                                            (1); AGIC. ECONOMIST (1);
                                            PROJECT ASSISTANT (1);
                                            CONSULTANT - FORESTER
                                            (1)
              02/16/1999               5    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            S               S
                                            PROJECT ASSISTANT (1);
                                            FINANCIAL ANALYST (1);
                                            FORESTRY SPECIALIST (1);
                                            PROCUREMENT SPEC. (1)
              02/17/1999               4    TTL (1); PROJECT                 S               S
                                            ASSISTANT (1); FORESTRY
                                            SPECIALIST (1); FINANCIAL
                                            ANALYST(FAO) (1)
              12/15/1999               4    TEAM LEADER (1);                 S               S
                                            FORESTRY SPECIALITS (1);
                                            PROJECT OFFICER (1);
                                            AGRICULTURAL
                                            ECONOMIST (1)
              11/21/2000               3    TEAM LEADER (1);                 S               S
                                            FORESTRY SPECIALIST (1);
                                            PROJECT OFFICER (1)
              05/08/2001               3    TEAM LEADER (1);                 S               S
                                            FORESTRY SPECIALIST (1);
                                            PROJECT OFFICER (1)
              10/31/2001               3    TEAM LEADER (1);                 S               S
                                            FORESTRY SPECIALIST (1);
                                            PROJECT OFFICER (1)
              05/25/2002               1    FORESTRY SPECIALIST (1)          S               S
              09/03/2002               2    MISSION LEADER (1);              S               S
                                            PROJECT OFFICER (1)
              12/13/2002               4    MISSION LEADER (1);              S               S
                                            OPERATIONS ANALYST (2);
                                            FORESTRY SPECIALIST (1)


 ICR
              12/13/2002               4     MISSION LEADER (1);
                                             OPERATIONS ANALYST
                                             (2); FORESTRY
                                             SPECIALIST (1)



(b) Staff:



                                             - 22 -

    Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                              No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
Supervision                         146.7                         519.4
ICR                                    4.0                          32.0
Total                               255.3                         928.7




                                         - 23 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                                    Rating
   Macro policies                                      H      SU    M  N  NA
   Sector Policies                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Physical                                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Financial                                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Institutional Development                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Environmental                                       H      SU    M  N  NA

Social
            Poverty Reduction                          H      SU    M  N  NA
            Gender                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
            Other (Please specify)                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Private sector development                          H      SU    M  N  NA
   Public sector management                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Other (Please specify)                              H      SU    M  N  NA




                                                    - 24 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)

6.1 Bank performance                                        Rating

   Lending                                                    HS     S       U      HU
   Supervision                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU

6.2 Borrower performance                                    Rating

   Preparation                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Government implementation performance                      HS     S       U      HU
   Implementation agency performance                          HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU




                                                    - 25 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

 1. Aide Memoires, Back-to-Office Reports, and Project Status Reports;

 2. Project Progress Reports;

 3. Consultant Study Reports financed under the Project;

 4.   Republic of Srpska's Borrower's Evaluation Report dated June, 2003; and Federation of
    Bosnia-Herzegovina's Borrower's Evaluation Report dated July, 2003

 5. Memorandum and recommendation of the Managing Director to the President of the IDA for Bosnia
and Herzegovina: Forestry Project, dated April 29, 1998 (Report No.P-7024-BIH).




                                                 - 26 -

Additional Annex 8. Summary of Borrower's Evaluation Report



A. REPUBLIC OF SRPSKA

I.       ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND OUTPUTS

                                 1.        Support to Forest Management

                                              Support to Policy Reform

         Starting principle of forestry reform (transition) in RS, according to existing international
principles, could be the following:

1.       Sustainability of forest management, and at the same time conservation and multipurpose
development of forests, disregarding the ownership (property),

2.       Unity of strategy and program of (sustainable) forest development (on national, regional and local
level),

3.       Introduction of international standards (international commitments and initiatives) in sustainable
management and forest biodiversity conservation,

4.       Complete management on operational level,

5.       Sustainable privatization and transition of the forestry sector (towards market oriented economy)
         a/ Defining the role of the country as the representative of public interest in forest management
         b/ Defining the role of the country as the owner of forests and assets in management of the state
            owned forests
         c/ Elimination of market barriers
         d/ Defining the role of private sector in performance of works/services in forestry sector

                                             Forest Management Planning

         BiH forestry sector has carried out reliable forest management for a few decades. Changes in
scientific knowledge and public requirements for ecological responsibility of those who are managing
forests brought some changes in forest management planning in the last decade. Priority implementation of
such changes, and recent introduction of modern technology in the management process, was late in BiH,
as well as in RS. Forest Management Planning Study tried to describe current situation in details, identify
the needs for changes, in order to introduce internationally accepted standards and provide model for
improvement, which would be in line with contemporary way of management.

         BiH forest management experts stated the following objectives:

-        Improve the quality of BiH forests with management in high forests, in order to provide the highest
                 possible stock based on stand habitat capacities;
-        Promotion of brush-wood and scion forests into more productive forest categories;



                                                      - 27 -

-        Afforestation of productive bare land, in order to make them productive forests;
         PFE Srpske Sume is in charge of forest management in RS. They have responsibilities of forest
                  management planning, operational planning and monitoring of forests.

         According to forest inventory data (on large areas), from 1964-68, 1,96 million ha of forests and
0,53 million ha of bare land are classified as forest land. Around 82 % of land covered with forests is state
owned.

         Diversity of climate and soil in RS is providing large scale of possibilities for development of
vegetation. Main types of forests, which provide valuable products for forestry sector, are deciduous hard
wood species such as oak, beech and maple, and soft wood conifers such as fir, spruce and pine.

                                             Forestry Inspection Service

         Forestry Inspection Service (FIS) works within the MAFW. FIS has 13 inspectors, and is led by
the Chief Inspector. Besides the forestry and hunting inspection, inspectors also perform phyto-sanitary
inspection (on border crossings).

         Municipal Forestry Inspection service works within the municipalities (which have funds for such
activities). Municipal Inspection Service represents original jurisdiction organ in administrative procedure.
There are 30 municipal inspectors. In order to improve the work of the FIS following equipment was
purchased under the Forestry Project:

-        Field vehicles for forestry inspectors                              - DONATION
-        Computers for forestry inspectors                                   - DONATION
-        Binoculars                                                          - DONATION
-        Cameras                                                             - DONATION
-        /Pressler borer, magnifying glass, compass/                        - DONATION
-        Several trainings was held for forestry inspectors /70% paid under the Norwegian Trust Fund/
-        Inspection uniforms                                                 - DONATION
-        GPS                                                                 - DONATION

         In the previous two years, under the Forestry Project, operational costs (gasoline, lubricants for
field vehicles, office expenses and fees) were payed for the Inspection Service.

         Inspection service was equipped and prepared, and so these features were decisive for the
successful work. It would be good to support the work of the Inspection Service in the following 18
months, under the Project.

                              2. Protection and Rehabilitation of Forests

                                                 Protection of Forests

         One of the biggest problems of forests in RS is their inadequate protection against all types of
damage. In war and post-war period there was and still is a problem of illegal logging. It destroyed
thousands of ha of highly valuable forests. Because of war, on large areas, there are numerous damaged
and destroyed trees. No sanitary felling has been performed for period of five years, so the forest hygiene
was at the lowest possible level. Around 10 % of high economic forests are mined, so access to those
forests is not possible in order to perform sanitary measures.


                                                     - 28 -

         There are over 700 saw mills in RS today, and most of them are working illegally, and so they
represent great danger for state owned forests (illegal logging, inadequate placing of facilities, environment
pollution, etc.).

         As the consequence, on the area of 10-15 thousand ha of the highest value forests, in 1997, 1998
and 1999, there was pre-gradation of harmful insects (bark-beetle). Since large areas were attacked with
bark-beetle, there was a possibility of ecological catastrophe in conifer forests with unforeseeable total
damage. Aware of such danger, in 1998 and 1999, the forestry sector organized a number of seminars and
meetings in order to undertake necessary forest protection measures. Because of the problem, PHARE
program participated under the Forestry Project, but financial support did not come until 2000.

         FIS, with its decision, ordered number of measures in order to improve the health conditions of
forests. PFE Srpske Sume formed an operational team, with the task to elaborate the Program of forest
protection measures against bark-beetle and to carry it out.

         With the goal of successful protection of forests against bark-beetle RS Government has given
300.000 KM to PFE Srpske Sume out of the extended reproduction fund. With these funds they have
purchased minimum means (traps and pheromones) for prevention of further spreading of bark-beetle. In
the field, those traps were placed according to the instructions.

         PFE performed sanitary felling in 1999 and 2000, as well as further protection measures. They
have spent 500.000 KM on protection against bark-beetle, and part of the funds was also spent under the
Forestry Project.

         There were a lot of fires in 1998, 1999 and especially in 2000, which damaged a lot of good
quality forests. In the following period it is necessary to pay more attention to improvement of forest
protection.

         Forest fire protection equipment was purchased under the Project. At this moment, all SFEs have
minimal necessary fire fighting equipment, so they can react more successfully when fire appears.

                                                      Afforestation

         European Union financed afforestation on the following five sites in RS:

-        Banja Luka, 110 ha, 165.000 nursery plants of black pine and 110.000 of spruce planted,
-        Sipovo, 120 ha, 90.000 nursery plants of scotch pine and 210.000 of black pine planted,
-        Nevesinje, 100 ha, 150.000 nursery plants of spruce and 50.000 of black pine planted,
-        Srebrenica, 120 ha, 270.000 nursery plants of spruce and 54.000 of scotch pine, and 36.000 of
maple             planted, and
-        Mrkonji Grad, 99, 88 ha, 249.500 nursery plants of spruce planted.

         Works were done by the company PRIMVER  Sokolac, which was awarded contract in the tender
procedure EC/BiH/00/040, issued by the EC for the PHARE program in BiH. Total contract value was
541.553,32 EUR.
                                             Protected Areas Development

         Protection of the environment today is a major issue and concern of the World, and many local and


                                                      - 29 -

international institutions. It became a global problem requiring broader cooperation and coordination on the
protection of nature and environment. How urgent and relevant this issue is can be seen through efforts
made by international, European and national forums in the last few decades. They have made numerous
conventions, resolutions, strategies, guidelines, programs and other initiatives. A number of international
initiatives pay special attention to protection and sustainable management of forests, as well as forest
biodiversity. Destruction and degradation are endangering many common useful forest functions and
positive impact of forests on the environment.

         The war left brought devastation with far-reaching consequences, which significantly endangered
the sustainability of forest management from many aspects, and endangered the environment. Uncontrolled
logging resulted in both only devastation and degradation, and left chaos that caused diseases, fires,
ice-breaks and other phenomena. Appearance of bark-beetle gradation caused mass drying of conifer
forests (fir, spruce and pine). A particular problem of recovering the conditions and undertaking adequate
measures is the lack of funds, remaining mine fields and impossibility of full utilization of wood
assortments, especially fuel wood, pulp wood and pit props because of the lack of a market.

         In order to recover the conditions in RS forestry, Technical Assistance was received under the EU
PHARE Program for the implementation of the BiH Forestry Program. Within the Assistance was the
Study "Supervision of ecological impact of forestry on the environment". For that purpose five SFEs were
selected: "Jahorina"  Pale, "Bistrica"  Srpsko Sarajevo, "Treskavica"  Trnovo , "Gorica"  Sipovo and
"Ostrelj"  Drini.        Because of limited funds and time, as well as problems that appeared because of
non-existing files, and some forest management plans, as well as major changes of boundaries of forest
economic areas, there were lot of difficulties in realization of this topic. Within every SFE, basic data were
collected on forests they manage, two compartments inspected in which exploitation took place in the
previous period and particular data were collected. There is only 0, 5% of protected areas in BiH, which is
very low percentage and country is putting efforts to protect current areas, and if possible to expand them.
Regarding protected areas in RS, there were a lot of activities in NP Sutjeska, the Study "Janj and Lom"
and Forest roads EIA Study was elaborated, but the needs of RS are much higher.

                                                National Park Sutjeska

-        Management Plan for NP elaborated
-        Three hunting lodges were constructed
-        Field vehicles purchased /4 Pcs/
-        Excavator for road maintenance purchased
-        Computer equipment purchased /6 sets/ + /7 sets/
-        Binoculars and cameras purchased
-        Organized study tours to NPs abroad
-        Organized training in computer skills
-        Organized courses of English language
-        Two workshops organized

                       3. Rehabilitation of Forestry Operational Capacities

                                             Road Maintenance Equipment

         For the needs of SFEs the following road maintenance equipment was purchased:

         -        graders,


                                                     - 30 -

         -       excavators, and
         -       tipper trucks.

         Capacities in some SFEs have been restored with this equipment. The Project financed construction
of 4 forest roads in Republic of Srpska:

-        Forest road Mala Inova - Tesli, 5,299 km - contract value 154.264,85 EUR,
-        Forest road Brankusa - Drini, 3,189 km - contract value 128.275,43 KM,
-        Forest road Livade-Ba - Srbinje, 6,315 km - contract value 179.013,74 EUR, and
-        Forest road Sipasno-Zlatac-Lokve - Nevesinje, 5,758 km - contract value 205.175,84 EUR.

                                             Other Forestry Equipment

         Other forestry equipment was also purchased, under the Project, for PFE Srpske Sume, more
exactly for regular forest management and supervision in SFEs. The following equipment was also
purchased: minibuses - 22 seats, 4WD field vehicles, nursery equipment, radio equipment and computers.

                                      Project Administration and Monitoring

         The following parties were in charge of Project administration and monitoring: Forestry Project
Implementation Unit (PIU), established under supervision of RS MAFW. PIU coordinated the Project
implementation carried out procurement procedures, payments, revisions and reporting required under the
Project, and according to the Project regulations. From the beginning and up to the 16.09.2001 European
Union also participated (was involved) in the Project. In that period Project administration was done by the
company PROSPECT"- Brussels, led by the Project Coordinator. After 16.09.2001, the PIU continued
with Project coordination.

      II.        MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING IMPLEMENTATION AND OUTCOME

         Financial support of the World Bank through credit, and of the EU mainly through donation, as
well as of Norwegian Government donation, had a lot of impact on the beginning of post-war
reconstruction of partially destroyed RS forestry infrastructure. In the beginning of the Project there were a
lot of problems in the forming of PIU (frequent changes of stuff, director, interpreter, premises, etc.).
Particular problem in the beginning was procedures and requirements of the World Bank, because it was
something new to us. So the beginning of the Project was characterized by discontinuing work, with
sometimes difficult situations. After that good functioning of PIU followed, which contributed to successful
completion of the Project. The Government also has participated in the Project with its contribution, in the
beginning indifferent, but as the Project advanced more actively, and it fulfilled its commitments (financial)
towards the Project.
                                                  Financial Issues

         BiH Forestry Project was implemented with financial support of European Union. The World Bank
and Norwegian Government. Project Implementation Unit (PIU) has been formed for the implementation of
the project, which was at the beginning financed by EU, and under supervision of international experts
from the company PROSPECT  Brussels.

         RS MAFW made a decision, and the World Bank gave "no objection", that PCU (Project
Co-ordination Unit) performs part of the activities related to the procurement procedures and contracting,
and finance according to the World Bank's rules, for part of the funds administered by it.



                                                    - 31 -

         Skilled stuff from PCU provided services related to procurement procedures and contracting for the
World Bank's funds and Trust Fund, which included the following activities:

-        Continuous contacts with the World Bank's representatives, in order to get "no objection" for
planned and carried               out procedures and documents,
-        Carrying out procurement in accordance to procedures and procurement schedules,
-        Preparation of bidding documents according to existing World Bank's documents,
-        Advertising tenders for procurement, correct collection and opening of bids, and evaluation
according to              the World Bank's regulations,
-        Preparation of contracts and their timely and proper signing,
-        Control of necessary documents for every contract,
-        Monitoring goods delivery and taking care of contractual obligations, deadlines and ways of
delivery,
-        Collection and updating of procurement data,
-        Periodical procurement reporting, and
-        Performing other tasks related to procurement and contracting.

         PCU was doing the following financial activities:
         -       Managed financial and accounting records acceptable for the World Bank,
         -       Financial reporting (quarterly, annually) according to the World Bank's requirements,
         -       Provided services of special accounts in foreign banks, and withdrawal of credit/grant
funds            according to the World Bank's regulations,
         -       Carried out obligations related to signed contracts for procurement of goods and services,

                and performed other activities related to finance.

         Costs of financial management done by PCU were 40.000 US$. After closing of PCU independent
financial manager continued working on these activities, after signing the contract with PIU. Procurement
activities were done by the procurement manager, who also signed the contract with PIU.

                                                 Procurement Issues

         Proposed procurement arrangements were in accordance to "Procurement instructions under IBRD
loans and IDA credits" issued by the World Bank in January 1995, and revised in January and August
1996. IDA financed only goods according to the following procedures:

           ICB- For procurement packages estimated to equivalent of more than 500.000 US$. GPN has
               been published in Development Business. After GPN, it was advertised in local. Bidding
               documents were delivered to Purchasers who responded to GPN.
           IS- Used for equipment estimated to equivalent of less than 500.000 US$. IS procedures are
               based on comparison of at least three bids submitted from two different countries.
           NS- Procurement for equivalent of less than 50.000 US$, with at least three bids.

           Main procurement issues were following:

- The legislative framework in BIH/RS to support commercial procurement practices was at a very low
         level;
- Anti-corruption and conflict of interest legislative was at a very low level;


                                                      - 32 -

- The knowledge and experience in World Bank procurement procedures in BIH/RS was at a very low
         level;
- There was strong political influence from the Government; and
- At the beginning of project implementation there was no computerized procurement system.

                              III.        BORROWER'S PERFORMANCE

           Borrower performance during project preparation could be rated as Satisfactory; particularly the
strategy of MAFW, PFE and BL Forestry Faculty which was extremely helpful for the design of the
Project and its components. Project preparation was supported by World Bank technical assistance.

         MAFW's implementation performance could be rated as excellent. With establishment of the
Project Steering Committee, tracking of project activities and its effects on overall performance was
developed. The PIU's performance in the implementation of the Forestry Project could be rated as Very
Good. After the PCU closed, managers performed their activities in accordance with consultant contracts
they had with the PIU. The Project was under the scope of the annual financial audit, delivered by the
Price-Water-House and Coopers, during the whole life of the Project. All Management Letters had an
unqualified opinion. Regarding procurement, the final Audit Certificate issued by PMAU did not show any
material errors, and represented procurement activities were generally in accordance with World Bank
Guidelines and procedures

                                  IV.     BANK'S PERFORMANCE

         Bank performance during project preparation could be rated as Satisfactory. In a very short time,
the World Bank consulting team together with representatives of MAFW, Forestry Faculty and PFE Srpske
Sume outlined project objectives and the design of the Project. The Project's overall objective was set too
high and was too ambitious. The project's secondary objectives were adequately defined and were realized
according to expectations, but with 2 extensions of the Forestry Project closing date.

         Bank performance during project supervision could be rated as Satisfactory. The project was
supervised by Bank staff and consultants located at Headquarters in Washington and in the Sarajevo
Resident Mission. During supervision missions Bank staff thoroughly reviewed and carefully analyzed all
issues that appeared in the implementation of certain activities and provided solutions/advice for
overcoming problems. Bank staff, particularly in the Resident Mission, provided close support for many
aspects of project implementation, mostly for procurement and financial issues. Bank staff coordinated
well with other organizations and donors, especially with the Norwegian Government and European Union.
Bank's leverage and involvement in forestry policy reform component was crucial for the achievement of
outputs defined in Technical Annex project objectives.

                                     V. LESSONS LEARNED

          Adequate staffing for project management, monitoring and evaluation: This is the most
important lesson we have learnt during the life of the Project. One idea for consideration is that, before
starting with investment projects in a country, the Bank should consider an option to provide for the
organization and provision of specific training courses for staff identified by respective authorities that
would be involved in project implementation. Training courses would be organized specifically for project
management, World Bank procedures and requirements, procurement, financial management, etc.

           Strengthening procurement and financial management capacities of implementing agency in


                                                    - 33 -

immediate post conflict situation are essential to overcome possible problems: In an immediate
post-conflict situation, where the Borrower does not have sufficient skills to implement projects, it is
essential to strengthen the procurement capacity. Establishment of financial department within PIU is very
important step and requires strong planning and preparations before implementation of the Project begin.
Development and installation of financial accounting software at the beginning of project implementation is
also very important step since it's very difficult to have good quality financial work (accounting and
reporting) without it. Internal control procedures have to be established at the beginning of the Project
implementation.

      Detailed project implementation plan have to be developed before project implementation
starts: Equivalent to BHP Project Operational Manual which proved to be a very good tool for project
planning, monitoring and evaluation, each Bank's project in future should have a similar document. All
technical specifications, TORs, detailed procurement plan, detailed budget with chart of accounts, etc. that
are relevant for project implementation should be developed in advance.

          Donors and other partners with their financial support have to be identified before project
implementation starts: During the life of the project there was a lack of funds (approximately US$ 0,15
million). Because of that, certain project components have not been implemented, contributing to the
non-achievement of some of the Forestry Project's objectives. Therefore, it would be recommended that the
Government and Bank in future put much stronger emphasis on creating a strategy for attracting possible
donors to take part in the financing of a project.

          Project Steering Committee proved to be a good solution in key situation in the Project. It
would be a good solution to establish the Steering Committee in the realization of the new Project.

                                          VI.       CONCLUSION

        The Forestry Project was an emergency project that responded to immediate postwar needs of the
forestry sector and provided support for initial steps in forestry sector reform in Republic of Srpska. The
Project focused on forestry policy reform, protection of forests, institutional strengthening of Forestry
Inspection Service, protected areas, strengthening of forestry operational capacities and procurement of
equipment.

        The overall objective of BiH Forestry Project was achieved. There were changes in some
categories, but project components remained the same until the Project closing. Therefore, it would be
strongly recommended that the RS Government, with Bank assistance, undertakes a new project that will
support further steps in forestry sector reform in RS, since it is the richest sector in natural resources, and
also the sector which employs a lot of rural population which is in very difficult financial situation in the
post-war period.




                                                      - 34 -

B. FEDERATION OF BiH

                ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND OUTPUTS

COMPONENT I: SUPPORT TO FOREST MANAGEMENT

                             Support to Policy Reform  Forest Law

        It was recognized that the effectiveness of the Program in the Federation would depend
upon the existence of a forest law, which clearly set out the rights and responsibilities for
ownership and management of the forest resources. To this end, the agreement between the IDA
and the BiH government establishing the Program stated that release of the funds was dependent
upon a draft new Forest Law, acceptable to the World Bank being approved by the Government
and presented to the Federation parliament.

        Since Parliament did not adopt the draft Law, from the beginning until the end of Project
implementation various activities took place, and they resulted in the adoption of it by the
Parliament in May 2002.
Activities executed were:
-       engagement of more international experts in forestry legislation and policy;
-       appointment of several work groups (comprised of representatives of stakeholders) by the
line Ministry;
-       organization of meetings of international experts with the members of the work group;
-       organization of workshops and presentations of work results to representatives of the
Cantons and             other stakeholders;
-       organization of Study tours.

Executed activities resulted with solutions to open issues, within the Law, concerning:

1.      property and use rights  forests and forest lands are the property of Federation of BiH,
owner's representative is Federal Minister of Agriculture, Water Management and Forestry; use
rights and economic functions are under jurisdiction of the Cantons;

2.      organization  administrative functions are under jurisdiction of the Federation and
Cantons, and economic functions are exclusively under jurisdiction of the Cantons;

3.      institutions  in stead of 56 SFEs for forest management (existed at the beginning of the
Project implementation) new Law predicts establishment of 10 companies within Cantonal
administrative boundaries; and

4.      financing  in accordance with existing Laws and regulations financial arrangements are
the same for all companies regardless of the property.




                                                   - 35 -

                                 Support to Policy Reform  Privatization

As the result of the complex situation in the sector through engagement of international
consultant  privatization expert, we have organized:

1.      Seminars - The aims of the seminars were to provide general and specific information,
and to establish a better understanding on the necessity of privatization and its relation to
commercialization in the forestry sector. It was taken advantage of the seminar to provide
information on the European Initiatives related to sustainable forest management.

2.      Study tour- to Hungary, Slovenia, Poland, Latvia and Lithuania and development of the
following Studies:

       Forestry Sector Privatization in Bosnia and Herzegovina - Study

       Institutional Development of the Forestry Sector in the FBiH  Study

        Achievement 쵺he findings of the report outline the complexity of the current state forest
enterprises. The many kinds of state / canton / municipality ownership and forest management
rights give rise to different interpretations of the Constitution. It is therefore recommended to
delay the privatization of the strategic part of forestry until the new organization is a reality.
Before the decision of privatization the role of the State Forest Enterprises should be analyzed
over a long period in the perspective of a modern forestry system model. The organization of the
future state forestry management structure should be carefully considered/established prior to the
preparation of a privatization strategy. Should it not be the case the future of the state forestry
could prove highly compromised.

                Support to Policy Reform - Wood Marketing, Training and Pricing

        This component of the project was carried out jointly for the two entities. The purpose of
this component was to conduct a fiscal and marketing study for the forest and forest industry
sector in BiH. A further aim was to initiate discussion about the need for improved wood
marketing and pricing and to evaluate the awareness of foresters and other stakeholders
concerning the importance of appropriate marketing and pricing for the economic development of
forestry.
As a follow-up to the study it was organized:

1.      Seminar - The seminar was intended to contribute to the establishment of a strategy for
timber marketing and sector development in all SFEs in BiH.

2.      Study tour  A 8-day study tour in Germany focused on: (i) round-wood marketing in a
market economy, including services and pricing and (ii) the requirements of a highly specialized
and/or mechanized wood industry concerning wood marketing and forestry services.

      Achievement  The intervention enabled to demonstrate the keen interest of the SFEs in



                                                  - 36 -

wood certification schemes. It also demonstrated the need to establish formal
instrument/mechanisms to support forestry issues that would benefit from an inter-entity joint
policy.

        Forest Management Planning

        The part of the Project was development of the Forest Management Planning Study and
procurement of equipment for Forest Management Planning Units. Equipment for Forest
management planning units (within SFEs) and for the Forest Faculty procured under the Project
(field vehicles, computer and office equipment, GIS hardware and software, GPS and other
measurement instruments) has proved to be a great asset for these units in preparation of 10-year
forest management plans. Total value of equipment granted to Forest Management Units and
Forestry Faculty is US$ 481.394,50.

                               Support to Forest Inspection Service

        Forestry inspection service consists of 3 Federal inspectors (1 Chief Federal inspector and
2 Federal inspectors) and 19 forestry inspectors (total for all 10 Cantons).

        The program aimed at funding the re-establishment of the forest inspection services in
order to resume and secure adequate enforcement of forestry legislation. For that purpose
Forestry inspection service (Federal and services in all 10 Cantons) was supported by the program
with procurement of goods (computer and office equipment, field vehicles, GPSs, uniforms,
briefcases etc.) necessary for their day-to-day work. With the support provided by the program
inspectors' mobility, efficiency and effectiveness has been increased. Consequently, it resulted in
better enforcement of forestry legislation.

             COMPONENT II: PROTECTION AND REHABILITATION OF FORESTS

                                       Protection of Forests

        Forest protection activities were designed to support the control of insect attacks on
Bosnian forests, mostly bark beetles that affect coniferous stands. For this purpose the Program
funded the procurement of Pheromone lures (67.500 pcs), traps (27.833 pcs), sprayers (motor
sprayers - 25 pcs / manual sprayers  75 pcs) and field works.

                                            Afforestation

        Reforestation of forest areas heavily damaged during the war was initially planned for
about 500 ha in the Federation. The program support for reforestation was to include land
clear-felled for fuel춛ood during the war in the vicinity of major population centers and
reforestation of environmentally fragile areas destroyed during the war. In FBiH reforestation was
done on an total area of 702 ha (EU funded  127 ha; WB funded 575 ha).




                                                - 37 -

                                   Protected Areas Development

        The Forestry Program included provisions for supporting the development of new
protected area in Federation of BiH  national park Igman-Bjelasnica as well as ecological
surveys in six biologically sensitive areas. The results from the surveys were used to propose
protection measures, including the creation of new protected areas and are incorporated in the
forest management plans in the corresponding SFEs.

        The study for National Park Igman-Bjelasnica concludes that the National Park is a
feasible project in terms of the criteria investigated and the findings and recommendations of the
study include the following: (i) the original envisaged area was extended, the proposed national
park will now cover 120.000 ha; (ii) the new area limits with the buffer zone of the Sutjeska NP;
and (iii) the future national park will have different protection levels (IUCN 2-6), including
development for tourism and winter sports. The study also stress that by becoming a signatory of
the Convention of Biological Diversity, BIH would be eligible for GEF funding which is
considered as one of the main if not the main source for funding for the promotion of protected
areas.

        Funds were also used for procurement of goods (one field vehicle, office equipment and
photo/video equipment) for Institute for Protection of Cultural, Historical and Natural Heritage.


COMPONENT III: REHABILITATION OF OPERATIONAL CAPACITIES OF THE SFE's

        This component would restore the operational capacity of selected SFEs in Federation of
Bosnia and Herzegovina. The Project funded (i) equipment to repair and maintain existing forest
roads damaged during the war; and other forestry equipment to resume normal operation of
SFEs.

                                Road Maintenance Equipment

        For the needs of SFE's following road maintenance equipment was purchased:

-       graders (5 pcs)
-       excavators (11 pcs)
-       tipper trucks (5 pcs).

        Project financed rehabilitation/repair of existing forest roads. Under this program repair of
564.5 km of existing roads, 8 bridges, cleaning of 62 existing culverts and construction of 214
new culverts was funded.

                                        Other Forestry Equipment

        Other forestry equipment was also purchased. These include: Multipurpose tractors,
trucks with trailer and crane, nursery equipment, minibuses (8+1 and 22 seats), field and pick-up



                                                  - 38 -

vehicles, mopeds, radio equipment.

                               Project Administration and Monitoring

        Project administration and monitoring was administered by Forestry Project
Implementation Unit (PIU) a part of Federal MAWF in charge of Project implementation. PIU
coordinated Project activities; carried out procurement procedures, payments, revisions and
reporting required under the Project and according to Project regulations.

        Company "PROSPECT C&S"  Brussels, led by Project coordinator, was contracted by
EU to facilitate Project administration from its' start until 15.09.2001 when PIU continued with
the Project coordination.

           MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING IMPLEMENTATION AND OUTCOME

        Financial support of Project co-financers (The World Bank, European Union, Government
of Italy and Government of Norway) had an enormous influence on post-war reconstruction of
forestry sector in FBiH. Complex situation in FBiH (complex political and management
relationships) caused a delay in the start of Project implementation for almost a year.

        At the beginning of project implementation the status of the PIU as well as of the PIU
staff was unsettled (procurement and financial management specialists), which created a great
difficulties in the work. The problem was settled a year after the project's initialization and until
the end of the project PIU did not encounter any problems of that kind. FBiH Government did not
participate in funding of specific components of the project for the above-mentioned reasons.

        Financial Issues

        BiH Forestry Project was implemented through financial support of European Union, the
World Bank, Norwegian and Italian Government. Project Implementation unit (PIU) has been
formed for the implementation of the project, which was initially financed by EU, and under
supervision of international experts from the company "PROSPECT C&S"  Brussels. The
Project co-coordinator than hired additional supporting staff (procurement and financial specialist,
translator/interpreter, etc.).

        PIU staff provided services related to procurement procedures and contracting for the
World Bank's funds and Trust Funds (and also provided monitoring for EU contracted services
(goods inspections), which included the following activities:

       Ensuring carrying out of the whole process of procurement of goods, works and
consultants' services in accordance with the World Bank procedures, keeping to the agreed and
approved procurement schedule of the Credit and Grants;
       Organization of preparation of bidding documents for goods and works and requests for
proposals for procurement of consultants' services;
       Publishing of necessary announcements in relevant newspapers/magazines required for
specific method of procurement;



                                                 - 39 -

       Cooperation/coordination with relevant Groups of the PIU, especially for obtaining
technical documents (i.e. TOR, Bill of quantities, technical specifications) for timely preparation
of the bidding documents or request for proposals;
       Organization of tenders and receiving of submitted proposals;
       Evaluation of proposals;
       Correspondence with the World Bank to ensure required World Bank's reviews of and
obtaining "no objections" on all relevant documentation and materials during the procurement
process;
       Participation in preparation of periodic and unified PIU reports;
       Explanation of the World Bank's Procurement Policies and Rules to representatives of
relevant agencies.

        PIU performed the following financial activities:

       financial management of the project as required by the Government of Bosnia and
Herzegovina, IDA, and other component implementing agencies;
       maintained the project's accounting books and records, including any general ledger and
subsidiary ledgers, and ensure that there is proper and adequate documentation to support all of
the project's transactions;
       prepared replenishment requests for IDA and other requests as may be required to obtain
other project funding;
       prepared bank transfer and payment documentation for funds held at the bank(s) used by
the project, including any bank(s) used for the project's IDA Special Account(s);
       produced the financial management reports of the project (Grant) as required by the
Government of Bosnia-Herzegovina, IDA, and other project financiers; and
       cooperated fully with the auditor of the project to ensure that the auditing requirements of
the project are satisfied as required by IDA and other project financiers.

        Procurement Issues

        Proposed procurement arrangements were in accordance with Guidelines for
"Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" issued by the World Bank in January 1995,
and revised in January and August 1996 and September 1997. IDA financed goods and works
according to the following procedures:

        For goods:

        ICB  for procurement packages estimated to cost equivalent of more than 500.00 US$.
GPN has been published in Development Business. After GPN, SPNs were advertised in
Development Business (or on-line on their web site) and locally. Bidding documents were also
delivered to Companies that provided their expression of interest to the GPN.

        IS  used for equipment estimated to cost $500.000 equivalent or less per contract. IS
procedures are based on comparison of at least three bids submitted from two different countries
(or the goods offered are from at least two different countries by their origin).




                                                - 40 -

        NS  procurement for equipment estimated to cost $50.000 or less, with at least three
bids.

        Main procurement issues were:

-       The legislative framework in BiH/Federation to support commercial procurement
practices was at a very low level;
-       Anti-corruption and conflict of interest legislative was at a very low level;
-       The knowledge and experience in World Bank procurement procedures in BiH/Federation
was at a very low level.

                                 BORROWER'S PERFORMANCE

        Borrower performance during project preparation could be rated as Satisfactory. Project
preparation was supported by the World Bank technical assistance.

        Federal MAWF's implementation performance could be rated as Satisfactory. Regardless
of the fact that during the life of the Project, PIU witnessed four changes in a line minister's
position. However support to the Project objectives and goals from the line Ministry was never
absent. With the establishment of the Steering Committee tracking of the project activities and its
effects on overall performance was developed.

        PIU performance in the implementation of the Forestry Project could be rated as
Satisfactory. The project was under the scope of annual financial audit, delivered by the
Price-Water-House-Coopers, during the whole life of the Project. All Management Letters were
with an unqualified opinion. Regarding procurement, the final Audit Certificate issued by PMAU
did not show any material errors, and represented procurement activities were generally in
accordance with World Bank Guidelines and procedures.

                                     BANK'S PERFORMANCE

        Bank performance during project preparation could be rated as Satisfactory. During
preparation Project, the World Bank consulting team together with representatives of MAWF,
Sumes and SFEs outlined the project objectives and the design of the Project. The Project's
overall objective was set too high and was too ambitious. The project's secondary objectives were
adequately defined and have been realized as expected, but with 2 extensions of the Forestry
Project closing date.

        Bank performance during project supervision could be rated as Satisfactory. The project
was supervised by Bank staff and consultants located at Headquarters in Washington and in
Sarajevo Resident Mission. During supervision missions Bank staff thoroughly reviewed and
carefully analyzed all issues that appeared in the implementation of certain activities and provided
solutions/advice for overcoming challenges and/or problems. Bank staff, particularly in the
Resident Mission, provided close support for many aspects of project implementation, mostly for
procurement and financial issues. Bank staff coordinated well with other organizations and



                                                 - 41 -

donors, especially with Norwegian and Italian Government and European Union. Bank's leverage
and involvement in forestry policy reform component was crucial for the achievement of outputs
defined in Technical Annex project objectives.

                                         LESSONS LEARNED

         Lessons learned that can be generally applied and which are largely relevant for similar
projects in the state are:

          Adequate staffing for project management, monitoring and evaluation: This is most
important lesson we have learnt during the life of the Project. One idea for consideration is that,
before starting with investment projects in a country, the Bank should consider an option to
provide for the organization and provision of specific training courses for staff, identified by
respective authorities that would be involved in project implementation. Training courses would
be organized specifically for project management, WB procedures and requirements,
procurement, financial management, etc.

          Strengthening procurement and financial management capacities of implementing
agency in immediate post conflict situation are essential to overcome possible problems: In
an immediate post-conflict situation, where the Borrower does not have sufficient skills to
implement projects, it is essential to strengthen the procurement capacity. Establishment of
financial department within PIU is very important step and requires strong planning and
preparations before implementation of the Project begin. Development and installation of financial
accounting software at the beginning of project implementation is also very important step since
it's very difficult to have good quality financial work (accounting and reporting) without it.
Internal control procedures have to be established at the beginning of the Project implementation.

         Detailed project implementation plan have to be developed before project
implementation starts: Equivalent to BHP Project Operational Manual which proved to be very
good tool for project planning, monitoring and evaluation, each Bank's project in future should
have similar document. All technical specifications, TORs, detailed procurement plan, detailed
budget with chart of accounts, etc. that are relevant for project implementation should be
developed in advance.

          Donors and other partners with their financial support have to be identified before
project implementation starts: Government and Bank would put in future much stronger
emphasis on creating a strategy for attracting possible donors to take a part in the financing of a
project.

          Project Steering Committee proved to be a good solution in key situation in the
Project. It would be a good solution to establish the Steering Committee in the realization of the
new Project.

         The Working Group had a key role during enforcement of forestry policy reforms and in
institutional strengthening of the sector. During their work all differences in opinions and



                                                 - 42 -

observations have been considered through open and transparent dialogue between all
stakeholders which at the end resulted with the solution to the problem.

                                              CONCLUSION

        The Forestry Project was an emergency project that responded to immediate postwar
needs of the forestry sector and provided support for initial steps in forestry sector reform in
FBiH. The Project focused on forestry policy reform, protection of forests, institutional
strengthening of Forestry Inspection Service, protected areas, strengthening of forestry
operational capacities and procurement of equipment.

        The overall objective of the BiH Forestry Project was achieved. There were changes in
some categories, but project components remained the same until the Project closing. Therefore,
it would be strongly recommended that the FBiH Government, with Bank assistance, undertakes a
new project that will support further steps in forestry sector reform in FBiH, since it is the richest
sector in natural resources, and also the sector which employs a lot of rural population which is in
a very difficult financial situation in this post-war period.




                                                  - 43 -

Additional Annex 9. Economic Analysis


Economic benefits of the project

                                       Exchange rate per 1 KM 0.564 USD
                                       Discount rate            10%

Republica Serpska
                                       Actual benefits
                                        # hectares of    # hect of    annual m3 of     Price of     Actual
                                           direct     coniferous high potential wood timber/wood revenues per Year in which revenues can b
                                         protected       forests       production      USD/m3        year               expected
                                                                                                              2001, 15% decrease until ze
Control of insects populations               150,000         150,000         70,000            37 2,590,000.00       benefits in 2008
Rehabilitation of forest roads                                               19,000            37  703,000.00 40% in 2003, 100% in 2004
Transport equipment for sanitory                                                                         0.00
Forest fire equipment                        600,000                           9,000           37  333,000.00             2004
Total wood generated due to the
project                                                                      98,000

Operational costs
Operational costs of felling, pruning
and peeling                                        15 USD/m3                   26.60 KM/m3
Transportation costs from felling to
forest road                                      8.30 USD/m3                   14.72 KM/m3
Transportation costs from forest raod
to saw mills                                       10 USD/m3                   17.73 KM/m3
Total transportation costs                      18.30 USD/m3                   32.45 KM/m3
Total                                           33.30 USD/m3                   59.05 KM/m3

                                                      Total number of hectares

Year in which revenues can be
            expected                 2001     2002        2003         2004          2005        2006         2007       2008
2001, 15% decrease until zero
         benefits in 2008            70,000   59,500       49,000        38,500        28,000     17,500       7,000
 40% in 2003, 100% in 2004                                   7,600       19,000        19,000     19,000      19,000     19,000

              2004                                                        9,000        9,000        9,000      9,000       9,000

                                     70,000   59,500       56,600        66,500        56,000     45,500      35,000     28,000




                                                          - 44 -

Republica BiH
                                       Actual benefits
                                        # hectares of
                                            direct        # hect of    annual m3 of      Price of     Actual
                                          protected    coniferous high potential wood timber/wood revenues per
                                           forests         forests      production      USD/m3         year

Control of insects populations                 20,000                         85,500             37   3,163,500
Rehabilitation of forest roads                                30,000          58,800             37   2,175,600
Transport equipment for sanitory
felling                                                                                                    0.00
Forest fire equipment                                         60,000         117,600             37   4,351,200
Total wood generated due to the
project                                                                      261,900

Operational costs
Operational costs of felling, pruning
and peeling                                     15.00 USD/m3                   26.60  KM/m3
Transportation costs from felling to
forest road                                      8.30 USD/m3                   14.72  KM/m3
Transportation costs from forest raod
to saw mills                                    10.00 USD/m3                   17.73  KM/m3
Total transportation costs                      18.30 USD/m3                   32.45  KM/m3
Total                                           33.30 USD/m3                   59.05 KM/m3




Year in which revenues can be
          expected              2001   2002       2003       2004       2005       2006       2007    2008
2001, 15% decrease until zero
       benefits in 2008         85,500 72,675     59,850      47,025    34,200      21,375      8,550
            2003                                  58,800      58,800    58,800      58,800     58,800 58,800



            2005                                                       117,600     117,600    117,600 117,600

                               85,500 72,675     118,650     105,825   210,600     197,775    184,950 176,400


General rehabilitation of wood production

                                                       Total m2 of
                                                       wood                           Year in which
                                       % attributable production in   m2 attributable revenues are
                                       to project      2002           to project      expected
General rehabilitation of wood
production                                        10%      1,899,554        189,955           2004




                                                  - 45 -

                                       2000        2001         2002        2003         2004        2005        2006
Project costs
Totalprojectcosts                 (2,000,000) (8,000,000)  (9,000,000) (1,200,000)

Operationalcosts
Operational costs of felling,
pruningandpeeling                             (2,332,500)  (1,982,625) (2,628,750)  (2,584,875) (3,999,000) (3,649,125)
Transportationcoststosaw
mills                                         (2,845,973)  (2,419,077) (3,207,440)  (3,153,906) (4,879,335) (4,452,439)
Totaloperationalcosts                    -    (5,178,473)  (4,401,702) (5,836,190)  (5,738,781) (8,878,335) (8,101,564)

Project benefits
Control of insects populations                5,753,500     4,890,475  4,027,450    3,164,425   2,301,400   1,438,375
Rehabilitation of forests roads                                        2,456,800    2,878,600   2,878,600   2,878,600
Forestfireequipment                                                                   333,000   4,684,200   4,684,200
Generalrehabilitationofwood
production                                                                          7,028,350   7,028,350   7,028,350
Total project benefits                   -    5,753,500     4,890,475  6,484,250   13,404,375  16,892,550  16,029,525




TOTALCASHFLOW                     (2,000,000) (7,424,973)  (8,511,227)  (551,940)   7,665,594   8,014,215   7,927,961



ENPV                              34,542,362
EIRR                                    28%




                                                       - 46 -

     2007        2008        2009        2010        2011        2012        2013        2014        2015        2016




(3,299,250) (3,066,000) (3,066,000) (3,066,000) (3,066,000) (3,066,000) (3,066,000) (3,066,000) (3,066,000) (3,066,000)

(4,025,542) (3,740,945) (3,740,945) (3,740,945) (3,740,945) (3,740,945) (3,740,945) (3,740,945) (3,740,945) (3,740,945)
(7,324,792) (6,806,945) (6,806,945) (6,806,945) (6,806,945) (6,806,945) (6,806,945) (6,806,945) (6,806,945) (6,806,945)



  575,350
2,878,600   2,878,600   2,878,600   2,878,600   2,878,600   2,878,600   2,878,600   2,878,600   2,878,600   2,878,600
4,684,200   4,684,200   4,684,200   4,684,200   4,684,200   4,684,200   4,684,200   4,684,200   4,684,200   4,684,200

7,028,350   7,028,350   7,028,350   7,028,350   7,028,350   7,028,350   7,028,350   7,028,350   7,028,350   7,028,350
15,166,500 14,591,150  14,591,150  14,591,150  14,591,150  14,591,150  14,591,150  14,591,150  14,591,150  14,591,150




7,841,707   7,784,205   7,784,205   7,784,205   7,784,205   7,784,205   7,784,205   7,784,205   7,784,205   7,784,205




                                                 - 47 -

     2017        2018        2019        2020         2021       2022        2023        2024        2025        2026




(3,066,000) (3,066,000) (3,066,000) (3,066,000) (3,066,000) (3,066,000) (3,066,000) (3,066,000) (3,066,000) (3,066,000)

(3,740,945) (3,740,945) (3,740,945) (3,740,945) (3,740,945) (3,740,945) (3,740,945) (3,740,945) (3,740,945) (3,740,945)
(6,806,945) (6,806,945) (6,806,945) (6,806,945) (6,806,945) (6,806,945) (6,806,945) (6,806,945) (6,806,945) (6,806,945)




2,878,600   2,878,600   2,878,600   2,878,600   2,878,600   2,878,600   2,878,600   2,878,600   2,878,600   2,878,600
4,684,200   4,684,200   4,684,200   4,684,200   4,684,200   4,684,200   4,684,200   4,684,200   4,684,200   4,684,200

7,028,350   7,028,350   7,028,350   7,028,350   7,028,350   7,028,350   7,028,350   7,028,350   7,028,350   7,028,350
14,591,150 14,591,150  14,591,150  14,591,150  14,591,150  14,591,150  14,591,150  14,591,150  14,591,150  14,591,150




7,784,205   7,784,205   7,784,205   7,784,205   7,784,205   7,784,205   7,784,205   7,784,205   7,784,205   7,784,205




                                                    - 48 -

      2027        2028        2029        2030




(3,066,000) (3,066,000) (3,066,000) (3,066,000)

(3,740,945) (3,740,945) (3,740,945) (3,740,945)
(6,806,945) (6,806,945) (6,806,945) (6,806,945)




 2,878,600   2,878,600   2,878,600   2,878,600
 4,684,200   4,684,200   4,684,200   4,684,200

 7,028,350   7,028,350   7,028,350   7,028,350
14,591,150  14,591,150  14,591,150  14,591,150




 7,784,205   7,784,205   7,784,205   7,784,205




                                       - 49 -

- 50 -

