Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
RELATED TO TF021051
Subsidiary Grant Agreement
(for Forestry Project)
between
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
and
REPUBLIKA SRPSKA
Dated March 18, 1999
RELATED TO TF021051
SUBSIDIARY GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 18, 1999 between BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA (the Recipient) 
and REPUBLIKA SRPSKA (RS): 
(A)
by the Norwegian Grant Agreement dated March 15, 1999, between the 
Recipient and the International Development Association (the Association) acting as 
Administrator (the Administrator) of grant funds provided by the Kingdom of Norway 
(the Grant Agreement), the Administrator has agreed to make available to the Recipient 
funds in the form of a grant in an amount not exceeding one million five hundred and 
thirty thousand United States dollars (US$1,530,000) for carrying out of the 
Activities set forth in the Grant Agreement; and
(B)
RS, in consideration of the Administrator’s entry into the Grant 
Agreement with the Recipient, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in 
this Agreement.
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context shall 
otherwise require, the several terms defined in the Grant Agreement shall have the 
respective meanings therein set forth.
Section 1.02. The terms and conditions of the Grant Agreement shall, mutatis 
mutandis, apply with full force and effect to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
Page  2
Subsidiary Grant
Section 2.01. Pursuant to the Grant Agreement, the Recipient shall make 
available to RS, on the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement, a grant in 
an amount equivalent to one million five hundred and thirty thousand United States 
dollars (US$1,530,000) (the Subsidiary Grant).
Section 2.02. The Recipient shall cause its Ministry of Foreign Trade and 
Economic Relations to open a Grant Account (the Subsidiary Grant Account) on its books 
in the name of RS and the amount of the Subsidiary Grant shall be credited to the 
Subsidiary Grant Account. The Minister of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations or any 
other person duly authorized by him or her is authorized on behalf of the Recipient to 
withdraw funds from the Subsidiary Grant Account for the purposes of the Activities 
pursuant to the provisions of the Grant Account.
Section 2.03. The proceeds of the Subsidiary Grant may be withdrawn from the 
Grant Account pursuant to Section 4 of the Grant Agreement; provided, however, that 
the right of RS to withdraw the proceeds of the Subsidiary Grant shall be subject to 
the right of the Recipient to withdraw the proceeds of the Grant.
Section 2.04. (a) Upon the request of RS, the Recipient shall promptly make 
application for withdrawal from the Grant Account of amounts which the Recipient is 
entitled to withdraw therefrom for expenditures by RS for the Project.
(b)
For the purposes of the Project, the Recipient may open and maintain, for 
the benefit of RS, a special deposit account  (the RS Special Account) under the terms 
and conditions set forth in paragraph 4.7. of the Grant Agreement and Attachment to 
the Annex to the Grant Agreement referred to therein.
(c)
RS shall furnish to the Recipient, for submission to the Administrator, 
all such documents as are required by the Grant Agreement or as shall be requested by 
the Administrator in order to enable the Recipient to make the withdrawal from the 
Grant Account requested by RS.
Section 2.05. RS shall implement the Activities in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 5 of the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement (No. N040 
BOS) between the Recipient and the Association dated June 11, 1998.
Section 2.06. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
works and services required for the carrying out of the Activities and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Attachment I 
to the Annex to the Grant Agreement referred to herein. 
ARTICLE III
Obligations of the Recipient
Section 3.01. The Recipient shall take or cause to be taken all actions 
necessary or appropriate to enable RS to perform its obligations under this Agreement 
and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere 
with such performance.
ARTICLE IV
Settlement of Disputes
Section 4.01. Any dispute arising out of this Agreement or in connection 
therewith which cannot be amicably settled between the Recipient and RS shall be 
finally settled in the courts of the Recipient under the laws of the Recipient.
ARTICLE V
Suspension; Cancellation
Section 5.01. If the right of the Recipient to disbursement from the Grant is 
suspended or terminated by the Administrator pursuant to the provisions of the Grant 
Agreement, the right of RS to disbursement from the Subsidiary Grant shall, likewise 
and simultaneously, be suspended or canceled, as the case may be.
ARTICLE VI
Page  3
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. This Agreement shall become effective on the date upon which the 
Grant Agreement becomes effective.
Section 6.02. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given under this 
Agreement and any agreement between the parties shall be in writing.
Section 6.03. The following addresses are specified for the purpose of this 
Agreement:
For Bosnia and Herzegovina:
Ministry of Foreign Trade
 and Economic Relations
Musala 9
71000 Sarajevo
Bosnia and Herzegovina
For Republika Srpska:
Ministry of Finance of Republika Srpska
Ul. Vuka Karadzica 4
78000 Banja Luka
Bosnia and Herzegovina
If the above addresses and/or names are changed, the party concerned shall 
immediately notify the other party hereto in writing of the new addresses and/or 
names.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names as 
of the day and year first above written.
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
REPUBLIKA SRPSKA
By /s/ M. Kurtovic
By /s/ Novac Kondic
Minister of Foreign Trade and
Authorized Representative
   Economic Relations
