                       INTERIM FUND CREDIT NUMBER N040 BOS




              Interim Fund
Development Credit Agreement

                     (Forestry Project)


                          between


              BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA


                             and


   INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
    aswith
      Administrator of the interim trust fund established
     International Development Association pursuant to
           funds contributed by certain members of the
     Resolution No. IDA 184 of the Board of Governors
        of the International Development Association




                  Dated as of June 11,1998

                                            INTERIM FUND CREDIT NUMBER N040 BOS


                                         INTERIM FUND
                           DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT


             AGREEMENT, dated as of June 11, 1998, between BOSNIA AND
     HERZEGOVINA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
     ASSOCIATION (the Association) as administrator (the Administrator) of the interim
     trust fund (Interim Fund) established with funds contributed by certain members of the
     Association, pursuant to Resolution No. IDA 184 (the Interim Fund Resolution) of the
     Board of Governors of the Association, adopted on June 26, 1996.


             WHEREAS (A) by the Interim Fund Resolution, the Interim Fund has been
     established, comprised of the funds contributed by certain members of the Association
     and administered by the Association acting as Administrator of the Interim Fund, in
     accordance with the provisions of the Interim Fund Resolution;


             (B)      the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of
     the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Administrator to
     assist in the financing of the Project through the provision of resources from the Interim
     Fund, and the Administrator has determined that such assistance would be in accordance
     with the provisions of the Interim Fund Resolution;


             (C)      the Borrower intends to contract from the European Union a grant in an
     amount equivalent to $8,700,000 to assist in financing the Project on terms and
     conditions set forth in an agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and the EU;
     and


              WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing,
     to extend the Interim Fund Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth
     in this Agreement;


             NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


                                             ARTICLE I

r                                 General Conditions; Definitions


              Section 1.01.    The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
     Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth
     below (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement:






                                                 - 2-




            (a)      The term "Association" wherever used in the General Conditions means
    the International Development Association acting as Administrator of the Interim Fund
    referred to in the Preamble to the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement.


            (b)      The terms "Development Credit Agreement", "Credit" and "Credit
    Account", wherever used in the General Conditions, are amended to read "Interim Fund
    Development Credit Agreement", "Interim Fund Credit" and "Interim Fund Credit

    Account", respectively.


            (c)      A new paragraph, numbered 15 is added to Section 2.01 to read as

    follows:


                      "15. "Participating    Country"   means any country that meets the

                      requirements set forth in Section 5(e) of Resolution No. IDA 184 of the
                      Board of Governors of the Association, adopted on June 26, 1996, as          I
                      determined by the Administrator as of the date on which the Interim
                      Fund Credit was approved pursuant to Section 5(c) of said Resolution;
                      and "Participating Countries" means, collectively, all such countries;


             (d)      The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.


             (e)      The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:


                               "Except as the Administrator and the Borrower shall otherwise
                      agree, no withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in
                      the territories of any country which is not a Participating Country or for
                      goods produced in, or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for
                      the purpose of any payment to persons or entities, or for any import of
                      goods, if such payment or import, to the knowledge of the Administrator,
                      is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Counsel taken
                      under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations".


             (f)      In   Section 6.02 and 7.01 of the General Conditions, the term
     "Association" shall also mean the International Development Association acting in its

     own capacity.


             (g)       Section 6.03 is modified to read as follows:


                               "Section 6.03. Cancellation by the Administrator. If (a) the right
                       of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Interim Fund Credit
                       Account shall have been suspended with respect to any amount of the
                       Interim Fund Credit for a continuous period of thirty (30) days, or (b) at
                       any time, the Administrator determines, after consultation with the






                                                -3-




                     Borrower, that an amount of the Interim Credit will not be required to
                     finance the Project's costs to be financed out the proceeds of the Interim
                     Fund Credit, or (c) at any time the Administrator determines, with
                     respect to any contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the Interim
                     Fund Credit, that corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by
                     representatives of the Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Interim Fund
                     Credit during the procurement of the execution of such contract, without
                     the Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to
                     the Administrator to remedy the situation, and establishes the amount of
                     expenditures in respect of such contract which would otherwise have
                     been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Interim Fund
                     Credit, or (d) at any time, the Administrator determines that the
                     procurement of any contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the
                     Interim Fund Credit is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or
                     referred to in the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement and
                     establishes the amount of expenditures in respect of such contract which
                     would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of
                     the Interim Fund Credit, or (e) after the Closing Date, and the amount of
                     the Interim Fund Credit shall remain unwithdrawn from the Interim Fund
                     Credit Account, the Administrator may, by notice to the Borrower,
                     terminate the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals with respect to
                     such amount. Upon the giving of such notice, such amount of the Credit
                     shall be cancelled."


             Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in
    the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective
    meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
    meanings:


             (a)     "BH Sume" means Bosanskoherzegovacke Sume, a forest holding
    company established and operating in the Federation, and includes any successor or
    successors thereto;


             (b)     "Entity"  means the Federation (defined hereinafter) or RS (defined
    hereinafter);


            (c)      "Forest Management Plan" means the forest management plan prepared
    or to be prepared by each SFE (hereinafter defined);


             (d)     "Federation" means the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, a
    political sub-division of the Borrower, and includes any successor or successors thereto;






                                                -4-




            (e)     "Federation PIU" means the Project Implementation Unit maintained
    within the MAWF (hereinafter defined) pursuant to paragraph 4(a) of Schedule 5 to this
    Agreement;


            (f)     "Federation Special Account" means the special account for the
    Federation referred to in Section 2.02(b) of this Agreement;


            (g)     "Federation Subsidiary Credit Agreement" and "RS Subsidiary Credit
    Agreement" mean the agreements to be entered into between the Borrower and,
    respectively, the Federation and Republika Srpska, pursuant to Section 3.02(a) of this
    Agreement, as the same agreements may be amended from time to time, and such terms
    include all schedules supplemental to said agreements, and the term "Subsidiary Credit
    Agreements" means, collectively, the Federation Subsidiary Credit Agreement and the
    RS Subsidiary Credit Agreement;


            (h)     "Forest Inspection Service" means the forest inspection service within
    both MAWF and MAFW (both as hereinafter defined);


            (i)     "IPCHNH" means the Institute for Protection of Cultural, Historical and
    Natural Heritage under the Ministry of Education, Science and Culture of the Borrower;


            (j)     "MAFW" means the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water
    Resources of Republika Srpska, and includes any successor or successors thereto;


            (k)     "MAWF" means the Ministry of Agriculture, Water Resources and
    Forestry of the Federation, and includes any successor or successors thereto;


            (1)     "MOF" means the Ministry of Finance of the Borrower, and includes
    any successor or successors thereto;


            (m)     "PMAU" means the Procurement Monitoring and Audit Unit of the
    Federation and Republika Srpska established in each Entity to monitor and audit
    procurement activities under projects financed, co-financed and administered by the
    Association, the   Administrator and the International Bank for Reconstruction and
    Development in the territories of the Borrower;


            (n)      "Republika Srpska" means Republika Srpska, a political sub-division of
    the Borrower, and includes any successor or successors thereto;


            (o)      "RS PIU" means the Project Implementation Unit to be established
    within MAFW of Republika Srpska pursuant to paragraph 4(b) of Schedule 5 to this
    Agreement;





                                                  -5-




            (p)      "RS Special Account" means the special account for Republika Srpska
    referred to in Section 2.02(b) of this Agreement;


            (q)      "SFE" means a State Forest Enterprise; "Federation SFE" means an SFE
    within the Federation; "RS SFE" means an SFE within Republika Srpska; and "SFEs"
    means, collectively, the Federation SFEs and RS SFEs;


            (r)      "Special Accounts" means the Federation Special Account and the RS
    Special Account, collectively;


            (s)      "Srpske Sume" means a forest holding company established and
    operating in Republika Srpska, and includes any successor or successors thereto;


            (t)      "Subsidiary Credit" means the subsidiary credit to be made out of the
    proceeds of the Credit to the Federation or to Republika Srpska; and


            (u)      "Supply and Credit Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into
    between the Federation, through the Federation PIU, and Republika Srpska, through the
    RS PIU, respectively, and an SFE pursuant to paragraph 5 of Schedule 5 to this
    Agreement, and "Supply Credit" means a credit made or proposed to be made under a
    Supply and Credit Agreement.


                                            ARTICLE H


                                     The Interim Fund Credit


            Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and
    conditions set forth or referred to in the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement, an
    amount in various currencies equivalent to four million nine hundred thousand Special
    Drawing Rights (SDR 4,900,000).


            Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Interim Fund Credit may be withdrawn from
    the Interim Fund Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
    Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Administrator shall so agree, to be made) in
    respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in
    Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Interim Fund
    Credit.


            (b)      The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in
    Dollars two special deposit accounts, the Federation Special Account and the RS Special
    Account, each in a commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
    Administrator, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment.






                                                - 9-




            Section 3.05. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and
    without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:


            (a)      prepare, or cause to be prepared, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to
    the Administrator, and furnish to the Administrator not later than six (6) months after the
    Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
    and the Administrator, a plan for the future operation of the Project; and


            (b)      afford the Administrator a reasonable opportunity to exchange views

    with the Borrower on said plan.


                                          ARTICLE IV


                                       Financial Covenants


            Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause each of the Federation
    and Republika Srpska to maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
    with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of
    the Project of the departments or agencies of the Borrower, the Federation and Republika
    Srpska responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.


            (b)      The Borrower shall or shall cause each of the Federation and Republika
    Srpska to:


                     (i)     have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this
                             Section including those for the Special Accounts for each fiscal
                             year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
                             consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
                             Administrator, who shall be employed by December 31, 1998,
                             on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Administrator;


                     (ii)    furnish to the Administrator as soon as available, but in any case
                             not later than six months after the end of each such year: (A)
                             certified copies of its financial statements for such year as so
                             audited; and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such
                             scope and in such detail as the Administrator shall have
                             reasonably requested; and


                     (iii)   furnish to the Administrator such other information concerning
                             such records, accounts and the audit thereof as the Administrator
                             shall from time to time reasonably request.

                                            -8-




                                       ARTICLE III


                                 Execution of the Project


        Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end:


        (a)      (i) shall cause Part A of the Project to be carried out by the Federation
and shall cause Part B of the Project to be carried out by Republika Srpska, all with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial,
forestry and environmental practices; (ii) shall take or cause to be taken all action,
including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or
appropriate to enable the Federation to carry out Part A of the Project and to enable
Republika Srpska to carry out Part B of the Project; and (iii) shall not take or permit to be
taken any action which would prevent or interfere with the carrying out of said parts of
the Project by the Federation and Republika Srpska, respectively;


        (b)      Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section
and except as the Borrower and the Administrator shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause the Federation to carry out Part A of the Project and Republika Srpska to
carry out Part B of the Project in accordance with the provisions of the Implementation
Program set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.


        Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall on-lend the proceeds of the Interim Fund
Credit to the Federation and Republika Srpska for purposes of the Project under separate
subsidiary credit agreements to be entered into between the Borrower and the Federation
and the Borrower and Republika Srpska in accordance with the provisions of the
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.


        (b)       The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Credit
Agreements in such a manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the
Administrator and to accomplish the purposes of the Interim Fund Credit, and except as
the Administrator shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate
or waive the Subsidiary Credit Agreements or any provision thereof.


         Section 3.03. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, procurement of
the goods required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Interim
Fund Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


         Section 3.04. The Borrower shall cause each of the Federation and Republika
Srpska to employ, by September 30, 1998, procurement agents under terms of reference
satisfactory'to the Administrator to assist the Federation and Republika Srpska in the
procurement of goods required for the carrying out of the Project.

                                           -7-




determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three (3) consecutive years the
        (b)     Whenever: (i) the Borrower s per capita gross national product (GNP), as
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access the
Association s resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for
Bank lending, the Administrator may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the
development of the Borrower s economy, modify the repayment of installments under
paragraph (a) above by:
                (A)      requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such
                         Fund Credit shall have been repaid; and
                         installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Interim


                (B)      requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal
                         amount of the Interim Fund Credit as of the first semiannual
                         payment date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six (6)
                         months or more after the date on which the Administrator
                         notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph (b)
                         have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace
                         period of a minimum of five (5) years on such repayment of
                         principal.

modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of the
         (c)    If so requested by the Borrower, the Administrator may revise the
increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate
agreed with the Administrator on the principal amount of the Interim Fund Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the
Administrator, such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.

 above, the Association determines that the Borrower s economic condition has
         (d)    If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b)
 deteriorated significantly, the Administrator may, if so requested by the Borrower,
 further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
 provided in paragraph (a) above.

 for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
         Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified

                                               -6-




Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Accounts shall be made in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.


         Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2000, or such later date as
the Administrator shall establish. The Administrator shall promptly notify the Borrower
of such later date.


         Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment
charge on the principal amount of the Interim Fund Credit not withdrawn from time to
time at a rate to be set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed
the rate of one-half of one percent (1 /2 of I%) per annum.


         (b)     The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty (60) days
after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which
amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Interim Fund Credit Account or
cancelled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date
or at such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a)
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next payment
date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.


         (c)     The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or
in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency
or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the
provisions of that Section.


         Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of I%) per annum on the principal amount of the
Interim Fund Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.


         Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable
semiannually on March I and September I in each year.


         Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower shall
repay the principal amount of the Interim Fund Credit in semiannual installments payable
on each March I and September 1 commencing September 1, 2008, and ending March 1,
2033 . Each installment to and including the installment payable on March 1, 2018, shall
be one and one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each installment
thereafter shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.

                                             -1 0-




Fund Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower
         (c)     For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Interim
shall or shall cause each of the Federation and Republika Srpska to:
                  (i)     maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
                          records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
                  (ii)    retain, until at least one (1) year after the Administrator has
                          received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last
                          withdrawal from the Interim Fund Credit Account or payment
                          out of the Special Accounts was made, all records (contracts,
                          orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing
                          such expenditures;
                  (iii)   enable the Administrator s representatives to examine such
                          records; and
                  (iv)    ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual
                          audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
                          report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors
                          as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during
                          such fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal
                          controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to
                          support the related withdrawals.

Srpska to coordinate with the respective PMAU for purposes of procurement monitoring
         Section 4.02. The Borrower shall cause each of the Federation and Republika
and audit of their respective parts of the Project.
                                        ARTICLE V
                    Remedie of he A ocia ion and he Admini a o

following additional events are specified:
         Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the



its respective obligations under the Federation Subsidiary Credit Agreement or the RS
         (a)      The Federation or Republika Srpska shall have failed to perform any of
Subsidiary Credit Agreement.

Fund Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which
         (b)      As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Interim
shall make it improbable that the Federation orRepublika Srpska shall be able to perform






    its respective obligations under the Federation Subsidiary Credit Agreement or RS
    Subsidiary Credit Agreement.


           (c)      (i)     Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:


                           (A)      The right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of
                                    any loan or grant made to the Borrower for the financing
                                    of the Project shall have been suspended, cancelled or
                                    terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of
                                    the agreement providing therefor; or


                            (B)     any such loan shall have become due and payable prior
                                    to the agreed maturity thereof.


                            Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the
                            Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Administrator
                            that:


                            (A)     such     suspension,    cancellation,     termination or
                                    prematuring is not caused by the failure of the Borrower
                                    to perform any of its obligations under such agreement;
                                    and


                            (B)     adequate funds for the project are available to the
                                    Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions
                                    consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under
                                    this Agreement.


            Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the
    following additional events are specified:


            (a)     the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement
    shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60) days after notice thereof shall
    have been given by the Administrator to the Borrower; and


            (b)     the event specified in paragraph (c)(i)(B) of Section 5.01 of this
    Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (c)(ii) of this Section.

                                            - 1 2-




                                      ARTICLE VI
                           DeEffec ion of he Admini a o
                                ignai e Da e; Te mina ion;



effectiveness of the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
        Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the
Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
Borrower and anaEntity with terms and conditions satisfactory to the Administrator;
        (a)        Subsidiary Credit Agreement has been executed on behalf of the

staffing,(b)
          including at least three (3) staff with forestry, procurement and accounting
                 a PIU for said Entity has been provided with terms of reference and with
experience, and other resources satisfactory to the Administrator in accordance with the
provisions of paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement;

Administrator, have been prepared by the SFEs of said Entity whose Forest Management
        (c)      annual work plans for the 1998 calendar year, satisfactory to the
Plans have expired, and have been approved by the Ministry of Agriculture of said
Entity; and

Administrator, has been submitted to the parliament of the Federation.
        (d)      in the case of the Federation, a draft Forestry Law, satisfactory to the



Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to
         Section 6.02. The following4is an additional matter, within the meaning of
be furnished to the Administrator, namely, the Subsidiary Credit Agreement referred to
in Section 6.01 (a) has been duly authorized or ratified by the Entity concerned and is
legally binding on such Entity in accordance with its terms.
specifiedSection purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
          for the6.03.The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby


Agreement shall cease and determined on the date on which the Interim Fund
         Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Article III of this
Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on the date twenty (20) years after the
date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.

to terminate the functions of the Association as administrator of the Interim Fund
         Section 6.05. In the event that the Executive Directors of the Association decide
pursuant to Section 7 of the Interim Fund Resolution, all of the rights and obligations of
the Administrator under this Agreement shall be assumed by the Association in

                                                   -1 3-




     accordance with the Interim Fund Resolution and such decision of said Executive
     Directors, as of a date to be notified by the Administrator to the Borrower.
                                            ARTICLE VII
                            Rep e en a i e of he Bo o e ; Add e e

     Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section
             Section 7.01. The Minister of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations of the
0    11.03 of the General Conditions.
     11.01 ofSection
              the General Conditions:
                      7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section

             For the Borrower:
                  Ministry of Foreign Trade
                  Musala 9
                    and Economic Relations
                  71000 Sarajevo
                  Bosnia and Herzegovina
             For the Association and the Administrator:
                  International Development
                  1818 H Street, N.W.
                  Association
                  Washington, D.C. 20433
                  United States of America
                               Cable address:                           Telex:
                                   INTBAFRAD
                                    Washington, D.C.                           248423 (MCI)
                                                                                 64145 (MCI)

                                          -1 4-




authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective
       IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
names in Sarajevo, Bosnia and Herzegovina, as of the day and year first above written.



                       BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA




                       BY    151        ,        2e            Authorized Representative



                        INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                         with funds contributed by certain members of the
                          as Administrator of the interim trust fund established
                          International Development Association pursuant to
                          Resolution No. IDA 184 of the Board of Governors
                          of the International Development Association




                        By !     / ~ a          /V''  Fl-6ZC
                                                               Authorized Representative





                                                      -15-




                                                SCHEDULE 1


                          Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit


          1.      The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the
         proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Interim Fund
    4    Credit to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in
         each Category:

   f

                                          Amount of the Interim
                                          Fund Credit Allocated                % of
                                              (Expressed in                Expenditures
         Category                            SDR Equivalent)              to be Financed

         (1) Goods


              (a) under Part A                      3,100,000            100% of foreign
                  of the Project                                         expenditures, 100%
                                                                         of local expenditures
              (b) under Part B                      1,550,000            (ex-factory cost) and
                  of the Project                                         85% of local expendi-
                                                                         tures for other items
                                                                         procured locally
         (2) Unallocated


              (a) for Part A of                       170,000
                  the Project


              (b) for Part B of                        80,000
                  the Project



                  TOTAL                            4,900,000




         2.       For the purposes of this Schedule:
   k




                  (a)      the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of
         any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the
         territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;

                                             - 1 6-




         (b)     the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; provided,
however, that if the currency of the Borrower is also that of another country from the
territory of which the goods and services are supplied, expenditures in such currency for
such goods or services shall be deemed to be "foreign expenditures".


3.       Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall be
made in respect of payments made for expenditures: (a) prior to the date of this
Agreement; and (b) under the Category allocated to Part A or Part B of the Project
unless, by September 30, 1998: (i) a Subsidiary Credit Agreement between the Borrower
and the Entity responsible for implementing said Part A or Part B of the Project, as the

case   may be, has been executed with terms and conditions, satisfactory to the
Administrator; (ii) a PIU for said Entity has been provided with terms of reference and
with staffing, including at least three (3) staff with forestry, procurement and accounting
experience, and other resources, satisfactory to the Administrator, in accordance with the
provisions of paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement; (iii) annual work plans for
the 1998 calendar year, satisfactory to the Administrator, have been prepared by the
SFEs of said Entity whose Forest Management Plans have expired, and have been
approved by the Ministry of Agriculture of said Entity; (iv) an opinion has been
furnished to the Administrator stating that said Subsidiary Credit Agreement has been
duly authorized or ratified by the parties thereto and is legally binding upon them in
accordance with its terms; and (v) in the case of the Federation, a draft Forestry Law,
satisfactory to the Administrator, has been submitted to the parliament of the Federation.


4.       In the event the evidence required under paragraph (3)(b) hereof is not furnished
by the date specified in said paragraph (3)(b), the Administrator may, by notice to the
Borrower, cancel the amounts allocated to Category (l)(a) or (1)(b) specified in the table
in paragraph I hereof or reallocate such amounts to other Categories.


5.       The Administrator may require withdrawals from the Interim Fund Credit
Account to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for goods
under contracts not exceeding $500,000 equivalent under such terms and conditions as
the Administrator shall specify by notice to the Borrower.






                                                   - 1 7-




                                            SCHEDULE2


                                      Description of the Project


               The objective of the Project is to resume sustainable management and protection
       of Bosnian forest resources, in order to: (i) ensure the sustainablility of the rapid
  I    recovery of the wood harvesting and wood processing sectors; and (ii) control the
       potential environmental impact of the latter.


               The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof
       as the Borrower and the Administrator may agree from time to time to achieve such

       objectives:


       Part A: Support to Sustainable Forest Management in the Federation


       1.      Support to Forest Management:


               (a)     Carrying out institutional, fiscal and marketing studies on the forestry
       sector of the Federation.


               (b)     Preparation of Forest     Management Plans for the Federation SFEs,
       including the re-establishment of an inventory and management planning unit in BH
       Sume, the provision of equipment for the purpose and the provision of technical
       assistance and training to the staff of BH Sume to strengthen its forest management

       capacity.


               (c)     Re-establishment of the Forest Inspection Service, comprising one
       General Inspectorate and about 10 field inspectors, the provision of vehicles and field
       and office equipment to the Forest Inspection Service, and the provision of technical
       assistance and training to the staff of the Forest Inspection Service to strengthen its
       inspection capacity.


       2.      Protection and Rehabilitation of Forests:


               (a)      Protection of forests from insect attacks through biological methods,
       including pheromone trapping of pests.


                (b)     Rehabilitation  of damaged forests through reforestation of forests
       heavily damaged during the war.


                (c)     Carrying out of ecological surveys in about six biologically sensitive
       areas, establishment of protected areas including the Igman Bjelasnica complex, and the
       provision of vehicles and radio communication equipment for the purpose.

                                            -Is-




3.      Rehabilitation of Operational Capacity of SFEs:

maintaining forest roads damaged by war activities or not properly maintained during the
        (a)      Provision of equipment to the Federation SFEs for repairing and
war for forest management and harvesting purposes.

telecommunication equipment to Federation SFEs to enable them to resume normal
        (b)      Provision of vehicles, wood transport equipment, nursery equipment and
forest surveillance and management.
4.      Project Management and Monitoring:

and office equipment and the provision of technical assistance to strengthen the
        (a)      Provision of monitoring and evaluation system, the provision of vehicles
Federation PIU in project monitoring.                                                          I

Part B: Support to Sustainable Forest Management inRepublika Srpska
1.       Support to Forest Management:
sector of(a) Republika Srpska.
          the     Carrying out institutional, fiscal, and marketing studies on the forestry

re-establishmentPreparation
         (b)
provision of equipment for the purpose and the provision of technical assistance and
                   of an inventory and management planning unit in Srpske Sume, the
                              of Forest Management Plans for the RS SFEs, including the

training to the staff of Srpske Sume to strengthen its forest management capacity.
General(c)Inspectorate and about 12 field inspectors, the provision of vehicles and field
                  Re-establishment of the Forest Inspection Service, comprising one
and office equipment to the Forest Inspection Service, and the provision of technical
assistance and training to the staff of the Forest Inspection Service to strengthen its
inspection capacity.
2.       Protection and Rehabilitation of Forests:
including(a)pheromone trapping of pests.
                  Protection of forests from insect attacks through biological methods,

Park of Sutjeska,Re-establishmentvehicles and radio communication equipment for the
         (b)
purpose, the reconstruction of about three guard posts and the provision of technical
                   the provision of  of basic surveillance and protection in the National





                                                    - 19-




         assistance and training to strengthen the surveillance capacity of the staff of the National

         Park of Sutjeska.


         3.      Rehabilitation of Operational Capacity of SFEs:


                 (a)     Provision of equipment to the RS SFEs for repairing and maintaining
         forest roads damaged by war activities or not properly maintained, during the war for
         forest management and harvesting purposes.
   I
                 (b)     Provision    of vehicles, nursery equipment and telecommunication
         equipment to RS SFEs to enable them to resume normal forest surveillance and

         management.


         4.      Project Management and Monitoring:


                 Provision of monitoring and evaluation system, the provision of vehicles and
         office equipment and the provision of technical assistance and training to strengthen the
         RS PIU in project monitoring.




                      The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2000.

    4

                                              -20-




                                        SCHEDULE 3
                                         P oc emen
Section I.      Procurement of Goods
Part A: General
shall beSubject
        procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the "Guidelines for
                to the eligibility restrictions set forth in Section II of this Schedule, goods
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in January
provisions of this Section, as applicable.
1995 and revised in January 1996 and August 1996 (the Guidelines) and the following

Part B: International Competitive Bidding

under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines
I.      Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured
and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower and procured
        The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2
under contracts awarded in accordance with paragraphs I and 2 of this Part B.
Part C: Other Procurement Procedures
        International Shopping

aggregate amount not to exceed $1,100,000 equivalent may be procured under contracts
        Goods estimated to cost $500,000 equivalent or less per contract, up to an
awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines and using standard documentation
agreed with the Administrator.
Part D: Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.      Procurement Planning

contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the
        Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for
Administrator for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph 1 of Appendix I to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall

      be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by
      the Administrator, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
      2.      Prior Review
              (a)      With respect to each contract to be awarded in accordance with the

r     and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
      provisions of Section I, Part B of this Schedule, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2


 r    $300,000(b) moreWithberespect inthe
                or       to    awardedto accordance with the provisions of Section I, Part C of
                                              all contracts estimated to cost the equivalent of
      this Schedule, the following procedures shall apply:
                       (i)      prior to the selection of any supplier, the Borrower shall provide
                                to the Administrator a report on the comparison and evaluation
                                of quotations received;
                       (ii)     prior to the execution of any contract, the Borrower shall provide
                                to the Administrator a copy of the specifications and the draft
                                contract; and
                       (iii)    the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of
                                Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
      3.      Post Review

      procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
              With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part D, the

      Section II.      Eligibility Restrictions

      of the Interim Fund Credit may only be withdrawn on account of expenditures for goods
      1.      Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1.6 of the Guidelines, the proceeds
      provided by nationals of, and produced in or supplied from, Participating Countries;
      consequently, nationals of countries that are not Participating Countries and bidders
      offering goods from such countries shall be disqualified from bidding for such contracts,
      and the bidding documents shall so specify.
      2.
      only consultants from Participating Countries shall be eligible to provide services
              Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1.10 of the Consultant Guidelines,
      financed out the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit.






                                               - 2 2-




                                          SCHEDULE 4


                                         Special Accounts


    1.       For the purposes of this Schedule:


             (a)     the term "eligible Categories" means Category (1)(a) in case of the
    Federation Special Account and Category (1)(b) in case of the RS Special Account, as set
    forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule I to this Agreement;


             (b)     the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the
    reasonable cost of goods required for the Project, and to be financed out of the proceeds
    of the Interim Fund Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories, in
    accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and


             (c)      the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to
    $800,000 in the case of the Federation Special Account, and an amount equivalent to
    $400,000 in the case of the RS Special Account, or such other amounts as to the
    Association shall establish, to be withdrawn from the Interim Fund Credit Account and
    deposited into the respective Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
    Schedule.


    2.       Payments out of the respective Special Account shall be made exclusively for
                                            M
    eligible expenditures, in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.


    3.       After the Administrator has received evidence satisfactory to it that the
    respective Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized
    Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the respective Special Account shall
    be made as follows:


              (a)     For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish
    to the Administrator a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed
    the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or
    requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Interim
    Fund Credit Account and deposit in the respective Special Account such amount or
    amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.


              (b)     (i)     For replenishment of the respective Special Account, the
                              Borrower shall furnish to the Administrator requests for deposits
                              into the respective Special Account at such intervals as the
                              Administrator shall specify.

                       (ii)     Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall
                                furnish to the Administrator the documents and other evidence
                                required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, for the
                                payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is
                                requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association
                               Fund Credit Account and deposit into the respective Special
                                shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Interim
                               Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and
                               as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence
f                              to have been paid out of the respective Special Account for
                               eligible expenditures.
     AccountAllunder the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent
                   such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Administrator from the Credit
     amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
     4.
     the Borrower shall, at such time as the Administrator shall reasonably request, furnish to
             For each payment made by the Borrower out of the respective Special Account,
     the Administrator such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was
     made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
     5.
     shall notNotwithstanding
              be required to make further deposits into the respective Special Account:
                                 the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association


s    withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Interim Fund Credit
             (a)       if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further
     Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and
     paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;

     the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit
             (b)       if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Administrator, within
     reports required to be furnished to the Administrator pursuant to said Section in respect
     of the audit of the records and accounts for the respective Special Account;
     intention(c)to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals
                       if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its
     from the Interim Fund Credit Account, pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the
     General Conditions; or

     to the eligible Categories for the Project, less the amount of any outstanding special
             (d)       once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Interim Fund Credit allocated
     commitment entered into by the Administrator pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General






                                                -24-




    Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of
    the Authorized Allocation.


             Thereafter, withdrawal from the Interim Fund Credit Account of the remaining
    unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories for the Project,
    shall follow such procedures as the Administrator shall specify by notice to the
    Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the
    Administrator shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
    Special Account, as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for
    eligible expenditures.


    6.       (a)    If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any payment
    out of the respective Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount
    not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the
    evidence furnished to the Administrator, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from
    the Administrator: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Administrator may
    request; or (B) deposit into the respective Special Account (or, if the Administrator shall
    so request, refund to the Administrator), an amount equal to the amount of such payment
    or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.       Unless the Administrator shall
    otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Administrator into the respective Special
    Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence, or made such
    deposit or refund, as the case may be.


             (b)     If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any amount
    outstanding in the respective Special Account will not be required to cover further
    payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the
    Administrator, refund to the Association such outstanding amount.


             (c)     The Borrower may, upon notice to the Administrator, refund to the
    Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the respective Special Account.


             (d)     Refunds to the Administrator made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and
    (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Interim Fund Credit Account for subsequent
    withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this
    Agreement, including the General Conditions.

                                                  - 2 5-




                                            SCHEDULE 5
                                     Implemen a ion P og am

     shall enter into the Subsidiary Credit Agreements, which shall include the following
              For purposes of Sections 3.01 (b) and 3.02 (a) of this Agreement, the Borrower
     terms and conditions:

     Federation and Republika Srpska, on the following principal terms and conditions:
     1.      The Borrower shall on-lend the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit to the



     equivalent to the amount of the Interim Fund Credit allocated from time to time to
             (a)      the Borrower shall on-lend to the Federation an amount in Dollars
     Category (1)(a) set forth in the table in paragraph I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement and
     shall on-lend to Republika Srpska an amount in Dollars equivalent to the amount of the
     Interim Fund Credit allocated from time to time to Category (1)(b) set forth in the table in
     paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;

     grace period;
             (b)      the term of each Subsidiary Credit shall be 35 years, including a 10-year


     commitment charge at a rate equal to the rate payable under Section 2.04 of this
             (c)      the Borrower shall charge the Federation and Republika Srpska a
     Agreement, on the principal amount of the Subsidiary Credit not withdrawn from time to
     time;

     charge on the principal amount of each Subsidiary Credit withdrawn and outstanding
             (d)      the Borrower shall charge the Federation and Republika Srpska a service
     from time to time at a rate equal to the rate payable under Section 2.05 of this
     Agreement;
     Dollars(e)
     currency(determined withdrawn from the Interim Fund Credit Account on account of
     expenditures for the Project; and
               or currenciesas
                      the principal amount of the Subsidiary Credit shall be the equivalent in
                               of the date or respective dates of repayment) of the value of


     repayment termsthe each Subsidiary Credit in conformity with the provisions of Section
             (f)
     2.07 (b) of this Agreement.
                       of  Borrower shall have the right to require modification in the


     2.
     carry outThe B of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
               PartFederation shall carry out Part A of the Project and Republika Srpska shall




A






    appropriate administrative, financial, forestry and environmental practices, and in
    accordance with the provisions set forth below.


    3.       Project implementation responsibilities shall be as set forth below:


             (a)      The MOF shall be responsible for the overall supervision of Project
    implementation;


             (b)      (i) the MAWF of the Federation shall have overall responsibility for
    implementation of Part A of the Project through the Federation PIU, including the
    implementation    of the procurement, disbursement, auditing and reporting requirements
    and the institutional fiscal and marketing study under Part A(1)(a) of the Project, forest
    inspection activities under Part A(1)(c) of the Project, and the establishment of protected
    areas under Part A(2) (c) of the Project; and (ii) the MAFW of Republika Srpska shall
    have overall responsibility for implementation of Part B of the Project through the RS        4
    PIU, including the implementation of the procurement, disbursement, auditing and
    reporting requirements, the institutional fiscal and marketing study under Part B(1) (a) of
    the Project, and forest inspection activities under Part B(l)(c) of the Project;


             (c)      BH Sume and Srpske Sume shall be responsible for implementing forest
    management planning activities and forest protection from insect attacks under Parts A
    (1)(b), A (2)(a), B (1)(b) and (B)(2) (a) of the Project, respectively;


             (d)      the Federation SFEs selected to participate in Part A(3) of the Project
    shall be responsible for implementing said Part A(3) of the Project; and the RS SFEs
    selected to participate in Part B(3) of the Project shall be responsible for implementing
    said Part B(3) of the Project;


             (e)     IPCHNH shall be responsible for carrying out ecological surveys under
    Part A(2)(c) of the Project and an environmental monitoring plan under Part A(4)(a) of
    the Project;


             (f)     the National Park of Sutjeska shall be responsible for carrying out Part
    B(2)(b) of the Project;


             (g)     the Faculty of Forestry of the University of Banja Luka shall be
    responsible for carrying out an environmental monitoring plan under Part B(4)(a) of the
    Project; and


             (h)      the Federation and RS shall appoint, not later than August 31, 1998, the
    field inspectors under Part A(1)(c) and B (1)(c) of the Project, respectively.






                                                -27-




    4.      (a)      The Federation shall maintain, for purposes of Part A of the Project, the
    Federation PIU under terms of reference and with staffing and other resources acceptable
    to the Administrator. The Federation PIU shall be headed by a director and shall have
    overall responsibility for the management and coordination of said Part A of the Project.


            (b)      Republika Srpska shall establish and maintain, for purposes of Part B of
    the Project, the RS PIU under terms of reference and with staffing and other resources
    acceptable to the Administrator. The RS PIU shall be headed by a director and shall have
    overall responsibility for the management and coordination of said Part B of the Project.


    5.      For purposes of Parts A(3)(a) and (b) (wood transport equipment) and B(3)(a) of
    the Project, the Federation and Republika Srpska shall enter into Supply and Credit
    Agreements with SFEs for the supply of equipment, procured and financed out of the
    proceeds of the Credit, under the terms and conditions set forth in the Annex to this
    Schedule.


    6.      For purposes of ensuring that the procurement of goods is carried out in
    accordance with the procedures stipulated for that purpose:


            (a)      the Federation shall employ, by September 30, 1998, procurement
    agents, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Administrator, to assist the Federation
    in carrying out the procurement of said goods under Part A of the Project; and


            (b)      Republika Srpska shall employ, by September 30, 1998, procurement
    agents, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Administrator, to assist Republika
    Srpska in carrying out the procurement of said goods under Part B of the Project.

    7.      (a)      For purposes of Part A(l)(a) of the Project, the Federation shall:


                     (i)     by December 31, 1998, furnish to the Administrator for review
                             and approval the terms of reference for the institutional, fiscal
                             and marketing study to be carried out under said Part A(1)(a) of
                             the Project; and


                     (ii)    by December 31, 1999, furnish to the Administrator the
                             conclusions and recommendations of said institutional, fiscal and
                             marketing study.


            (b)      For purposes of Part B(1)(a) of the Project, Republika Srpska shall:


                     (i)     by December 31, 1998, furnish to the Administrator for review
                             and approval the terms of reference for the institutional, fiscal





                                               -28-




                            and marketing study to be carried out under said Part B(1)(a) of
                            the Project; and

                            by December 31, 1999, furnish to the Administrator the
                            conclusions and recommendations of said institutional, fiscal and
                            marketing study.

    8.      For purposes of their respective parts of the Project, the Federation and
    Republika Srpska shall each maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect in
    accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures in
    respect of the Project and the departments or agencies of the Federation and Republika
    Srpska responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.

    9.      The Federation shall cause BH Sume and Republika Srpska shall cause Srpske
    Sume respectively:                                                                          a
            (a)     to maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with
                    sound accounting practices their operations and financial condition; and


            (b)     (i)     have their records, accounts and financial statements (balance
                            sheets, statements of income and expenses and related
                            statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
                            appropriate   auditing     principles   consistently applied,   by
                            independent auditors acceptable to the Administrator;


                    (ii)    furnish to the Administrator as soon as available, but in any case
                            not later than six (6) months after the end of each such year: (A)
                            certified copies of their financial statements for such year as so
                            audited; and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors of such
                            scope and in such detail as the Administrator shall have
                            reasonably requested; and

                    (iii)   furnish to the Administrator such other information concerning
                            said records, accounts and financial statements as well as the
                            audit thereof, as the Administrator shall from time to time
                            reasonably request.

    10.     The Federation and Republika Srpska shall each operate and maintain, or cause
    to be operated and maintained, any facilities relevant to their respective parts of the
    Project, and promptly as needed, make or cause to be made, all necessary repairs and
    renewals thereof.

                                            -29-




PIU, respectively, each coordinate with its respective PMAU for purposes of monitoring
11.      The Federation and Republika Srpska shall, through the Federation PIU and RS
and audit of procurement activities for their respective parts of the Project.

Republika Srpska shall each:
12.     For purposes of their respective parts of the Project, the Federation and

evaluate on anmaintain basis, andaccordance with indicators acceptable to the
        (a)
Administrator, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives
                  ongoingpolicies in    procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and

thereof;
        (b)     prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Administrator, and
the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) above, on
furnish to the Administrator, by April 30 of each year, a report integrating the results of
the progress achieved in carrying out the Project during the period preceding the date of
said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out
of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following
such date; and
referred(c) in paragraph (b) above, and thereafter, take all measures required to ensure
         to     review with the Administrator, by June 30 of each year, the report
the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof,
based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Administrator s
views on the matter.






                                                 -3 0-




                                                                   ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 5


                    Terms and Conditions of Supply and Credit Agreements


    1.      The Federation, through the MAWF of the Federation, and Republika Srpska,
    through the MAFW of Republika Srpska, respectively, shall: (a) select eligible SFEs in
    accordance with criteria satisfactory to the Administrator; (b) allocate the forest roads
    repair and maintenance equipment to be financed under Parts A (3)(a) and B (3)(a) of the
    Project; and (c) allocate the wood transport equipment to be financed under Part A (3)(b)
    of the Project in accordance with criteria satisfactory to the Administrator.


    2.      Each Supply and Credit Agreement for the transfer of ownership of the
    equipment shall include the following terms and conditions:


            (a)       the value of the equipment supplied under Parts A(3)(a) and (b) and
    B(3)(a) of the Project, expressed in a convertible currency, shall be based on CIF (cost,
    insurance and freight);


            (b)       an interest rate of not less than LIBOR plus three percent (3%) and a
    repayment period of not more than eight (8) years, including a grace period of not more
    than one year, for forest road maintenance equipment;


            (c)       an interest rate of not less than LIBOR plus three percent (3%) and a
    repayment period of not more than five (5) years, including a grace period of not more
    than one (1) year, for wood transport equipment; and


            (d)       repayments in Deutsche Mark which shall be channeled through selected
    local credit institutions.

     INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION




f                         CERTIFICATE




       I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy of
       the original in the archives of the International
       Development Association.




                            M




                                   FOR SECRETARY

