Page  1
March
15,
1999
Mr. Mirsad Kurtovic
Minister of Foreign Trade and
Economic Relations
Musala
9
71000
Sarajevo
Bosnia and Herzegovina
Re:
Norwegian Grant for Cofinancing of Forestry Project
Grant No. TF021051
Excellency:
I am writing on behalf of the International Development Association
(IDA)
to
indicate IDA
’s agreement, as administrator of grant funds provided by the Kingdom of
Norway
(Norway), to make a grant in an amount not exceeding two million five hundred
thousand United States dollars
(US$2,500,000) (the Grant) to Bosnia and Herzegovina 
(the Recipient).
The Grant is made in response to the Recipient's request for financial
assistance and for the purposes and on the terms and conditions set forth in the Annex
to this Letter Agreement.
The Recipient represents, by confirming its agreement
below, that it is authorized to contract and withdraw the Grant for the said purposes
and on the said terms and conditions.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Recipient, by
signing, dating, and returning to us the enclosed copy of this Letter Agreement.
Upon
receipt by IDA of the copy of this Letter Agreement countersigned by you, this Letter
Agreement will become effective as of the date of the countersignature.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
/s/
R.
O’Sullivan
Director
Bosnia and Herzegovina Resident Mission
AGREED:
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
By
/s/
M.
Kurtovic
Authorized Representative
Date:
March 15, 1999
ANNEX
Purposes, Terms, and Conditions of the Grant
1.
Purposes and Activities
1.1.
The purposes of the Grant is to support the resumption of sustainable management 
and protection of Bosnia forest resources, in order to: (i) ensure the sustainability 
of the rapid recovery of the wood harvesting and wood processing sectors; and
(ii) 
control the potential environmental impact of this recovery.
The activities
(the
Activities) for which the Grant is given are as follows:
(a)
support to forest management planning;
(b)
support to protection of forests from insect attacks;
Page  2
(c)
support to protected areas development; and
(d)
support to Project management.
2.
Implementation Generally
2.1.
The Recipient shall: (a) cause the Federation and Republika Srpska to carry out 
the Activities with due diligence and efficiency;
(b)
promptly provide the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for that purpose;
(c) furnish all 
information covering the Activities and the use of the proceeds of the Grant as IDA
shall reasonably request;
(d)
from time to time exchange views with IDA's
representatives on the progress and results of the Activities; and
(e) take all 
necessary measures required to enable IDA to visit the territory of Bosnia and
Herzegovina for purposes related to the Grant.
Without limitation on the foregoing,
the Recipient shall, if IDA shall so request, prepare and furnish to IDA promptly upon
completion of the Activities a report, in form and substance satisfactory to IDA, on
the results and impact of the Activities.
2.2.
For the purpose of ensuring that the Grant is implemented and that funds are 
transferred according to the terms and conditions of the Grant, the Recipient shall
enter into a Subsidiary Grant Agreement
(Subsidiary Grant Agreement) with each of the 
Federation and Republika Srpska on terms and conditions satisfactory to the IDA which
shall include the Implementation Program set forth in Attachment I to this Annex.
3.
Procurement
3.1.
Except as IDA shall otherwise agree, procurement of the consultants
’
services,
goods and works required for the carrying out of the Activities and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Attachment I to
this Annex.
3.2.
The Recipient shall ensure that all imported goods to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Grant shall be insured against hazards incident to the
acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation,
and that any indemnity for such insurance is payable in a freely usable currency to
replace or repair such goods.
The Recipient shall ensure that any facilities relevant
to the Activities are at all times operated and maintained in accordance with
appropriate practices and that any repairs or renewals of such facilities are promptly
made as needed.
4.
Withdrawal of Grant Proceeds
4.1.
The amount of the Grant shall be credited to an account opened by IDA on its 
books in the name of the Recipient
(the Grant Account), and may be withdrawn therefrom 
by the Recipient in accordance with the provisions of this Section
4, for expenditures
in respect of the reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the
Activities and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant.
4.2.
The expenditures for the following items may be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Grant and shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Activities:
Amount of the
%
of
Grant Allocated
Expenditures
Item
(in US Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)
Consultants' services
100%
(a) the Federation
425,000
(b) Republika Srpska
375,000
(2)
Goods for:
100% of foreign expenditures,
100%
of local expenditures
(a) the Federation
320,000
(ex-factory cost) and 85%
of local expenditures for
(b) Republika Srpska
510,000
other items procured
locally
(3)
Works for Republika
Srpska
300,000
70%
Page  3
(4)
Training and operating
70%
expenses for:
(a) the Federation
225,000
(b) Republika Srpska
345,000
TOTAL
2,500,000
For purposes of this paragraph: (i) the term "foreign expenditures" means 
expenditures in the currency of any country other than that of Bosnia and Herzegovina
for goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other than that of
Bosnia and Herzegovina;
(ii) the term "local expenditures" means any expenditures that 
are not foreign expenditures, provided, however, that if the currency of Bosnia and
Herzegovina is also that of another country from the territory of which goods or
services are supplied, expenditures in such currency for such goods or services shall
be deemed to be foreign expenditures;
(iii) the term "operating expenses" means the 
cost of office equipment and supplies, maintenance, communication, travel and
transportation and consultants' services related to the operation of the PIU, but
excludes the cost of salaries of government officials; and
(iv) the term "training" 
means expenditures incurred in respect to travel by trainees and related per-diem, 
organization of workshops and conferences
(other than meals and beverages), training 
material and, if applicable, tuition fees."
4.3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 4.2 above: (a) no withdrawals shall 
be made: (i) for payments made for expenditures prior to the date of signature of this 
Letter Agreement by IDA  except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding
US$60,000, may be made on account of payments made for Category (5) expenditures 
before that date but after September
1,
1998; (ii) on account of payments for any 
taxes levied by or in the territory of the Recipient;
(iii) on account of expenditures 
in the territories of any country which is not a member of IDA or for goods produced
in or services supplied from such territories;
(iv) for the purpose of any payment to 
persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or import, to IDA
’s 
knowledge, is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken
under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; or
(v) after December 31, 
2000or such later date as IDA shall establish by written notice to the Recipient (the 
Closing Date), except that withdrawals may be made for expenditures incurred prior to
the Closing Date if the corresponding application is received by IDA within four
months after the Closing Date, after which time any amount of the Grant remaining
unwithdrawn from the Grant Account shall be canceled; and
(b) if, in IDA’s opinion, an 
amount of the Grant allocated to any of the items in the table in paragraph
4.2
above
will be insufficient to finance the expenditures for such item, IDA may, by written
notice to the Recipient, reallocate to such item an amount of the Grant then allocated
to another item which, in IDA’s opinion, will not be necessary to meet other 
expenditures.
4.4.
When the Recipient shall desire to withdraw any amount from the Grant Account, 
it shall deliver to IDA a written application for withdrawal of such amount in the
form specified by IDA.
Withdrawal applications shall be: (a) signed on behalf of the 
Recipient by the Minister of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations or such other person
as he or she shall have authorized in writing; and
(b)
be accompanied by such evidence
in support of the application as IDA shall reasonably request.
Authenticated specimen
signatures of the person authorized to sign withdrawal applications shall be provided
with the first application bearing his or her signature.
Each withdrawal application
for an amount of the Grant and its supporting evidence must be sufficient in form and
substance to satisfy IDA that the Recipient is entitled to withdraw such amount from
the Grant Account and that such amount is to be used in the carrying out of the
Activities.
IDA shall pay the amounts withdrawn by the Recipient from the Grant
Account only to or on the order of the Recipient.
4.5.
IDA may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on the basis of 
statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) services of consulting firms 
costing less than $100,000 equivalent; (b) services of individual consultants costing 
less than $50,000 equivalent; and (c) goods, works and operating expenses, all under 
such terms and conditions as IDA shall specify by notice to the Recipient. 
4.6.
Withdrawals of the proceeds of the Grant shall be made in the currency of the 
Grant.
IDA, at the Recipient’s request and acting as an agent of the Recipient, shall 
purchase with the currency of the Grant withdrawn from the Grant Account such
currencies as shall be required to pay for expenditures to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Grant.
Whenever it shall be necessary, for the purposes of this
Letter Agreement, to determine the value of one currency in terms of another, such
Page  4
value shall be as reasonably determined by IDA
.
4.7.
To facilitate the carrying out of the Activities, the Recipient may open and 
maintain in German Deutsch Mark, special deposit accounts
(the Special Accounts) in a 
commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA, including appropriate
protection against set-off, seizure or attachment.
Deposits into, and payments out
of, the Special Accounts shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Attachment
II to this Annex.
5.
Accounts and Audits
5.1.
(a)
The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained records and 
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Activities of the departments
or agencies of the Recipient responsible for carrying out the Activities or any part
thereof.
(b)
The Recipient shall: (i) have the records and accounts referred to in 
subparagraph
(a)
above and the records and accounts for the Special Accounts for each
fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to IDA;
(ii)
furnish to IDA as soon as
available, but in any case not later than six months after the end of each such year,
the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as IDA
shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to IDA such other information
concerning said records and accounts and the audit thereof as IDA shall from time to
time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient shall: (i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with subparagraph
(a) above, records 
and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after
IDA has received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal
from the Grant Account was made, all records
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills,
receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures; (iii) enable IDA
’s
representatives to examine such records; and
(iv) ensure that such records and 
accounts are included in the annual audit referred to in subparagraph
(b) above and 
that the report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to
whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with
the procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon
to support the related withdrawals.
6.
Suspension and Cancellation
6.1.
IDA may at any time, by notice to the Recipient, suspend the right of the 
Recipient to make further withdrawals from the Grant Account if any of the following
events has occurred and is continuing: (a) the Recipient has failed to comply with any 
of its obligations herein specified; or
(b) the right of the Recipient, or any other 
entity, to make withdrawals under any development credit agreement with IDA shall have
been suspended.
6.2.
IDA may, by written notice to the Recipient, terminate the right of the 
Recipient to make further withdrawals from the Grant Account: (a) at any time after 
the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the Grant Account shall have been
suspended pursuant to the provisions of paragraph
6.1
above; or
(b) if the Recipient 
shall have failed to take action, satisfactory to IDA, within six months after the
effective date hereof, to carry out the Activities; or
(c) if IDA has decided, at any 
time after consultation with the Recipient, to withdraw its support to the Project; or
(d) if the Recipient has withdrawn its request for IDA’s assistance in financing the 
Project.
Attachment I
Procurement
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Subject to the eligibility restrictions set forth in Section II of this
Schedule, goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of
Page  5
Section I of the
"
Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits
"
published by the Bank in January
1995
and revised in January and August
1996, 
September
1997
and January
1999
(the Guidelines) and the following provisions of 
Section I of this Schedule.
Part B:
Procurement Procedures
National Competitive Bidding
Except as provided in paragraph
2
hereof, works shall be procured under
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs
3.3
and
3.4 of the 
Guidelines.
Force Account
Forest works costing
$200,000
equivalent or less per contract, up to an
aggregate amount of $400,000, shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraph
3.8
of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
International Shopping
Goods estimated to cost
$150,000
equivalent or less per contract, up to an
aggregate amount not to exceed $300,000 equivalent may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the
provisions of paragraphs
3.5
and
3.6
of the Guidelines and using standard
documentation agreed with the Association.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost
$25,000
equivalent or less per contract, up to an
aggregate amount not to exceed $50,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions
of paragraphs
3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part C: Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph
1
of Appendix
1
to the Guidelines.
Procurement of all goods and works shall
be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by
the Administrator, and with the provisions of said paragraph
1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract to be awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of Section I, Part B of this Schedule, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs
2
and
3
of Appendix
1
to the Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to the all contracts estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$300,000 or more to be awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section I, Part C 
of this Schedule, the following procedures shall apply:
(i)
prior to the selection of any supplier, the Borrower shall provide to the 
Administrator a report on the comparison and evaluation of quotations received;
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract, the Borrower shall provide to the 
Administrator a copy of the specifications and the draft contract; and
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of Appendix l to 
the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph
2
of this Part D, the
procedures set forth in paragraph
4
of Appendix
1
to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Eligibility Restrictions
Page  6
1.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1.6 of the Guidelines, the proceeds 
of the Grant may only be withdrawn on account of expenditures for goods provided by
nationals of, and produced in or supplied from, Participating Countries consequently,
nationals of countries that are not Participating Countries; and bidders offering
goods from such countries shall be disqualified from bidding for such contracts, and
the bidding documents shall so specify.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1.10 of the Consultant Guidelines, 
only consultants from Participating Countries shall be eligible to provide services
financed out the proceeds of the Grant.
Section III
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants
’
services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the
Introduction and Section IV of the
"Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers", published by the Bank in January 1997 and 
revised in September
1997
and January
1999
(the Consultant Guidelines), and the 
following provisions of this Section I.
Part B:
Procurement Procedures
Quality-
and Cost-based Selection
Consultants’
services estimated to cost
$200,000
equivalent or less, up to an
aggregate amount of $400,000, shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of Section II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph
3
of
Appendix
1
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs
3.13
through
3.18
thereof
applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Individual Consultants
Consultants' services estimated to cost
$350,000
equivalent or less, up to an
aggregate amount of $400,000 shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs
5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Attachment II
Special Accounts
1.
For the purposes of this Attachment:
(a)
the term "eligible items" means the items (1)(a), (2)(a) and (4)(a), in 
respect of the Federation Special Account and items
(1)(b), (2)(b), (3) and (4)(b) in 
respect of the Republika Srpska Special account, set forth in the table in paragraph
4.2 of the Annex to this Letter Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Activities and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Grant; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to DEM390,000 
to in respect of the Federation Special Account and an amount equivalent to DEM620,000 
in respect of the Republika Srpska Special Account, to be withdrawn from the Grant
Account and deposited into the respective Special Account pursuant to paragraph
3
(a) 
of this Attachment.
2.
Payments out of the respective Special Account shall be made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Attachment.
3.
After IDA has received evidence satisfactory to it that the respective Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
The Recipient shall furnish to IDA a request or requests for a deposit 
into the respective Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation.
On the basis of such request or
requests, IDA shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and
deposit into the respective Special Account such amount or amounts as the Recipient
Page  7
shall have requested
.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the respective Special Account, the Recipient 
shall furnish to IDA requests for deposits into the respective
Special Account at such intervals as IDA shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall 
furnish to IDA the documents and other evidence required pursuant
to paragraph
4
of this Attachment for the payment or payments in
respect of which replenishment is requested.
On the basis of each
such request, IDA shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from
the Grant Account and deposit into the respective Special Account
such amount as the Recipient shall have requested and as shall
have been shown by said documents and other evidence to have been
paid
out of the respective Special Account for eligible
expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by IDA from
the Grant Account under the eligible items, and in the respective
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents
and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the respective Special Account, 
the Recipient shall, at such time as IDA shall reasonably request, furnish to IDA such
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Attachment, IDA shall not 
be required to make further deposits into the respective Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, IDA shall have determined that all further withdrawals 
should be made by the Recipient directly from the Grant Account;
(b)
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to IDA, within the period 
of time specified in paragraph
5.1 (b) (ii) of the Annex to this Letter Agreement, any 
of the audit reports required to be furnished to IDA pursuant to said paragraph in
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the respective Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, IDA shall have notified the Recipient of its intention 
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the
Grant Account pursuant to the provisions of paragraph
6.1 of the Annex to this Letter 
Agreement; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant shall equal the equivalent 
of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawals from the Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of
the Grant shall follow such procedures as IDA shall specify by notice to the
Recipient.
Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that
IDA shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
respective Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making
payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If IDA shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
respective Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not 
eligible pursuant to paragraph
2
of this Attachment; or
(ii) was not justified by the 
evidence furnished to IDA, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from IDA: (A) 
provide such additional evidence as IDA may request; or
(B)
deposit into the
respective Special Account
(or, if IDA shall so request, refund to IDA) an amount 
equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or
justified.
Unless IDA shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by IDA into the
respective Special Account shall be made until the Recipient has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If IDA shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding in 
the respective Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for
eligible expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from IDA, refund to
IDA such outstanding amount.
Page  8
