Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
RELATED TO TF024091
Subsidiary Grant Agreement
(Forestry Project)
between
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
and
FEDERATION OF BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
Dated April
12,
1999
RELATED TO TF024091
SUBSIDIARY GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April
12,
1999
between BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
(the Recipient) 
and the FEDERATION OF BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
(the Federation): 
(A)
by the Italian Grant Agreement dated March 15, 1999, between the 
Recipient and the International Development Association
(the Association) acting as 
Administrator
(the Administrator) of grant funds provided by the Republic of Italy 
(the Grant Agreement), the Administrator has agreed to make available to the Recipient 
funds in the form of a grant in an amount not exceeding two million two hundred thirty
seven thousand and five hundred twenty six United States dollars and ninety eight
cents
(US$2,237,526.98) for carrying out of the Activities set forth in the Grant 
Agreement; and
(B)
The Federation, in consideration of the Administrator
’s entry into the 
Grant Agreement with the Recipient, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth
in this Agreement.
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Definitions
Section
1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context shall 
otherwise require, the several terms defined in the Grant Agreement shall have the
respective meanings therein set forth.
Section
1.02. The terms and conditions of the Grant Agreement shall, mutatis 
mutandis, apply with full force and effect to this Agreement.
Page  2
ARTICLE II
Subsidiary Grant
Section
2.01. Pursuant to the Grant Agreement, the Recipient shall make 
available to the Federation, on the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement,
a grant in an amount equivalent to two million two hundred thirty seven thousand and
five hundred twenty six United States dollars and ninety eight cents
(US$2,237,526.98) 
(the Subsidiary Grant).
Section
2.02. The Recipient shall cause its Ministry of Foreign Trade and 
Economic Relations to open a Grant Account
(the Subsidiary Grant Account) on its books 
in the name of the Federation and the amount of the Subsidiary Grant shall be credited
to the Subsidiary Grant Account. The Minister of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations 
or any other person duly authorized by him or her is authorized on behalf of the
Recipient to withdraw funds from the Subsidiary Grant Account for the purposes of the
Activities pursuant to the provisions of the Grant Account.
Section
2.03. The proceeds of the Subsidiary Grant may be withdrawn from the 
Grant Account pursuant to Section
4
of the Grant Agreement; provided, however, that
the right of the Federation to withdraw the proceeds of the Subsidiary Grant shall be
subject to the right of the Recipient to withdraw the proceeds of the Grant.
Section
2.04. (a) Upon the request of the Federation, the Recipient shall 
promptly make application for withdrawal from the Grant Account of amounts which the
Recipient is entitled to withdraw therefrom for expenditures by the Federation for the
Project.
(b)
For the purposes of the Project, the Recipient may open and maintain, for 
the benefit of the Federation, a special deposit account
(the Federation Special 
Account)
under the terms and conditions set forth in paragraph
4.7. of the Grant 
Agreement and Attachment II to the Annex to the Grant Agreement referred to therein.
(c)
The Federation shall furnish to the Recipient, for submission to the 
Administrator, all such documents as are required by the Grant Agreement or as shall
be requested by the Administrator in order to enable the Recipient to make the
withdrawal from the Grant Account requested by the Federation.
Section
2.05. The Federation shall implement the Activities in accordance with 
the provisions of Schedule
5
of the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement
(No. 
N040 BOS) between the Recipient and the Association dated June 11, 1998.
Section
2.06. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
works and services required for the carrying out of the Activities and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Attachment I
to the Annex to the Grant Agreement referred to herein. 
ARTICLE III
Obligations of the Recipient
Section
3.01. The Recipient shall take or cause to be taken all actions 
necessary or appropriate to enable the Federation to perform its obligations under
this Agreement and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent
or interfere with such performance.
ARTICLE IV
Settlement of Disputes
Section
4.01. Any dispute arising out of this Agreement or in connection 
therewith which cannot be amicably settled between the Recipient and the Federation
shall be finally settled in the courts of the Recipient under the laws of the
Recipient.
ARTICLE V
Suspension; Cancellation
Section
5.01. If the right of the Recipient to disbursement from the Grant is 
suspended or terminated by the Administrator pursuant to the provisions of the Grant
Page  3
Agreement, the right of the Federation to disbursement from the Subsidiary Grant
shall, likewise and simultaneously, be suspended or canceled, as the case may be.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section
6.01. This Agreement shall become effective on the date upon which the 
Grant Agreement becomes effective.
Section
6.02. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given under this 
Agreement and any agreement between the parties shall be in writing.
Section
6.03. The following addresses are specified for the purpose of this 
Agreement:
For Bosnia and Herzegovina:
Ministry of Foreign Trade
and Economic Relations
Musala
9
71000
Sarajevo
Bosnia and Herzegovina
For the Federation:
Ministry of Finance of the Federation
Mehmeda Spahe
5
71000
Sarajevo
Bosnia and Herzegovina
If the above addresses and/or names are changed, the party concerned shall 
immediately notify the other party hereto in writing of the new addresses and/or 
names.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names as
of the day and year first above written.
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
FEDERATION OF BOSNIA AND
HERZEGOVINA
By
/s/
Mirsad Kurtovic
By /s/ Drago Bilandzica
Minister of Foreign Trade and
Authorized Representative
Economic Relations
