Report No. PID7239
Project                          Honduras-Transport Sector Rehabilitation (+)
Project
Sector                           Transport
Project ID                       HNPE64634
Implementing Agency              Ministry of Public Works, Transport and
Housing
Date this PID Prepared           December 16, 1998
Projected Board Date             January 7, 1999
Project Background
On October 24, Tropical Storm Mitch was upgraded to a hurricane that
quickly developed into one of the strongest and most damaging storms ever to
hit Central America. At its height on October 26 and 27, Hurricane Mitch
sustained winds of 180 mph and dumped heavy rains over Central America.
Although the winds diminished as the hurricane traveled inland over Honduras
on October 30, the storm continued to produce torrential rains, causing
catastrophic floods and landslides. Within Central America, Honduras bore the
brunt of Hurricane Mitch. The worst damage was in the Atlantic Coast, Sula
Valley, the Central Region and the South, but no part of Honduras escaped some
impact.
Preliminary studies indicate over 6,500 deaths and 15,000 disappeared
persons. About 1.9 million people (almost 1 in 3 Hondurans) were affected, of
which over 260,000 had to be placed in temporary shelters, including about
85,000 children under the age of five. The Hurricane damaged or destroyed an
estimated 60 percent of main and secondary paved roads (1,600 km), 20 percent
of unpaved secondary and tertiary roads (2,390 km) and 100 bridges (8 in
Tegucigalpa). It damaged water systems in all major urban centers and caused
partial damage to 1,500 rural systems. An estimated 60,000 homes were
destroyed and about 160,000 damaged by the floods and mudslides. About 17
percent of schools were damaged, and those left standing have been used as
shelters. Of the country's 27 hospitals, 14 were left without water and 16
report infrastructure damage. Damage to rural health posts and clinics is also
believed to be extensive. Unlike previous natural disasters, Hurricane Mitch
wreaked havoc in both of Honduras' largest cities, the capital Tegucigalpa,
and San Pedro Sula. Tegucigalpa itself was cut off from the rest of the
country for almost a week. Much of the Government's own institutional
infrastructure was affected, including destruction of the Ministry of
Education and extensive damage to the Ministry of Finance. San Pedro Sula, the
country's industrial and agricultural heartland, suffered extensive damage to
its international airport, road and bridge infrastructure, and its water and
sewerage systems.
IDA staff on the ground in Honduras moved quickly to help the Government
coordinate with other donors and conduct a preliminary damage assessment. IDA
also reallocated funds from existing operations, including disbursement of the
second tranche of the Public Sector Modernization Adjustment Credit and its
associated IDA reflows (totaling $38 million), which provided much-needed
balance of payments support, and the restructuring/reallocation of about $65
million from the following ongoing investment projects: a recently-approved
credit for the Social Investment fund Project, and the Basic Education, Rural



Land Management and the Environmental Development Projects.
Hurricane Mitch will have a substantial long-term impact on the economy
of Honduras. The most serious damages were felt by the agriculture and
infrastructure sectors. According to preliminary estimates, Hurricane Mitch
destroyed 75 percent of the maize and beans production, 10 percent of rice,
and 8 percent of sorghum. The agro-export sector also suffered extensive
damage, with destruction of 80 percent of bananas, 50 percent of shrimp and
extensive damage to pineapples, melons, African palm, and sugar cane. The
coffee sector was less affected, in the sense that coffee trees suffered
little permanent damage, but access problems make it difficult to harvest,
transport and dry much of this year's production. Tourism infrastructure in
the Caribbean Coast and the maquila sector also suffered damage.
The lending amount is US$20 million equivalent.
Project Objectives
IDA is following a three-part strategy to assist Honduras in responding
to this natural disaster:
(a) Emergency Assistance. The Government has requested IDA emergency
financing for urgently-needed repairs, to help in sustaining macroeconomic
stability. The Hurricane Emergency Project (HEP), which is being prepared on a
fast-track basis for presentation to the Board in January 1999 will help meet
these needs. The proposed supplemental financing will address some of the
emergency needs as well as those included in the Government's short-term
program below.
(b) Short- to Medium-Term Reconstruction Assistance. IDA Staff are working
with Government counterparts and other donors to reprogram ongoing operations
and/or process supplemental financing for rehabilitation of damaged
infrastructure and services.
(c) Longer-Term Reconstruction. The new Country Assistance Strategy (CAS)
under preparation did not propose a major change in the previous CAS approved
by the Board on July 14, 1993, but rather a shift in emphasis, placing greater
focus on human capital, targeted poverty interventions and community
participation, rural development, environment and institutional strengthening.
Therefore, the CAS objectives would still be: to reduce poverty; to modernize
the economy and public sector (thereby creating a business environment
conducive to private sector development); and to sustainably manage the
country's natural resources. IDA's development agenda focuses on facilitating
the transition to greater private sector provision of services previously
reserved for the public sector such as electricity, telecommunications, ports
and airports management. These objectives remain appropriate, although the
economic and social devastation caused by Hurricane Mitch will certainly
affect the content and scope of our future operations. Therefore, as soon as
conditions permit, the CAS will need to be reviewed and reformulated to
support the longer-term reconstruction and technical assistance program for
Honduras.
The overall objective of the proposed supplemental credit is to provide
urgently needed additional financial assistance that is required to
reconstruct and/or rehabilitate key roads and bridges damaged by Hurricane
Mitch, and for the preparation of detailed damage assessment studies and final
engineering designs for works to be carried out immediately and in subsequent
phases of the reconstruction process. This is fully consistent with the
objective in the original credit to improve and rehabilitate the transport
- 2 -



infrastructure to foster export growth
Project Description
The proposed supplemental credit for US$20 million will finance a portion
of the emergency and short-term road reconstruction and/or rehabilitation
program prepared by the Government of Honduras which totals US$97.3 million;
consultant services to supervise the works, prepare final engineering studies,
and assist SOPTRAVI with project implementation; and the procurement of
computer equipment and vehicles to replace those damaged by the Hurricane.
The supplemental credit will not finance any road reconstruction and/or
rehabilitation that will cause involuntary resettlements.
Project Implementation
The current project is being implemented in compliance with the
covenants, the Borrower is committed to the project, and the implementation
agency has been competent in carrying it out. The last full supervision
mission of the project, conducted in June 1998, rated the status of the
project as "satisfactory" with the project management category rated "highly
satisfactory". With project closing originally scheduled for December 31,
1998, most project targets have been achieved and most of the physical ones
were exceeded.
Project Timing
The Government of Honduras is currently completing the implementation of
the Transport Sector Rehabilitation Project with a total cost of US$82.9
million of which US$65 million is IDA financing. The overall objectives of
the on-going project are to help improve and rehabilitate the transport
infrastructure to foster export growth; and to develop the institutional and
regulatory framework of its transport sector. Additional financing would be
required to maintain the goals of the Transport Sector Rehabilitation Project
and to continue supporting the objectives set forth in the CAS. Moreover, it
is important that financing be provided quickly so that road communications
can be re-established to all regions in the country and hence basic services
can be provided and crops taken to the markets. IDA's continued involvement
would also ensure that the implementation of the proposed investments continue
to proceed in a successful manner.
Environmental Category
In accordance with the Bank's Operational Directive on Environmental
Assessment (OD 4.01, Annex E), the proposed operation has been placed in
Category B.
Benefits
The proposed supplemental financing is meant to speed up the recovery of
the roads and bridges damaged by Hurricane Mitch so access to all the regions
of the country is re-established and hence the objective of the original
credit of improving the transport infrastructure to foster exports, is
achieved as soon as possible. Because of the poor condition of many of the
roads and the lack of bridges, some parts of the country remain either
isolated or with access limited to 4-wheel drive vehicles. As a result, basic
services are not reaching several communities in the country and crops from
the isolated regions will undoubtedly be lost. In addition, the poor
-3 -



condition of the roads will result in higher transport costs which will in
turn increase the price of basic consumer products.
IDA and the Government of Honduras have agreed on an eligibility
criteria, which includes the economic evaluation of each subproject, for use
in the final selection of the subprojects to be financed by the supplemental
credit. The agreed criteria specifies that: (a) subprojects must have been
damaged by Hurricane Mitch; (b) investments must be technically and
economically sound (with a rate of return of not less than 12%-); and (c)
subprojects must be in compliance with IDA policy on the environment. SOPTRAVI
has the capacity to apply the criteria and hence no delays are expected in
project implementation.
Contact Point:                    The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending January 8, 1999.
- 4 -



Annex
Because this is a Category B project, it may be required that the borrower
prepare a separate EA report. If a separate EA report is required, once it is
prepared and submitted to the Bank, in accordance with OP 4.01, Environmental
Assessment, it will be filed as an annex to the Public Information Document
(PID) .
If no separate EA report is required, the PID will not contain an EA annex;
the findings and recommendations of the EA will be reflected in the body of
the PID.



