Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 23467
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-24580; IDA-24581)
ONA
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 46.9 MILLION (US$65 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
AND
A SUPPLEMENTAL CREDIT OF SDR 14.5 MILLION (US$20 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE REPUBLIC OF
HONDURAS
FOR A
TRANSPORT SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
January 31, 2002
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective 02-JAN-2002)
Currency Unit = Lempira
15.88 Lempiras = US$ 1.00
US$ 0.07 =1 Lempira
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CABEI              Central American Bank for Economic Development
CAS                Country Assistance Strategy
DGC                Directorate General of Roads of SECOPT
DGCA               Directorate General of Civil Aviation of SECOPT
DGCCA              Directorate General of Roads and Airports Maintenance of SECOPT
DGPS               Directorate General of Sectoral Planning of SECOPT
DGT                Directorate General of Transport of SECOPT
ENP                National Port Company
FNH                Honduran National Railways
GOH                Government of Honduras
HDM III            Highway Design and Maintenance Standards Model (Third Version)
ICAO               Intemational Civil Aviation Organization
IMF                International Monetary Fund
IDB                Inter-American Development Bank
SECOPT             Secretariat of Communications, Public Works and Transport
SOPTRAVI           Ministry of Public Works, Transport and Housing
(Secretaria de Obras Publicas, Transporte y flvieida)
SSPF               Under Secretariat of Planning and Finance of SECOPT
TSRP               Transport Sector Rehabilitation Project
UNDP               United Nations Development Program
USAID              United States Agency for International Development
Vice President:  David de Fefranti
Country Manager/Director:  Donna Dowsett-Coirolo
Sector Manager/Director:  Danny Leipziger
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:  Guillermo Ruan



FOR OFFcIAL USE ONLY
HONDURAS
TRANSPORT SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                       1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                       1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry            2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                 9
6. Sustainability                                                                    11
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                     12
8. Lessons Learned                                                                   14
9. Partner Comments                                                                  16
10. Additional Information                                                           18
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                  19
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                 20
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                 28
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                 29
Annex 5. Ratings for.Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                 31
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                    32
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                33
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in
the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed
without World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P007388                                     Project Name: TRNSPRT SCTR RHB
Team Leader: Guillermo Ruan                             TL Unit: LCSFT
ICR Type: Core ICR                                      Report Date: anuary 31,2002
1. Project Data
Name: TRNSPRT SCTR RHB                             LIC/TFNumber: IDA-24580;
IDA-24581
Country/Department: HONDURAS                                          Region: Latin America and
Caribbean Region
Sector/subsector: TH - Highways
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD: 09/30/1991                              Effective: 07/27/1993       07/27/1993
Appraisal.  06/29/1992                              MTR: 06/30/1995           01/24/1996
Approval:  02/16/1993                            Closing: 12/31/1997         12/31/2001
Borrower/lImplementing Agency: GOVERNMENT OF HONDURAS/SECOPT
Other Partners: National Port Company (ENP); Honduran National Railway (FNH).
STAFF                Current                                 At Appraisal
Vice President:      David De Ferranti                       Shahid Hussein
Country Manager:     D-M Dowsett-Coirolo                     Edilberto Segura
Sector Manager:      Danny M. Leipziger                      Ricardo Halperin (Division Chief)
Team Leader at ICR:  Guillerno Ruan                          Mirtha Pokorny
ICR Primary Author:  Emmanuel N. Njomo
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry: S                     S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The original project objectives were: (a) to help improve the institutional and regulatory work of
the sector in order to: (i) encourage greater private provision of transport services; (ii) establish
investment and pricing policies based on efficiency and equity considerations; (iii) integrate the
systematic consideration of environmental concerns into the work of the Secretariat of
Communications, Public Works and Transport (SECOPT); (iv) strengthen SECOPT's planning
and regulatory capability; (v) restructure the port sector and redefine the role of the National Port
Company (ENP); (vi) design and implement a strategy for the development of the airport
sub-sector; and (vii) rationalize railway operations; and (b) to help improve and rehabilitate
transport infrastructure in the main trade corridors in support of the Government's efforts for
export-led growth and reduce the backlog of deferred maintenance. The project was intended to
support the Government's strategy for developing an efficient transport sector driven by market
forces where the regulatory burden would be reduced and limited to those works justified by
non-competitive markets and/or safety and environmental considerations.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The project objectives were not revised.
3.3 Original Components:
The original project components, broadly defined, did not change significantly during the project
implementation period between 1993-2001. However the specific items, under the investment
component underwent a number of significant changes as explained below. The original project
components were as follows:
I. Policy Component
This component of the project was aimed at further developing and supporting ongoing measures
to increase private sector participation in tranisport and at implementing regulatory and pricing
policies to improve competition and cost recovery in each subsector. The project called for a
Sector Policy Statement which would provide the Government's medium-term strategy for the
subsector, including related Action Plans to be implemented under the project, in support of
measures to be taken to address important subsector issues. These plans were aimed at: (i)
designing and implementing an appropriate regulatory framework for urban and inter-urban road
transport, as well as the revision of Transport Law; (ii) increasing the role of the private sector in
road maintenance; (iii) implementing sound management and monitoring systems for road user
charges and axle load controls; and (iv) designing and implementing measures to reorganize the
port, airport and railway subsectors
II. Investment Component
This component of the project was expected to support a time slice of the Government's
1993-1996 Transport Sector Investment Plan, then expected to total about US$547.7 million. The
specific investments to be financed included: (i) rehabilitation of about 150 km of roads in the
main export corridors; (ii) periodic maintenance of about 1800 km (of which 800 km were
expected to be paved and 1000 km unpaved) of the road network; (iii) construction and
rehabilitation of about 1000 m of bridges; (iv) rehabilitation of 1000 km of feeder roads in
-2 -



agriculturally rich areas; and (v) rehabilitation of the runway, taxiway and construction of the
apron of the San Pedro Sula airport. The first year program included the rehabilitation of the
Choluteca-Guasaule road (44 km) and the Tela-La Ceiba road (100 km).
III. Institutional Development and Technical Assistance Component
This component of the project was expected to provide consultancy services for implementing the
Government's institutional development program for: (i) strengthening the capabilities of the
SECOPT's Under Secretariat for Planning and Finance (SSPF) and the Directorate General of
Transport (DGT) to carry out project evaluation and implement a regulatory framework
consistent with the new public-private sector mix; (ii) expanding the role of the Environment Unit
to encompass all transport modes and effectively integrating environmental aspects in SECOPT's
investment decisions; (iii) supporting the implementation of the Action Plans in the areas of
privatization/divestiture measures for the port and airport subsectors; and (iv) strengthening
SECOPT's capacity for bridge management.
At appraisal, of the estimated 1993-1996 Transport Sector Investment Program of US$545.70
million, the cost of the IDA financed components was as follows:
COST       IDA
COMPONENT                            (US$mln)   SHARE
A. Main Road Rehabilitation (150 Iam)  14.56     11.65
B. Feeder Roads Rehabilitation (1000 km)  12.58  10.06
C. Periodic Maintenance (1800 km)       16.46     10.41
D. Bridge Program (1000 m)              5.15      4.12
E. Runway Rehab. San Pedro Sula Airport  11.35    9.08
F. Consultants                          7.70      7.70
(a) Works Supervision                  4.81      4.81
(b) Technical Assistance& Training     2.89      2.89
(i) Bridge Management Systems         0.50      0.50
(ii) Institutional Development Program  1.60    1.60
(iii) TA Action Plan Implementation   0.79      0.79
G. Equipment                            0.95      0.95
(a) Equipment for San Pedro Sula Airport  0.85   0.85
(b) Ancillary Equipment for TA         0.10      0.10
TOTAL BASE COST                         68.75     53.97
Physical Contingencies                   6.01     4.53
Price Contingencies                      8.12     6.50
TOTAL PROJECT COST                     82.88     65.00
-3 -



3 4 Revised Components:
There were five amendments to the Development Credit Agreement over the project
implementation period, with varying impact on the project components. The first amendment,
dated July 19, 1994, enabled the financing of about 260 km of feeder roads and bridges in the
Departments of Cortes, Atlantida, Col6n and Yoro that were damaged by Tropical Storm Gert.
As part of the amendment, IDA agreed to finance 100% of the project works until US$10 million
had been disbursed in order to assist the Government in addressing the problem of counterpart
funding which plagued the project until 1996. The second amendment was signed on December
23, 1996. It called for construction and rehabilitation of additional bridges. It also enabled the
modification of the performance targets to expand the maintenance program by an additional 750
km of paved roads. The third amendment was signed on September 22, 1997 in order to enable
the addition of the construction of the apron in front of the new terminal of the San Pedro Sula
Airport. The fourth amendment in December, 1998 comprised the provision of a Supplemental
Credit of US$20 million to cover additional works to repair the damages caused by Hurricane
Mitch. Specifically, the Supplemental Credit covered: (a) a portion of the cost of emergency and
short-term road reconstruction and/or rehabilitation program prepared by GOH; (b) consultant
services to supervise the works; and (c) the procurement of computer equipment and vehicles to
replace those damaged by the hurricane. The fifth amendment was agreed on December 29, 2000
and it facilitated the financing of equipment and vehicles required to launch the operation of the
Road Fund. The revised project components and those of the Supplemental Credit were as
follows:
Credit 2458-HO (Original Project)
COST       IDA
COMPONENT                              (US$$mln)  SHARE
A. Main Road Rehabilitation (170 km)    21.86      17.14
B. Feeder Roads Rehabilitation (100 km)  9.47      8.50
C. Periodic Maintenance (1800 km)        20.59      12.32
D. Bridge Program (1000 m)                4.09      3.03
E. Runway Rehab. San Pedro Sula Airport  16.51      12.26
F. Consultants & Training                11.68      11.68
G. Equipment                              0.07      0.07
TOTAL     84.27     65.00
Credit 2458-1-HO (Supplemental Credit)
COST       IDA
COMPONENT                               (US$mln)  SHARE
A. Road Reconstruction/Rehabilitation    14.18     12.76
B. Bridge Construction/Rehabilitation     3.53      3.18
C. Consulting Services and Studies         3.60      3.60
D. Equipment                               0.46      0.46
TOTAL     21.77     20.00
-4 -



3.5 Quality at Entry:
Satisfactory. The quality at entry is rated as satisfactory. The project objectives were consistent
with the Government's development strategy for the sector and IDA's lending strategy for
Honduras. The Government's strategy called for strengthening SECOPT's planning performance,
revising transport regulations to limit Government intervention in the sector to aspects related to
environment and safety, as well as to improve the levels of maintenance through policy changes
and enhanced private sector involvement. The project supported IDA's lending strategy for
Honduras that aimed at fostering private sector-led growth. The project was consistent with
IDA's lending strategy in the transport sector which called for (i) supporting institutional and
policy changes to encourage private participation in transport; (ii) strengthening investment
selection procedures to ensure that they are based on sound technical, economic and
environmental criteria; (iii) help in maintaining and rehabilitating existing assets; and (iv)
promoting more thorough assessment of the environmental and efficiency implications of
transport investment and pricing policies. The project was an integral part of the Government's
efforts to restructure the transport sector and coordinate the activities of other institutions active
in the sector such as the IDB and the International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO). The
project also embraced sector-wide concerns with respect to ports, railways and civil aviation
primarily through studies and technical assistance.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The project had two main objectives. The first objective, calling for assisting the development of
the institutional and regulatory framework of the sector was substantially achieved, except for the
restructuring of ENP and FNH which are still in the process of being implemented. The second
objective, calling for the improvement and rehabilitation of transport infrastructure in the main
trade corridors, was fully achieved in spite of the occurrence of several natural disasters that
afflicted Honduras during project implementation. The outcomes achieved under each
development objective are as follows:
(a) - Development of the Institutional and Regulatory Framework
(i) Private Provision of Transport Services - Partially achieved. The first item under this
objective related to the encouragement of greater private provision of transport service. This was
accomplished through (1) hiring reputable international consulting firms to review the ports,
railway and civil aviation sub-sectors to propose modalities for private sector participation; (2)
passing a Concession Law, approved by Congress in November 1998, which provides the
framework for private participation and financing of transport infrastructure and its operation; and
(3) emphasizing the policy making, planning, and regulatory functions of sub-sectoral government
agencies;
While studies were completed for the three sub-sectors, the results vary among them. The
outcomes were remarkable in the civil aviation sub-sector where GOH succeeded in
concessioning the four main airports at Tegucigalpa, San Pedro Sula, Ceiba and Roatan, and
National Congress approved the Law of Open Skies. On October 1, 2000 a Honduran-US
- 5-



Consortium took over the operation of the four airports under a concession agreement that called
for the immediate investment of Lps. 150 million as part of its long-term commitment to the
upgrading of the facilities in these airports. The "Open Skies" Law approved in March 2000
allows free reciprocal rights to foreign countries to provide air service to Honduras. The reform
in the ports and railways sub-sectors did not get that far; GOH is still taking the first steps to
implement the action plans agreed upon to put into operation the options.
Through the dismantling of SECOPT and the Directorate General of Roads and Airports
Maintenance (DGCCA), GOH successfully introduced an outsourcing policy in the road
sub-sector and promoted the creation of new private contractors capable of delivering road
maintenance services under contract with the newly established Secretaria de Obras Publicas,
Transporte y Vivienda (SOPTRAVI). Today, private contractors handle all rehabilitation and
periodic and routine maintenance.
(b) Pricing and Investment Policies - Partially achieved. The second item under this objective
related to the establishment of pricing policies based on efficiency and equity considerations. The
goal was to improve fiscal performance -e.g., improving bus fare pricing in urban transport,
promoting the establishment of cost-based tariffs in the port sub-sector. The results were mixed.
A variety of related studies such as the Comprehensive Urban Transport Study of San Pedro Sula
and the Metropolitan area of Sula (carried out by Systra-Sofretu-Sofrerail), or the ones for
concessioning of port operations and rationalization of railway operations, were completed under
the project. These studies helped in deepening the policy dialogue but most of their
recommendations remain to be implemented. Most notably, the regulation of urban public
transport services needs restructuring to favor users and eliminate ill-designed subsidies in
Tegucigalpa. The Sula pilot, in which municipalities assume responsibility for regulating the
services, offers a valid option.
The introduction of the private sector into the civil aviation sector was closely linked with the
institutional strengthening of the DGCA, the Directorate General responsible for Civil Aviation in
the Ministry. With the assistance of the International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) a new
Civil Aviation Law was promulgated, reorienting the role of the DGCA) from an operator to a
regulatory agency. The operations of the DGCA were strengthened and its staff received training
in civil aviation in selected programs in the region, in North America and Europe.
(iii) Strengthening SECOPT - Achieved. The SECOPT was transformed to SOPTRAVI with
considerable reduction in staff . The staff of the Department of Road Maintenance (DGCCA) was
reduced from about 5,500 in 1993 to about 700 in 2000. A large percentage of the retrenched
staff went to the private sector to become road maintenance contractors. When the Road Fund
became operational in 1999 the DGCCA ceased to exist and the remaining 700 employees were
either transferred to the Road Fund or released. The section of SECOPT responsible for
undertaking road maintenance was thus disbanded and its equipment sold to the private sector.
Outsourcing maintenance has increased efficiency as the separation of production and
management roles has increased accountability.
A unit to handle the economic evaluation, planning and programming of road investments (Unidad
- 6 -



de Planificaci6n y Evaluaci6n de Gesti6n - UPEG) was created. Transport planning has been
considerably strengthened with the installation Qf a Geographic Information System. The project
also supported the installation of a system for the monitoring of projects and procurement
processes, and the design of a transport data base to help improve the management of the road
network. A bridge management system (HONDUSAP) was designed and implemented; it has
been very useful in the evaluation and prioritization of bridge reconstruction works, following
Hurricane Mitch. The project assisted the establishment of an environment unit with the
assistance of SNC Lavalin of Canada and measures were taken to mainstream the incorporation of
environmental assessment on all transport sector investments.
(iv) Redefining the Role of ENP - Partially Achieved. With the assistance of the consulting firm
Frederic Harris Inc. (USA), the Government undertook an assessment of different options for
transferring the operations of the container terminal of the port of Cortes to the private sector.
The cotisultant also proposed a plan for progressively transferring the remainder of the port
operations, installations, equipment and staff to the private sector. The plan has not been
implemented, but Government was able to reduce the number of staff in ENP during the first
years of project implementation as agreed in the implementation plan; however, during the past
administration the numnber of staff slightly increased but nonetheless remained below the original
level.
(v) Restructuring of FNH - Partially Achieved. Following a review of the financial and technical
aspects of the Honduran National Railways (Ferrocarril Nacional de Honduras) undertaken by the
consulting firm Systra-Sofretu-Sofrerail (France) in 1996, the consulting firm Transport and
Management Consultants Inc. (USA) was engaged in September 2000 to review the modalities
for restructuring FNH with a view to introducing private management and ownership into the
railway sector. The proposal call for reducing staff levels and transferning to the State
responsibility for the pensions of about 150 retirees. The study also identifies those railway lines
with potentially profitable cargo and passenger traffic that can receive investment to make them
attractive for private sector management and operation. An action plan to implement the study
recommendations was submitted to the Bank by the Government in July 2001. However, the
Government did not move swiftly with the implementation of the plan mainly because of the
upcoming elections. Credit 3432 provides funds to support the new government in the
implementation of the action plan.
(b) Improvement and Rehabilitation of the Transport Infrastructure in the Main Trade Corridors -
Achieved. Despite two natural disasters (first Tropical Storm Gert and later on Hurricane Mitch)
that adversely affected the implementation of the project and resulted in four extensions of the
closing date of the project by nearly four years, the project's objective of improving and
rehabilitating transport infrastructure in the main trade corridors was fully achieved. However,
because of the massive destruction caused by Hurricane Mitch, a significant amount of the works,
some of which were nearly 60 percent complete when Hurricane Mitch struck Honduras, had to
be redone. Furthermore, IDA approved a Supplementary Credit in December, 1998 to help
finance repairs to the road infrastructure. Under this component of the project, IDA financed the
rehabilitation of the runway and the construction of the apron of the San Pedro Sula Airport.
- 7 -



4.2 Outputs by components:
(a) Development of the Institutional and Regulatory Framework
The Government's Transport Sector Policy Declaration and Action provided the framework for
the development of the sector. Sector institutions including DGCA, FNH, ENP, SOPTRAVI and
DGT were all strengthened. About 152 Honduran officials were trained in the region, USA, Spain
and Israel. The training program and seminars covered areas such as Project Evaluation and
Environmental Assessment, Planning and Budgeting, New Roads Technologies, Airports
Privatization, HDM Road Design and Management. Details of the training program are available
in the project files. About 11 man-months (during the first phase) and 116 man-months (during
the second phase) of technical assistance were provided to SSPG, DGT and UGA in transport
planning, budgeting, and financial management and environmental assessment during the project
implementation.
(b) Improvement and Rehabilitation of Transport Infrastructure.
(i) Roads. Under the original Credit, three major road sections for a total of 170.3 kms (vs. 150
kms planned) were rehabilitated as follows: Tela - La Ceiba (96 kms); Choluteca - Guasuale
(44.3 kms); and Danli - El Paraiso - Las Manos (30 kms) connecting the border with Nicaragua.
In addition about 976 km of feeder roads were rehabilitated and an additional 260 km of feeder
roads (for a total of 1,236 kms vs 1000 kms planned) that were damaged by Tropical Storm Gert
were also rehabilitated under the project. (ii) Bridges. About 1,170 meters (vs. 1,000 mts
planned) of bridges were constructed and rehabilitated. (iii) Airport. The apron of San Pedro
Sula airport was constructed and the runway rehabilitated. Periodic maintenance was executed on
1,864 km of the main and feeder roads under the project. Details of the works supported under
the original Credit is provided in Annex 2. The Supplemental Credit supported the rehabilitation
of about 646 km of major road sections, the rehabilitation of 1,587 meters of bridges including
temporary metal bridges in locations where the damages had been particularly severe and the
reconstruction of the original structures would be expected to take a long time. Details of the
works supported under the Supplemental Credit are contained in Annex 2.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
In the SAR estimated economic rates of return had been calculated for Choluteca-Gausaule road,
the Tela - Ceiba road and for the rehabilitation works for the San Pedro Sula airport. The revised
economic rates of return following implementation of the project are as follows:
ERR (%)
SAR         Actual
Choluteca-Gausaule                   21             28
Tela - Ceiba                         21             20
4.4 Financial rate of return:
NA
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project was successful in strengthening the planning capabilities of SOPTRAVI as well as
- 8 -



improving the institutional capabilities of the key Directorates (the Directorates General of Roads,
Public Works, Civil Aviation and Transport) by reorienting them from their executing focus
toward emphasizing their regulatory role. SOPTRAVI reduced its staff and sold its maintenance
equipment to the private sector in support of a policy of contracting out all maintenance services.
Also, an environmental unit was created within SOPTRAVI under the project and its staff was
trained in environmental assessment techniques. Environmental impact assessment has been
mainstreamed to the extent that the studies of all major investments in the sector must include an
environmental impact statement.
The role of the private sector has been considerably enhanced. Periodic and routine road
maintenance is now undertaken by contract. The operations of four airports are presently being
undertaken by a joint venture firm under a concession agreement. The open skies law was passed
by the Honduran Congress. Similarly, the orientation of the Nation Port Authority and the
Honduran National Railway was also changed to emphasize their regulatory roles and to increase
the role of the private sector in managing railway and port assets. Studies for the privatization of
the Port of Cort6s were completed in November, 1996 and for selected railway sections in May,
2001.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
a. Contraction of Government expenditures to meet fiscal targets. Project implementation begun
under the tenure of a newly elected Government in 1994. As a result of the previous
Government's spending policies, the new Government had to enter in an agreement with the IMF
to limit additional Government expenditure commitments beyond the existing budget. This
agreement severely constrained the ability of the Government to provide the necessary
counterpart funding for the project. Project implementation would have come to a halt, had IDA
not agreed to finance temporarily 100 percent of the works contracts until US$10 million of the
Credit proceeds had been disbursed. The disbursement percentage of subsequent IDA financing
for works was adjusted to ensure that it remained within the original 80 percent stipulated in the
Development Credit Agreement.
b. Natural disasters. Following project approval , Honduras was afflicted in 1993 by Tropical
Storm Gert. As a result, 260 km of feeder roads, including bridges, had to be rehabilitated on an
emergency basis under the project. I n late October/early November, 1998, Hurricane Mitch
struck the country causing unprecedented damage and washing away much of the progress
Honduras had made in improving its physical infrastructure. Winds blew at speeds of about 285
km/hr and rainfall exceeded one meter in some areas. The human toll was devastating: 5,660
people died, over 8,000 disappeared and about 12,270 were injured. Damage was particularly
severe to roads and bridges, water systems and urban infrastructure in major cities, particularly
Tegucigalpa. It is estimated that over 90 bridges were either completely destroyed or severely
damaged and nearly 60 percent of the road network was affected. Damage to the road network
was estimated at US$454 million, equivalent to about 10 percent of GDP. Some project works
that were nearly 70 percent complete were destroyed and had to be restarted. By-passes,
temporary structures (especially metal bridges) had to be constructed to expedite the resumption
of economic activities. In response to the extensive damage suffered by infrastructure facilities
-9-



IDA approved a Supplemental Credit of US$20 million equivalent on January 7, 1999 for the
additional works. The supplemental Credit was part of a well coordinated external assistance
program to repair the damages caused by Hurricane Mitch.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Cumbersome procurement procedures. Immediately following Hurricane Mitch, the Government
was forced to simplify its procurement procedures to facilitate the funding of repairs of the
damages. To the Government's credit, a vast majority of the 155 contracts financed under the
project have been implemented relatively problem free or with only minor problems. However,
toward the end of the project, three works contracts - two for road rehabilitation and the third for
bridge rehabilitation - experienced severe delays, which nearly caused the termination of the
contracts. These delays were caused mainly by poor construction management on the part of the
contractor. To correct the problems Government reached an agreement satisfactory to IDA,
which included a final extension to the closing date of the credit to permit the completion of the
works. Under the agreement, the contractor was forced to subcontract some of the works.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Discrepancies in financial information. Throughout project implementation the external financial
auditors project repeatedly raised the fact that there were discrepancies between the financial
information that they were receiving from the Direcci6n General de Aeronautica Civil - DGAC
and the financial information contained in the UNDP records. The discrepancies led the auditors
to raise questions about the intemal control of the civil aviation component of the project. During
preparation of the 2000 audit, the auditor (Mendieta y Asociados) made repeated attempts to
obtain an explanation for a relatively modest discrepancy conceming the utilization of the
proceeds of the Credit. Eventually UNDP submitted the data requested and resolved the issue,
but only after the audit report had been issued with a negative comment on intemal control
practices. UNDP's rather lax supervision contributed to the escalation of the problems.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
Project costs details are given in Annex 2 (Project Costs by Component). Due to the extensive
damage resulting from Hurricane Mitch, the project costs underwent significant changes and
required processing a Supplemental Credit.
The total project cost under the original Credit (2458-HO) experienced only a modest cost
overrun (US$84.27 million vs. US$82.8 million or about 2 percent). IDA financing amounted to
US$65 million and the Government provided US$19.27 million. The cost of the roads
rehabilitation component increased about 25 percent, from US$17.56 million (including
contingencies) expected during appraisal to US$21.86 million, due primarily to the addition of the
Danli-El Paraiso- Las Manos road section at a cost of around US$5 million. The cost of the San
Pedro Sula Airport rehabilitation also increased from US$14.71 million to US$16.51 million or
about 12%, due to the modification of the works to include the construction of the apron, which
enhanced the attractiveness of the airport to the private sector. There was a reduction in the cost
of the feeder roads rehabilitation component (from US$15.17 million to US$9.47 million or about
38% despite an increase of 436 kms or 55% in the length of feeder roads rehabilitated); bridge
rehabilitation and construction component (from US$6.21 million including contingencies to
-10-



US$4.09 million or about 34% despite an increase of 169 mts or 17% in the length of bridges
rehabilitated ). Consulting services increased from US$9.28 million including contingencies to
US$11.68 million or about 26% and periodic maintenance increased by nearly 4%, from
US$19.84 million including contingencies to US$20.59 million. An additional 138 kms or about
8% of roads were brought under the periodic maintenance program.
Under the Supplemental Credit, the project costs evolved by and large as anticipated during
project appraisal. The cost of road rehabilitation and reconstruction increased from US$12.43
million, including contingencies to US$14.18 million or about 14%. Bridge rehabilitation and
construction experienced an overrun of about 42 percent (US$2.49 million including
contingencies vs. US$3.53 million) due to the purchase of larger number of metallic bridges than
had been originally planned. There was a significant overrun in the cost of goods for the technical
assistance program (US$0.46 million vs. US$0.23 expected during appraisal). The actual cost of
consulting services was lower by 45% than that expected during appraisal (US$6.56 million vs.
actual expenditures of US$3.6 million). All comparative numbers for appraisal estimates include
contingencies.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Likely. The project initiated the process of strengthening the capacity of SOPTRAVI in transport
planning utilizing the HDM and of enhancing the role of the private sector in the provision of
transport services. For instance the Directorate General of Transport of SOPTRAVI stopped
undertaking road maintenance by force account; it is now undertaken under contract. SOPTRAVI
staff declined from over 5,500 in 1993 to only about 700 employees. The project also financed
the equipment purchase for the Road Fund which is the primary financing mechanism for
supporting maintenance by the private sector. The institutional capabilities of the DGCA were
considerably strengthened. Furthermore the management of the four major airports were
privatized under a concession agreement with a joint Honduran/US consortium. In addition, the
new Civil Aviation Law was passed that endorsed open skies. The project also initiated the
restructuring of the National Port Authority and the Honduran National Railways.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
On November 7, 2001 IDA approved the Road Reconstruction and Improvement Project whose
objectives are a continuation of those of the Transport Sector Rehabilitation Project (TSRP). The
follow-up project aims to continue to restore road access damaged by Hurricane Mitch, improve
trade corridors and to establish a sustainable and accountable financial and institutional set-up for
the road sector. The follow-up project would strengthen the Road Fund in order to support the
sustainability of the road reconstruction/rehabilitation that are planned. In addition, new
maintenance schemes, with proven record of success in neighboring countries, would be
introduced such as community-based microenterprises for routine maintenance activities. The
follow-up project would also finalize the work on the rationalization of the railways which was
begun under the TSRP. Finally the follow-up project will continue the on-going efforts to
strengthen the institutional capabilities of SOPTRAVI, with particular emphasis in the planning,
programming and budgeting areas.



7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
Satisfactory. The project design was intended to broaden the past Bank\IDA strategy of project
specific lending to embrace sector-wide concerns. This project therefore had a sectoral approach,
with a focus on resource allocation issues, such as user charges for the funding of investment and
maintenance, adequacy of institutional arrangements and improvement of analytical basis for
achieving a better private-public mix to ensure transport efficiency. The project was also
designed to complement the Government's successful structural and sectoral adjustment program.
The project supported both the Government's efforts to restructure the transport sector and
IDA's lending strategy in the transport sector, which emphasized institutional and policy changes
to encourage private sector participation, strengthening investment selection procedures, helping
maintain and rehabilitate existing assets and introducing environmental considerations in sector
decision making. IDA spent about 102.3 staff weeks from its internal budgetary resources to
prepare, appraise and negotiate the project at a cost of about US$285,000.
7.2 Supervision:
Highly Satisfactory. IDA's close supervision made for timely adjustments in implementation
practices and procedures. In particular, IDA's prompt response to Hurricane Mitch was highly
appreciated by the Government. This was facilitated by the fortuitous presence of an IDA
supervision mission in Honduras during Hurricane Mitch, who assisted GOH in coordinating
initial donors' assistance to the transport sector. IDA exercised flexibility and swiftly processed
amendments to the Development Credit Agreement and extensions of the project closing date, to
respond to changing circumstances, which were unforeseen at project appraisal. IDA conducted
quick assessments of the damage caused to project works and facilities after the two natural
disasters, which proved useful not only to ascertain repair needs but also to investigate the
performance of project construction materials and methods. Given the need to introduce frequent
adjustments to project components, the supervision team commissioned two operational and
perfornance audits, in addition to the mandated annual financial audits. A first technical audit was
undertaken in 1997, and a procurement audit was undertaken in 1999. About 133 staff weeks
were expended on project supervision, costing approximately US$384,000.
7.3 Overall Bankperformance:
Satisfactory. Despite the five amendments to the Development Credit Agreement and five
extensions of the Closing Date of the project, overall IDA performance in project design and
implementation is deemed satisfactory. Project design was ambitious but well-grounded in robust
sector work, and justified given the expected benefits of the reforms pursued under the project
and the window of opportunity offered by a reformist government. IDA responded swiftly and
with flexibility to changing conditions during project implementation, in particular after Hurricane
Mitch, which required processing a Supplemental Credit. Through the project, IDA effectively
assisted GOH in changing the role of the government agencies in the transport sector. The policy
dialogue initiated under the project has been very productive. A follow-up project, approved on
November 7, 2000, builds on the objectives of TSRP.
- 12 -



Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Satisfactory. The Government which took office early in 1990 embraced the sector approach of
the project, whose objectives coincided with the program of structural reforms that were
on-going. Prior to Board presentation of the project, the Government prepared a Policy
Declaration Statement outlining the strategy for the sector and specific action plans that will be
implemented in connection with the project. Plans were made to review the Transport Law to
address the issues of sector regulatory framework and subsidies. SECOPT established an
environmental unit in 1991 attached to the DGC, to help incorporate environmental
considerations into road investments. The Government also took a variety of other actions up
front, such as initiating the study of the Road Fund as well as initiatives to promote the
participation of the private sector in the ports and airports management.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
Satisfactory. The Government implementation performance is rated satisfactory after a slow
start. There was a Government change soon after Credit effectiveness in July, 1993. The new
Government adopted a cautious approach toward the sector reforms and was slow in moving
forward with the implementation of the Road Fund for which legislation had been approved by
Congress in 1993. Furthermore the Government could not meet its counterpart funding
obligations under the project nor commit adequate budgetary resources for road maintenance,
because of the public sector expenditure limits agreed with the IMF. This lack of counterpart
funding necessitated an amendment to the Development Credit Agreement to enable IDA to
temporarily finance 100% of civil works expenditure (see para. 3.4). After the initial hurdles the
Government performance improved considerably, despite the adverse weather events to which the
project was subjected. The roles of sector institutions were reoriented toward their regulatory
functions and involvement of the private sector in the provision of sector services was
significantly enhanced as evidenced by the decision to privatize the 4 main airports. To the
Government's credit, the coordination of the project was subcontracted to the private sector. The
private sector firm has performed well and the project coordination is considered a success. The
studies for the involvement of the private sector in the management of the Cortes port and
selected sections of the railway were also completed, although the actual participation of the
private sector in these areas remain to be realized.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
Satisfactory. Overall the performance of the implementing agencies is rated in the aggregate as
satisfactory. SOPTRAVI's performance was hampered to some degree by the cumbersome
procurement process in the country which delayed the resolution of several construction disputes
(3 out of 155 contracts) with a few contractors, which resulted in a fifth extension of the project
Closing Date. In addition, while the technical assistance provided by ICAO to the DGCA was
satisfactory, the management of the contract by the UNDP was clearly unsatisfactory (see para.
5.3 above).
The project evolved an innovative approach to project coordination. In line with the realignment
of functions and an outsourcing policy that called for extensive reliance on the private sector,
- 13 -



SOPTRAVI contracted out project coordination activities to a private consulting firm. The firm
was mainly formed by engineers and economists who were formerly employed at SOPTRAVI.
They skillfully combined their intimate knowledge of the workings of the Honduran Government
with the savoir-faire and efficiency of the private sector, resulting in a win-win arrangement
vis-a-vis the coordination and management of the project. IDA was initially reluctant to finance
the firm's contract with the proceeds of the Credit; however it was subsequently agreed to include
the financing of the firm's contract under the project about one year later as their good
performance became evident. The performance of the firm has been judged as excellent.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Satisfactory. Overall, Borrower performance was satisfactory. Despite the few problems that
emerged during project implementation, Government commitment to the project objectives
remained high. Eventually most of the institutional and infrastructure development/rehabilitation
goals of the roads component of the project were either attained or exceeded, despite the two
severe weather calamities that adversely affected the project. The contractual problems have been
satisfactorily addressed and the Road Fund became operational in 1999. The project coordination
arrangements were highly innovative and should be considered in other projects in countries at a
similar stage of development.
8. Lessons Learned
The main lessons learned as a result of the implementation of the project can be summarized as
follows:
(a) Flexibility, promptness and balancing short and long term views in dealing with natural
disasters. The promptness with which IDA responded to the devastating effects of Hurricane
Mitch was instrumental in preserving the benefits of the project. The visits of Regional
Procurement Adviser and Task Manager (and that of the CMU Director soon thereafter) made
possible not only a quick restructuring of the project to attend most urgent needs but also the
identification of those components to be subsequently supported by a US$20 nillion
Supplemental Credit. The task team took the opportunity of the restructuring to finance the
apron of the San Pedro Sula Airport, which enhanced its attractiveness to the private sector and
played a positive role in the privatization of the airport. The promptness of IDA's actions in
approving metallic bridges was instrumental in restoring access to afflicted areas and in helping
minimize the losses to the economy that would have otherwise occurred. The approval of direct
contracting for this critical component as well as for other critical civil works contracts
(amounting to about $2.2 million) also resulted in significant time savings. Many on-going
contracts had to be amended to repair the damage caused by the hurricane to the project works
(some of which were already 70 percent complete).
The speed with which IDA responded to the emergency was highly appreciated by the
Govemnment. The task team ensured that IDA's fiduciary mandates were observed by undertaking
a technical and procurement audits respectively in 1997 and 1999, in addition to the annual
financial audits of the project. The net result was that, even though IDA's financial support to the
transport sector (at about US$85 million) was not the largest among extemal donors involved in
the sector, it provided the largest disbursement to the sector during the period following
- 14 -



Hurricane Mitch. Moreover, a follow on project approved in November 2000, furthered IDA's
support to the reconstruction and improvement of roads and bridges included in Hondura's
Hurricane Mitch National Reconstruction Plan (Plan Maestro de la Reconstruccion y
Transformaci6n Nacional - PMRTN) presented by the GOH at the Consultative Group Meeting
held in Sweeden in May 1999.
IDA's continued assistance helped SOPTRAVI in keeping a long-term view while attending to
the reconstruction effort, as illustrated by the incorporation of strategic lessons learned from
Hurricane Mitch and the implementation of long-term reforms to enhance road maintenance
sustainability. While unprecedented, the damage caused by Mitch exposed the vulnerability of
Honduras' infrastructure, and led to the realization in the road sub-sector that changes to the
technical specifications and greater attention to drainage considerations in road design and routine
maintenance practices might prevent or at least reduce the impact of natural disasters on road
infrastructure. The PMRTN not only deals with reconstruction needs but also includes
institutional strengthening measures aimed at mitigating the impact and improving management of
natural disasters. Similarly, road maintenance practices and their financing are being further
strengthened. The Road Fund, which aims at ensuring the sustainability of road maintenance, had
originally been approved by Congress in 1993 but it only becarne operational in June 1999.
(b) Innovative Project Co-ordination Mechanism. Project implementation shows that the
engagement of a private consulting fimn, composed mainly of engineers who were formerly
employed by SOPTRAVI, facilitated project coordination and enabled the provision of
high-quality technical support. The consultants skillfully combined their knowledge of how public
administration works, good rapport with public sector officials, together with the savoir-faire and
efficiency of a private sector working environment. This resulted in a win-win arrangement
vis-a-vis the coordination and management of the project. The use of firms formed by retrenched
officials have accompanied similar reform processes in other countries (e.g., micro-enterprises and
small contractors for road maintenance in Colombia, Uruguay and Honduras, micro-enterprises
for toll collection in Uruguay) but their engagement to provide technical support and coordinate
project activities is rather unique. While the particulars of this case may not be extrapolated to
other circumstances, project coordination through a national private consulting firm should be
studied as a valid alternative model in other projects. The analysis may need to address issues
such as: (i) whether a foreign firm or a joint-venture would have the acceptance and access to
Govenmment officials as the Honduran consulting firm did; (ii) whether relying on a consulting
firm to perform project coordination activities in the long run erodes public sector capacity by
hiring away good government officials; (iii) whether the arrangement is suitable for both policy
and investment components, and the extent to what the technical requirements of the project
become critical to opting for a private firm; and (iv) careful quantification of the relative costs and
benefits of non-governmental coordination. The benefits appear to be substantial in the case of
this project. IDA's follow on project includes funding for coordination by a private consulting
firm.
(c) Taking advantage of a "window of opportunity" to advance major reforms. The project,
with its strong emphasis on sector-wide reforms, implied a departure from previous operations in
the sector. The reforms were ambitious and the agenda broad. Encouraging private participation
- 15 -



to foster efficiency gains in all transport modes while strengthening regulatory capacity, probably
was a ground-breaking approach --especially in 1992 when the project was designed. The project
built on solid sector work and on a "reformist" government who was committed and willing to
jump-start these reforms. Taking advantage of this window of opportunity, the project
contributed to carrying the reform message through two administrations, albeit with varying
degrees of success among sub-sectors. The outcome proved very successful in the aviation and
road sub-sectors, achieving 100 percent private involvement in both cases with the concessioning
of the four airports and the contracting out of all road maintenance operations to private firms.
These positive results are encouraging further reforms; for example, with support from IDA's
follow-on project, SOPTRAVI is further strengthening the organization of the Road Fund and
piloting maintenance schemes based on micro-enterprises.
The proposals recommended for the port and rail sub-sectors have not yet been implemented, but
SOPTRAVI has taken important steps by choosing the option it intends to pursue, thus narrowing
the analysis of related concession implementation issues.
It could be argued whether a gradual reform --focusing on each sub-sector at a time, and
sequencing the reforms-- could have been more appropriate and perhaps led to a more favorable
outcome in the two sectors that are lagging behind. Arguments in favor of a gradual approach
would state that sequencing the reforms might avoid overwhelming scarce human resources in the
public sector, enable the parties involved (i.e. government policy makers, affected public
employees, private investors, ) learn from previous transactions and ultimately allow government
to evolve the rules of the game as seen necessary. However, the pace of reform in each
sub-sector will inevitably be associated with factors such as the level of political commitment, the
presence of a champion to lead the reform from within the sub-sector, the power and voice of the
particular stakeholders involved and the extent to what they are negatively or positively affected;
and when dealing with privatization processes, how attractive or suitable as a private business is
the project subject to private screening. (The airport concession had clear advantages over the
other sub-sectors. The airport facilities were in relatively good condition and the concessions had
greater potential for profitability compared to the port and railway concessions).
All in all, a wholesale approach like the one taken under the project can benefit from the
opportunity offered by a reformist government to jump-start a rich reform agenda. Early
successes are crucial for gaining support to further the reforms. Enhancing coordination through
a specialized unit facilitates a rapid internalization of the lessons and knowledge acquired in the
course of designing and implementing the reforms.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
A pesar de que este Credito involucr6 la ejecuci6n de 155 contratos de obras, supervisi6n y
asistencias tecnicas diversas, podemos concluir de que se presentaron minimos problemas para su
adecuado desarrollo, ciniendose los mismos a una lenta ejecuci6n de los trabajos de los contratos:
Grupo 10 M de Mantenimiento Peri6dico, Grupo No. 8 de puentes y Paquete II de Obras de
Emergencia. Por otro lado, la unica divergencia contractual en la que hubo que recurrir a la
instancia de arbitraje, se produjo en el contrato de Rehabilitaci6n de la Carretera Tela - La Ceiba
- 16 -



CA-13, en tomo al tema'del ajuste de precios por f6rmula que habia sido aplicado correctamente
durante la ejecuci6n pero que al final fue sujeto de ciertas observaciones por parte del supervisor;
el respectivo laudo arbitral determin6 finalmente que SOPTRAVI debia proceder cancelando
estos ajustes en la misma forma que se vino efectuando desde el inicio del mencionado proyecto.
La forma de coordinaci6n adoptada para gerenciar integralnente las distintas actividades
de este Cr6dito, tuvo a nuestro criterio un amplio exito comprobado, siendo la primera
experiencia a nivel centroamericano en la que una firma privada de consultoria realiza este tipo de
actividades para el Gobiemo y la fuente financiera. Fue factor vital en el exito obtenido, la
confianza y estrecha coordinaci6n que se mantuvo permanentemente con todas las autoridades
del Gobierno de Honduras y del organismo crediticio. Los resultados positivos derivados de esta
consultoria han inducido a las autoridades y a ciertos organismos financieros como el BID y el
propio BM, a continuar empleando esta modalidad de coordinaci6n, que asegura una continuidad
en las tareas y una centralizaci6n efectiva de la informaci6n y las acciones a tomar, sin perder
nunca la perspectiva de que es imperativo respetar la autoridad que emana de dichas autoridades y
que en ningun momento puede ni debe ser sustituida por el Consultor.
AdeniAs de las auditorias externas anuales que en materia financiera se le practicaron al
Credito desde 1993 hasta su cierre y por 4 distintas firmas auditoras, a principios del afno 2000
el Banco design6 a un Consultor Especializado para practicar una auditoria especifica en materia
de adquisiciones (procurement), la cual estuvo acompafiada de visitas comprobatorias de
campo. Anteriormente, a mediados de 1997 el BM habia practicado una auditoria tecnica de
campo sobre el Programa de Rehabilitaci6n de Caminos Vecinales a nivel nacional y a principios
del proyecto, tambien se practic6 una revisi6n tecnica comprobatoria de los trabajos ejecutados en
el marco de la emergencia derivada de la Tormenta Gert de 1993, cuyos gastos fueron
reconocidos por el Banco en forma retroactiva.
Uno de los pocos inconvenientes que podemos resaltar de la ejecuci6n de este proyecto,
lo constituy6 el paripaso cambiante que fue establecido para el Programa de Mantenimiento
Peri6dico, para el cual se estipularon porcentajes de financiamiento BM que variaron de un 80 %
inicial, a un 60 % intermedio y luego a un 45 % final, en funci6n de los desembolsos que se
iban generando para esta Categoria del Credito. Consideramos que para futuros casos seria mas
conveniente establecer un uinico paripaso ponderado, a objeto de facilitar el control administrativo
de los respectivos desembolsos.
De las mayores facilidades otorgadas por la fuente financiera al Gobierno de Honduras en
este proyecto, mencionamos la flexibilidad que se tuvo al dispensar la contraparte nacional en
los primeros US $ 10 millones que se desembolsaron con cargo a la Categoria 1. " Obras ",
dado el estado de grave iliquidez que enfrent6 en 1994 la nueva administraci6n gubemamental
que asumi6 en ese entonces.
Fue notoria la amplia, rapida y efectiva colaboraci6n que mostr6 la fuente financiera con
el Gobiemo de Honduras con motivo de la emergencia provocada por el paso del Huracan y
Tormenta Tropical Mitch por todo el territorio nacional. En el corto plazo de 2 meses entre
- 17 -



Noviembre de 1998 y Enero de 1999, el BM autoriz6 inmediatamente la compra directa de
partes para instalar puentes metalicos tipo Bailey en lugares'donde se habia cortado el trafico y
ademas aprob6 un Credito Suplementario por SDR 14.5 Millones ( US$ 20 millones ) para
atender numerosas emergencias aparecidas en la red vial nacional, caminos y puentes,
particularmente en la zona del litoral atlintico del pais, Este fen6meno natural file un claro
ejemplo de que un organismo financiero como el BM es capaz de convertirse en una hermmienta
de inmediata respuesta para la soluci6n de problemas ingentes donde se requiere la participaci6n
de un equipo de trabajo debidamente coordinado. Las autoridades del Gobiemo de Honduras
han reconocido esta valiosa participaci6n de los funcionarios y t6cnicos del Banco Mundial, que
hicieron posible obtener esta pronta y valiosa respuesta.
The above summary represents the unedited conclusions of the Borrowers report which is available in the
project files.
(b) Cofinanciers:
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
10. Additional Information



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome I Impact Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix                    Projected In last PSR                 ActuauLite.t Estimate
1. Improve the institutional and regulatory                                   Concession law for private particpaton in
framework of the sector; increase overall                                    infrastructure approved.
efficiency in provision of services.                                          Concessions for four airports signed and In
operatIon.
SECOP restructured and all maintenance
works contracted out to private contractors.
* Acton Plan for transferring port operatons
to private sector adopted by GOH and
staffing levels wdhin ENP reduced
* Action Plan for restructuring FNH
submitted by GOH in July 2001.
2. Improve & rehabilitate transport
infrastructure In the main trade corridors for
export-led growth, reduce backlog of
maIntenance
Since the project was designed before the introduction of the Log Frame, no specific Key Performance
Indicators were established for Outcomes
Output Indicators:
Indlcator/Matrix                    Projected In last PSR                 ActuaULatestSEtirmate
1. 150 kms of highway rehabilitation.  170 3 km                              170.3 km
2. 800 kms of secondary road rehabilitation  1,236 km                        1.236 km
3. 1000 m of bridge rehabilitation     1,169 0 m                             1, 169.0 m
4. 2700 m of airport runway rehabiliation  2,700 m                           2,700 m
5. Periodic maIntenance arranged for 1800  1,938 km                          1,938 km
kms of roads.
End of project
19-



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Original Credit
Appraisal   Latest  Percentage
Estimate   Estimate of Appraisal
I Rehabilitation of Major Road Section  17.55     21.86    125%
11 Rehabilitation of Feeder Roads      15.17      9.47     62%
III Periodic Maintenance               19.84      20.59    104%
IV Rehab and Construction of Bridges   6.21       4.09     66%
V San Pedro Sula Runway Rehab          14.71      16.51    112%
VI Consulting Services                  9.28      11.68    126%
VII Equipment                           0.12      0.07      58%
TOTAL COSTS                          82.88     84.27     102%
Supplemental Credit
Appraisal    Latest  Percentage
Estimate    Estimate of Appraisal
I Road Construction/Rehabilitation     12.42      14.18    114%
11 Bridge Construction/Rehabilitation  2.49       3.53     142%
III Consulting Services                6.56       3.60      55%
IV Goods                               0.23       0.46     200%
TOTAL COSTS                          21.70     21.77     100%
- 20 -



Project Cost by Procurement Arrangement (Apraisal Estimate)
(Amounts in US$millions)
Original Credit - Apraisal Estimate
ICB      LCB     Other    Total
Civil Works         48.60   25.56     0.0     74.16
(39.84)  (16.44)   (0.0)   (56.28)
Consultants                           8.6      8.6
(8.6)    (8.6)
Equipment           0.12                       0.12
(0.12)                     0.12
Total               48.72    25.56    8.6     82.88
(39.96)  (16.44)  (8.60)  (65.00)
Supplemental Credit - Appraisal Estimate
ICB      LCB     Other    Total
Civil Works          7.9      3.2     4.0      15.1
7.0      2.8      3.6     13.4
Goods and Materials                    0.2     0.2
0.2      0.2
Services                               6.4     6.4
6.4      6.4
Total                7.9      3.2     10.6     21.7
7.0      2.8     10.2     20.0
Original Credit - Actual
ICB      LCB     Other    Total
Civil Works         42.45    28.01    2.06     72.52
(33.85)  (19.40)   (0.0)   53.97
Consultants                           11.68    11.68
(11.68)  (11.68)
Equipment           0.07                       0.07
(.07)                     (.07)
Total               42.52    28.01    13.74    84.27
(33.92)  (19.4)   (11.68)  (65.00)
Supplemental Credit - Actual
ICB      LCB     Other    Total
Civil Works          0.0     17.03    0.68     17.71
(15.33)  (0.61)   (15.94)
Consultants                            3.6      3.6
(3.6)    (3.6)
Equipment                             0.46     0.46
(0.46)   (0.46)
Total                        17.03    4.74     21.77
(15.33)  (4.67)   (20.0)
- 21 -



Annex 2. ProJect Cost and Financing
(amounts In US$miIiIon)
Original Credit
Pecentage
Apprasal Estimate Latest Estimate of Appraisal
IDA     Govt    IDA    Govt     IDA      Govt
I Rehabilitation of Major Road Section  14.19  3.36  17.14   4.72     121%     140%
11 Rehabilitation of Feeder Roads     12.26    2.91   8.50   0.97     69%      33%
iII Periodic Maintenance              12.41    7.43  12.32   8.27     99%      111%
IV Rehab and ConstrucUon of BIdges    4.97     1.24   3.03    1.06    61%      85%
V San Pedro Sula Runway Rehab         11.77    2.94   12.26   4.25    104%     144%
VI Consulting Services                9.28      0     11.68   0.00    126%      NA
Vii Equipment                         0.12      0     0.07    0.00     58%      NA
TOTAL COSTS                        65.00    17.88  65.00   19.27    100%     108%
Supplemental Credit                                                 Pecentage
of Appraisal
IDA     Govt    IDA    Govt      IDA     Govt
I Road Construction/Rehabilitation    11.07    1.35   12.76   1.42      115%   105%
11 Bridge Construction/Rehabilitaton  2.14     0.35   3.18    0.35      149%   100%
III Consultng Services                6.56      0     3.60    0.00       55%    NA
IV Goods                              0.23      0     0.46    0.00      200%    NA
TOTAL COSTS                        20.00    1.70   20.00   1.77       100%   104%
- 22 -



List of Project Activities, Original Credit
. fN, f  1  ,- AClrLAL  IDA%  GoVL%        .                 S           End
73.50    26.5
TELA -LA CEIBA CA-13                                                                  13,934,812.17      70.20    29.80 ASrALDI - COLUMBUS         03/04/95   01/05/98
CHOLUTECA GUASAULE CA-3                                                                4,248,135.58      86.61    13.39 HERDOIZA - CRESPO           31/8/94    21/4/96
DANU - EL PARLSO - LAS MANOS                                                           4,769,001 84      71A7     28 53 PRODECON                   10/I 1/97  31/03/00
REHABILITATION OF FEEDER ROADS                                                         9,382,242.9       90.13     9.87                     __
RFHABILITATION OF 97.31KM      OF SECONDARY ROADS                                     7371,457.89     =         =           .       _
TELA (ATLANTIDA)                                                     GRUPO OIR          35647.45         92.05     7 95 FLEFIL Y ASOCIADOS         01/01/95   01/12195
SABA (COLON)                                                        GRUPO 02R           295,130.78       87 52    12.48 INTEGRAL                   01/01/95   31/12/95
TOCOA (COLON)                                                        GRUPO 03R          419 571 10       83 601   16.40 UNIMUNDO                   01/01/95   01/01/96
TRUJILLO (COLON)                                                     GRUPO 04R          382,576.78       94 51     549 BAJOAGUAN                   01/01/95    30/11/95
SANTA ROSA DE COPAN (COPAN)                                         GRUPO 05R           301,372 80       90.97     9.03 CORDICA                    01/01/95   30/11/95
SANTA RITA (COPAN)                                                  GRUPO 06R           408,060.21       93.86     6.14 SERPIN                     01/01/95   30/1U/95
EL PARAISO (EL PARAISO)                                             GRUPO 07k           267,278 83       91.51     8A9 DINATRAC                    01/01/93   20/11/95
TEUPASENTi (EL PARAISO)                                             GRUPO 08F           355,466.39       90 70     9.30 ECO                        01/01/95   04/03/96
JtJTtAPA (EL PARAISO)                                               GRUPO 09E                            85 05    14.95 CORIMSA                    01/01/95   31/05/96
VIU.A SANTA (EL PARAISO)                                            GRUPOIO0            337,157.35       79.63    20.37 AGRESA                     01/01/95   01/04/96
IROJESt(EL PARAISO)                                                 GRUPO II            327,737.60       80 89    19.11 CORIMSA                    01/01/95   29/05/96
COXEN HOLE (ISLAS DE BAHIA)                                         GRUPO 12R           439,596.85       83.35    16.65 ROATAN EQUIPMENT           01/01/95    31/12/95
OCOTEPEQUE (OCOTEPEQUE)                                             GRUPO 13R           269,255.55       98.86     1.14 PRODECON                   01/01/95    02/095
LA ENCARNACION (OCOTEPEQUE)                                         GRUPO 14R           492,467.73       89 86    10 14 PRODECON                   01/01/95   30/12/95
COLINAS (SANTA BARBARA)                                             GRUPO 15E           437,493 82       91.55     8.45 INTEGRAL                   01/0195     15/12/95
HLAMA (SANTA BARBARA)                                               GRUPO 16R           416,756 64       86 90    13.10 CONSORCO MAYA              01/01/95   0105/96
SAN FRANCISCO OJERA (SANTA BARBARA)                                 GRUPO 17            545,098 69       92.29     7.71 SERMACO                    01/01/95    28/02/96
SAN MARCOS (SANTA BARBARA)                                          GRUPO I1R           377,553 07       87.24    12.76 CISSA                      01/01/95    31/03/96
MORAZAN(YORO)                                                       GRUPO 19E           215,759.22       96.39     3.61 INGESULA                   01/01/95    31/08/95
OLANCHrTO(YORO)                                                     GRUPO 20            370,769.94       83.41    16.59 SERPIN                     01/01/95   01/12/95
REHABILITATION 260KM SECONDARY ROAD          IHRIDCE8 s_______
DAMAGED DY TR O        SCA  TORM GERT
Siemnpre Viva, Cemtos - Sn lost, Bordo Sobrc Rio Peos                                    138,514 66     100.00     000 CESA                        0VII/93     31/12/93
CAI3 - Yuuca- La Floru -Tonconin- Umo                                                    319,101.95     100 00     0.0t ESTER                      05/10/94    31/12/94
Junspa - Balfate (Ruta 243)                                                               77,579.30     100.00     0.00 ESTER                      27/05/94    31/08/95
PuenteCuyad No I Aairdo 1633                                                             41,11916       10000      0.00 PRODECON                   20/09/93    29/12/93
Pu--e Omoa, Tuliar, Coto, San Marous, Ciachagual, La Ma   y Teguciaipa, Cawrrtm
Teg=palphta - Connto No.1 Acuordo 1634                                                   102,043.65     100.0t0     00  PRODECON                   20/09/93    29/12/93
Belaire - Piedns AmmulnU (Ruta 245)                                                       39,546.38     100.00     0.00 ESTER                      06l 1/93    31/12/93
El Negrito- Sanloan No.1                                                                  11,443.58     100.00     00t CISSA_                      2200/93     30/11/93
El Desano - El PorbDo - Sta Mart, LA Habana - El Ronwio - El
Ocotal                                                                                    27,451.20      98.80     1.20 MARIO AVENDANO             20/09/93    30111/93
Puenter. Omoa, Rio Coto, Chadiagual Cienegmta, Zapadnl, Muchilena, Camterat
Tepcgalpita - Connto No.2 Acuerdo 1854                                                    80,129 64      91.90     8.10 PRODECON                   05/07/94    05/05195
Puente Cwyamel No.2 Ackmerdo 1885                                                        311,846.01      93.96     6.04 PRODECON                   05/07/94    30/06/95
El Deshto - El Porulo - Sta. Marta, La Habasa - El Rosario - El Ocotal, Hacienda Vieja - San
Ptnco, Concepcion - La Raynada                                                            46,711 70      98.81     1.19 MARIOAVENADO               05/07/94    29/12/94
MonteIry - La Danta, Ceibita Pencaligue                                                   39,194.51     100.00     0.00 FLEFILY ASOCaADOS          08/07/94    14/09/94
Mezpa- Mezapita, TocoaAentro. LaForun, AguaCluta (Ruma 37S, 376, 387)                    60,10195       98.87     1.13 ECONOR                     03/11/93    31112/93
El Negnto - San Jose, Pate Gallina - Sta Lu aNo 2                                         30,724.95      9758      2.42 CISSA                      10/10/94    22/11/94
Jalan, La Rositas, Las Vegas, Berlin, Rio Cbiquito, Rio Lean                              94,862 95      98        115 ECONOR                      05/01/94    05/06/94
FimcaBlanoo-LaGarroba- LaCentral * Mmna                                                   16,044 28      10000     0.00 HONDURAS                   25/10/93    30C12/93
Cnostrucon Bordo RioTocoa, Canalzcionde RioTocoa y ObruaAdicozales                       266,859.99      100 00    000 INTEGRAL                    05/09/94    30/12194
Reparacon Puantes: Rio Piedras, Bella Vista, Rio Brmejo, Rio Blanco Los Caraos            27,220 99     100.00     0.00 YAXKN                      0201/95     28/02/95
'leparron FaDu Caretw Pito Solo - Santa Barbara                                         280,28775         400     26.00 PRODECON                   04/01/9     11/11/96
- 23 -



CONSTRUCTION AND RERAIlLITATION OF 1,000m OF BRIDGES                               3,779,865.76      69.17   30.83
STACE 1: GROUPS 2W,5,6, AND 7                                                      2,493,121.33
REHABILITACION PUENTE SOBRE RIO EL HATO (Gupo No 2)                                  145,952 37      74 00   26.00 COLINDRES YASOC           15/01/97   15/0
PUENTE SOBRE RIOS SAN MARCOS Y MACORA (Gnupo No 4)                                   702,060 55      65 95   34 05 PRODECON                  20/01/97   20/0
CONSMUCCION PUENTE SOBRE EL RIO AGUAN Y CAIA QUINTUPLE SOBRE EL
RIO PUENTE GRANDE (Gnupo No 5)                                                       662,674 47      70 73   29 27 PRODECON                  20W01/97   20/C
CONSTRUCCION PUENTE RIO SIGUAPA Y MARALXTO (Gnupo No 6)                              636,S07 54      58 14   41.86 SERMACO                   15/01/97   31/0
CONSRUCCION PUENTE SOBRE RIO CUYAMAPA (Gnrpo No 7)                                   345,626 40      73 35   2665 PRODECON                   20/01/97   20/0
STAGE 2: GROUPS I AND s                                                             1,286,744.43
REHABIUTACION PUENTE RIO DEL HOMBRE, JICARAI,
EL COYOLAR, HUMUYA (Onmpo No.1)                                                      671,352 70      73 88   26 12 COLINDRES Y ASOC.         01/10/97   30/C
CONSTRUCCIONPUENTE SULACO, COLORADO YCOLORADO 1 (Gniupo No 8)                        615,391.73      74 00   26 00 CONTINENTALDELTA          16/09/97
REHABILITACION PISTAS Y CONSTRUCCION PLATAFORA                                     15,968,SS.11      76.29   23.71 STALDI SPA                08/05/95   30/0
PASAJEROS AEROPUERTO S.P S.
SUPERVISION DE OBRAS
SEHABILITACION DE 170I.. CARRETERAS PRINCIPALES
SUPERVISION CHOLUTECA - GUASAULE CA-3                                                309,610 91     100 00    0 01 CONASH                    02/08/94   21/C
SUPERVISION TELA - LA CEMA CA - 13                                                   940,764 66     1000C     0.00 CODINCO                   13/02/95   30/C
SUPERVISION DANLt - EL PARAISO - LAS MANOS                                           414,177 35     100 00   0o00 CONASH                     01/11/97   31/t
SUPERVISION PISTAS AEROPUERTO SAN PEDRO SULA                                                                      C ZONSORCIO ATIT           0V05/95    30/C
SEC      A    MIO I  NOH AMNS VECN,AES
REHAsBILTACON DE 979I3kkm                                                           1,222319.63              =                                          =
PAQUETE I    (Gnrots de Obra OR y 19R)                                                72,326 73     100 00    0 00 CINSA                     01/01/95   01/1
PAQUETE n    (Gnlpos de Obra 02R y 20R)                                              154,663 19     100 00     00 INSECO                     01/01/95   01/I
PAQUETE m    (Grupos de Obm 03R y 04R)                                               109,073 39     100 00    0 00 ACI                       01/01/95   01A/
PAQUETE IV   nrps de Obra 07R y ORR                                                  165,970 83     100 00    0 00 ASP                       01/01/95   04/A
PAQUETE V    (Grupos de Obra 09R, I OR y IE R)                                       191,332 35     100 00    0.00 TECNISA                   01/01/91    31/t
PAQUETE VI (Gnupo de Obra 12R)                                                       106,118 65     100 00    0 00 RIEDEL                    01/01/95    31/1
PAQUETE VIn (Gnupos do Obra 13R y 14R)                                                81,189.95     100.00    0 OOISAYBE                     01/0110    30/:
PAQUETE VII (Gmupos de Obra 15R y 18R)                                               118,086 82     100 00    0 OOBARMEND                   01/01/95    31/A
PAQUETE X (Gmpos de Obra 16R y 17R)                                                  125,055 54     100 00   0o00 CONASH                     01/01/95   01/A
PAQUETEX (GnodeObraO5RyO6R)                                                           98,502.18     1000t     0 00 SICONCO                   01/01/95    30/
REHABILrTACION CAMINOS VECINALES tEMERGENCIAS GERE                                   209,782.02
El Negnto - San Jose, El Destno - El PotitLo - Sta Marta, Habana - El Rosano - El Ocotal,
Aceso al TabIlon                                                                      13,247 12     10000     0 00 EMCOFER                   05/07/94   29/
Puentes Tuhan, Omoa, Rio Coto, San Marcos, Chachaguala, Masca, Cuyanel, Tegucigalpa,
Carretera Tegucigalpita - Cnnto                                                       13,902 11     100.00    0 01 CODINCO                   20/09/93    29/
Baracoa - La Cuarentena, Choloma - Arenales, Puente Cenagusta, Puente Zapadnl, Puente
Choloma                                                                               16,108 49     100.00    0 00 CINSA                     20/09/93    30/
Ftaca Blanca - La Garroba - La Central - Manacal, Calles Urbamzacon Alamo II, Col
PedroSl y Rio Piedias                                                                  9,661 50     100 00    0 00 SAYBE Y ASOCIADOS         25/10/93    30/
Haienda Vieja - San Franasco, El Negrito - San Jose, El Dsatmo - El PortiEo - Sta Marta,
Habana - El Rosario - El Ocotal, Pate Gallmna, Sta Lucia, Concepcion - La Reynada      8,649 56    1to00      0 00 EMCOFER                   20/09/93    30/
Puentes Omoa, Rio Coto, Cbachaguala, Coneginta, Muchilena, Cuyamel, Carmeoa
Teguacgalpa - Connto, Carretera Zapadnl                                               49,310 38     1000      0 00 CODINCO                   05/07/94    05/1
Junapa - Balfate                                                                   .   5,376 33     100 00    0.00 PROCCO                    27/05/94    31/
Puentes Los Caraos, Carretera Monteney, La Danta, Ceibia - Pencalhngue, Puente: Bermejo,
Rio Piedras, Rio Blaco, Bella Vista                                                    6,720 95     100 00    0 0t NAKEON                    02/01195    28/.
CAI 3 - Yanca - La Flores - Toncontin - Unrco                                         21,778.13     100.00    0.00 SINCCO                    05/10/94    31/
CA13 - Puonte Lean, Ceibita Way, Esparta Rutls 261, 260, Bordo sobre Puente Colotadito   794 68     10000     0 00 NMARVAS                    05/01/94   05/
Reparamon Fallas Caretera Pio Solo - Santa Barbara                                    57,678 97     1000       000 CIC (CERNA)               04/01/96    II/
SUPERVISION PERIODIC MAINTEA.                                                       2.880.911 I.S0  10000 0   0.0t =0
- 24 -



IJNPAVED NETWORK                                                                     1,960,570A42 |_|_|                       _|_||
GRUPOOIM                                                                               100,598 35     100.00    0.00 VERTICE                    10/06/96   09/02/98
GRUPO 02M                                                                              161,088 96     100 00    0.00 ACI                        1006/96   10/04/99
GRUPO 03M                                                                             243,753 87      100.0t0    000 ITEMA - SECOYCO            10/06/96   30/03/99
ORTPO 04M                                                                              112,000 00     100 00    0 00Ic                  .       10/06/96   09/09/97
GRUPO 05Ut                                                                             153,898 94    10 00     000 BARMEND                     10/06/96   09/04/98
GRUPO 06M                                                                              103,726 40     100 00    0 00 INSECO                     10/06/96   09/11/97
GRUPO 07M                                                                              90,031.33      100 00   000 SEISA                       10/06/96   09/12/97
GRUPO OSM                                                                              156,558 50     100 00    0 00 ICSA                       10/06/96   15/05/99
GRUPO 09M                                                                              143,701 06     100 00   0o00 ASP                         10/06/96   31/03/99
GRUPO 10M                                                                              113,724 00     100 0     0 00 SAYBE Y ASOCIADOS          10/06/96   10/09/98
GRUPO IIM                                                                             226,248 00      100.00    000 GEOCONSULT                  10/06/96   31/12/99
GRUPO 12M                                                                              99,262.00      100 00    0 00 MADEC                      10/06/96   09/08/97
GRUPO 13M                                                                             255,979 01      100 00    0 00 ACI                       01/07/96    31/12/99
PAVED NETWORK                                                                         920,341.38      100.00    0.00t
GRUPO 14M                                                                              57,368 69      100.00    000 CIC                        01/10/97    10/10/98
GRUPO 15M                                                                              156,910 00     100 00    0 00 MADEC                      13/10/97   31/12V99
GRUPO 17M3                                                                            215,218 46      100 00    0.00 CONASH                     13/10/97   31/08/99
GRUPO IM                                                                             358,973 80      100.00    000 SEICO                       03/11/97   30t09/99
GRUPO 19M                                                                               72,39100      100.00    0 00 TECNISA                    10/12/97   31/1V99
GRUPO 20M                                                                               59,479 43     100 00    0.00 SETTCO                     20t11/97   31/12/99
SVtB5SISO-N QF REUBU9,A..T^IN MM
STAGE I                                                        284,801.09
CONSTUCCION PUENTES SOBRE LOS RIOS SAN MARCOS, MACORA, AGUAN Y
CAJA QUINTUPLE SOBRE RIO PUENTE GRANDE                                                 120,679.00     100 00    0 00 Arturo Jovel Rodnguez      06t01/97   06/04/98
CONSTRUCCION PUENTES SOBRE LOS RIOS SIGUAPA Y MARIatTO                                  95,906 00     100 00    0.00 Miguel Morazan Barahona    06/01t97   31/01/99
REHABILIrACION PUENTE SOBRE RIO EL HATO                                                 23,550 76     100 00    0.00 Cesar Abadie Streber       06/01/97   15/08/97
CONS    UCCION PUENTE SOBRE RIO CUYAMPA                                                 44,665 33     100 00    0 00 Samuento                   06/01/97   06/04/98
STAGE 2                                                        291,934.41
REHABILITACION PUENTE RIO EL HOMBRE, ICARAI, HUMUYA                                    111,031 25     100 00    0 00 CesarAbadie Slreber        16t09/97   31/10/98
OONSTRUCCION PUENTE SULACO COLORADO Y COLORADO 11                                      180,903.16     100.00    0.00 Raut Arnnando Flores G     09/10/97   peniente
MILQaMN"L DENLEDP PR,,GRAIM
SECOPT (SOFTRAVI)                                                                    1,056,284 00     100 00    0 00 LAVAUIN                    22/10/96   pendente
RU   =F MAKar-MEULaxim S471,980.70
CONSULTOR PARA IDENTIFtCAR SISTEMA DE MANEJO
DE PUENTES Y TERMINOS DE REFERENCIA                                                     11,000 00     100 001   0 00 Dr Adel Fam                20/04/95   06/06/95
DE PUENTES                                                                            460,980 70      100 00    0 00 Hojlund                    01/08/97   01/04/98
TA ACI      PLN        E      ATION                                                  3,031,875.49
PROGRAMADELAMODERNIZACIONDE LAAVIACION CMvL                                          1,482,219 00     100 00    0 00 OACI-PNUD                     1996    31/12/99
CONSULTORIA PARA CONCESIONES PORTUARIAS                                                 35,340 00     100 00    0 00                            11/10/96   11/ 1/96
ESTUDIO DE TRANSPORTE URBANO                                                           363,072.96     100.00    0.00 SOFRERAIL                  01/07/96   20/12t97
APOYO A LA COORDINACION GENERAL DEL CREDITO                                          1,110,123 53     10000 0000 ASP                                       30/09/01
CONSULTORIA INDMIDUAL PARA LA ORGANIZACION Y                                                                         .
PUESTA EN MARCHA DEL FONDO VIAL EN HONDURAS                                            41,120 00      100.0     0 00 Roberto Amusjo                        31/03/99
TRA4INNG                                                                               251,269 54
- 25 -



ZF,JUDDIC..MA2  ]ErSANM                                                            21,501,426.98      57.79   42.21
UNPAVED NETWORK                                                    13,216,133.25      65 91   34.09
GRUPO OIM                                                                              527,596 75      68 77   3123 HONDURAS                    10/06/96   09/02/98
GRUPO02M                                                                               858,422 71      57 12   42.88 BAJOAGUAN                  10/06/96   10/04/99
GRUPO 03M                                                                             938,043 70       66 52   33 48 SERPIN                     10/06/96   30/03/99
GRUPO 04M                                                                             735,539 27       71 91   28 09 PRODECON                   10/06/96   09/09/97
GRUPO 05M                                                                              758,283.62      64 25   35 75 CONTEC                     10/06/96   09/04/98
GRUPO 06M                                                                             927,864 75       80 75    19 25 MYPSA                     10/06/96   09/11/97
GRUPO 07M                                                                              608,598 46      7141    28 59 MARCHETTI                  10/06/96   09/12/97
GRUPO08M                                                                              856 49813        69 36   30 64 ECO                        10/06/96   15/05/99
GRUPO 09M                                                                            1,189,78628       65 78   34.22 DINATRAC                   10/06/96   31/03/99
AYON CORDOVA-
GRUPO 10M                                                                             730,470 29       64 74   35 26 SATURNO                    10/06/96   10/09/98
GRUPO I IM                                                                             819,498 09      70 18   29 82 DINTGRAI-INGECON           10/06/96   31/12/99
GRUPO 12M                                                                              594,144 53      80 71    19 29 SERMACO                   10/06196   09/08/97
GRUPO 13M                                                                            3,671,386 67      57 99   4201 ETERNA                      01/07/96   31/12/99
PAVED NETWORK                                                      8,285,293.73
GRUPO 14M                                                                              396,838 73      45 79   54 21 BAJO AGUAN                 01/10197   10/10/98
GRUPO 15M                                                                            1,171,608 24      4633    53 67 MYPSA                      13/10/97   31/12/99
SALINAS Y CARDONA
GRUPO 17M                                                                            2,028,217 02      44 03    5597 LEMPIRA                    13/10/97   31/08/99
GRUPO IM                                                                            3,237,633 45      4648    534 5 PRODECON                   03/11/97   30/09/99
GRUPO 19M                                                                              666,573 50      4598     5402 SERMACO                    10/12/97   31/12/99
GRUPO 20M                                                                              784,422 79      3296    67.0 CONSULCO                    20/11/971  31/12/99
- 26 -



List of Project Activities, Supplemental Credit
.             Elu~~Fna,iCj'..  ____      ,Couirrtior 9    ,s. mJme thtlon 
Name    .          I. Nt   u   ne , r   t 2.i s ACTuAL  WlA%, Oovt<, s  orFirm..E. :
REHABILITATION OF MAJOR ROAD
SECTION (PAVED)                                       14,224,035.65
Saba-Olanchito, Saba-Tocoa-Corocito-Bonito Onental,
Corocito-Puerto Castilla-Desvio a Teujillo y Planes-                                Santos y Cotpania
Sonaguera-kn 35 (Paauete 1)                             5,885,250 00   8104   18 96 Sucesores                  01/10/99 PENDENTE
Tela-La Ceiba, La Ceiba-Saba (Paquete I)                4,199 070 81   82 66  17 34 Nacional doe Ingenieros    24/08/99    28/0201
San Pedro Sula-La Lima-EI Progreso, La Barea-El Prgreso,
El Pmgreso-Tela (Paquete 111)                           1,598,532 83   90.00  10 W0 Continental Delta          24/08/99 PENDIENIE
Chamelecon-La Ceibita-Santa Barbara, CA-4-Macueltzo-
Azacualpa, San Nicolas-Nueva Celilac-San lose de Colinas
(Paquete IV)                                            2,541,182 01   77 75  22 25 Semiaco                    01/08/99    15/05/01
BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION/REHABILITATION
Adqu,sicion Puentes Metalicos                             565,0W 00    90 0(  10 00 Hoffman Internatl Inc
Instalacion Puente Metahco en Guayabillas                  81,668 39   83 14  16 86 Consulcreto                01/11/99    01/04/00
Modificacion No 3 Grupo No 8 Puentes                      590,078 58   74 00  26 00 Continental Delta                      30/10/00
Rehabilitacion Puente Las Muuu y Puente Cuyamapa (Grupo
9)                                                      1,665,000.00   90.00  10 00 SERMACO                    16/0200    16/03/01
Construccion de Puentes de Alivio en el Aguan (Gnupo 10)  1,171,324 40  66 10  33 90 BAJO AGUAN                02/05/00    31/07/01
Conmtruccion de Puentes Sobre Rio Piedrs (Grupo 11)       499,657 00   90 00  10 00 Lopez Rivera               02/05/00    02/02/01
SUPERVISION                                                            =
Brldges
Modificacion Nos. 3,4, y 5 Grupo No.8 Puentes              23,431 64  100 00   0 OF Raul Flores Guillen                    30/07/01
Rehabilitacion Puente Las Mnsu y Puente Cuyamapa (Grupo
9)                                                        169,050 00  100 00   0 00 Saybe y Asociados          16/02/00    21/03/01
Construccion de Puentes de Alivio en el Aguan (Grupo 10)  123,645 05  100 00   0.00 ICSA                       02/05/00    17/04/01
Construccion de Puentes Sobre Rio Piedras (Grupo 11)       57,825 00  100 00   0 00 Saybe y Asociados          02/05/00    02/03/01
Instalacion Puente metalico en Guayabillas                 20,456 00  100i00   0 O  'Coniulting                01/11/99    29/02/00
Roads
Saba-Olanchito, Saba-Toroa-Corocito-Bonito Onental,
Corocito-Puerto Castilla-Desvio a Tnujillo y Planes-
Sonaguera-km 35 (Paquete .) 372,229 60                                100 00   0.00 Gabmnete Tecnico, S.A      15/07/99    15/03/01
Tela-La Ceiba, La Ceiba-Saba (Paquete 11)                 389,086 61  100 00   0 00 CINSA                      15/07/99    28/02/01
San Pedro Sula-La Luna-EI Progreso, La Barca-El Progreso,
El Prog so-Tela (Paquete nn                               254,915 47  100 00   0 00  El S A.                   15/07/99    15/17/01
Chamelecon-La Ceibita-Santa Barbara, CA-4-Macueltzo-
Azacualpa, San Nicolas-Nueva Cehlae-San Jose de Colinas
(Paquete IV)                                              331,622.23  100 00   000 CIC                         15/06/99    31/05/01
STUDIES_
Construccion de puentes Grmpo No.I-E                      192,898 74  100 00   0 00 TECNISA                    10/01/00    16/10/00
Construccion de puentes Grupo No 2-E                      181,727 00  100 00   0 00 PAVIMENTOS                 03/01/00    03/09/00
Pavimentacion de la carretera Las Lonias-Sta Mana-Terrero
Btano-Juuapa-Accewo a Nueva Palestira 3-E                 464.066 90  100 00   0 00 TECNISA                    10/01/00    10/01/00
Actualizacion del estudio de ulgeniena para la amphacion
mejoriamuento y pavimentacron de la carretera central Rio
Dulce-empalme carretera a Yoro 4-E                        337,222 31  100 00   0.00 CINSA                      30/12/99    30/12/99
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Evaluacion final de proyectos vuales a ser ejecutados con el
Credito Suplementano 2458-HO                               34,977 45  100 00   0 00 Saybe y Asoc
Contnaso de Servicios de Consultona Individual (Flora Mejia
de Bautsta)                                                55,000 00  100 00   0 00 Flora Melia                01/12/99    30/09/01
Contato de Servicios de Consultona Individual (Ana Mana
Pavon)                                                     44,000.00  100 00   0.00 Ana Mana Pavon             01/02/00    30/09/01
Consultona para la nmplementacion del sistema LACI         41,705 14  100 00   0 00 Micro Sistemas S de R L.
Estudio de Reestructuracion del Ferrocarrl Nacional de
Honduras                                                   94,919 00  100 00   0 00 Transport and Management   04/09/00    04/03/01
Asuatencia en el area admimstrativa a SOPTRAVI              6,000 00  10000    0 00 Miriam Caras Galo
Desarrollo y Fortalecnuento InstrtucLonal de SECOPT
(SOPTRAVI) Modificacion No 4                               52,332 50      00   0 00 LAVALIN                    22/10/96 PENDENTE
Apoyo a la Coordmnacion General del Credito Modification
No.8, 9 y 10                                               72,268 69  100.00   0 00 ASP
- 27 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Tela - La Ceiba
1         2         3        4         S         6      Sum 1-6
Road     Increase  Savings In Generated  Savings. Generated  Total
Capital   in Road   Existing  Veh. Op. Veh. Trvl. V'eh. Trvl. Economic
Year      Cost    Rec. Cost   VOC     Beneflts  Time Cost Time Ben. Benefits
2001     -2.369    -0.003    0.000     0.000     0.000     0.000    -2.372
2002     -3.554    0.000     0.007     0.000  I 0.000      0.000    -3.547
2003     -2.369    -0.005    0.004     0.000     0.000     0.000    -2.370
2004     -3.554    -0.009    0.020     0.000     0.001     0.000    -3.542
2005      0.000    0.000     3.862     0.161     0.175     0.007    4.205
2006      0.000    0.000     4.725     0.197     0.228     0.010     5.160
2007      0.000    0.000     5.771     0.240     0.297     0.013     6.321
2008      0.000    0.000     7.019     0.292     0.384     0.016     7.711
2009      0.000    0.000     8.500     0.354     0.491     0.021     9.366
2010      0.000    0.000     10.255    0.427     0.622     0.026    11.330
2011      0.000    0.000     12.343    0.514     0.779     0.033    13.669
2012      0.000    0.000     14.766    0.615     0.970     0.041    16.392
2013      0.000    0.000     17.360    0.723     1.198     0.051    19.332
2014      0.000    0.000     19.676    0.820     1.419     0.060    21.975
2015      2.369    0.086     20.874    0.870     1.540     0.066    25.805
Choluteca - Guasaule
t" ',  ;    ' ,   / t2    >~  .  ..,'3 j  14 '                 -''  '  '-  Sumi'-6
Road     Ihncrease ,Savings In Generated  Savings  Generated  Total
Capltal 'in Road,j Existing  Veb. Op. Veh. Trvl. Veh. TrvI. Economic
Year.     .Cos ,  Rec Cost    VOC.    Benefits. Time Cost Time Ben. . Benefits
2001     -1.456    -0.001    0.000     0.000     0.000     0.000    -1.457
2002     -2.184    0.000     0.002     0.000  I 0.000      0.000    -2.182
2003      0.000    0.000     1.004     0.046     0.047     0.002     1.099
2004      0.000    0.000     1.172     0.054     0.058     0.003     1.287
2005      0.000    0.000     1.383     0.064     0.073     0.003     1.523
2006      0.000    0.000     1.630     0.075     0.091     0.004     1.800
2007      0.000    0.000     1.915     0.088     0.113     0.005     2.121
2008      0.000    0.000     2.241     0.103     0.139     0.006     2.489
2009      0.000    0.000     2.610     0.120     0.170     0.008     2.908
2010      0.000    0.000     2.983     0.137     0.205     0.009     3.334
2011      0.000    0.000     3.385     0.156     0.245     0.011     3.797
2012      0.000    0.000     3.817     0.176     0.290     0.013     4.296
2013      0.000    0.000     4.219     0.197     0.342     0.015     4.773
2014     -2.493    0.000     4.808     0.221     0.401     0.018     2.955
2015      0.728    0.029     6.303     0.290     0.505     0.023     7.878
- 28 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle               No. of Persons and Specialty          Perfoirnance Rating
(e,g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)  Irplementation Development
MonthYear     Count         Specialty                    Progress    'Objective
Identiflcation/Preparation
1991-1992                  4   TTL, HE, ENV, DO
Appraisal/Negotiation
June/July 1992             7   TTL, HE, PT, RL, Cons,
ENV
December, 1992             4   TTL, HE, LA, DO
Supervision
May 1993                   3   TTL, HE, IS                      S            S
August 1993                4   TTL, HE, CA, PA                  S            S
January 1994               3   HE, AV, FA                       S            S
April 1994                 2   HE, FA                           S            S
October 1994               4   HE, TE, LA, WP                   S            S
March 1995                 1   HE                               S            S
August 1995                2   HE, PR                           S            S
January 1996               3   HE, AV, ENV                      S            S
March 1997                 1   HE                               S            S
January 1998               2   TTL (HE), FA                     S            S
May 1998                   1   TTL(HE)                          S            S
October 1998               4   TTL, FA, Cons, Cons              S            S
February 1999              3   TTL, HE, Cons                    S            S
March 1999                 6   TTL, HE, ENV, BR, ME, RL         S            S
October 1999               2   TTL (HE), CE                     S            S
February 2000              6   TTL, HE, FM, CE, DE, RL          S            S
August 2000                4   TTL, EC, HDM, ENV                S            S
January 2001               2   TTL (HE), RL                     S            S
ICR
June, 2001                 I    FM
TTL = Task Team Leader                    ENV = Environmental Specialist
HE = Highway Engineer              BR = Bridge Specialist
IS = Institutional Specialist             RL = Railway Specialist
CA = Civil Aviation Specialist            ME = Micro-enterprise Specialist
PA = Project Assistant                    CE = Civil Engineer
AV = Aviation Specialist                  DE = Drainage Engineer
FA = Financial Analyst                    FM = Financial Management Expert
TE = Transport Engineer                   HDM = Highway Design Model Program Expert
LA = Lawyer                               Cons = Consultant
WP = Water Pollution Specialist           EC = Economist
PR = Procurement Specialist               PT = Port Specialist
- 29 -



(b) Staff'
Stage of Project Cycle                 Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff.weeks.            US$!COOO)
Identification/Preparation             51.3                      143.8
Appraisal/Negotiation                  51.0                     141.3
Supervision                           132.9                      384.2
ICR                                     3.3                       15.8
Total                                 235.2                      669.3
(thru FY99 only)
- 30 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
O Macro policies                      O H OSUOM       O N  * NA
O Sector Policies                     O H  *SUOM O N       O NA
L Physical                            * H  OSUOM      O N  O NA
L Financial                           OH   OSUOM      ON   *NA
El Institutional Development          0 H O SU O M 0 N     0 NA
LI Environmental                      O H *SUOM       O N  O NA
Social
L Poverty Reduction             O H  OSUOM O N       * NA
LI Gender                       OH   OSUOM ON        *NA
rO Other (Please specify)       O H  OSUOM O N       * NA
Ol Private sector development         0 H  *     SU 0 M 0 N 0 NA
O Public sector management            O H OSUOM       O N O NA
El Other (Please specfy)              O H OSUOM O N * NA
- 31 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                                Rating
OII Lending                                        OHS OS       OU   OHU
OII Supervision                                    *HS OS       O U   O HU
OI Overall                                         OHS OS       O U   O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                            Rating
FII Preparation                                    OHS OS       O U   O HU
LI Government implementation performance           O HS O S     0 U   0 HU
Li Implementation agencyperformance                OHS OS       OU    O HU
LI Overall                                         OHS OS       OfU OHU
- 32 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Staff Appraisal Report, Honduras: Transport Sector Rehabilitation Project, January 11, 1993
President's Report, Supplemental Credit for the Transport Sector Rehabilitation Project, December 22,
1998
Proyecto Rehabilitacion Sector Transporte Honduras - Informe Semestral No. 15
Proyecto Rehabilitacion Sector Transporte Honduras - Informe Final Octubre, 2001
Proyecto Rehabilitacion Sector Transporte Honduras - Informe Final Resumido Octubre, 2001
- 33 -



- 34 -



IBRD 30040
94'4             9'2     /    <+4j                  8'8 )t          8'60              8'4              82
HONDURAS-
J,  v   /-f;TRANSPOR
REHABILITMi
MEX            4.                         BEI-                                                              ;
UAEMALAS3/.*
|   .  9  <t,Sn Pedro Su lo
'    -'HONDURAS
*1~~  ~      Teaucigalao 
-14'                                   b            s                                    -                                 140
L/L 1/ OF-              ?&-.          NI&"RAGUA
- - -   Q   L. Managua
-12                                                          Manaoual                                                      120
L.           ~~~~~Th,s map was produced by the
PACIFIC   OCEAN                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Map Des, n Una, of The World Bank.
PA   C I F I C     0 C E A    N                              \aguo Sl                       6nTrhens, colors,denammnotns
aond nyother informotbion show, on
th,s map do not mply, on the port of
S.-- The World Bonk Group, any judgment
o100           200     300     400      00                                                    on the IogoCstatus of any territorynor
I   I       -   ~   ~   ~  ~   ~   ~   ~~~~~           '..J ~~~~~~~~~~IMO T   R~I 0.  any ondorsemont or acceptance of
-10                   KILOMETERS                                          <   h  x      69San JO\    such boundaries     100
940              92               900               880              86               840               820
DECEMBER 1 998






IBRD 24228
RBE9'       ,7' EllE7'                                              EO'                    RB6 ell.
I  BAARETA I  2GUANAJAI                                     A          CA
B  E  L I Z E                                               -' Ts   I                                                  _A_AICA
I                                         ROATNAI ~~~~~~~~~                                             .1I~~~~~A:TRIji~~~~~~i~~GUBR0
CAR/BBEAN                                    EA                                            E E     CARIBEAU
16 |        GULFOFHONDURAS                                /                                                                AIAA
iACUA PA OLPINALEJOj< PROGREsO -' 5                                                   ,gt / y /' ! J ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ACFI OCANPAAM
o-MA(vE17N t(d i / o RO \ / iH GRACIAS n>JU                              -6N
4AC/A )<\  X   <A RbIUNFO     NUEVA        ?                                                       C
-A-IEgAIA  RUZ_______ AjNIEN14       ROC I TOIA5 )r  t  kNIMO                                  \
G             M A  E M A L AA                        A                            CL 
1 MILPA  CAMTLEcO                  LA
^eAC QUENR DA OPI  UBP SANA ELH
N S AN A           P PLAN GNRANDE  LORE 7                                 NNBA                  A  DI OS
A R LAI J~ON
~*  /ER PARAISO  NIEA RTCORA                 TORITS E 
IANAL              CEA HSLY  OOI   JFR   A\CP                                      =    GIVE5AT 5PFC OC
NLCF ALIAW  MESKP OROCUI 4 RRTRo   BIANI  SA RAANCISCO
~~~  COPAN  ~~~~~~~~~~~  ,/    BE ORO  I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  ) 1  E  LABAA
\E COPAS                        LA I SERTAD  EL PORV 9 IA  GUATAPER
PLA-A FIA -CS  AVF2SC                                  M  R A,                          2  KLMtR        G      '   NENTOA  0NAISP
AUATRIA*L* dNA /  N  \  C~~~~IAS
-13-                   I p     88'              FRANC I  CoA UAES CA                                 85 NTN
EQUB  I                                  -A_  ,8R                                                                                   OCT08ERCITA
A  JUAN/' ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-              -DPATETBABAISNT            AIAI,  N
1.  AR TAIWDIOUE  kMANI    IRAITA,  ,"LAI ANI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N I NBAAN NA A~A
GULF OE                                           EILOTAETERSCAREHABILITATIONNPROJECT
PACIFIC  OCEAN          FOA'SFCA                                                                                          -  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  B  AlC  O
VMU'l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A                                U
-+  SELECTED AIRPOFITS ~ ~ OCOBE  SP



