Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2458-1-HO
(Amendment)
Agreement Amending Development Credit Agreement
(Transport Sector Rehabilitation Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated January 26, 1999
CREDIT NUMBER 2458-1-HO
(Amendment)
AGREEMENT AMENDING DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated January 26, 1999, between REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower and the Association have entered into a Development 
Credit Agreement (Transport Sector Rehabilitation Project) dated April 28, 1993 (the 
Development Credit Agreement) for the purpose of assisting in the financing of the 
project described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement (the Project);
(B)
the Borrower has requested the Association to provide additional 
assistance towards the financing of the Project by increasing the amount made 
available under the Development Credit Agreement by an amount in various currencies 
equivalent to fourteen million five hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights 
(SDR14,500,000); 
(C)
the Development Credit Agreement has been amended by means of letters 
from the Association to the Borrower dated July 15, 1994, December 23, 1996 and 
September 1997, countersigned by the Borrower on July 19, 1994, December 31, 1996, and 
September 30, 1997, respectively;
(D)
the Borrower intends to contract from the Inter-American Development Bank 
(the IADB) a loan (the IADB Loan) in an amount equivalent to $18,600,000 to assist in 
financing part of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement 
(the IADB Loan Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and the IADB;
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to provide such additional assistance to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions 
set forth in this Agreement;
Page  2
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Amendments to the Development Credit Agreement
Section 1.01. Section 1.01 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended to 
read as follows:
"Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through 
December 2, 1997), with the modifications set forth below (the General 
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
A new paragraph (15) is added to Section 2.01 to read as set forth below: 
"15.
‘Participating Country’ means any country that the Association 
determines meets the requirements set forth in Section 10 of Resolution No. 
183 of the Board of Governors of the Association, adopted on June 26, 1996; 
and ‘Participating Countries’ means, collectively, all such countries."
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not a Participating Country or for goods produced in, 
or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any 
payment to persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or 
import, to the knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a decision of 
the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of 
the 
United Nations"."
Section 1.02. Section 1.02 (s) of the Development Credit Agreement is amended to 
read as follows:
"(s)
‘SOPTRAVI’ means the Borrower’s Secretariat of Public Works, 
Transportation and Housing (Secretaría de Obras Públicas, Transporte y 
Vivienda);".
All references to SECOPT in the Development Credit Agreement (as amended) are 
replaced by references to SOPTRAVI.
Section 1.03. A new paragraph (x) is added to Section 1.02 of the Development 
Credit Agreement (as amended) to read as follows:
"(x)
‘Hurricane’ means the hurricane Mitch which hit Central America 
with heavy rains from October 25 to November 1, 1998.".
Section 1.04. Section 2.01 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended to 
read as follows:
"Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the 
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit 
Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to sixty-one million 
four hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR61,400,000), being the sum of 
withdrawals of the proceeds of the Credit, with each withdrawal valued by the 
Association as of the date of such withdrawal.  The Credit shall be divided in 
two 
tranches, the first tranche being an amount in various currencies 
equivalent to forty-six million nine hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights 
(SDR46,900,000) (the First Tranche) and the second tranche being an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to fourteen million five hundred thousand 
Special Drawing Rights (SDR14,500,000) (the Second Tranche).".
Section 1.05. The following new paragraph (b) is added to Section 2.02 of the 
Development Credit Agreement (and the existing paragraph (b) is designated as 
paragraph (c)) to read as follows:
"(b)
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, all amounts 
withdrawn from the Credit Account or made subject to a special commitment 
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall initially be charged 
against the First Tranche until that tranche has been exhausted, and shall 
Page  3
thereafter be charged against the Second Tranche."
Section 1.06. A proviso is added before the semicolon at the end of Section 2.04 
(b) (i) of the Development Credit Agreement, to read as follows:
", except that any commitment charge on the Second Tranche shall accrue 
from a date sixty days after the date of the Agreement Amending Development 
Credit Agreement,".
Section 1.07. The following new Section 3.11 is added at the end of Article III 
of the Development Credit Agreement (as amended) to read as follows:
"Section 3.11. With regard to Part D of the Project, the Borrower shall 
take all measures necessary or advisable to ensure, to the satisfaction of the 
Association:
(a)
that the civil works to be financed out of the proceeds of the Second 
Tranche are required to reconstruct or rehabilitate infrastructure damaged by the 
Hurricane; and 
(b)
that the proposed investment:
(i)
is technically and economically sound; 
(ii)
meets appropriate environmental standards; and
(iii)
does not involve any involuntary resettlement of population.".
Section 1.08. The following new paragraph (g) is added to Section 6.01 of the 
Development Credit Agreement (as amended), to read as follows:
"(g)
(i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph: 
(A)
the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of any grant or 
loan made to the Borrower for the financing of the Project (including the IADB 
Loan) shall have been suspended, canceled or terminated in whole or in part, 
pursuant to the terms of the agreement providing therefor (including the IADB 
Loan 
Agreement); or
(B) 
any such loan (including the IADB Loan) shall have become due and 
payable prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that: 
(A)
such suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is not 
caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations under 
such agreement; and 
(B)
adequate funds for the Project are available to the Borrower from 
other sources on terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of the 
Borrower under this Agreement.".
Section 1.09. The following new paragraph (b) is added to Section 6.02 of the 
Development Credit Agreement to read as follows:
"(c)
the event specified in paragraph (g) (i) (B) of Section 6.01 of 
this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (g) (ii) of 
that Section.".
Section 1.10. Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement (as amended) is 
further modified to read as set forth in Annex 1 to this Agreement
Section 1.11. Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement (as amended) is 
further modified to read as set forth in Annex 2 to this Agreement.
Section 1.12. Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement (as amended) is 
further modified to read as set forth in Annex 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
Effective Date; Termination
Page  4
Section 2.01. This Agreement shall not become effective until evidence 
satisfactory to the Association shall have been furnished to the Association that the 
execution and delivery of this Agreement on behalf of the Borrower have been duly 
authorized or ratified by all necessary governmental action.
Section 2.02. As part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to Section 2.01 
of this Agreement there shall be furnished to the Association an opinion or opinions 
satisfactory to the Association of counsel acceptable to the Association showing, on 
behalf of the Borrower, that this Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by, 
and executed and delivered on behalf of the Borrower and is legally binding upon the 
Borrower in accordance with its terms.
Section 2.03. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Association dispatches to the Borrower notice of its acceptance of the 
evidence required by Section 2.02 of this Agreement.
Section 2.04. If this Agreement shall not have come into force and effect by 
April 26, 1999, this Agreement and all obligations of the parties hereunder shall 
terminate, unless the Association establishes a later date for the purposes of this 
Section.  If this Agreement shall terminate under the provisions of this Section, the 
Development Credit Agreement shall continue in full force and effect, as if this 
Agreement had not been executed.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Tegucigalpa, Honduras, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS
By /s/ Carlos R. Flores 
President of Honduras
By /s/ Gabriela Nuñez de Reyes
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Donna Dowsett-Coirolo
Regional Vice President
Latin America and Caribbean Region
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawals of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in 
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
(a) Works financed
   27,946,000 100% until an
by the First
aggregate amount
Tranche
equivalent to
DR7,215,000 has
been disbursed from 
the Credit Account;
and 74% thereafter
Page  5
(b) Works financed
    8,623,000 90%
by the Second 
Tranche
(2)
(a) Goods financed 
50,000 100% of foreign 
by the First
expenditures, and 
Tranche
80% of local 
expenditures 
(b) Goods financed
      159,000 100%
by the Second 
Tranche
(3)
(a) Consultants' 
    8,349,000 100%  
Services and 
Training financed 
By the First 
Tranche
(b) Consultants' 
    4,202,000 100%  
Services and 
Training financed 
by the Second 
Tranche
 (4)
Periodic maintenance
     8,659,000
80% until an 
under Part B.1 (d)
aggregate 
amount equivalent to 
SDR3,490,000 has 
been disbursed from 
the Credit Account; 
60% until an 
aggregate amount 
equivalent to SDR6,100,000
has been disbursed from the 
Credit Account; and 
45% thereafter
(5)
Unallocated
    3,412,000
TOTAL
   61,400,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: 
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed SDR1,230,000, may be 
made in respect of Categories (1) (a) and (4) on account of payments made for 
expenditures before that date but after July 31, 1992; 
(b)
payments for expenditures under Part B.2 of the Project, unless the 
Borrower shall have employed the consultants to assist it in carrying out Part C (c) 
(i) of the Project; and
(c)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of the Agreement 
Amending Development Credit Agreement except that withdrawals from the Second Tranche, 
in an aggregate amount not to exceed SDR1,100,000, may be made on account of payments 
made for expenditures required to carry out Part D of the Project before that date but 
after October 25, 1998.
Page  6
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to help the Borrower in: (a) developing the 
institutional and regulatory framework of its transport sector by: (i) encouraging a 
greater participation of the private sector in providing transport services; (ii) 
ensuring that investment and pricing policies are based on efficiency and equity 
considerations; (iii) strengthening SOPTRAVI's capability to carry out planning and 
regulatory functions, including its capability to: (A) assess the environmental impact 
of the activities carried out by public and private entities and individuals within 
the sector; and (B) monitor the implementation of the recommendations of such 
assessments; (iv) restructuring the port subsector and redefining the role of ENP; (v) 
designing and implementing a strategy to develop the airport subsector; and (vi) 
rationalizing the railway operations in the railways subsector; and (b) improving and 
rehabilitating the transport infrastructure to foster export growth.
The Project consists of the following Parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Sector Policy Development
Implementation of the Program through the carrying out of the activities 
included in the following action plans: (i) Institutional Development Plan; (ii) 
Highways Plan; (iii) Civil Aviation Plan; (iv) Railways Plan; and (v) Ports Plan.
Part B:
Civil Works
1.
Carry out the following activities within the TSIP:
(a)
Rehabilitation of about 150 kilometers of feeder roads in the Borrower's 
primary road network.
(b)
Rehabilitation of about 800 kilometers of feeder roads in the Borrower's 
secondary and tertiary road network.
(c)
Construction and rehabilitation of about 1,000 meters of bridges in the 
Borrower's primary, secondary and tertiary road network.
(d)
Periodic maintenance of about 1,800 kilometers of roads in the Borrower's 
road network.
2.
(a)
Rehabilitation of about 2,700 meters of the runway of the San Pedro Sula 
Airport, including the rehabilitation and extension of its taxiway and connectors, and 
the acquisition and utilization of equipment required for such works.
(b)
Construction of the apron to serve the new passenger terminal at the 
airport mentioned in (a) herein.
3.
Rehabilitation of about 260 kilometers of feeder roads and bridges in the 
Borrower’s secondary and tertiary road network damaged by the floods caused by the 
storm GERT in the Department of Cortés, Atlantida, Colón and Yoro (located in the 
northern part of the Borrower’s territory) in September 1993.
Part C:
Institutional Development and Technical Assistance
Provision of technical assistance to SOPTRAVI in: (a) carrying Part A (i) of the 
Project (including the training of staff required therefor) through: (i) the 
strengthening of SOPTRAVI to prepare plans, programs and annual budgets, including the 
design of policies to protect the environment in connection with the carrying out of 
its operations; (ii) the improvement of DGT’s capacity to analyze pricing and 
regulatory policies in land transport; and (iii) the development of a suitable data 
base for DGT concerning land transport; (b) designing and implementing a bridge 
management system in order to assist in the planning, design, construction, 
maintenance, rehabilitation and replacement of bridges in the Borrower’s territory, 
(including the acquisition of equipment required therefor).
Part D:
Hurricane Related Activities
1.
Reconstruction or rehabilitation of road sections in the primary, secondary and 
tertiary road networks affected by the Hurricane.
Page  7
2.
Construction or rehabilitation of bridges in the primary, secondary and tertiary 
road networks, including acquisition and installation of temporary bridges.
3.
Provision of consultant services for: (a) the supervision of works to be carried 
out under this Part D of the Project; (b) the preparation of detailed damage 
assessment studies, including activities leading to a program of vulnerability 
reduction to natural hazards in the road sub-sector; (c) the preparation of final 
engineering designs for roads and bridges included in the short, medium and longer 
term reconstruction programs; (d) technical assistance to SOPTRAVI.
4.
Provision of vehicles and computers for SOPTRAVI to replace vehicles and 
computers damaged by the Hurricane.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2000.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
Section I.
 Procurement of Goods and Works financed by the First Tranche
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in 
Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines), subject to the addition of the 
following text at the end of paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines: "Bidding documents for 
fixed-price contracts should provide that, when the contract award is delayed beyond 
the original bid validity period, the bid price will be increased by two standard 
correction factors acceptable to the Association, one to be applied to all foreign 
currency components and the other to the local currency component of the bid price. 
Such correction factor should not be taken into account in bid evaluation.".
2.
Bidders for works estimated to cost more than the equivalent of $5,000,000 per 
contract shall be prequalified as provided in paragraph 2.10 of the Guidelines.
3.
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods and works shall be grouped into 
bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $250,000 or more and $1,000,000 or 
more respectively.
Part B:
Preference for Regional Manufacturers and Domestic Contractors
1.
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A.1 hereof, a margin of preference may be granted to bids offering goods described in 
the accompanying specifications which are manufactured to a substantial extent in any 
country, including Honduras, which is a party to the Mercado Común Centroamericano, 
the common market created by the General Treaty of Central American Economic 
Integration signed at Managua, Nicaragua on December 13, 1960 by Guatemala, El 
Salvador, Honduras, Nicaragua and Costa Rica (hereinafter called the CACM), in 
accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
A.
For the purpose of Part B.1 of this Schedule, the following definitions shall 
apply:
(a)
(i)
the term "Qualified CACM Bid" means a bid submitted by a 
manufacturer established in the territories of member countries, 
including Honduras, of the CACM, for goods manufactured or 
processed in such territories and for which the bidder shall have 
established to the satisfaction of the entity or agency inviting 
bids that the manufacturing or processing cost of such goods 
include a value added in such territories equal to at least 20% of 
the ex-factory bid price of such goods;
(ii)
the term "Non-Qualified CACM Bid" means a bid submitted by a 
manufacturer established in the territories of member countries, 
including Honduras, of the CACM, for goods manufactured or 
processed in such territories, other than any such bid classified 
as a Qualified CACM Bid; and
Page  8
(iii)
the term "Foreign Bid" means any bid which is neither a Qualified 
CACM Bid nor a Non-Qualified CACM Bid.
B.
All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall clearly indicate any 
preference, which would be granted and shall set forth the information required to 
establish the eligibility of a bid for such preference.
C.
Bidders are required to state in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price of 
imported goods and the ex-factory price of locally manufactured goods.
D.
Except to the extent hereinafter provided, bids will be compared on the basis of 
their ex-factory or c.i.f. (port of entry) price adjusted in accordance with 
paragraphs 2.49 through 2.54 of the Guidelines.
E.
After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in one of the following 
groups: Qualified CACM Bids, Non-Qualified CACM Bids or Foreign Bids.
F.
All bids in each group will be first compared among themselves, to determine the 
lowest evaluated bid in each such group.  The lowest evaluated bids of each group will 
then be compared with each other and if, as a result of this comparison, an evaluated 
Qualified CACM Bid or Non-Qualified CACM Bid is the lowest it will be selected for 
purpose of award.
G.
If the lowest bid in the comparison under paragraph F above is a Foreign Bid, 
all Foreign Bids will be further compared with the lowest evaluated Qualified CACM Bid 
as determined under paragraph F above.  
1.
For the purpose of this comparison only, each Foreign Bid will be compared on 
the basis of the sum of its c.i.f. (port of entry) price adjusted in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph D above, plus an amount equal to the smaller of: (i) 
between the amount of customs duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt 
importer would have to pay for the importation of goods offered in such Foreign Bid 
and that applicable to a Qualified CACM Bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of 
such goods. If the Qualified CACM Bid is the lowest evaluated bid in such comparison, 
it shall be selected for the purpose of award; otherwise, the lowest evaluated Foreign 
Bid as determined under paragraph F above shall be so selected.
2.
In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A.1 hereof, the Borrower may grant a margin of preference to domestic contractors in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
Goods estimated to cost more than the equivalent of $25,000 but less than 
$250,000 per contract may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to 
the Association.
2.
Works: (a) estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $1,000,000 per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $41,400,000, may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in 
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association; and (b) small works for 
carrying out Part D of the Project up to an equivalent of $3, 800,000 in the aggregate 
may be procured by negotiated contracts on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association.
3.
Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $25,000 or less per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations; and 
the small items estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 in the aggregate may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations 
obtained from at least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance 
with procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Review of prequalification:
With respect to the prequalification of bidders as provided in Part A.2 hereof, 
the procedures set forth in paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Page  9
2.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
(a)
With respect to: (i) each contract to be awarded pursuant to the 
provisions of Part A.1 of this Section; and (ii) the first contract to be awarded 
pursuant to the provisions of Parts C.1 and C.2 of this Section, the procedures set 
forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.  Where 
payments for such contracts are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures 
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of each contract required to 
be furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to 
the Association prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special Account in 
respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the 
Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part 
of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Credit Account are to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure.
3.
The figure of 10% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Part E:
Standard Bidding Documents
All procurement of goods and works to which international or local competitive 
bidding applies shall be carried out using standard bidding documents acceptable to 
the Association.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants financed by the First Tranche
Except as provided in paragraph (b) below, in order to assist the Borrower in 
carrying out the supervision of the works under Parts B, C and D of the Project, the 
Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and 
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants 
shall be selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the 
Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 
1981 (the Consultants Guidelines).
Section III.
Procurement of Goods and Works Financed by the Second Tranche
Part A:
General
1.
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with:
(a)
the provisions of Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January 
and August 1996 and in September 1997, subject to the modifications thereto set forth 
in paragraph 2 of this Part A (the Guidelines); and
(b)
the provisions of the following Parts of this Section I.
2.
In paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of the Guidelines, the references to "Bank member 
countries" and "member country" shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
"Participating Countries" and "Participating Country".
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
In respect of goods and works to be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B and given the emergency 
nature of the goods and works to be procured, the provisions of paragraphs 2.63 and 
2.64 of the Guidelines shall apply.
Page  10
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Except as otherwise provided in Parts C.2 and C.3 hereof:
(a)
works estimated to cost less than $1,500,000 but more than $250,000 
equivalent per contract; and
(b)
goods estimated to cost less than $150,000 but more than $25,000 
equivalent per contract, shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.  In the procurement of the 
goods and works under the provisions of this paragraph, the Borrower shall use 
standard bidding documents satisfactory to the Association.
2.
National Shopping 
Goods estimated to cost $25,000 equivalent per contract or less, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $200,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost $250,000 equivalent per contract or less, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $4,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, 
fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) 
qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation.  The invitation 
shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the 
required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Association, and 
relevant drawings, where applicable.  The award shall be made to the contractor who 
offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience 
and resources to complete the contract successfully.
4.
Direct Contracting of Works
Works under Part D of the Project to be carried out in remote areas prior to 
June 30, 1999, and costing $100,000 equivalent or less per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $1,000,000 equivalent, may be procured from contractors 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review 
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines.  Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to:
(i)
each contract for works procured pursuant to the provisions of 
Parts B and C.1 hereof; and
(ii)
each contract for goods procured pursuant to the provisions of 
Part B hereof, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to the first two contracts for goods or works, as the case 
may be, procured pursuant to the provisions of Parts C.1 (b), C.2, C.3 and C.4 hereof:
(i)
prior to the selection of any supplier or the execution of any 
contract under shopping procedures, the Borrower shall provide to 
the Association a report on the comparison and evaluation of 
quotations received; 
Page  11
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract procured under direct 
contracting, the Borrower shall provide the Association a copy of 
the specifications and the draft contract; and
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 (f), 2 (g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section IV.
Employment of Consultants financed by the Second Tranche
Part A:
General
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with:
(a)
the provisions of the Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines:  
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank 
in January 1997 and revised in September 1997, subject to the modifications thereto 
set forth in paragraph 2 of this Part A (the Consultant Guidelines); and
(b)
the provisions of the following Parts of this Section II.
2.
In paragraph 1.10 of the Consultant Guidelines, the references to "Bank member 
countries" and "member country" shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
"Participating Countries" and "Participating Country".
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for work supervision and damage assessment studies under Part D of the 
Project estimated to cost less than $500,000 equivalent per contract may be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of 
the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
Page  12
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply; provided, however, that the terms of reference for the respective assignments 
shall be subject to the Association’s prior review and approval.
Section V.
Special Provisions
1.
In addition and without limitation to any other provisions set forth in this 
Schedule or the Guidelines, the following principles and rules of procurement shall 
expressly govern all procurement of goods and works referred to in Parts C.1 and C.2 
of Section I, and C. 1 (a) and (b) of Section III of this Schedule:
(a)
Contracts shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated bid in accordance with 
criteria set forth in the bidding documents, and without taking into account, in the 
evaluation, the financial cost of foreign exchange components.
(b)
Foreign bidders shall not, as a condition for submitting bids, be 
required to: 
(i)
be registered in Honduras;
(ii)
have a representative in Honduras;
(iii)
be associated with Honduran suppliers or contractors; and
(iv)
certify that, in their country of origin, Honduran suppliers or 
contractors are allowed to participate in competitive bidding 
procedures under equal conditions with other bidders.
(c)
Contracts shall not be divided for the sole purpose of reducing contract 
amounts.
2.
In addition and without limitation to any other provisions set forth in this 
Schedule or the Consultant Guidelines, the following principles of procurement shall 
expressly govern all procurement of consultants' services referred to in Sections II 
and IV of this Schedule:
(a)
Foreign consultants shall be permitted to participate in the selection 
process even if there is availability of Honduran consultants for the services being 
procured.
(b)
Foreign consultants shall not be required to be registered with Honduran 
associations or to be associated with Honduran consulting firms as a condition for 
participating in any selection process.
Section VI.
Internal Approvals
1.
With respect to the procurement of goods and works to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, any approval of bidding documents and contracts required under 
the laws of the Borrower shall be given only by SOPTRAVI.
2.
With respect to the employment of consultants, any approval of contracts or of 
consultant selection processes required under the laws of the Borrower, shall be given 
only by SOPTRAVI.
