Page  1
December 23, 1996
His Excellency Luis Carlos Zelaya
Acting Secretary of Communications,
   Public Works and Transport
Barrio La Bolsa
Tegucigalpa, Honduras, C.A.
          Re.: HONDURAS: Transport Sector Rehabilitation Project
               (Credit No. 2458-HO) - Second Amendment
Excellency:
          Please refer to the Development Credit Agreement entered into
between the Republic of Honduras (the Borrower) and the International
Development Association (the Association) dated April 28, 1993, as
amended.
          In response to the discussions held between representatives
of the Borrower and the Association during the past two months with
respect to the progress made by the Borrower in the carrying out of
the Project, we are pleased to inform you that the Association hereby
proposes to amend the Develoment Credit Agreement as follows:
1.   Section 1.02 is hereby amended to read as follows:
     "Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several
terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the
following additional terms have the following meanings:
     (a)  'Civil Aviation Plan' means the Borrower's plan of action
included as an annex to the Implementation Letter, designed to
implement reforms in its aviation subsector, as such plan may be
amended from time to time in terms acceptable to the Association;
     (b)  'DGAC' means the Directorate General of Civil Aviation
(Direccion General de Aeronautica Civil) of SECOPT;
     (c)  'DGCCA' means the Directorate General of Roads and Airports
Maintenance (Direccion General de Conservacion de Carreteras y
Aeropuertos) of SECOPT;
     (d)  'DGT' means the Directorate General of Transport (Direccion
General de Transporte) of SECOPT;
     (e)  'ENP' means the National Port Company (Empresa Nacional
Portuaria) of the Borrower, established as a public entity with
juridical personality pursuant to Decree No. 40 of the Borrower
dated October 14, 1965, published in the Official Gazette (La Gaceta)
on December 1, 1965, as amended to the date of this Agreement;
     (f)  'ENP Contractual Arrangement' means the arrangement entered
into between the Borrower and ENP on December 21, 1992, as the same
may be amended from time to time in terms acceptable to the Association;
     (g)  'FNH' means the Honduran National Railway (Ferrocarril
Nacional de Honduras) of the Borrower, established as a public entity
with juridical personality pursuant to Decree No. 48 of the Borrower
dated May 7, 1958, published in the Official Gazette (La Gaceta) on
May 8, 1958, as amended to the date of this Agreement;
     (h)  'FNH Contractual Arrangement' means the arrangement entered
into between the Borrower and FNH on December 21, 1992, as the same
may be amended from time to time in terms acceptable to the Association;
     (i)  'FY' means the fiscal year of the Borrower which begins on
January 1 and ends of December 31 of each year;
Page  2
     (j)  'Highways Plan' means the Borrower's plan of action included
as an annex to the Implementation Letter, designed to implement reforms,
other than environmental reforms, within the highways subsector, as such
plan may be amended from time to time in terms acceptable to the
Association;
     (k)  'Implementation Letter' means the letter of even date
herewith from the Borrower to the Association containing reference to
the matters to be examined during the reviews referred to in Section
3.10 of this Agreement, and including as annexes thereto, the plans
and the program referred to in Section 1.02 (a), (j), (l), (n), (p)
and (s) of this Agreement;
     (l)  'Institutional Development Plan' means the Borrower's plan of
action included as an annex to the Implementation Letter, designed to:
(i) strengthen SECOPT's institutional capabilities, as referred to in
Part C (a) of the Project; (ii) implement environmental reforms within
SECOPT; and (iii) revise the transport subsector regulatory framework,
as such plan may be amended from time to time in terms acceptable to
the Association;
     (m)  'Lempiras' means the currency of the Borrower;
     (n)  'Ports Plan' means the Borrower's plan of action included as
an annex to the Implementation Letter, designed to implement reforms
within the port subsector, as such plan may be amended from time to
time in terms acceptable to the Association;
     (o)   'Project Coordinating Unit' means SECOPT's Project
coordinating unit referred to in Section 3.08 of this Agreement;
     (p)  'Railways Plan' means the Borrower's plan of action included
as an annex to the Implementation Letter, designed to implement reforms
within the railways subsector, as such plan may be amended from time to
time in terms acceptable to the Association;
     (q)  'SECOPT' means the Secretariat of Communications, Public
Works and Transport (Secretar!a de Estado en el Despacho de
Comunicaciones, Obras P#blicas y Transporte) of the Borrower;
     (r)  'Special Account' means the account referred to in Section
2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
     (s)  'TSIP' means the Borrower's transport sector investment
program included as an annex to the Implementation Letter, to be
financed in part with the proceeds of this Credit, as such program
may be amended from time to time in terms acceptable to the Association;
and
     (t)  'UGA' means the Environmental Unit (Unidad de Gestion
Ambiental) of SECOPT." .
2.   Section 2.09 is hereby deleted.
3.   Section 3.01  is hereby amended  to read as follows:
     "Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end:
     (a)  shall carry out through SECOPT, Parts A (i), (ii) and (iii)
(as reflected in the action plans referred to therein), B and C of the
Project, all with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate engineering, financial, administrative, technical and
environmental practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for such
Parts of the Project;
     (b)  shall cause ENP to carry out Part A (v) (as reflected in the
action plan referred to therein) of the Project with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate financial, administrative,
Page  3
technical and environmental practices, and in accordance with the ENP
Contractual Arrangement, and shall take or cause to be taken all action,
including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable ENP to carry out Part
A (v) of the Project, and shall not take or permit to be taken any
action which would prevent or interfere with the carrying out of Part
A (v) of the Project by ENP;
     (c)  shall cause FNH to carry out Part A (iv) of the Project with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial, technical and environmental practices, and
in accordance with the FNH Contractual Arrangement and shall take or
cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds,
facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to
enable FNH to carry out Part A (iv) of the Project, and shall not take
or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with
the carrying out of Part A (iv) of the Project by FNH; and
     (d)  the Borrower shall exercise its rights and comply with its
obligations under the ENP and FNH Contractual Arrangements in such
manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Association,
and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and, except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not amend or
terminate the ENP Contractual Arrangement or the FNH Contractual
Arrangement or any provision thereof.".
4.   Section 3.05  is hereby amended to read as follows:
     "Section 3.05. Without limitation to the provisions of Sections
3.01 and 3.04 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall: (a) not later
than October 31 of each year  prepare and furnish to the Association,
a program for maintaining and operating the airports within its
territory, in terms acceptable to the Association; and (b) provide
in its annual budget and make available promptly as needed to DGAC,
in Lempiras equivalent, as funds for the implementation of such
program, the amount indicated in said program for each FY, until an
entity with juridical  personality and financial autonomy has been
established by the Borrower to carry out the operations of the
aviation subsector; and
     (c)  within thirty days after the date in which such budget is
approved each FY, furnish to the Association a copy of such approved
budget.".
5.   Section 3.06 (a) is hereby amended to read as follows:
     "(a) Without limitation to the provisions of Section 3.01 of
this Agreement, the Borrower, through SECOPT, shall carry out the
TSIP in a manner and in terms acceptable to the Association, subject
to the following eligibility criteria for works to be carried out:
all works shall yield an economic rate of return of at least 12% of
the total cost of each work, such rate of return to be calculated in
accordance with a methodology acceptable to the Association, except,
that such rate of return shall not apply to the construction of access
roads under the TSIP which represent, in the aggregate, 10% or less of
the total cost of the construction of all access roads under such
program, provided, however, that such access roads do not: (i) exceed
14 kilometers in length; and (ii) cost more than $650 per capita of
the benefitted population.".
6.   Section 3.07  is hereby deleted and, consequently Sections 3.08,
3.09, 3.10 and 3.11 are renumbered as 3.07, 3.08, 3.09 and 3.10,
respectively.
7.   Section 6.01  is hereby amended to read as follows:
     "Section 6.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  the Borrower has taken any action or adopted any policy
within its transport sector which is not consistent with the objectives
of the Project;
Page  4
     (b)  Decree No. 40 or any provision thereof shall have been
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect
materially and adversely, in the opinion of the Association, the
ability of ENP, to carry out Part A (v) of the Project, as reflected
in the action plan referred to therein;
     (c)  Decree No. 48 or any provision thereof shall have been
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect
materially and adversely, in the opinion of the Association, the
ability of FNH, to carry out Part A (iv) of the Project;
     (d)  any of the parties to the ENP Contractual Arrangement shall
have failed to comply with any of its obligations thereunder;
     (e)  any of the parties to the FNH Contractual Arrangement shall
have failed to comply with any of its obligations thereunder; and
     (f)  the Borrower or any authority having jurisdiction shall
have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of ENP
and/or FNH, or for the suspension of their operations." .
8.   Section 8.01 is hereby amended to read as follows:
     "Section 8.01. The Secretario de Estado en el Despacho de Hacienda
y Credito Publico of the Borrower is designated as representative of
the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Con-
ditions.".
9.   Section 8.02 is hereby amended to read as follows:
     "Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Secretaria de Estado en el
            Despacho de Hacienda y Credito Publico
          Tegucigalpa, M.D.C.
          Honduras
          Cable address:                Telex:
               HACIENDA                 1308
               Tegucigalpa              HACIENDA HO
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                Telex:
               INDEVAS                  248423 (MCI) or
               Washington, D.C.          64145 (MCI)"
10.  The table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 is amended  to read as set
forth in Annex 1 to this Amendment Letter.
11.  The number "1000" referred to in Part B.1(b) of the Project is
replaced with the number "800".
12.  Part B.1 (c) of the Project is hereby amended to read as follows:
     "(c) Construction and rehabilitation of about 1,000 meters of
bridges in the Borrower's primary, secondary and tertiary road network.".
13.  Part B.2 of the Project is hereby amended to read as follows:
     "2.  Rehabilitation of about 2,700 meters of the runway of the
San Pedro Sula Airport, including the rehabilitation and extension of
Page  5
its taxiway and connectors, and the acquisition of equipment therefor.".
14.  Part C of the Project is hereby amended to read as follows:
     "Provision of technical assistance to SECOPT in: (a) carrying out
Part A (i) of the Project (including the training of staff required
therefor) through: (i) the strengthening of SECOPT to prepare plans,
programs and annual budgets, including the design of policies to protect
the environment in connection with the carrying out of its operations;
(ii) the improvement of DGT's capacity to analyze pricing and
regulatory policies in land transport; and (iii) the development of a
suitable data base for DGT concerning land transport; (b) designing
and implementing a bridge management system in order to assist it in
the planning, design, construction, maintenance, rehabilitation and
replacement of bridges in the Borrower's territory, (including the
acquisition of equipment required therefor); and (c) carrying out
Part A (iii) and (v) of the Project.".
15.  The amount of "$24,600,000" referred to in Part C.2 of Schedule 3
is hereby replaced with the amount "$35,000,000.".
16.  The table in Schedule 4  is hereby amended to read as set forth
in Annex 2 to this Amendment Letter.
     This Amendment Letter shall be executed in two counterparts each
of which shall be an original, and shall become effective on the date
in which the Association has received one fully executed original of
such Amendment Letter.
     Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing amendment by
signing and dating the two counterparts of this Amendment Letter.
Upon your confirmation, please return one fully executed original
to us.
Sincerely Yours
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
/s/ Ian Bannon
    Ian Bannon
    Acting Director
    Central America Department
    Latin America and the Caribbean
AGREED AND CONFIRMED:
REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS
By /s/ Luis Carlos Zelaya
       Authorized Representative
Date:  December 31, 1996
ANNEX 1
                           Amount of the
                         Credit Allocated            % of
                           (Expressed in         Expenditures
"Category                SDR Equivalent)        to be Financed
(1) Works                   27,946,000          100% until an
                                                aggregate amount
                                                equivalent to
                                                SDR7,215,000 has
                                                been disbursed
                                                from the Credit
Page  6
                                                Account and 74%
                                                thereafter
(2) Goods                       50,000          100% of foreign
                                                expenditures and
                                                80% of local
                                                expenditures
(3) Consultants'             8,349,000          100%
    Services and
    Training
(4) Periodic                 8,659,000          80% until an
    maintenance under                           aggregate amount
    Part B.1 (d)                                equivalent to SDR
                                                3,490,000 has been
                                                disbursed from the
                                                Credit Account; 60%
                                                until an aggregate
                                                amount equivalent to
                                                SDR6,100,000 has
                                                been disbursed from
                                                the Credit Account;
                                                and 45% thereafter
(5) Unallocated               1,896,000
                             __________
    TOTAL                    46,900,000"
ANNEX 2
                            "SCHEDULE 4
                                          Year
                                  1996    1997   1998
1. Expenditures in Road
   Maintenance (Lempiras mill.)
     - Periodic                 285.00   390.00 330.00
     - Routine                   35.00    60.00 120.00
2. Performance Targets
   (a) Percentage of the network
       maintained
       - Paved
         Routine
         Periodic                60.00   70.00    80.00
                                 80.00  100.00    90.00
       - Gravel
         Routine
         Periodic                70.00   60.00    80.00
                                 60.00   85.00    65.00
       - Unpaved
         Routine
         Periodic                35.00   35.00    40.00
                                 40.00   50.00    50.00
   (b) DGCCA's staff
       (numbers)                 1,000   1,000    1,000
   (c) ENP's staff
       (numbers)                 1,000     900      800
3. FNH's Operational
   Deficit
   (US millions)                  0.25    0.00     0.00".
Page  7
