FILE COPY
DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Not For Public Use
Report No. 144a-BD
BANGLADESH
APPRAISAL OF THE
CEREAL SEEDS PROJECT
June 8, 1973
gional Projects Department
Asia Regional Office
I Ths repot was prepetd for official u# only by the Bank Group. It nay not be publise, quoted
ds dt vfthut Beat Camoup Iaudutkn. The Bank Group does not acept spo sbgity f*r the
accuraof asampolsm.m of .h .  i.,_



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit  : Taka (Tk)
A.   Used in Project Cost Calculations
US$1.00             - Tks 7.9
Tk 1                - US$0.127
Tks 1,000           - US$127
Tks 1,000,000       - US$127,000
B.   As of May 8, 1973
US$1.00             - Tks 7.55
Tk 1                - US$0.132
Tks 1,000           - US$132
Tiks 1,000,000      - US$132,000
Note:  The Taka iS officially valued at 18.9677
to the Pound Sterling. The Pound is now
floating relative to the U.S. dollar and
consequently the Taka-U.S. dollar exchange
rate is subject to change.
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 acre (ac)                   -  0.405 hectare (ha)
1 mile (mi)                   -  1.609 kilometers (Km)
1 square mile (sq mi)         -  640 ac
1 foot (ft)                   -  30.5 centimeters (cm)
1 cubic foot per second (cfs) -  0.028 cubic meters per second
(m3/sec)
1 long ton (lg ton)           -  1.016 metric tons (n tons)
1 pound (lb)                  -  0.454 kilograms (kilos)
(Local Units)
1 maund (nd)        m  0.0367 lg ton
1 md                -  82.2 lb



- 2 -
INITIALS AND ACRONYMS
ARI       -  Agricultural Research Institute
BADC      -  Bangladesh Agricultural Development Corporation
BRRI      -  Bangladesh Rice Research Institute
HYV       -  High Yielding Varieties
IRRI      -  International Rice Research Institute, Philippines
SCA       -  Seed Certification Agency
USAID     -  United States Agency for International Development
GLOSSARY
Division  -  Major Administrative Subdivision - There are four Divisions.
District  -  Administrative subdivision administered by a Deputy
Commissioner; there are 19 districts.
Thana     -  Administrative unit below district.  There are 413
thanas.
Union     -  Unit of local government below thana, made up of several
small villages; there are over 4,000 unions.
RICE SEASONS
Rice is by far the most important crop in Bangladesh and major
agriculture programs are geared to the growing seasons. The rice
growing year is divided into three seasons, somewhat overlapping.
They are:
Aus: Predominately rainfed.  Accounts for 32% of the
national rice acreage and for 25% of production.
Broadcast sown - mid-March - mid-May) (Harvested mid-July
(Havete mid-Julymer
Transplanted - March 1 - mid-April ) to mid-September)
Aman:  Predominately rainfed.  Accounts for 60% of the
national rice acreage and production. The Broadcast
crop is deep water rice which can elongate with
rising water levels.
Broadcast sown - mid-March - end April) (Harvested mid-Novembe
) to mid-January)
Transplanted - July - mid-September )
Boro: Irrigated - Accounts for 8% of the national rice acreage
and for 15% of production.
Transplanted - November - February; (Harvested end March
to June)
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 through June 30






BANGLADESH
CEREAL SEEDS PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS ............ ..        .................  i-iii
I. INTRODUCTION ....................1 
II.   NEED FOR THE PROJECT ..................................    1
A.   Background .......................                           1
B.   Cereal Production ...............................            2
Rice Production ...............        ,    . ..    2
Wheat Production ............................          3
C.   Research ........................                            4
Rice Research ...............................          4
Wheat Research ..............................          5
D.   The Seed Industry ................................           5
III.   THE PROJECT ........ ...................    6
A.   Project Definition ...............................           6
B.   Project Scope and Size ...........................           7
C.   Project Area    ................................             7
D.   Detailed Features ...............................            8
BADC Farm Development ...............                  8
Contract Growers Schemes ...............               9
Processing Plants ..................                   9
Seed Storage and Marketing ........ ..........   10
Seed Quality Control Services ....... ........   10
Development of BRRI .......... ..       .............   10
Training and Technical Assistance ......... ..   11
E.   Implementation Schedule .....         .....................   11
F.   Project Cost and Financing ......... ..        ............   13
Procurement .............. ..       .................   15
Disbursement ...........         .....................   16
Accounts and Audit .......... ..       ..............   16
This report is based on the findings of a mission consisting of
Messrs. G. Stern (IDA), D.K. Jones and U. Kiermayr (FAO/IBRD CP), A.A.C.
Huysmans (FAO) and L. Foster (Consultant) which visited Bangladesh in
November/December 1972. Mr. J.Q. Harrison (Loan Officer) assisted the
mission during appraisal.



-2-
Page No.
IV.   ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT ...........................   17
General .17
The National Seeds Board .17
Rice and Wheat Research .18
Seed Production, Processing and Marketing ...   18
BADC Farms .18
Seed Processing Centers                      153
Contract Growers Schemes ...... .  .......   19
Distribution and Marketing .19
Quality Control .19
Training .1
V. PRICING POLICY .20
A. Prices .20
Seed Procurement Prices .....................  20
Seed Price Paid by End Users .21
Financial Implications for BADC and
Government.                                  21
B.   Contract Growers' Benefits .22
VI. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION .22
VII.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ..                     23
ANNEXES
1.   Rice - Area, Production and Yield
2.   Areas Suitable for Improving Rice Yields with Inputs Only
3.   Rice and Wheat Research
Table 1: Research - Capital Costs
4.   Seed Multiplication, Procurement and Distribution
Table 1: Progress of Some BADC Schemes (1965/66 - 1972/73)
5.   Development of BADC Seed Farms
Table 1: Selected BADC Farms - Present Situation
Table 2A: BADC Farm Development - Phasing of Equipment and
Facilities Total of Ten 100-Acre Certified
and Two Foundation Seed Farms
Table 2B: BADC Farm Development - Phasing of Equipment
and Facilities Total of Nine 500-Acre Certified
Seed Farms
Table 3: Farm Equipment, Building and Facilities
Description and Unit Costs



- 3 -
Table  4:  BADC Farm Development - Summary of Total Capital Costs
Table  5:  Farm Machinery Operating Assumptions and Costs
Table  6:  BADC Farms - Direct Cost of Production Per Acre
Table  7:  BADC Farms - Indirect Cost of Production
Table  8A: BADC Farms - Recurrent Costs and Cropping Patterns
Table  8B: BADC Farms - Production and Income
Table  9:  BADC Farms - Machinery and Equipment Replacement Costs
Table 10:  BADC Farms - Cash Flow
6.   Contract Grower Scheme
Table  1:  Incentive to Seed Growers
7.   Seed Processing
Table  1:  Processing Plant Components
Table  2:  Seed Processing - General Specifications of Equipment
Table  3:  Seed Processing Equipment - Unit Costs
Table  4:  Seed Processing - Phasing of Plants, Buildings and
Equipment
Table  5A: Seed Processing - Total Capital Costs
Table  5B: Seed Processing - Equipment Replacement Costs
Table  6:  Seed Processing - Recurrent Costs
Table  7:  Seed Processing - Recurrent Costs
Table  8:  Average Monthly Temperature in °C and Relative
Humidity in Percentage
Table  9:  Average Monthly Rainfall in Inches
Chart #WB7498 Flowsheet of Seed Drying, Storage and Processing
Plant
Chart #WB7499  Flow of Foundation Seed Through Drying, Storage
& Processing Plant
Chart #WB7500 Phasing of Processing Plant
8.   Distribution and Marketing
9.   Seed Quality Control
Table  1:  Estimated Number of Seeds Samples
Table  2:  Estimated Areas to be Inspected
Table  3:  Employment of Seeds Analysts
Table  4:  Seeds Certification Agency - Capital Costs
Table  5:  Seeds Certification Agency - National Seed Testing
Station - Recurrent Costs
Table  6:  Seeds Certification Agency - Field Inspection
Service - Recurrent Costs
Chart #iWB7497 Organizational Chart - Seed Certification Agency
10.   Training and Technical Assistance
Table  1:  Construction and Development Costs - Madhupur
Training Institute
Table  2:  Staff Costs - Madhupur Training Institute
Table  3:  Local Training Schedule and Costs



Table 4: Proposed Fellowships and Studies Abroad
Table 5: Technical Assistance - Capital Costs
Table 6: Summary of Total Costs - Training and Technical
Assistance
11.   Summary of Project Costs
12.   Schedule of Disbursements
13.   Chart #tWB7501 Project Organizational Chart
14.   Financial Implications
Table 1: BADC Income from Sales of Seed and Non-Seed Crops
Table 2: Financial Implications of Project to BADC and
Government
15.   Rate of Return to the Economy
Table  1:  Summary of Project Capital Costs
Table  2:  Total Replacement Costs
Table  3:  Total Recurrent Costs
Table  4A: Estimated Cost and Benefit Streams
Table  4B: Estimated Cost and Benefit Streams
At Shadow Rate Tks 11.85 - US$1.00
MAP NO. IBRD 10293



BANGLADESH
CEREAL SEEDS PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report appraises a project to establish the first phase of
a modern rice and wheat seeds industry in Bangladesh for which an IDA Credit
of US$7.5 million is proposed. The project was prepared with the assistance
of the FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program in 1970. Appraisal which followed in
1971 was interrupted by disturbances. In 1972, following the emergence of
Bangladesh, the project was reformulated by the Bangladesh Agricultural
Development Corporation (BADC) and appraised by IDA.
ii.       Agriculture dominates the Bangladesh economy.  Rice, the most
important crop, is grown on about 80% of cultivated acreage. Nevertheless,
production has been unable to keep pace with rising demand of the growing
population and foodgrains must be imported even in years unaffected by
drought, flood or disaster. For example, foodgrain imports amounted to
1.5 million tons in 1969/70 and in 1972, rose to 2.5 million tons.
iii.      The Government has given high priority to development of the
rural sector to reduce dependency on foodgrain imports as rapidly as possible
and to increase employment opportunities. The agriculture development strat-
egy adopted by the Government takes account of the high returns which can
be obtained from spreading new technology in terms of quality seed, fertili-
zer, pesticides, etc., combined with development of a large number of labor-
intensive, small-scale irrigation and drainage projects.
iv.       The most crucial input is seed of high yielding varieties.  The
present seed multiplication and distribution system for rice and wheat
is inadequate; output is insufficient, the quality is poor and steps need
to be taken to ensure continuous development of varieties better suited to
the varied ecological and hydrologic conditions of the country. The proposed
project would help meet these needs and thus supply a vital component of the
Government's overall sector strategy. It would provide the physical and
institutional means of ensuring a reliable source of certified rice and wheat
seeds, adapted to local needs, produced, multiplied and marketed under
controlled conditions. It would also complement reactivated IDA credits
to Bangladesh for the agricultural sector, particularly the Chandpur II
Irrigation Project and the Northwest Region Tubewells Project (Credit
Nos. 340-BD and 341-BD) and anticipated future lending to the sector.
v.        The project, which would produce 12,000 tons of certified seed
annually, would include:
(a)  on-farm development for about 5,000 acres on 17 farms
owned by the Bangladesh Agricultural Development
Corporation (BADC);
(b)  establishment of private seed growers scheme involving
about 5,000 acres of land in five districts;



- ii -
(c) installation and operation of seed processing equipment
at six locations;
(d) improvement of seed storage and marketing;
(e) establishment of a seed certification agency, supported
by enactment of suitable legislation;
(f) development of four Bangladesh Rice Research Institute
(BRRI) substations and construction of staff housing; and
(g) training programs and technical assistance.
vi.       While project costs were estimated before the recent U.S. dollar
devaluation, changes in the dollar value of local costs are expected to be
small. 1/ On the other hand, foreign exchange costs are expected to
increase by 5% (a weighted average based on a review of possible supply
sources for the project). On this basis, total estimated project costs
would be US$10.4 million with a foreign exchange component of U$6 million
(59%). The proposed IDA Credit of US$7.5 million to be disbursed over a
five-year period, would cover all foreign exchange costs and about 33% of
local costs. To advance the production of certified seed by one year, the
Bank has encouraged the Bangladesh authorities to take early action to appoint
consultants, to procure some processing equipment (in accordance with Bank
Group Guidelines), aid to send key staff members for overseas training.
Retroactive financing, up to a maximum of US$50,000, would be provided to
meet payments made for these items before the credit is signed.
vii.      Equipment, materials and physical works amount to US$8.7 million
with US$1.7 million needed for training and technical assistance. Contracts
amounting to about US$1.3 million for supply of processing plant, US$2.7
million for farm machinery, vehicles and other equipment and US$3.9 million
for buildings and construction of processing plant would be awarded after
international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank Group's guidelines
for procurement. The balance of US$0.8 million would consist of small civil
works, mostly road improvement, construction of small drains and irrigation
channels and some land levelling, spread over 24 project sites which would
not be suitable for international bidding. These works would be carried out
by resident farm labor in off-peak seasons, supplemented by hired casual
labor and some local labor contracting.
viii.     The Ministry of Agriculture would have overall responsibility
for the project. Plant breeding and research would be undertaken by
BRRI for rice and Agricultural Research Institute for wheat. Seed pro-
duction, processing and sales would be carried out by BADC. A Seed
11   Changes in the value of the taka relative to the dollar have taken
place since the cost estimates for this report were prepared. These
changes are reflected in the cost estimates contained in the
President's Report.



- iii -
Certification Agency, responsible for seed quality control, and a National
Seeds Board, responsible for overall coordination, would be established
under the Ministry of Agriculture.
ix.       Although quality seed represents only a small fraction of on-farm
production expenditures, it is an essential input for improved cereal
cultivation in Bangladesh. Without a regular and timely source of quality
seed, other inputs would be used less effectively and investments in water
control facilities and other rural infrastructure would yield a less satis-
factory rate of return. While the contribution of the project to the economy
is difficult to quantify, there is little doubt that the project represents
a highly attractive investment opportunity with considerable catalytic effects
throughout the economy. The principal quantifiable project benefits would
be increased grain production due to the accelerated spread of new varieties
and the higher yields which would be obtained from project seed due to its
better quality. Assuming that the project would accelerate the spread of
seed by one year (without the project, new varieties may take several years
to reach farmers) the project would increase paddy and wheat production by
an average 400,000 tons per year, over 15 years. This would represent a
US$25 million a year foreign exchange saving. Using market values for
foreign exchange and labor and projected 1980 prices for foodgrains, the
project yields a 70% rate of return. When shadow rates are applied to labor
and foreign exchange, the rate rises to over 100%. Sensitivity tests
indicate that even if benefits were 25% less than anticipated the rate of
return would still be above 50%. Since the project seeds would be widely
used by large and small farmers alike, the high project benefits are also
likely to be distributed across all income groups.
x.        The appropriate assurances having been obtained the Project is
suitable for an IDA Credit of US$7.5 million to the Government of Bangladesh.






BANGLADESH
CEREAL SEEDS PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Bangladesh has requested an IDA credit to help
finance the establishment of a modern seeds industry. The project forms a
key component of the Government strategy to accelerate the spread of modern
agricultural technology throughout the country.
1.02      In August 1972, Bangladesh became a member of the International
Monetary Fund, the Bank and the Association and requested reactivation of
all uncompleted projects wholly located in Bangladesh which previously had
been financed by credits to Pakistan. The five uncompleted projects in
the agricultural sector, comprising two irrigation and flood control projects
(Credits 340-BD and 341-BD) the Coastal Area Rehabilitation and Cyclone
Protection Project (Credit 339-BD) the Irrigation Engineering project
(Credit S-14BD) and the Foodgrain Storage Project (Credit 381-BD) have been
approved by the Board. IDA financing for these projects totals US$74.9
million, of which US$21.2 million is for the notional repayment of amounts
previously disbursed under the corresponding credits to Pakistan. In
addition, the recent US$50 million IDA Credit 345-BD, a program loan for
import of key foreign exchange items, includes substantial provision for
agricultural commodities. The proposed project would complement these and
future projects by assuring a reliable and adequate supply of high yielding
variety seeds.
1.03      The project was prepared by a Government team assisted by an
FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program mission led by G. de Brichambaut in late
1970. Project appraisal in February/March 1971 by a mission led by Mr. R.
Harma was interrupted by the outbreak of hostilities and the project had
to be reformulated to take account of the new situation in Bangladesh. This
report is based on the findings of a mission consisting of Messrs. G. Stern
(IDA), D.K. Jones and U. Kiermayr (FAO/IBRD CP), A.A.C. Huysmans (FAO) and
L. Foster (Consultant) which visited Bangladesh in November/December 1972.
Mr. J.Q. Harrison (Loan Officer) assisted the mission during appraisal.
II. NEED FOR THE PROJECT
A. Background
2.01      Agriculture dominates the Bangladesh economy, contributing some
55% of GDP. About 80% of the working population derive their livelihood
from agriculture and agricultural products (mainly, jute and tea) account
for 90% of exports. While soil fertility is generally high and temperatures
allow year round cropping, agricultural development presents complex problems.
The country's physical geography is dominated by the delta of one of the
greatest river systems in the world, which together with a typical monsoon



- 2 -
climate (75% of total precipitation falls in three to four months) causes
widespread flooding during part of the year and drought the rest of the year.
In addition, cyclone disasters are frequent. Land is scarce (75 million
people share 22.5 million acres agricultural land), and the population is
beset by poverty (GDP US$50-70 per annum), unemployment (about 25-30%) and
illiteracy (a.bout 80%).
2.02      Although rice comprises about 80% of total cropped acreage (33
million acres), Bangladesh needs to import grain. During the 1960's rice
production, which grew at an average 2% per annum could not keep pace with
demand which increased at an estimated 3% per annum. Over 1.5 million tons
cereal (nearly 15% of total availability) had to be imported in the "normal"
year 1969/70. The 1970 cyclone, the 1971 war and the drought of 1972
exacerbated the situation and 2.5 million tons grain had to be imported
during 1972. Despite these imports, food prices have spiralled. Rice, for
example, which cost about Tks 37 equivalent a maund in 1970, now costs over
Tks 80.
2.03      The most urgent economic priority is therefore agricultural and
rural development to raise foodgrain production through a series of quick-
yielding labor-intensive projects. A strategy for this, outlined in the
Bangladesh Land and Water Resources Sector Study 1/ and adopted in principle
by Government, places emphasis on the following key inputs: (a) high-yield-
ing seeds production and distribution; (b) input packages comprising seeds,
fertilizer, plant --otection and improved draft animal power; (c) low-lift
pump irrigation and small drainage improvements; (d) minor to medium-size
drainage works; and (e) tubewell irrigation and double pumping.
2.04      Economic analysis carried out for the Sector Study 1/ shows high
returns obtainable from the use of seed of high-yielding varieties (HYV)
and from input packages combined with seed. Accordingly, the first aim of
the proposed strategy is the rapid spread of new seeds, to be followed by
an input package including fertilizer and pesticides. A prerequisite for
such a program is a seeds production service able to multiply and distribute
new seed varieties rapidly and efficiently and an active research service
able to develop and issue a stream of HYV. Considering the present inadequate
seed production and distribution system (para 2.13-2.16) and the need to
strengthen present research (para 2.09-2.12) the proposed project would
finance services urgently needed to provide the most vital input in the
overall Government program, the timely supply of seed of high-yielding
varieties.
B. Cereal Production
Rice Production
2.05      Rice production figures are given in Annex 1.  The Government's
accelerated rice production program begun in the sixties has had only a
~-J Report No. PS-13, Land and Water Resources Sector Study -- Bangladesh,
Volume I, Detailed Sector Review.



-3-
modest impact on grain production. Interrupted by hostilitites in 1971,
the program was initially hampered by the limited IIYV range available. The
first HYV introduced (IR-8) (with more than double the yield of traditional
varieties) resulted in tripling of production of the boro 1/ crop, but since
boro requires irrigation, rapid expansion of acreage is difficult. In 1970,
boro accounted for only 15% of total production, and increased production
had little effect on overall shortages. IR-20, imported from the Philippines,
and introduced in 1970 after adaptive research by the local Rice Research
Institute, is suitable for aman 1/ cultivation (60% of total annual production)
in areas free from drainage problems. IR-20 shows increased yields of more
than 50% even under rainfed conditions when supported by fertilizers and
pesticides. Despite disaster periods, it has spread to about 1.7 million
acres. However, it is suitable for only part of the 9.5 million acres
available for transplanted aman.
2.06      While HYV are making some impact on production in the boro and aman
seasons, the disturbances during 1971 and unsatisfactory seed multiplication
and distribution have prevented similar development for the aus 1/ crop.
AAlthough BRRI released two varieties (Chandina and Mala) suitable for boro
and partly suitable for aus cultivation more than two years ago, the amount
of HYV grown on the 8 million acres during the aus season is insignificant
to date.
2.07      At present, only an estimated 3 million acres are under HYV rice.
According to the UNDP/FAO assisted soil survey described in the Sector
Study 2/ the area suited for HYV may be 17.5 million acres or more (Annex 2).
An overall yield increase of 66% on this acreage would mean 6 million tons
more rice, using HYV seed and complementary inputs only. Existing HYV
(IR-8, IR-20, Chandina and Mala) would be suitable to cover part of the
potential HYV area but more varieties will be needed to suit the complex
ecological and hydrologic conditions of the country. However, even at this
stage, the lack of a satisfactory seeds service is a constraint which will
become increasingly serious as newer local IYV are released.
Wheat Production
2.08      Wheat production, though only about one half percent of total grain
production, doubled in the 1965-70 period. Wheat is traditionally grown on
residual moisture during the dry season and yields have been low partly
because of poor seed quality. Without grain drying equipment and suitable
storage, it is difficult to maintain wheat seed viability in the hot humid
conditions found in Bangladesh. In the late 1960's, the introduction of
Mexican HYV opened up the possibilities for wheat production particularly on
lighter soils. Because foodgrain imports consist largely of wheat, there is
evidence that a permanent demand of about one million tons per year has been
1/   The three annual paddy crops of Bangladesh are explained in the
Glossary.
2/   Ibid Volume IV, Crops, Livestock and Fisheries, Technical Report
No. 7, Rice.



-4-
established particularly in urban areas. Wheat production, while not ideally
suited to the warm climate, is nevertheless expected to increase as it has
in Eastern India and present acreage is expected to double to cover 600,000
acres over a fifteen year period. The project by providing good quality
seed, would be a basic prerequisite to such expansion.
C. Research (Annex 3)
Rice Research
2.09      Rice research in Bangladesh dates back to the early part of the
century, but due to limited facilities made little progress until 1964,
when a cooperative program with the International Rice Research Institute
(IRRI) was initiated. This led to the establishment of the semi-autonomous
Bangladesh Rice Research Institute (BRRI). By 1971 with considerable
Government support, augmented by technical assistance from IRRI and financial
assistance from Ford Foundation and USAID, the Institute had largely completed
construction of an office-laboratory complex and partly completed land
development at their main station. It had assembled and trained 26 scientists
and 72 supporting staff and seven out of the ten departments planned for the
Institute were operating. At the same time BRRI had built up both a
comprehensive screening program for material supplied by IRRI and a large
breeding program us_ng introduced and local materials.  As a result the
HYV varieties listed in paras 2.05-2.06 have been released and an impressive
pipeline of new varieties has been developed (see Annex 3).
2.10      Because of the war and administrative problems which developed
in its aftermath, research output slowed down and the development of the
Institute came to a standstill. However, the group of outstanding Bangalee
research workers remained there and deserve credit for maintaining even a
modest research program in difficult circumstances. The admitnistrative
problems have recently been resolved and Ford Foundation and IRRI continue
to provide financial and technical assistance so that BRRI will be able to
resume its interrupted development program and carry out an effective and
expanding research program.
2.11      There remain, however, certain gaps in the funding of the BRRI
development program. There is no finance as yet for the development of the
four sub-stations or the construction of Headquarters staff housing. The
sub-stations would play a vital part in adapting varieties for the complex
ecological and hydrological conditions of Bangladesh, including breeding for
cold resistant and salinity resistant varieties. The lack of housing at
the main research station at present forces staff to commute daily from
Dacca. This detracts from the research effort and is a matter of serious
concern and discontent with BRRI staff. The proposed project would help meet
the needs for sub-station and staff housing development (para 3.18). With
this project assistance, BRRI should be able to produce the necessary stream



- 5 -
of new varieties for the accelerated rice production program and provide
adequate supply of breeders seed 1/ for the project.
Wheat Research
2.12      Wheat research is the responsibility of the Agricultural Research
Institute (ARI). The program is small and should be expanded but the insti-
tutional base for improving existing arrangements is inadequate. Nevertheless,
existing services will be able to provide adequate breeders seed to the
project. A range of HYV, mostly MIexican dwarf varieties, has been screened,
a small breeding program has been established and several HYV, suitable for
local conditions, have been issued. ARI has access to the world collection
of wheat varieties and would continue to screen imported varieties. If,
despite this program, there were a serious breakdown of existing varieties
to pests or disease, ARI would draw on the well developed Indian wheat
research services which cater to the adjoining (and ecologically similar)
W4est Bengal wheat areas.
D. The Seed Industry (Annex 4)
2.13      The semi-autonomous Bangladesh Agricultural Development Corporation
(BADC) under the Ministry of Agriculture is responsible for the distribution
of agricultural inputs including seeds and fertilizers, for the installation
and operation of small irrigation works and for specialized agricultural and
horticultural development schemes. The Corporation is responsible for seed
imports, production and distribution in Bangladesh, but its total seed
-business claims only between 1.5% and 3% of the Corporation's annual
operating budget. Seed is produced locally on 21 BADC farms (total cultivated
area 5,400 acres) and by private growers under the Registered Growers Scheme
organized by BADC, comprising 80 units each of 40 farmers. The existing
system, from initial multiplication of breeders seed to distribution and
marketing of certified seed, is unsatisfactory.  Seed quantity is inadequate
(in 1969-70 BADC procured only 4,400 tons seed: 1,200 tons from their
own farms, 1,000 tons from registered growers and 2,200 tons from imports),
and quality poor (mixed varieties and low germinating capacity).
2.14      Production from BADC farms is low because of:  (a) incomplete
farm development including land levelling, irrigation facilities and water
distribution systems; (b) unsuitable and old farm machinery, much of it in
poor condition; and (c) unsatisfactory farm management.
1/   For the purpose of this report the three types of seed the project
would be concerned with have been classified as follows:
Breeders Seed - Produced by the plant breeders.
Foundation Seed- First generation multiplication of
breeders seed for issue to seed growers.
Certified Seed - Multiplied by seed growers for sale for
foodgrain production.



- 6 -
2.15      The Registered Growers Scheme has failed for the following reasons:
(a) difficulty of supervising 40 widely scattered schemes: (b) lack of trainer
supervisory staff; (c) lack of an assured outlet for seed growers; and (d)
the small seed premium paid to growers (Tks 3 per maund above consumptior
grain price).
2.16      The lack of foundation seed production facilities and the absernce
of processing equipment, quality control and seeds legislation have resulted
in poor seed quality to date. Consequently, farmers do not yet trust BADC
seed. Even more serious is the failure of the seeds industry to bulk seeds
of new HYV. The first HYV to be used, IR-8 and IR-20, couldr be imported,
but the new varieties--Mala, Chandlna and varieties about to be released-n.re
available only in Bangladesh, and the high priority of the proposed project.
is based on the need to assure the rapid spread of new HfYV throughout the
country.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Project Definition
3.01      The project would be the initial phase in establishing a modern
seeds industry in Bangladesh. Its objective would be the production of
12,000 tons certified seed per annum (10,000 tons paddy seed and 2,000
tons wheat seed) and to build up the necessary institutions to allow future
expansion of seed production. The project would also provide for further
development of BRRI. Of the total seed production, 5,400 tons (45!) would,
come from 15 BADC seed farms and 6,600 tons (55%) from a contract growers
scheme. In addition, two BADC farms would produce foundation seed.
3.02      The project would aim to correct the deficiencies of the existhig
seeds operation, treble the size of the operation, and fill gaps in the
rice research program. The project would include:
(a)  development of two BADC farms for foundation seed
production and 15 for certified seed production
(para 3.11-3.13);
(b)  development of five contract growers schemes (para 3.14);
(c)  construction of six seed processing plants (para 3.15);
(d)  seed storage and marketing services (para 3.16);
(e)  seed quality control services (para 3.17);
(f)  development of BRRI (para 3.18); and
(g)  training programs and technical assistance (paras
3.19-3.21).



-7-
B. Project Scope and Size
3.03      The project has been limited to rice and wheat for several reasons.
Rice is overwhelmingly the most important crop in the country and wheat seed
production is similar to rice seed production. Quality seed production
would be a new and complex activity and inclusion of other seeds at the
beginning may jeopardize the project. Lastly, there are as yet no HYV for
other crops. However, in anticipation of future demand for other seeds the
project would provide a study to examine both scope and size of future seed
development (para 3.21).
3.04      It is difficult to measure the potential seed demand accurately
at the present time. BADC seed sales have averaged 3,000-4,000 tons rice
and wheat seed per annum out of a total estimated national seed use of
600,000 tons paddy seed and 10,000 tons wheat seed. Demand for BADC seed
has been low in the past, particularly for seed to replenish stocks of
traditional varieties. However, stocks of good quality seed have not been
available to date and it is therefore difficult to judge the demand for such
seed. The project production of 12,000 tons is considered reasonable and
would be considered as a first phase in the development of a Bangladesh seeds
industry. The potential demand should be re-examined at a later date.
Factors which were considered in determining project size include the
prospect for the release of new HYV which would need rapid bulking and
distribution, the amount of seed necessary to allow the rapid spread of new
varieties, the relative demand for seed in various seasons, the need for a
scheme large enough to carry considerable overheads but not so large as to
generate unsalable surpluses; and the need to spread the seed production
workload seasonally to ensure optimal use of staff and facilities.
C. Project Area
3.05      Project sites situated in the four Divisions of Bangladesh (map)
include BRRI research stations (Annex 3), BADC seed farms, contract growers'
areas, seed processing centers, and a seed testing laboratory. Breeders seed
developed at BRRI main station or its four substations would undergo first
stage multiplication at two BADC foundation seed farms (Annex 5). This
foundation seed would then be multiplied again on 15 other BADC farms and
by private farmers in five contract growers' schemes (Annex 6) which would
deliver seed to the six processing centers to be built under the project
(Annex 9). The seed would be cleaned, dried, dressed, packaged and stored
in the processing centers until shortly before the sowing season. The Seeds
Certification Service (Annex 9) to be developed under the project would carry
out field testing of seed and, before distribution and sale, samples of
processed seed would be tested in its laboratory to ensure that only seed which
reaches standards of purity, health and germinating capacity prescribed by
Government would be certified for sale.
3.06      The project would involve production units widely scattered over
the country because: (a) it would be difficult to acquire enough land or



- 8 -
engage enough farmers competent and willing to grow seed, if the project
were confined to one or two locations; (b) different ecological conditions
are required to produce rice and wheat seed respectively; (c) seed marketing
and distribution is easier with production units in the main production
areas; and (d) a spread of seed production units provides a safeguard
against a disaster in one or two areas.
.3.07      Seed production areas were selected so that there would be a seed
production center to serve each important agricultural region. In addition,
criteria for selecting contract growers'areas included suitability for
rice or wheat production, freedom from flooding during the aman crop,
availability of adequate irrigation facilities, high farming standards
and the number of cooperative societies in the area (because contract
growers would need to form cooperative groups, para 4.08). BADC farms
were selected on grounds of land capability (including irrigation potential)
and because of proximity to proposed processing centers (see Annex 5).
3.08      The choice of processing centers was influenced by the fact
that BADC had already constructed 1,000 ton seed stores, close to five of
the proposed seed production areas and the stores can be adapted to fonn
part of proposed processing plants. The sixth processing plant, at
Itakhola, would be constructed on a BADC seed farm. All processing centers
are on main roads and either on or close to a railway line.
3.09      The rice vesearch stations are in operation ard include the
main station at Joydebpur and four substations (see map). The substations
have been chosen on ecological grounds and would allow work on deep water
rice, cold resistant and saline resistant varieties.
3.10      All farms are close to roads or rail connections but farri access
roads need improving.  The Kalinganj-Jibannagar-Chuadanga road which pro-
vides access to Dattanagar farm (2,800 acres) is in poor condition and
the farm is cut off during part of the rainy weather   The road is imnder
reconstruction and is expected to be completed during the 1978/79 construction
season. During negotiations, assurances were obtained that the timetable for
completing the road will be adhered to.
D. Detailed Features
3ADC Farm Development (Annex 5)
3.11      Development of 17 BADC farms under the project would ensure seed
croduction versatility.  It would allow increased wheat production if neces-
sary and the production of varieties out of season. In addition, it would
prepare the farms and train farm staff for a later phase, when the production
of other seeds, which, for technical reasons could only be grown on large
farms, would be required. The project would complete development of the
BADC farms included in the project. This would include the installation
of tubewells and low-lift pumps, improvement of access and farm roads,
Ormpletion of drainage and water distribution systems, construction of
- srme housing and farm buildings, replacement of existing farm machincry
;whth standardized farm machinery and provision of workshops.



-9-
3.12      Farm planning would be carried out (a) on the basis of one-inch
to 100 ft. scale contour maps with one foot contour intervals, completed
for some farms and to be completed for the remainder either by BADC or by
Bangladesh Survey Department; and (b) with the help of semi-detailed soil
surveys to be conducted by the Bangladesh Soil Survey Directorate. As-
surances were obtained at negotiations that topographic and soil surveys
will be completed by the end of June 1974.
3.13      The project would also improve telecommunications for project
sites, either, (where service can be made available at reasonable cost),
by installing normal public telephone service or, alternatively, by providing
single sideband short wave transceivers to link the sites with BADC head-
quarters. The help of the Telegraph and Telephone Department would be
needed to advise on the most appropriate means of communications at each
site, to allocate a suitable frequency for short wave transmitters, to
advise on purchase and installation of transceivers and to provide or
advise on maintenance for the transceivers. Assurances were obtained
at negotiations that the Telegraph and Telephone Department will provide
advice and assistance as necessary in connection with the installation of
the telephone or transceiver system, so that installation can be com-
pleted within eighteeen months of the signing of credit documents, and
that they will, in addition, provide facilities as required to enable
BADC to operate and maintain the system.
Contract Growers Schemes (Annex 6)
3.14      BADC, due to its limited farm acreage, has already initiated
private growers seed schemes. However, these "Registered Growers Schemes"
are unsatisfactory because they are too scattered for effective supervision
and seed certification, and they would have no access to processing centers.
They would be replaced by five contract growers' schemes. To ensure uni-
formly high quality of future BADC seed, the Registered Growers Scheme
should be phased out and assurances were obtained from the Government
during negotiations that Registered Growers Schemes will be phased out
completely by the end of 1975. The five proposed contract growers' schemes
would be developed to produce 5,800 tons rice seed and 800 tons wheat seed.
The project would provide an advisory service of five field officers and
27 assistant field officers (one per 100 ac seed per season) and would
finance advisory staff, housing and transport.
Processing Plants (Annex 7)
3.15      Six processing plants would be constructed with the following
capacities--one of 3,500 tons, one of 2,500 tons, one of 2,000 tons, two
of 1,500 tons and one of 1,000 tons. Five of these centers would in-
corporate existing 1,000 ton seed stores. At the sixth site (1,000 ton
capacity) an entirely new processing plant would be constructed. To allow
processing to start in the second year, sack drying facilities would be
provided for the 1,000 ton stores and the stores would be provided with
seed cleaning equipment. Depending on procurement speed this equipment
should be operative 12-18 months after the project starts. Both drying



r
- 10 -
and cleaning facilities would be replaced by more permanent and efficient
equipment and the facilities in the 1,000 ton stores would provide
standby capacity in case of breakdowns or during unusually wet weather
conditions. At each plant, equipment would be provided to pre-clean,
weigh, dry, fine clean, store, treat and bag seed. Paddy seed storage
would be in bags so that the identity of each seed lot is maintained and
can be traced to its origin. Wheat is more difficult to store in warm
humid conditions and would therefore be stored in bins. Two 100 ton
capacity processing plants would be installed at the foundation seed farms
adapted to deal with small lots of seed. These plants would have some
airconditioned storage for breeders seed.
Seed Storage and Marketing (Annex 8)
3.16      Seed would be moved from processing plants to thana stores shortly
before sowing time.  To ensure good storage conditions one fertilizer store
in each thana, as agreed by BADC officials, would be partitioned off to
provide one bay for seed storage, and assurances were obtained during
negotiations that space in one fertilizer store in each thana will be made
availaDle for seed storage, as and when required, to allow construction of
partitions to be completed within three years of the signing of the credit
agreement. This would allow seed sales to be integrated into the much larger
fertilizer sales operation (para 4.09) without extra staff. Similarly seed
sales would be channeled through the fertilizer dealer network of village
shops and cooperatives. Apart from stores modifications, the project woui(d
finance sales promotion materials and the cost of inputs for a field
demonstration program.
Seed Quality Control Services (Annex 9)
3.17      A Seeds Certification Agency (SCA) would be established comp-
rising headquarters, laboratories, and land for test plots at Joydebpur
(near BRRI) and a field inspection staff of four divisional officers
and 30 field inspectors (1 per 100 acres seed crop). The project would
finance the construction and equipment of the laboratory, offices, staff
housing and transport. SCA would be responsible for certifying breeders
seed, foundation seed and certified seed by a process of field inspection,
laboratorv testing and growing samples on test plots.
Development of BRRI (Annex 3)
3.18      The project would provide for the following component in the BRPJl
development program:
(a)  development of the four BRRI substations by constructing
staff housing, offices and laboratories, tubewells
and water distribution systems, and by providing farm
and laboratory equipment, and
(b) construction of staff housing at BRRI headquarters
Joydebpur.



- 11 -
Training and Technical Assistance (Annex 10)
3.19      Lack of trained personnel has been one of the main causes in the
past for poor results from seed production schemes. Therefore a comprehensive
training and technical assistance program is required for the successful
implementation of the project. Training of local personnel would take place
largely at the BADC Staff Training Institute (MIadhupur), where extra class-
rooms, staff housing and demonstration facilities would be provided under
the project and for which six instructors would be recruited locally and
given training courses abroad (paras 4.13 and 4.14). The Institute would
provide a range of training covering seed production, storage and marketing
both for project staff and for Ministry of Agriculture extension officers,
who would be concerned with demonstrations of new seeds. Training of
quality control personnel would take place at SCA headquarters at Joydebpur,
and training of processing personnel, largely "in-service", would be cprried
out by equipment suppliers. In addition to local training, there is a
provision of about 71 man-months for short study programs abroad for 23 kc
project personnel.
3.20      The technical assistance program would provide about 123 man-
months of specialist services to help in seeds project implementation.  The
duties of the specialists would include training, preparation of tender
documents, bid evaluation, supervision of construction and installation oL
processing plants, assistance with BADC farm development (including farm
management), and establishment of the quality control services. The specialists
would be best provided by a firm of consultants because individual specialists
would be difficult to recruit, to replace if necessary and to weld into a
team. In addition, about 36 man-months of specialist services would be
provided to assist BRRI draw up site and architectural plans for the building
program and to help with planning and supervision of substation development.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that consultants acceptable to the
Association and on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association will
be employed. It would be a condition of effectiveness of the credit that
one specialist each for seed processing, farm machinery and for seed testing
and certification had been employed.
3.21      Finally, a further 20-25 man-months technical assistance has been
included together with supporting funds for a feasibility study during the
third year of the project, to determine future size and scope of the Bangladesih
seed industry and to provide information needed for the formulation of future
seed price policy (para 5.03). If warranted, the study would prepare a
project for expanding and diversifying seed production.
E. Implementation Schedule
3.22      Project implementation would spread over four years.  Constr'ie-
tion of processing plants (see Annex 7), the greater part of the building
program and farm development would be phased over the four years. Farm
machines and equipment procurement, construction and equipping of seed
quality control laboratories and construction of classrooms and staff housing
at the BADC Staff Training Institute would be completed in the first two years.



- 12 -
3.23      Early action would ensure that the implementation schedule is
met and that improved seed production can start in the second project year.
It is recommended and the Bangladesh authorities have agreed to take action
as soon as possible to:
(a) Arrange training abroad of key Seed Certification staff,
key processing staff and instructors for local training
courses (Annex 10).
(b) Select consultants (Annex 10).
(c) Procure equipment for existing 1,000-ton stores (Annex 7).
(d) Establish the National Seeds Board (para 4.02).
(e) Provide land for processing plants and the seed
testing laboratory (para 3.25).
Government authorities are keen to introduce certified seed production as
soon as possible and, if they succeed in procuring equipment for 1000-ton
^ s and in training key staff early, project benefits would be enhanced.
W4hile failure to achieve these accelerated objectives would not be critical,
the timing of provision of land, of the appointment of consultants, and of
the establishment of the Seeds Board are essential for timely project
implementation. With regard to the three latter actions, Government has
agreed to a schedule to ensure timely provision of land (see para 3.25) and
the other two actions would be conditions of effectiveness (see paras 7.02(a)
and 7.02(c)).
3.24      Other action which project ager.cies need to take early during
the first project vear to ensure timely project implementation is to:
(a)  develop and equip foundation seed farms;
(b)  complet, the projected program of staff training abroad;
(c)  complete construction anid installation of facilities of
the Staff Training Center aad start the training program
on an adequate scale;
(d) establish a nucleus seed certification service; and
(e) complete construction of the 1,000 ton store at
4ymensingh in time for the installation of seed drying
and cleaning equipment.
3.25      At two of the proposed sites for processing plants, there is
sufficient BADC land available. At Chittagong, the proposed site is on
a small former BADC poultry farm which, if reactivated, might require extra
land. A narrow strip of privately owned land separates the BADC store
(which would be part of the processing plant) from the seed farm at Noornagar.



- 13 -
The other two sites at Mymensingh and DinaJpur are on township land. About
12 acres of land would be required immediately for the Seed Certification
Services on or near Agricultural Research Institute land at Joydepbur,
but in choosing the land, allowance should be made for expansion to 40 acres.
Assurance were obtained at negotiations that land for processing plants
will be reserved or purchased as follows: one acre of land adjacent to and
contiguous with the existing 1,000 ton BADC seed stores at both Noornagar
before May 31, 1974 and Dinajpur Township before May 31, 1975; one half acre
of land adjacent to and contiguous with the existing 1,000 ton BADC seed
stores in both Mymensigh Township before May 31, 1974, and at Chittagong,
and the Tebnia Seed Farm before November 30, 1974; and one half acre of
land on the Ithakola BADC Seed Farm before May 31, 1975; and that for the
National Seeds Laboratory not less than ten acres land will be reserved or
purchased either on ARI land or on land contiguous to it at Joydebpur, before
March 31, 1974.
F. Project Cost and Financing
3.26      To the extent possible the likely effect of the recent currency
realignments has been taken into account in project costing. The value of
the taka was taken at US$1.00 to Tk 7.9. The taka is officially valued at
18.9677 to the Pound sterling. The pound is now floating relative to the
dollar and, consequently, the Taka-US dollar exchange rate is subject to
change. A review of likely supply sources for the project indicates that
the recent exchange adjustments are likely to raise the cost of project
foreign exchange components by an estimated 5%. This change has been
included in the summary cost table (para 3.27) and in Annex 11.
3.27      The total cost of the project would be Tks 82.5 million (US$10.4
million equivalent) net of duties and taxes of which the foreign exchange
component would be Tks 47.8 million (US$6 million). Costs of imported
machinery and equipment are based on f.o.b. prices in producer countries,
with an allowance of 25% for crating, shipping and insurance, and 25% (except
in the case of processing and storage equipment--10%) for spares. Additional
allowances (5% of FEC) are made to cover local handling costs of imported
materials. All estimates are net of import duties and local purchase taxes.
Local costs including construction and earthworks are based on experience
from recently awarded local contracts and up-to-date standard government
estimates, checked with experienced local contractors. An allowance of 10%
has been added to all capital cost items to account for physical contingencies.
A further allowance has been made for price contingencies at the rates of 5%
per annum. Estimated costs, detailed in Annex 11 are summarized below.



- 14 -
Summary of Project Costs
Tks (m.)        US$ Equivalent (m.)  Foreign
Local Foreign Total  Local Foreign Total  Exchange
BADC Farm Development          8.05  11.92   20.02   1.03   1.50  2.53       61
Seed Processing Plants
(Includes Contract Growers
Scheme)                      5.70  13.03   18.73   0.72   1.64  2.36       69
Seed Storage and Marketing    1.63   0.42    2.05   0.21   0.05  0.26        19
Seed Certification Agency      0.66   1.02    1.68   0.09   0.13  0.22       59
Development of BRRI            8.73   4.74   13.47   1.11   0.60  1.71       34
Training and Tech. Assistance 3.58   7.78   11.36   0.45   0.98  1.43        69
Total                    28.35  38.96   67.31   3.61   4.90  8.51       58
Physical Contingencies (10%)  2.84   3.89    6.73   0.36   0.49  0.85          -
Total                    31.19  42.85   74.04   3.97   5.39  9.36       58
Price Contingencies            3.56   4.90    8.46   0.45   0.62  1.07        -
Total                    34.75  47.75   82.50   4.42   6.01 10.43       59
3.28      The proposrg IDA credit would contribute 72% of total project
costs equivalent to US$7.5 million. The credit would finance all foreign
exchange costs estimated at US$6 million and US$1.5 million or 34% of
local currency costs. While two of the three project executing agencies
(BADC and BRRI) are semi-autonomous authorities, both depend entirely on
Government grants to finance their development costs. The other agency,
SCA, is a government department. The Government has, therefore, requested
that the proceeds of the credit be passed on to BADC, BRRI and SCA as grants.
However, since BADC is engaged in commercial activities, provision would be
made for sound commercial and financial management of the seed operation
(see para 5.03). The Bangladesh Government would provide additional funds
required for project completion including duties and taxes. Proposed project
financing and disbursement are shown below:
1973/74  1974/75  1975/76  1976/77  1977/78  Total
----------------US$ million equivalent------------
IDA Credit                    2.0      2.8       2.2      0.4       0.1     7.5
Bangladesh Government         0.7      1.2       0.8      0.2        -      2.9
Total                    2.7      4.0       3.0      0.6      0.1    10.4
Iks million equivalent       22.3     31.6      23.4      4.5       0.7    82.5
Bangladesh Government
Duties and Taxes            4.6      6.5       4.8      1.0       0.1    17.0
Total Including
Duties and Taxes           26.9     38.1      28.2      5.5      0.8    99.5



- 15 -
3.29      IDA would encourage the Bangladesh Government to take project
actions before the credit is signed (para 3.23). Expenditure arising from
these authorized actions may amount to US$20,000 equivalent for procurement
of processing equipment and US$25,000 for training staff abroad. The IDA
credit would therefore provide for retroactive financing up to a maximum
US$50,000 for these items. To qualify for reimbursement under the proposed
credit, Government would have to procure the equipment in accordance with
Bank Group Guidelines.
Procurement
3.30      Equipment, material and physical works amount to US$8.7 million
with US$1.7 million needed for training and technical assistance. All *quip-
ment would be subject to international competitive bidding in accordance with
Bank Group Guidelines.  Bids for any goods manufactured to a substantiEw
extent in Bangladesh would receive a margin of preference of 15% or the
prevailing customs duty, whichever is the lower. Certain items required
urgently at the beginning of the project (including some motor vehicles,
office equipment, workshop tools and miscellaneous small tools and equipment)
limited to a total value of US$40,000 could be purchased without international
bidding.
3.31      In view of the importance of standardization, single tenders would
be let for each complete range of field machinery and/or other equipment.
Much of the farm machinery imported into Bangladesh has proved unsuitable
and the consultants would assist BADC draw up specifications for suitable
machinery. The supplier would be required to guarantee effective after sales
service and would also be required to assist in training BADC staff in
operation and maintenance of the machinery.  The total estimated cost of
farm machinery is US$1.0 million. Single tenders would also be let for
each of the following: the equipment for 1,000 ton stores, the processing
plants for foundation seed farms and for the six other processing plants,
estimated to cost US$1.3 million. Tender documents indicating required
performance and implementation schedule, would be prepared by consultants.
Bidders would be asked to provide sufficient detail to allow evaluation, but
only the successful bidder would provide detailed engineering plans, includ-
ing detailed specifications for civil works. The supplier would give a
performance guarantee and would install and test run the equipment, and train
local operating staff. The value of other equipment to be procured by
international competitive bidding comprising mainly irrigation pumps and
engines, workshop equipment, vehicles, electrical equipment, telecommunications
sets and laboratory equipment would be about US$1.7 million.
3.32      The total cost of the building program has been estimated at
US$3.9 million (US$3.1 million for housing, offices, laboratories and small
stores and US$0.8 million for civil works for processing plants). The
program is spread over 25 sites and would be grouped into nine contrac*-
for international competitive bidding. This would involv*. local advertising
and notification to Bank member countries and Switzerland through their
appropriate embassies or ministries of trade. It is expected, however,
that contracts will go to local firms.



- 16 -
3.33      The tubewell drilling costing a total of US$180,000 would also be
scattered throughout the country. The largest probable tubewell contract
would contain about 10 tubewells and would cost less than US$60,000.
Experience with other IDA tubewell projects in Bangladesh indicates that
contracts containing even 300 tubewells in a relatively compact area fail
to attract adequate response from foreign bidders. Consequently, contracts
for tubewell drilling would be by local competitive bidding, in which
foreign firms represented in Bangladesh could compete with local firms on
an equal basis.
3.34      Other civil works of a total value of about US$600,000 equivalent
consist of improving and brick surfacing farm roads, constructing sm4ll cross-
section drainage ditches and brick irrigation furrows and a small amount
of land levelling. The work is spread over 24 sites and is not suitable for
mechanization. It would be most effectively carried out by the existing
farm labor force in off-peak periods supplemented by some casual labor.
Any small residual labor contracts to complete work not undertaken by the
farm labor force would be awarded after local competition.
Disbursement
3.35      Disbursement from the credit would cover c.i.f. costs of materials
to be imported, the ex factory costs for machinery and equipment manufactured
locally, the cost of training local staff abroad and the foreign exchange
expenditures for services of foreign consultants. Disbursements would be made
on a percentage basis estimated at 70% against the total expenditure for the
services of local consultants and 50% against all building and land development
costs, against the cost of materials for field demonstrations and for seed
market promotion and agaiast the cost of local training. In the event that
project costs were less than estimated the percentage disbursement would be
adjusted to ensure that the total amount of the proposed IDA credit is dis-
bursed. Annex 12 gives a quarterly disbursement schedule.
Accounts and Audit
3.36      The BADC Accounting Department keeps separate records for BADC
farms, the Registered Growers' Scheme and seed distribution. It would be
necessary to modify the procedure and to account separately for (a) BADC
farms; (b) Contract Growers' Scheme; (c) seed processing; (d) distribution
and marketing. In addition BADC should keep accounts satisfactory to IDA
of the financial progress of the project during the disbursement period.
Similar records for the Seed Certification Agency and for the demonstration
program would be kept by the Ministry of Agriculture and by BRRI for
development of substations and BRRI headquarters building program u4der the
project.
3.37      Experience has shown that a common cause of delay in project
implementation is difficulty in obtaining local currency for payments which
cannot be made directly to suppliers or consultants by IDA. Therefore it
would be a condition of effectiveness of the credit that initial payment
is made to establish one revolving fund to be operated by the BADC Project
Manager, and one revolving fund for the use of BRRI, each to cover local



- 17 -
currency expenditure for project payments to consultants or suppliers, and
to pay for recurrent costs during the disbursement period. Assurances were
obtained at negotiations that a similar fund for the Seeds Certification
Agency will be established not later than four months from the date of the
credit agreement and that, during the project disbursement period, each
fund will be replenished on a monthly basis to maintain balances sufficient
to meet expenditures expected in the following two months.
3.38      All accounts associated with the project would be audited by
independent auditors satisfactory to IDA. A certified copy of these
accounts would be submitted to the Association within six months of the
end of each fiscal year. Assurances to this effect and that accounts will
be kept by BADC and the Ministry of Agriculture and by BRRI as described
in para 3.36 were obtained at negotiations.
IV. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
General
4.01      The Secretary for Agriculture would be responsible for the project,
and he would be advised by a National Seeds Board. BADC would be the
executing agency for the main part of the project relating to seed production,
processing, storage and marketing. The Seed Certification Agency would be
established in the Ministry of Agriculture and BRRI would be responsible for
the rice research development component of the project.
The National Seeds Board
4.02      This Board to be established in the Ministry of Agriculture would
have advisory functions initially, but could become a statutory board when
seeds legislation is enacted. It is suggested that the Ministry should provide
the Chairman of the Board. The General Manager Field BADC (para 4.05) could
be Secretary of the Board and membership should include the heads or senior
representatives of the following agencies:
-    Planning Commission;
-    BADC;
-    Seed Certification Agency;
-    BRRI and ARI;
-    Cooperative Department and Rural Development Board; and
-    Land and Water Wing of the Bangladesh Water Development
Board.
4.03      The Board would advise government with respect to release of new
varieties, seed importation and multiplication targets, quality standards
and prices and would advise the Government on financial support required by
the seeds industry. The Board would coordinate the activities of the
various agencies concerned with the project. It is suggested that the Board



- 18 -
should have a working committee consisting of the Secretary of the Board,
the Directors of ERRI and ARI and the head of the extension service and of
the Accelerated Rice and Wheat Production Program, which would prepare
technical matters for consideration by the Board. The Board should meet
at least once before every production season, i.e. at least three times a
year. The establishment of the Board along the lines described in this
and the preceding paragraph would be a condition of effectiveness of the
proposed credit.
Rice and Wheat Research
4.04      BRRI and ARI would continue to be responsible for Selection,
breeding and testing of rice and wheat varieties respectivelry and for the
supply of breeders seed to BADC. Assurances were obtained at negotiation
that Government will ensure that adequate quantities of breeders seed
certified by the Seed Certification Agency will be supplied to BADC during
the expected project life.
Seed Production, Processing and Marketing
4.05      The existing BADC organization for rice and wheat seed production
(see Annex 4) would be essentially retained. The Seeds Division would be
responsible for seed procurement from all sources, processing and storage of
seed until required for sale, and the Farms Division would continue to be a
major seed supplier ', the Seeds Division. The General Manager Field, re-
porting to the Member Director Field, would be responsible for both Divisions
and he would be appointed the Cereal Seeds Project Manager (seed production
and processing). It would be a condition of credit effectiveness that the
post is filled. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that BADC will
inform the Association of any change with respect to any appointment to the
post. The proposed BADC project organization is shown in Annex 13 and is
described below.
4.06      BADC Farms.  The Farms Division would contirnae Lo be managed by
^^e Manager Farms supported by resident specialists in farm management and
farm mechanization and their suitably qualified local counterparts, the
Deputy Manager and the Mechanization Adv iser (also deputy manager rank).
Farms would be managed by superintendents directly responsible to the Manager
except for the 2,500 ac Dattanagar complex of five farms (see map) each of
which would be managed by a superintendent, under the overall supervision of
a Chief Superintendent.
-07      Seed Processing Centers.  The Seeds Division under the Manager
-'%eds would be responsible for seed processing and for the Contract Growers
.aeme.  The Manager Seeds would be supported at headquarters by a consultant
* ezialist in seeo i,rocessing and a counterpart official, the Processing
-*.viser (a senior engineer of deputy manager rank) and by the Contract
irower Adviser. A super' -_tendent, directly responsible to the Manager
would be in charge of each processing center and each would have under him
processing plant supervisors.  In addition, at each of the five processing
.-ers with contract grower areas, there would be a field officer, who would
.;report to the superintendent, to supervise the contract growers operation.



- 19 -
4.08      Contract Growers Schemes.  The field services for contract growers
would consist of five field officers and 27 assistant field officers, about
one per 100 ac seed per season, who would draw up contracts, advise and
supervise growers, help to ensure timely availability of inputs and liaise
with the processing plant to arrange threshing and crop purchase. To avoid
variety admixture and to allow effective supervision, growers would be
grouped into 10 ac blocks based on existing pump groups or primary production
cooperatives. To ensure an even supply of seed for processing, the processing
plant would organize seed threshing and transport.
Distribution and MarketinR
4.09      The Movement Storage and Supplies Division of BADC (under the
Member Director Supply) would be responsible for the movement of seed
from processing plants to thana stores and subsequent sales. The quantity
of seed is unlikely to exceed 2% of the fertilizer throughput, so that
the same network of village shops and cooperatives would handle seed as well
as fertilizers, without the need for extra field staff. At headquarters a
Deputy Manager Cereal Seeds Sales would be appointed to help collate all field
reports and to keep an up to date inventory of seeds at all points and to
arrange seed movements to thanas.
4.10      The Division would cooperate with the Agricultural Extension
Services and Quality Control Agency in vigorous promotion of
certified seeds by means of publicity materials, such as posters,
leaflets and films. In addition, the Department of Agriculture would
conduct countrywide demonstrations for which the project would provide
financial support, and would conduct widespread field days and special
farmer training.
Quality Control
4.11      Seed certification and subsequent inspection and testing at any
stage between the processing plant and the farmer, to maintain seed quality
standards, would be the responsibility of the Seeds Certification Agency
which should remain independent as far as possible from producers, and users
or advisory services. Unbiased quality control would be important in raising
the present poor quality level of seed and in giving farmers confidence in
the quality of the new seed. Early establishment of the Agency would allow
certified seed production to begin in 1974; it would therefore be a condition
of credit effectiveness that a Seeds Certification Agency had been established
as an independent agency in the Ministry of Agriculture. The Director would
be supported by a consultant specialist during the planning, building and
early operational phase. The Service would be supported by seeds legislation
to be drawn up in the early stages of project implementation.
Training
4.12      The training program would be drawn up jointly by the project
management and consultants and the program would draw on the expertise
of other agencies including the Agricultural University, BRRI, ARI, and



- 20 -
the Bangladesh Academy for Rural Development. The studies abroad would be
organized by the Project Manager (Seed Production and Processing) for BADC
staff, and by the Secretary of Agriculture for quality control staff.
4.13      All local training programs would be organized by the Senior
Instructor to be appointed by BADC. He and five instructors would be
seconded to the Principal of the Staff Training Institute at Madhupur to
conduct the project training program there. ln addition the Senior
Instructor would help to organize training of Seed Certification Agency
Staff at BRRI and at the National Seeds Laboratory to be established at
Joydebpur. He would also help to organize project staff i4n-service
Lraining, to be conducted by processing plant and farm machinery suppliers
respectively, according to specific terms of reference to be included in
their contracts.
4.14      Most of the local training program, would be centered at the BADC
Staff Training Institute at Madhupur. Because the Principal of the Institute
reports directly to the Chairman BADC and because the institute has to
cater for training of BADC staff other than those concerned with the project,
assurances were obtained at negotiations that BADC will provide adequate
facilities at the Institute to conduct project training along the lines
indicated in Annex 10.
V. PRICING POLICY
A. Prices
Seed Procurement Prices
5.01      Prices paid to growers producing seed crops on contract to BADC
would be related to prevailing farm-gate paddy a5.d wheat prices, adjusted
upward to provide adequate incentives for grcwers to take the necessary
care of the seed crop.  For the purposes of assessing the financial
implications of the project to seed producers, BADC and government, it
is assumed that Contract Growers would recel_.e a premium of 25% over
consumption grain prices, in line with the excperience of similarly situated
countries. Purchases would be made at harvest time and premiums computed
on the basis of current consumption grain prices at that time, with adjust-
ments for quality and moisture content, appropriately buffered against
seasonally low prices. Average prices would be about Tks 40 per maund for
paddy seed and Tks 42.5 per maund for wheat based on respective consumption
grain prices of Tks 32 and Tks 34 per maund.1/ Pricing policy would be
regularly reviewed by the National Seeds Board.
1/   Based on forecast 1980 internal price Tks 32/md paddy is equal to
about Tks 55/md rice (US$190 per ton rice).



- 21 -
Seed Price Paid by End Users
5.02      BADC now selis paddy seed to end-user farmers at prices close to
consumption grain prices. These low prices reflect the variable quality
of seed offered for sale, even that of HYV. BADC wheat seed, by contrast,
much of which is imported to date, can command a premium, reportedly up
to 100%, reflecting the shortage of good seed due to the problem of main-
taining viabillity in farm stores.
5.03      Full seed production cost would be more than double the consumption
grain prices. To foster early sales of project seed, a price below full seed
production cost would be charged initially. Despite its low price farmers
presently purchase BADC seed only as a last resort. It is, therefore.: un-
likely that they would be willing to purchase project seed at higher prices
until its superior quality had been demonstrated. Because of the urgeut
need for increased foodgrain production and the high returns to both iXab
farmer and the economy (para 6.02) an initial subsidy would be iustif led
to encourage purchase of all project seed from the time it first appears on
the market. It is reconmended that the initial price should be only about
40% above the average consumption grain price. The price would be reviewed
seasonally by the National Seeds Board and would be adjusted upward as farmers
come to appreciate the benefits of good quality seed. Five years would be
a reasonable time within which to introduce full cost pricing. The feasibility
study to be financed by the project (para 3.21) would formulate appropriate
costing and pricing policies with the objective that sufficient revenule is
provided to cover full operating costs and a return on capital employed
(Annex 14). Assurances were obtained at negotiations that BADC within
five years from the date of the Credit will, in consultation with IDA, set
a price for wheat and rice seeds in accordance with this policy.
Financial Implications for BADC and Government
5.04      BADC's seed production and distribution activities operated at
a loss between Rs 3 million and Rs 6 million per year between 1967/68 and
1969/70. Net losses per ton of seed reportedly distributed were about Rs
1,200. BADC would have to bear operating deficits during the initial
five years amounting to an average Tks 4 million per year or about Tks 730
per ton seed produced (see Annex 14).
5.05      Investment in BADC farms are oriented towards continuous
production of high quality seed rather than towards maximum profitability.
The requirements of timeliness and quality in seed production involve
higher investment and production costs compared to consumption grain produc-
tion. Nevertheless, assuming that the farms would sell seeds to processing
plants at 25% above consumption grain prices (para 5.01), the farms, now
operating at a deficit, would generate an operating surplus of Tks 4 million
per annum. This surplus would cover replacement costs and earn about 9% ncr
annum on capital invested by the project in seed farms, whica is in line
with the criteria of Annex 14.
5.06      Total costs to be borne by Government would include the cost
of BADC's operating deficit over five years, the cost of operating the



- 22 -
seed certification service and the cost of the Department of Agriculture
farm demonstration program. The last two items involve a recurrent cost
of Tks 1.3 million per annum.
B. Contract Growers' Benefits
5.07      Because of intensive advisory services and an assured supply of
inputs, crop yields of contract growers should increase by about 5 mds paddy
or wheat per acre to 50 maunds/ac for boro, 40 maunds/ac for transplanted
aman, and 25 maunds/ac for wheat. Additional incentives for participating
in the seed production scheme and to produce quality seed would be the seed
price premium (para 5.01) and threshing and grain transport services, to
be provided without charge to contract growers, by BADC. The estimated
combined net benefit to contract growers, compared to foodgrain production
is estimated at between Tks 300 and Tks 540 per acre crop grown (Annex 6).
VI. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
OU-s      The project, by ensuring the timely distribution of high quality
HYV seed, would provide a key input of the overall Government strategy for
increasing grain production. The principal quantifiable benefit would come
from increased grain production primarily from the earlier introduction and
accelerated spread of HYV to replace traditional varieties and, in some
cases, the older HYV. it is estimated that, over fifteen years, yields would
be increased by about half ton/acre on about 12 million acres. Past experience
has shown that, without the project, it may take several years to bulk seed
sufficiently to make an impact on grain production. Nevertheless, estimated
benefits are based on only a one year acceleration of the spread of HYV.  In
addition, increased production would come from higher yields from project
seeds due to better geruidnation, varietal purity, absence of weeds, seed
vigor and seed treatment against disease. This increase was taken as 5%-10%
on seed produced by the proJect only and no account was taken of increased
yietds from second and third generation seed bulked by farmers from project
seed. Based on these assumptions, the project would increase paddy and wheat
production by an estimated 400,000 tons a year, resulting in a foreign exchange
saving of about U$25 million annually. Additional quantifiable benefits are
expected to be derived from the project. Because of higher seed quality,
less project seed would be needed per acre (about 25% less than farmer pro-
diuced seed).  Development of BADC farms would result in increased value of
production from US$0.4 million at present to US$1.1 million.
6.02      The catalytic effect of the project on the overall development of
the agricultural sector is difficult to assess with conventional cost-
benefit analysis as there is no satisfactory way of isolating the benefits
arising from seed alone. Using market values for foreign exchange and labor,
and projected 1980 world prices for rice and wheat, the project yields a
70% rate of return, given the assumptions of paragraph 6.01. Shadow pricing
labor at 50% of the market value, and using 150% of the conventional market
exchange rate, raises the rate of return to over 100%. Of course, realization



- 23 -
of these benefits assumes the combination of project seed with a modest
inputs package including fertilizers and pesticides. Failure in timely
supply and application of these inputs would reduce benefits. Consequently,
a sensitivity analysis was undertaken which shows that with a 25% reduction
in benefits the rate of return would be over 50%, and even with a 50%
reduction in benefits the rate would still be above 30%. (See Annex 15).
6.03      The project would generate additional benefits which are even more
difficult to quantify. The Seeds Certification Service to be established
under the project would test seeds other than cereal seeds. The feasibility
study under the project would determine future seeds requirements and the
training and infrastructure developed by the project would permit rapid
future expansion of the seeds industry and permit diversification to cover
other seeds.
6.04      Increased labor requirements, as a result of the changeover from
traditional varieties to HYV, are estimated at 15% for rainfed rice and 30%
for the irrigated crop. 1/ On this basis, the project would generate about
10 million labor days a year equal to 50,000 additional jobs. Assuming
3.5 people are supported by each job 1/, the project would support 175,000
people from agriculture alone apart from secondary employment in additional
business and services generated by the project.
6.05      In sum the project would, at relatively low cost, ensure the
supply of a vital, high yielding input to the agricultural sector. Although
it would supply only 2% of total national seed requirements, it would fuel
rapid countrywide farmer to farmer distribution of HYV. Under this
distribution system, seeds would be the least expensive element of the input
package and would be available to all farmers, large or small. The project
would not only yield high returns but would play a significant part in
combating unemployment and its benefits would be spread across all income
groups.
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      During negotiations, agreement was reached on the following
principal points:
(a)  that land for processing plants will be reserved or purchased
as follows: one acre of land adjacent to and contiguous with
the existing 1,000 ton BADC seed stores at both Noornagar before
May 1974 and Dinajpur Township before May 31, 1975; one half
acre of land adjacent to and contiguous with the existing
1,000 ton BADC seed stores in both Mymensingh Township before
May 31, 1974, and at Chittagong and the Tebnia BADC Seed
Farm before November 30, 1974; and one half acre of land on
1/   Bangladesh - Land and Water Resources Sector Study Report No. PS-13,
Volume III - Sector Economics - Technical Report No. 5 - The Special
Problem of Employment in Agriculture.



- 24 -
the Ithakola BADC Seed Farm before May 31, 1975; and that,
for the National Seeds Laboratory, not less than ten acres
land will be reserved or purchased either on ARI land or
on land contiguous to it at Joydebpur before March 31, 1974
(para 3.25);
(b) that, a revolving fund for the Seed Certification Agency will
be established not later than four months from the date of
the credit agreement, to cover local currency expenditure for
project payments to consultants or suppliers and to pay for
recurrent costs during the disbursement period, and that
during the project disbursement period this fund and two
similar funds to be established for BADC and BRRI (7.02 b)
will be replenished on a monthly basis to maintain balances
sufficient to meet expenditures expected in the following
two months (para 3.37); and
(c) that within five years from the date of the credit, BADC
will in consultation with IDA, set a seed price in accordance
with seed pricing policies formulated previously in consult-
ation with the Association which will aim to provide sufficient
revenue to cover full operating costs and a reasonable return
on capital (para 5.03).
7.02      Conditions if the effectiveness of the credit would be:
(a) the appointment of consultants with qualifications and
terms of reference acceptable to IDA (para 3.20);
(b) initial payments by Government to establish one revolving
fund for the use of the BADC Project Manager, and one
revolving fund for the use of BRRI, each to cover local
currency expenditure for project payments which cannot
be made directly by IDA to consultants or suppliers, and to
pay for recurrent costs during the disbursement period
(para 3.37);
(c) the establishment of a National Seeds Board along the lines
described in para 4.02 and 4.03;
(d) the appointment of the General Manager Field BADC who is to
be the Project Manager for seed production and processing
(para 4.05); and
(e) the establishment of the Seeds Certification Agency in the
Ministry of Agriculture (para 4.11).
7.03      The proposed project is suitable for an IDA Credit of US$7.5 million
under standard IDA terms.
June 8, 1973



BANGLADESH
CEREAL SEEDS PROJECT
RICE - AREA. PRODUCTION AND YIELD
Aus                                             me                                           Boro
7 of                                          7 of                            o                of     Total      Total
% of                      Total               % of                       Total              7 of                        Total    rice       rice pro-
Total                     rice                Total                      rice               Total                       rice     area       duction
rice             Produc-  produc-             rice              Produc-  produc-            rice              Produc-  produc-  (all        (all         Total
Area   area    Yield     tion    tion         Area   area    Yield    tion       tion       Area   area    Yield    tion       tion      seasons)  seasons)    yield
(m Sc)         (mds/ac)  (m tn)               (M ac)          (mds/ac)  (m tn)               (m ac)         (mds/ac)  (m tn)              (m ac)    (m tn)       (m tn)
1947-48 1/           4.50   23.5      8.00     1.43    21.2        13.35   70.2    10.18      4.99    74.0        0.76    4.0    11.44      0.32      4.7      19.01       6.74        8.63
1948-49              4.75   24.5      7.83     1.41    18.4        13.86   71.4    11.79      6.00    71.4        0.81    4.2      9.00     0.27      3.5      19.42       7.67        9.61
1949-50              4.67   23.9      7.31     1.25    16.9        14.01   71.7    11.17      5.74    77.8        0.84    4.3    12.25      0.38      5.1      19.53       7.38        9.19
3-Year Average       4.64   24.0    23.14      1.36    18.8        13.74   71.1    11.05      5.58    74.4        0.80    4.2    10.88      0.32      4.4       19.32      7.26        9.14
1950-S1              5.26   26.3      9.27     1.79    24.2        13.95   69.7    10.30      5.27    71.4        0.80    4.0      9.53     0.28      3.8       20.01      7.34        8.92
1951-52              5.45   26.8      7.97     1.59    22.6        14.03   69.1     9.93      5.11    72.7        0.83    4.1    10.91      0.33      4.7       20.30      7.03        8.43
1952-53              5.50   26.5      8,20     1.66    22.6        14.44   69.5    10.04      5.33    72.6        0.84    4.0    11.44      0.35      4.8       20.78      7.34        8.59
1953-54              6.32   31.6      9.27     2.15    26.1        14.85   74.2    10.55      5.75    69.7        0.84    4.2    11.17      0.35      4.2       20.01      8.25       10.03
1954-55              6.03   28.2      8.83     1.96    25.8        14.45   67.6      9.93     5.26    69.3        0.86    4.0    11.70      0.37      4.9       21.37      7.59        8.64
5-Year Average       5.71   27.9    8.71       1.83    24.3        14.34   70.0    10.15      5.34    71.1        0.83    4.1    10.95       0.34     4.5       20.49      7.51        8.92
1955-56              5.82   29.9    8.41       1.80    28.2        12.99   66.6      8.94     4.26    66.8        0.69    3.5    13.21       0.33     5.2       19.49      6.38        7.96
1956-57              5.99   29.8    9.82       2.16    26.4        13.38   66.6    11.79      5.79    70.7        0.69    3.4      9.39      0.24     2.9       20.10      8.19        9.91
1957-58              5.79   28.6    9.82       2.09    27.5        13.63   67.3    10.30      5.15    67.8        0.82    4.1    11.98       0.36     4.7       20.24       7.60       9.14
1958-59              5.65   28.8    7.53       1.56    22.5        13.15   67.0    10.30      4.97    71.8        0.85    4.3    12.52       0.39     5.6       19.64       6.92       8.57
1959-60              5.95   28.1    9.60       2.10    24.8        14.29   67.6    11.42      5.99    70.6        0.92    4.3    11.85       0.40     4.7       21.15      8.48        9.76
5-Year Average       5.84   29.0    9.04       1.94    25.9        13.49   67.1    10.55      5.23    69.5        0.79    3.9    11.79       0.34     4.6       20.12       7 51       9.08
1960-61              6.30   28.8   10.80       2.50    26.3        14.58   66.6    12.29      6.57    69.0        1.01    4.6    12.12       0.45     4.7       21.89       9.52      10.58
1961-62              5.87   28.0   10.80       2.33    24.6        14.08   67.2    14.09      6.65    70.2        1.00    4.8    13.11       0.49     5.2       20.96       9.47      10.99
1962-63              6.19   28.8    9.70       2.20    25.2        14.22   66.2    11.58      6.05    69.3        1.07    5.0    12.25       0.48     5.5       21.48       8.73       9.89
1963-64              6.59   29.6   11.00       2.66    25.4        14.60   65.6    13.60      7.30    69.8         1.07    4.8    12.98      0.51     4.9       22,26      10.46      11.43
1964-65              6.64   29.1   10.20       2.50    24.2        15.11   66.3    13.10      7.30    70.3         1.05    4.6    14.80      0.60     5.5       22.80      10.40      11.09
5-Year Average       6.32   28.9   10.50       2.40    25.1        14.52   66.4    12.93      6.77    69.7         1.04    4.8    13.1       0.50     5.2       21.89       9.72       10.80
1965-66              7.32   31.7   10.30       2.90    28.2        14.67   63.4    12.60      6.80    65.8        1.14    4.9    14.80       0.60     6.0       23.13      10.30      10.83
1966-67              6.96   31.1   10.40       2.70    28.3        14.06   62.7    11.50      5.90    62.9         1.39    6.2    16.30      0.80     8.8       22.41       9,40       10.21
1967-68              8.22   33.6   10.10       3.07    27.9        14.68   60.0    12.60      6.81    62.1         1.53    6.3    19.70      1.11    10.0       24.44      10.99      10 94
1968-69              7.66   31.8    9.50       2.68    24.0        14.40   60.0    13.00      6.87    61.5         2.02    8.2    21.70      1.61    14.5       24.07      11.19       11.31
1969-70 2/           3.46t  33.2    9.52       2.96    25.3        14.80*  58.1    12.78      6.95    59.4         2.20*   8.6    22.27      1.80    15.4       25.46      11.71       11.19
5-Year Average       7.72   32.3    9.96       2.86    26.7        14.52   60.8    12.50       6.67    62.3        1.66   6.8    18.95       1.18    10.94      i3.90      10.72       10.91
)~~~~~~
1/  Data for 1947-48 to 1963-64 is from Statistical Digest of East Pakistan, No. 5: 1968
Froe  Efconoric surve  of Eost Pakistanf   1969-70
*Areas for Aus, Aman and Boro for 1969-70 are all estimates.



ANNEX 2
BANGLADESH
CEREAL SEEDS PROJECT
AREAS SUITABLE FOR I[PROVING RICE YIELDS WITH INPUTS ONLY
Improvable
Actual           With Inputs and
1969/70            Minor Drainage
Crop                                Area                   Only
------ (Million Acres-
Boro/Transplanted Aus
a. Traditional Varieties                     1.511                    1.0
b. HYV Varieties                              O.6-                    0.
Sub-total                           2.1                      1.8
Broadcast Aus
a.  Traditional Varieties                     6.o                     1.0
b. HYV Varieties:
Chandina, Mala,  IR-442                                          5.0
Sub-total                           6.o                      6.o
Transplanted Aman
a.  Traditional Varieties                     9.3
b.  IRRI Varieties
i.  IR-20                              0.2                      6. v
ii.  IR-20, Chandina                                                2
Mala,   IR-442 and Varieties                               1.7=' -
in the Research Pipeline                                       2/ 8
iii.  IR-442 and Similar Varieties                                1.
Sub-total                           9.5                     9.5
Broadcast Aman                                  2.5                      -
Mixed Aus/Aman
a.  Traditional Varieties                     2.5                      -
b.  Improved Varieties                         -                      2.5
TOTAL RICE AREA                    22.6                    19.8
1/ Irrigation already installed.
7/ Yields would be raised by supplementary irrigation.
3/  Suitable for t.a-e parts of the lWestern areas of Bangladesh, where the
rainy season i.s s,ort and only one reliable rice crop can be grown.
_a/ for T Aman areas with flood depths of 1-3 ft.



ANNEX 3
Page 1
BANGLADESH
CEREAL SEEDS PROJECT
Rice and Wheat Research1/
A. Rice Research
Background and History
1.        Prior to 1965, a very limited rice research program was carried
out by the Agricultural Research Institute (ARI) under the Ministry of
Agriculture. The program was handicapped by personnel constraints and a
lack of physical facilities such as laboratories, land and irrigation
facilities. In addition, there was little coordination of research between
the allied disciplines such as pathology, entomology, agronomy, agricul-
tural chemistry, and the task of producing new varieties was left to the
breeders alone. Nevertheless, a number of new varieties were introduced
which are still widely grown.
2.        With the rise in food imports, the Government paid increasing
attention to rice research as an important element in its strategy to
increase food production. In 1965, after ARI had made initial contacts
with the International Rice Research Institute (IRRI), a cooperative
variety-testing program was begun to test promising lines developed in
the Philippines at ARI stations. The program was expanded in 1966 when
TRRI provided a resident rice agronomist, financed by the Ford Foundation,
to work with local research workers on variety evaluation and other agro-
nomic research on rice.
3.        After the program's initial success, the introduction of the
first high yielding variety (HYV), IR-8, Government established the multi-
disciplinary Rice Research Institute. The Institute, now Bangladesh Rice
Research Institute (BRRI), was granted autonomy in 1970 under the admin-
istrative control of a Board of Governors and it is now responsible for all
aspects of rice research. So far, the Institute has been financed by
Government and by grants from the Ford Foundation and USAID. Financed by
these grants, IRRI has continued to provide technical assistance (except
for part of 1971) in the form of resident technical staff, frequent visits
by IRRI scientists and staff training programs.
1/   The cost table at the end of this Annex does not reflect the effect
of the recent devaluation of the US dollar.



ANNEX 3
Page 2
Present Status
Physical Facilities
4.        BRRIheadquarters are situated at Joydebpur on 165 acres of a
650-acre farm purchased by the Government for agricultural research. When
hostilities broke out in March 1971, construction of an office-laboratorv
complex, greenhouse, screenhouse and a general services building had largely
been completed and work had started on a dormitory for fariuier and extension
officer trainees and on some staff housing. A tubewell and some irrigation
channels had been provided and part of the farm had been developed and was
in use. In addition, the Institute had the use of four substations at
Dinajpur, labiganj, Comilla and Barisal (see map).
5.        Because of the war and subsequent problems (see para 13), there
has been little progress since that time.  Building coastruction underway
in March 1971 has not yet been completed and, in November 1972, was at a
complete standstill.  Installation of most laboratory equipment and fittings
remains to be done, and the equipment which has been installed is not in
use. Development of the farm is also at a standstill and farm equipment
has been neglected and is now defective.
Staff
6.        The Institute has been planned as a multidisciplinary center
with the following ten departments:
(a)  Rice Breeding                   (f)  Soil Chemistry
(b)  Agronomy                        (g)  Rice Technology
(c)  Physiology                      (h)  Agricultural Engineering
(d)  Entomology                      (i)  Economics and Statistics
(e)  Pathology                       (j)  Communications and Training
7.        The Board of Governors has authorized a staffing complement of
182 employees including a Director, an Associate Director, 61 scientists,
47 semi-technical employees, 25 administrative staff, and 47 other staff.
Each department should have at least one principal scientific officer and
one senior scientific officer, both with Ph.D. degrees, in addition to
a number of scientific officers with MS degrees. However, the 1970-71
Progress Report of the Institute reported that a total staff of 98 had been
employed including 26 scientists and 36 technical staff. There had been
no further recruitment up to the time of the appraisal mission's visit
but recruitment for all staff categories had been scheduled for December
1972. At its authorized strength, the Breeding Department will employ
23 scientists.



ANNEX 3
Page 3
8.        BRRI has attracted a team of first class Bangalee scientists,
19 of whom have had overseas postgraduate training organized and financed by
USAID, Ford Foundation and IRRI. Nine staff members hold Ph.D. degrees
and 11 have MS degrees or have undergone postgraduate training at IRRI.
The Institute suffered a serious loss in the death of its Communications
and Training Specialist during the war. Seven of its ten departments are
currently staffed and operative but there is as yet no staff for the
Communications/Training, Agricultural Economics and Engineering Departments.
Training of specialists to operate the three latter departments has been
included in the staff training program.
Achievements to Date
9.        In the initial phases, Institute staff concentrated on screening,
selecting and field testing of materials supplied by IRRI. While this work
continues, it has been supplemented by a vigorous breeding program. The
program has quickly built up to a high level. For instance, the 1970/71
Iastitute Progress Report recorded screening of over 2,000 lines boro
varieties, over 4,000 lines aus varieties, almost 5,000 lines aman varieties
and about 800 strains deepwater varieties as well as the breeding of 75
new hybrids. Attention was concentrated on the most promising lines from
the screening and breeding program particularly in the Entomology, Pathology
and Agronomy bepartments. Pest and disease resistance, and a range of agro-
nomic factors such as planting date, plant population, fertilizer and
water requirements, were tested. The Physiology Department has been working
on photoperiod sensitivity, cold resistance and protein content in close
collaboration with the Technology Department which is also concerned with
food content as well as grain quality and milling quality. Out of this
vast screening program, about 200 lines went forward to the advanced testing
stage.
10.       As a result of this work, the following varieties have been
released (in addition to IR-8 introduced prior to the establishment of the
Institute):
IR-5      Highest yield potential aman variety released
to date. Has good cooking quality but needs to
be transplanted in early June because yields of
later plantings are sharply reduced when tempera-
tures drop in October and November. Because of
the need for early planting, the variety did not
fit readily into rotations and found little ini-
tial acceptance but it has been gaining in popu-
larity recently. Government experts estimate
potential acreage of 1-1.5 million ac producing
an average yield level of 60 mds paddy/acre.
IR-20     A high yield potential aman variety with good grain
quality and high pest and disease resistance. Be-
cause of intensive screening and testing by the
Institute, was introduced into Bangladesh in 1970,



ANNEX 3
Page 4
earlier than in any other country. Estimated acreage
under IR-20 in 1972 was 1.7 million ac. Government
estimate of potential acreage (in addition to IR-5
acreage) is 3-3.5 million ac with estimated yield
levels of 40-50 mds paddy/ac.
BRRI-1    Chandina:  A boro variety selected locally from IRRI
material. Has the same field yield potential as
IR-8, better grain quality, pest and disease resistance
and matures 15-20 days earlier than IR-8. This allows
a longer period for subsequent land preparation, a 15%
irrigation water savings and gives the crop a better
chance to escape hailstorms which occur late in the
season.
BRRI-2    Mala:  Another boro variety with similar disease
resistance, earliness and grain quality as Chandina.
In addition, because it is taller than IR-8 and
Chandina and has faster initial growth rate is the
first HYV suitable for aus and early indications are
that this could lead to between 50% and 100% yield
increase on 3-4 million ac broadcast aus.
IR-442    A late aus or aman variety with yield potential and
grain quality equal to IR-20. Has the ability to
elonga.e to some extent with rising water levels and
can stand up to six days total submergence. Lines
for better disease resistance are still under selec-
tion. BRRI recommends this variety for introduction
into areas suitable for one rice crop a year, either
in the west of the country where rainfall is only
sufficient for one IIYV raingrown crop a year or in
areas flooded to 3 ft for short periods.
BR-53-
12-B-5   Bred at BRRI, high quality boro variety also under
trial for aus, with higher yield potential than
IR-8, Chandina and Mala. Ten days earlier than
IR-8. Now undergoing countrywide yield trials and
intensive agronomy trials.
BR-5-27-
10-1     Bred at BRRI.  Highest yield potential variety tested
in Bangladesh to date and may be suitable for boro,
aus and aman. In tests has yielded 80-90 mds/ac as
boro, 60-70 mds/ac as aus and 70-80 mds/ac as aman.
Grain quality coarse similar to IR-8, but because of
high yield potential is considered worth intensive
countrywide testing in 1973.



Page :
BRJ-5-51
BRJ-5-52  Two very promising aman varieties bred at BRRI and
now undergoing intensive selection.  Promise so r        c
have higher yield potential than existing aman va.Aeties
and the best selections may go to field trials dU'.
1973.
11.       Chandina and Mala varieties have been ready for builkinsj ari
large-scale distribution for two years but due to disturbances   and s_ed
production problems (see Annex 4) which the proposed project aimw to
overcome - little bulking has taken place to date.  Small quanti:`.es of
IR-442 will be available during 1973 for bulking and widespread, %.e1
trials and BRRI expects the four locally-bred varieties to be reads :lor
large-scale introduction over the next two to four years.
Post War Administrative Problems
12.       Up to the outbreak of hostilities, the Institute was deve]oping
vigorously and expanding all aspects of its activities. Althoug?a ef;-ort:s
were curtailed during 1971, a small research program was maintainedV There
was no damage to physical facilities at the Research Station but some
equipment which was in transit was lost or damaged. Most importalnt,
however, the staff maintained stocks of all breeding materials.
13.       During 1972, in the aftermath of the war, BRRI was beset by
administrative problems. Its Director was transferred fromi the IzsrAt-
tute to a senior government post and, by December 1972, had not Deen
replaced. Field work almost came to a halt for a time because o¢ labor
unrest.  As a result of the labor troubles, and for reasons of pesonaI
safety, the Acting Director had to leave the station and open an office
in Dacca, 25 miles away. He transferred administrative staff to the
Dacca office leaving the Institute with inadequate administrative services.
In addition, BRRI was adversely affected by a temporary ban on sraff recrstit-
ment which affected all Government and Government financed offices. This
slowed down the scientist training program and left BRRI short of technaical
staff to commission and maintain laboratory and field equipment, Finally,
the building program was halted because of difficulties with contracv:ors.
The effect of these problems has been a considerable slowdown  hn the volume
of research work over a two-year period. The achievements listed in paras
9-10 were mostly gained by March 1971, but the scientific staff deserva a
great deal of credit for maintaining even a small program under Ubese,
difficult conditions.
14.       At the time of the appraisal mission's visit, there were signs
that conditions were improving and Government was taking action to,
the administrative problems.  Labor difficulties appeared to have be-n
resolved and field work was again possible.  The Acting Director was
advised to close his Dacca office and return with his a4m_nistrativt~ .-ai
to Joydebpur.  Staff recruitment, both for junior staff and se4ea..st5s tor
degree training, was scheduled and difficulties with building ContLFctors



ANNEX 3
Page 6
seemed to have been resolved. 1/ The mission was satisfied that, with the
solution of the administrative problems, BRRI would regain its impressive
prewar momentum.
Proposed IDA Financing for BRRI Development
15.       The high priority given to establishing a seeds program in
Bangladesh at this time stems from the need to ensure rapid distribution of
promising new varieties. A vigorous rice research program to produce a
stream of new varieties is crucial to such a seeds program. It is, there-
fore, recommended that the project finance the development of the four BRRI
substations and the construction of staff housing at BRRI headquarters. Both
are items for which there is no assured finance at present and they are des-
cribed below.
16.       Substations.  The substations have been sited to complement the
ecology of the main station and to allow selection and testing of varieties
under the different climatic, soil and hydrologic conditions in the country
and would, consequently, play a vital part in "variety tailoring"? of rice
for the diverse ecology and different seasons (para 21). The substations are:
Dinajpur:       29 acres - specially suited for work
on cold resistance for boro.
Habiganj:       82 acres - adapted for work on deep-
water rice.
Comilla:        70 acres - suitable for intensive work
in all seasons.
Barisal:        20 acres - to be developed for work on
salinity tolerant varieties.
t7.       In tue initial stages, the Institute concentrated on developing
Its headquarters station at Joydebpur and, consequently, no development
w-ork at substatiorns has so far been undertaken. All four stations require
staff housing, simple office/laboratory buildings, farm buildings, tube-
wells, irrigation ditches, some land development, transport and farm
laboratory equipment at an estimated cost of about US$670,000 (for details,
see Table 1).
SE~       Staff Housing at Joydebpur.  At present, there is no staff housing
a_: joydebpur. Most staff members have to commute daily from Dacca, 25 miles
away. This takes several hours a day, seriously reducing the total research
effort and is a cause for concern and discontent among research staff. Out
of a total requirement of 182 houses for all grades of staff (Table 1), Govern-
ment has so far approved financing of 56 junior staff houses estimated to
1/   Reports received in May 1973 indicated that the problems described
in paragraph 13 had been resolved.



ANNEX 3
Page 7
cost about US$330,000. The balance of the program - construction of houses
for all staff, estimated to cost US$1.1 million, needs to be completed over
the next 2-3 years.
19.       Consultants.  Finance would be provided for consultant services
to help BRRI prepare site and architectual plans for the building program at
headquarters and at the substations, for supervising building construction
and for planning and supervising the development of the substations.
Future Cooperation of BRRI with Other Agencies
20.       BRRI is an example of successful partnership between the Government
and foreign assistance donors, and Ford Foundation, USAID and IRRI deserve
credit for the part they played in the establishment of the Institute and
for its progress to date. In discussions with the mission, Ford Foundation
and IRRI staff affirm the desire to continue to provide both financial and
technical assistance to BRRI. Ford Foundation would be willing to finance
a number of resident specialists, in particular, a senior rice research
adviser and an agricultural engineer. They may, in addition, provide resident
consultants up to one year to establish the Economics and Communications
Department at BRRI, to help identify research problems and to initiate
appropriate research programs. Ford Foundation would continue to finance
the foreign exchange cost of developing and equipping Joydebpur laboratories
and farm, they would also provide finance for training of BRRI scientists
and they may, in addition, finance some housing for resident consultants.
IRRI would continue to act as executing agent for Ford Foundation and would
continue to provide breeding materials and frequent visits by their experts.
This assistance would be in addition to the items proposed for IDA financing
(see para 15-19), which were selected (a) on the assumption that the Ford
Foundation and IRRI would carry out the assistance program described in
this paragraph and (b) that enquiries had shown that there were no other
assured sources of finance for the items proposed for the IDA credit.
Future Objectives
21.       Apart from objectives common to every crop breeding institute
such as increased yield, pest and disease resistance and better quality,
BRRI has the complex task of "variety tailoring" to suit the complex regional
ecology of the country. Resistance to cold in the boro season, particularly
in North Bangladesh, and salinity tolerance for coastal areas are two examples.
Of even greater importance is the tailoring of HYV to suit the various hydro-
logic conditions of Bangladesh. For instance:
(a)  HYV with planting dates adapted to miss flood peaks;
(b)  HYV able to grow with rising water levels;
(c) HYV with tall stiff stems; and
(d)  HYV with tall seedlings which could be transplanted
into, say, 9-12" water.



ANNEX 3
Page 8
22.       IRRI will continue to do the basic research work and will contintTe
to supply BRRI with breeding material, but selection or breeding to find
varieties adapted to the local ecology would have to be done locally.
For instance, IRRI is at the moment concentrating on identifying and incor-
porating into existing varieties and into breeding materials a broad range
of resistance to most important pests and diseases. Translated into bene--
fits obtainable by smallholder farmers this could mean a yield increase ot
30-40%. It would be the task of BRRI to incorporate this type of resisiance
from IRRI material into HYV suitable for Bangladesh. These factors will
have a vital impact on the economy of Bangladesh where for some time to
come the performance of rice will determine the performance of the economy,
B. Wheat
23.       ARI is responsible for wheat research.  With only 300,000 acres
sown to wheat annually, compared to 25 million acres sown to rice, Govern-
ment has been unable to give the same priority to wheat research to date3 as
it has given to rice research. However, there has been a small wheat
research program since 1965 and a few scientists have been trained aw oite
International Center for Maize and Wheat Improvemen, (C_YNlP4T).
24.       The wheat section carries out the following work at Dacca anitd A?:
several outstations, notably Ishurdi:
(a) a program of screening imported varieties;
(b) a program of maintaining a collection of
varieties; and
(c) a small breeding program.
Wheat research is handicapped by the delay in moving ARI from Dacca, where
the land available for field experimentation has been taken over for
housing development, to Joydebpur.  Nevertheless, as a result of the progranr
the following improved (dwarf) varieties suitable for Bangladesh have been
released:
SONORA   64;         INIA   66;         NORTEITO   67;
PENJAMO  62;         MEXI   65.
25.       The danger of crop destruction by disease is greater in wheat than
in rice and there are a number of diseases prevalent throughout the country,
of which Wheat Leaf Rust is the most important. Consequently a vigorous
wheat research program is necessary to safeguard the present production in
addition to improving present performance. Because of disease problems
the principle of a multidisciplinary research effort is even more valid than
for rice and should receive early attention. Reorganization of ARI and
development of Joydebpur would be a necessary precursor to expanding wheat



ANNEX 3
Page 9
research. Government is focusing attention on these problems and the
proposed reorganization of ARI and the development of Joydebpur and outsta-
tions may contain elements suitable for IDA financing. IDA is already
planning technical assistance to help Government to prepare research develop-
ment programs.
26.       In the meantime, Government will continue to support the present
level of wheat research services. These services would be able to supply
breeders seed (mostly grown at Ishurdi) to the Seeds Project. About 5-6
tons seed per annum would be required. Since wheat is difficult to store
over the monsoon period and since ARI does not have suitable storage for
breeders seed, the foundation seed farms (Sadhuhati and Kashimpur) would
take delivery of breeders seed immediately after the harvest. These farms
could in addition store breeding materials for the research services.
27.       On the subject of disease control, while it is most desirable
that a strong Bangladesh wheat research unit be established soon, the
work of Indian Wheat Research Stations would, in the meantime, provide a
safeguard. The wheat crop in adjoining West Bengal, where ecological
conditions and disease problems are similar to the main wheat areas in
Bangladesh, has expanded in recent years. Consequently, the work of the
highly developed Indian Wheat Research Services covering West Bengal would
be applicable to Bangladesh.






ANNEX 3
Table I
BANGLADESH
CEREAL SEEDS PROJECT
RESEARCH   CAPITAL COSTS
Y e a r                                           Fore
Description                                            1             2                                    Total         Exchange
-------_--------------- Tks '000 --------------------
I.  Research Sub-Stations
1. Equipment
4 Sets of Farm Equipment                                 60.0o         90.00         -            -          150.00         18.99
4 Tubewells                                             160.00        240.00                       -         400.00         25.32
4 Green Houses and Screen Houses                         60.oo         90.0o         -             -         150.00         15.19
4 Sets of Laboratory Equipment and Furniture             80.00        120.00         -             -         200.00         17. 72
4 Sets Electrical Generating Equipment                    --          220.00                                 220.00         27.85
Transportation
2 Speed Boats                                            30.00         -             -             -          30.00           3.80
2 Jeep/Pick-up                                           vo.oo         -             -             -          50.00           6.33
3. Land Development
100 Acs Light Land Levelling        )                    80.oo        120.00         -             -         200.00           -
200 Acs Ditching and Channels
Special Land Development (e.g. Water Depth
Control)                                                60.00         90.00         -             -         150.00           -
4.  Bulldings
4Sets of Farm Buildings                                                                                  (   300.00         11.39
4 Offices/Laboratories  (2,000 sq ft)                                                                    (   550.00         27.85
4 Gues1 Houses (2,000 sq ft)                                                                             (  550.00          20.80
4 Houses (1,340 sq ft) (Senior Scientific Officer)   587.84         1,102.2       1,616.56        367.40 (   369.00          14.ol
9 Houses (1,000 sq ft) (Scientific Officer)                                                              (   563.00         21.38
15 Houses (830 sq ft) (Grade III Employee)                                                                (   779.00         29.78
18 Houses (500 sq ft) (Grade IV Employee               ___ _         _                                        563.00         21.38
Sub-Total           1,167.84      2,072.20      1,616.56       367.40 ( 5,224.00          261.68
II.  Housing at Headcuarters- (JQioWebpu
I Director's House (3,200 sq ft)                                                                         (  240.00          12.15
i Associate Directors House (3,000 sq ft)                                                                (  225.00          11.39
12 Principal Scientific Officers' Houses (1,770 sq ft)                                                    ( 1,460.25         55.45
22 Senior Scientific Officers' Houses (1,340 sq ft)                                                       ( 2,026.75         76.97
32 Scientific Officers' Houses (1,000 sq ft)                                                              ( 2,000,00         75.95
53 Grade rII 8zployee Houses (830 sq ft)               1,284.35      2,729.27      3,210.9        802.73  ( 2,749.00        104.39
61 Grade IV Employee Houses (500 sq ft)                                                                   ( 1,906.25         72.39
Total                                                                  (10,607.25        408.69
Already Covered by Government Funds                                                                    ( 2,580.00         97.97
Balance Required                                                                   ( 8,027.25        310.72
I, and II       Total                2,452.19     4,801.47      4,827.46      1,170.13  13,251.25         572.40
10% Contingencies                   a_ 2 z522       480.15        482-75 117-01  _1, ,3253                57.L24
Total                2,697.41     5,281.62      5,310.21      1,287.14  14,576.38         629.64






ANNEX 4
Page 1
BANGLADESH
CEREAL SEEDS PROJECT
Seed Multiplication, Procurement and Distribution
Past Performance
A. Structure and Functions of the Bangladesh
Agricultural Development Corporation
1.        The Bangladesh Agricultural Development Corporation (BADC),
established in 1961 as a semi-autonomous agency within the Department of
Agriculture, is responsible for seed multiplication and distribution.
BADC is administered by a board of six directors, of whom five are appointed
by the Government, and one (the Registrar of Cooperative Societies) is a
director ex officio. The Government appoints one of the directors to be
chairman and chief executive.
2.        The Corporation has powers to act independently of government
procedures in carrying out its functions, in all matters except those of
policy, audit and accounts, where it is strictly bound to follow government
directions. BADC has powers to recruit staff under its own conditions of
service and possesses disciplinary powers defined by its own regulations.
Functions of the Corporation
3.        One of BADC's main functions is to procure, transport, store anrc
distribute supplies of agricultural inputs including seeds and fertilizers.
as well as agricultural machinery and equipment. Also, it has powers to
promote the establishment of cooperative societies for distribution and other
agricultural development purposes. It is empowered to operate government-
owned seed multiplication, livestock and fruit farms, on terms laid down by
Government; it may promote the manufacture of improved agricultural machinery
but may not itself undertake such manufacture; and it may also pursue various
other agricultural development activities.
4.        Another major function of BADC is to promote the development of
irrigation in Bangladesh by organizing the supply, maintenance and
operation of low-lift pumps and tubewells either in cooperation with or
as the executing agency of the Thana Irrigation Program (TIP) 1/. In
1/   The program under which the local Government Department coordinates, at
the thana level, the activities of BADC, the Bangladesh Water Development
Board, the Department of Agriculture and the Rural Works Program to
organize and operate lowlift pumps and tubewells for groups of farmers.



ANNEX 4
Page 2
designated project areas it may also undertake a complete range of agricultural
development functions, including research, extension, marketing and the
provision of credit. A summary of physical achievements of the BADC
development schemes between 1965/66 and 1969/70, the last year of operations
unaffected by disturbances, is given in Table 1.
Finance
5.        The Corporation derives its funds from:
(a) grants and loans from the Government;
(b) grants from local authorities;
(c)  proceeds of sales of bonds issued by the Government:
(d) loans sanctioned by the Government;
te) charges levied on beneficiaries of its projects;
(;%) other fees and charges sanctioned by the Government in
BADC project areas.
Its annual budget is subject to the approval of the Government. BADC's
budgeted expenditure for 1969/70 totalled Rs 293.3 million, of which
approximately Rs 4 million was allocated to seed production 3nd distribution
programs.  The 1972/73 budgeted expenditure was Tks 455 million with most
of the rise due to the effect of the devaluation of the Taka on foreign
exchange expenditure.  Out of the 1972/73 budget Tks 15.5 million was allocated
to the seeds program with the increased allocation due to nrovision for
importing seeds during the postwrar reconstruction phase.
Audit of Accounts
6.        The Corporation's accounts, which must be maintained in a forr
prescribed by the Covernment, are subject to annuial audit by the Auditor--
General.
B. Seed Supply by the BADC
,.        The seed supply operations of the BADC are carried out by two
separate divisions within the Corporation's Field Wing. The Farms
Division is responsible for production of seed on land owned and operated
by BADC. The Seeds Division is responsible for organizing seed production
by private growers and seed procurement from all sources including BADC's
seed farms. Operations have only been partly successful to date. Both
quality and quantity of seed produced locally have been inadequate, mainly
because of:



ANNEX 4
Page 3
(a) a lack of trained and experienced staff;
(b) a lack of seed processing equipment and inadequate storage:
(c) a lack of foundation seed production facilities:
(d) an absence of quality control services:
(e) gaps in the development of BADC farms;
(f) extreme difficulty in supervising seed production on
widely dispersed private growers' farms; and
(g) the absence, until recently, of high-yielding varieties.
As a result, low quality of some of the seed produced to date has engendered
adverse reaction to Government seed among farmers.
BADC's Seed Production - Farms Division
8.        The Division operates 21 farms located throughout the country,
with a total area of 6,516 acres of which 5,340 acres are classified as
cultivable. The largest farm is nearly 3,000 acres; there are four farms
of approximately 500 acres each and 16 of 100 acres each. The Division,
headquartered in Dacca, is staffed by a manager (Farms), a deputy manager.
a seed agronomist and a small clerical and accounting staff. With the
exception of Dattanagar farm (2,800 acres) which is under the control of
a chief superintendent and operates as a conglomerate of five sub-farms,
each farm is managed by a superintendent who is generally an agricultural
graduate.
9.        Substantial investments had been made on the farms during the
five years preceding the 1971 hostilities particularly in irrigation,
mechanization, storage and housing but development has been halted since
early 1971. On the farming side, the result has been an increase in
cereal production reportedly from 1,400 tons in 1961/62 to 3,100 tons in
1969/70. However, average yields of 18 maunds (0.66 tons) per acre for
rice and 12 maunds (0.44 tons) per acre for wheat are relatively low and
reflect extreme variability between farms and between seasons. The
following are deficiencies which the project is designed to correct (see
Annex 5).
(a)  Irrigation.  While 40 tubewells (mostly 2-cusec) and
lowlift pumps have been installed, the total irrigated
area is less than 2,000 acres. This is because irrigation
canal development and land levelling is incomplete. In
addition, water use has been wasteful due to lack of
experience of BADC farm staff with irrigation techniques.



ANNEX 4
Page 4
(b) Machinery and Equipment. Field machinery is not standard-
ized and breakdowns are frequent and lengthy due to
unsatisfactory maintenance and lack of spares, Partly
because of the unreliability of the mechanical equipment
under these circumstances, large numbers of btllocks are
kept on all farms. Duplication of draft power is common,
and both animals and tractors are underutilized much of
the year, yet they are unable to carry out land preparation
in time at critical periods. None of the farms is equipped
to handle substantial quantities of grain and Lone has
seed drying and cleaning equipment.
(c)  Management.  While most farm suoerinitendents hold academic
agricultural qualifications they all lack experience of
efficient management of large farms, This is understandable
in the absence of large grain farms in Bangladesh. Apart
from lack of experience in handling mechanical equipment
and irrigation they also lack experience in work planning
and staff management. Consequentlv manpower use is wasteful
and some farming operations are badly timed. The net effect
is high costs, low cropping intensity and low yields.
(d) Policy. BADC rates farm performance on the attainment of
production and financial targets, but gives no premium for
seed quality over consumption grain. Consequently farm
managers tend to omit or neglect measures necessary for quality
seed production like roguing, taking care to prevent mixing of
varieties and even considering primitive methods used, adequate
cleaning of seed.
(e)  Communications.  Operations are handicapped by poor access
roads, (seasonally impassable to the Dattana pr group of farms)
and inadequate farm roads.  With few of the farms connected
by telephone and a lack of motor vehicles, communications are
slow, exacerbating, for instance, cultivation delays when farm
equipment breaks down during peak operating periods.
10.       In 1969/70, recurrent expenditure of BADC farms totalled Rs 4.3
million, while earnings from sales amounted to Rs 2.8 million. In the same
year, BADC made capital investments of over Rs 1.2 million on the farms.
The results from more recent operations which were affected by the war
showed Tks 4.6 million recurrent expenditure, and Tks 1.3 million revenue.
Seed Supply from Outside BADC - Seeds Division
11.       The Seeds Division has general responsibility for the production,
procurement and distribution of improved seed of a wide range of crops.
It operates two complementary cereal programs, namely "production of seeds
through registered growers" and "procurement and distribution of improved
paddy and wheat seeds."



ANNEX 4
Page 5
12.       Registered Growers Scheme.  The scheme is designed to encourage
private farmers, "Registered Growers," to grow a large proportion of the
national seed requirements under supervision. A deputy manager of the BADC
Seeds Division is charged with specific responsibility for the Registered
Growers Scheme. The field staff of the Division comprises 18 District
Seed Development Officers (DSDO's), assisted by 85 seed development
inspectors. Registered Growers are organized as 80 Seed Units. Each unit
comprises 40 progressive farmers with between 5 and 10 acres land each. The
main incentive offered to Registered Growers is a premium price of approxi-
mately Tks 3 per maund for all seed purchased by BADC. Seed used by
growers is normally supplied from seed multiplication farms.
13.       The performance of the Registered Growers Scheme is unsatisfactory.
Apart from lack of processing equipment which also affects BADC farms
(see para 9(b)) the following are the main deficiencies of the schleme:
(a) Dispersal. Because Registered Growers are scattered
throughout the country they are difficult to supervise,
especially in view of poor road conditions and lack of
transport.
(b) Staff. The supervisory staff has not been adequately
trained in seed production and in many cases does not enjoy
the confidence of growers.
(c) Price Incentive. The premium of Tks 3 per maund paddy has
proved an inadequate incentive.
(d) Procurement Arrangements. Registered Growers are not given
contracts for specific areas of seed crop or specific
quantities of seed and BADC will only purchase from growers
if production on BADC farms is inadequate to meet definite
seed orders. Consequently seed purchases from Registered
Growers, if any, take place well after the harvest and
growers may, by then, have disposed of the crop.
Proposals outlined in Annex 6 are designed to correct these deficiencies
and to expand the operation.
14.       In 1969/70 less than 1,000 tons of paddy seed and less than tO
tons of wheat seed were purchased from Registered Growers. The average
procurement per Seed Development Inspector was slightly over 10 tons.
Although at least 3,200 farmers were given production targets, records
show that actual purchases in 1969/70 were made from only very few growers.
It also emerges that total procurement from Registered Growers of aus and
wheat seeds was in fact less than the volume required to sow the area which
was originally registered for production.
15.       BADC's accounts show that the total recurrent cost of operating
the Registered Growers' Scheme in 1969/70 (excluding the cost of procure-
ment and distribution) was Rs 1.2 million or nearly Rs 50 per maun(i
actually purchased, or about 20T/. the average farmgatc paddy
price at that time.



ANNEX 4
Page 6
16.       Procurement and Distribution.  The Seeds Division procures seed
from BADC farms, from Registered Growers and from overseas. During 1970
the Division imported 1,800 tons IP-20 seed not then available locally and
in the postwar reconstruction period, when many farmers had lost their own
seed, the Division imported over 18,000 tons seed.
17.       The Seeds Division collects and stores seed and arranges for its
distribution. For this purpose the Division hires transport and operates
seed godowns at district level. The Division has a program to build a
1,000 ton seed store with sack drying facilities in each district. So far
9 out of 18 stores have been completed, and one 60% completed. This
program is too large since BADC has not on average handled more than 3,000 -
4,000 tons seed per annum and not all the annual seed production needs
storage simultaneously. At the direction of the Head Office, seed is
despatched from main stores to thana stores operated by BADC Movement,
Storage and Sales Division. From this level it is generally sold to
farmers. Storage at the thana level needs some improvement to keep seed
separate from fertilizer. Since sales from the thana level mean that the
average farmer is about ten miles from his supply source, it would be
advisable to arrange distribution from village stores. However, seed is
packaged in bags of 2 maunds, more than the average farmer needs, and the
danger of seed contamination would be great if bags were opened at village
level. (The mission has, therefore, recommended packaging in smaller bags
(see Annex 7)).
18.       It has been Government policy so far to subsidize seed as well as
other farm inputs. Generally the selling price has been little more than
that of consumption grain. The recurrent accounts for seed procurement and
distribution for 1969/70 show a deficit of over Rs 3 million but these
costs include the importation of seed from the Philippines. The 1968/69
accounts form a more realistic basis for identifying the costs associated
with the scheme. Total procurement costs in 1968/69 amounted to Rs 3.2
million, while receipts totalled Rs 1.9 million resulting in a net deficit
equivalent to Rs 11 per maund of seed handled.



ANNEX L
Table 1
BANGLADESH
CEREAL SEEDS PROJECT
PROcRESS OF SOME BADC SCHEMES (1965/66 - 1972/73)
Scheme         Measurement               Unit       1965/66    1969/70       7273'
Fertilizer     Volume distributed        Tons       129,000    291,00C    389,000
Pest Control   Pesticides procured       Tons            470      3,500     19,000
Applicators procured
Pcwer sprayers        Number   ), 41000                   35,000
Hand sprayers         Number   )                          38,000
Irrigation     Low-lift pumps       Number of pumps   Nil2/      17 0       35,000
Tubewells           Number of pumps  NiL_/          960       6,400
Seed           Volume of paddy and       Tons         2,000       3,700      4,7w.2/
wheat seed
distributed
1/ Target figures.
2/ The Water Development Division of the BADC was established only in 1968 to
develop tubewell irrigation.
3/ Includes 983 tons of imported wheat seed.
Source:   BADC documents






ANNEX 5
Page 1
BANGLADESH
CEREAL SEEDS PROJECT
Development of BADC Seed Farms-l
A. Background
1.        Seed farms operated by the BADC Farms Division would supply the
foundation seed and 5,400 tons (45% of total projected production) of
certified seed for the project. Seventeen of the twenty-one farms operated
by BADC (comprising 5,030 ac cultivable land out of a total on all BADC farms
of 5,337 ac) have been selected for the project. Four isolated farms were
excluded because they are too far from processing sites. Selected processing
sites combine a number of criteria including: the suitability of the locations
to supply seed to important grain production areas; their proximity to a
group of BADC farmers: their suitability for contract growing schemes (see
Annex 6); their communications and the presence of an existing 1,000 tons
seed store (See Annex 7).
2.        The problems connected with operating the farms and the need for
additional facilities are described in Annex 4 and summarized below:
(a) management defects;
(b) incomplete irrigation and land development;
(c) farm machinery and equipment problems;
(d) poor communications; and
(e) a policy which does not encourage quality seed production.
The project has been designed to complete development of selected farms,
to improve management and to correct policy constraints.
B. Description of Farms
3.        Selected farms are in six groups corresponding to seed processing
centers (see Map and Table 1). These groups are distributed over the four
administrative Divisions of Bangladesh and over ten Districts. Of the
seventeen farms, two, Sadhuhati and Kashimpur have been selected for found-
ation seed production and the remaining fifteen for certified seed production.
The two foundation seed farms are located 100 miles apart from each other
to safeguard against loss of crops from a disaster at either site. Both
1/   Cost tables at the end of this Annex do not reflect the devaluation of
the US dollar.



ANNEX 5
Page 2
farms are free from flood hazards and outside the areas most severely
affected by cyclones.
4.        Land classification carried out with the help of the UNDP/FAO-
assisted Soil Survey Project shows that out of the roughly 5,000 ac cultivable
area, about 2,300 ac are "Highland" about 1,200 ac are "Medium Lowland" and
1,500 ac are "Lowland". In general "Highland" soils are light varying from
sandy loams to silt loams. Many of these are not suitable for irrigated
rice production but they are suitable for wheat and a range of crops which
require good drainage. "Medium Lowland" soils vary from silt loams through
clay loams to clay and are mostly heavy clays, suitable only for rice
production. The topography varies from almost level to gently sloping land.
Land grading to allow irrigation is partly completed.
5.        Two of the farms, Dattanagar and Madhupur have flooding problems
affecting about 1,000 ac. On both farms, the land which is subject to
flooding during the rainy season is suitable for boro cultivation without
further flood protection. At Madhupur some improvement is possible by
constructing embankments and sluices and this would allow double croppingc
However, at Dattanagar, flood protection is not considered practicable.
6.        Irrigation water on some of the farms is supplied by lowlift
pumps. These supplies are not reliable during the latter part of the dry
season (February-May), particularly due to heavy demands on surface water
resources from neighboring farmers. However, all selected farms have
proven groundwater resources which could provide a more reliable irrigation
water supply. Forty deep tubewells are in operation and groundwater resources
permit further development. The combined surface and groundwater resources
are adequate for complete dry season irrigation coverage.
C. Farm Planning Criteria
Cropping Patterns
7.        Cropping patterns proposed for the farms provide for some increases
in cropping intensity, resulting from improvements in irrigation and the
mechanization of most operations. Double cropping of rice has, as far as
possible been avoided, to cut down the risk of variety mixtures. Conse-
quently, the overall rice cropping intensity has been limited to about 100%
annually but including other crops, intensity would be about 150%. No seed
crops would be grown during the aus season because of harvesting problems,
but aus varieties would be grown during the boro or during the aman season.
Wheat production would be confined to the more permeable soils mostly located
in the northern and western areas. Projected non-seed crops are broadcast
aus and oil seeds. However, there would be flexibility to include other
crops, if BADC is required to produce other seeds, without affecting rice
and wheat seed production. Detailed planning of cropping patterns would be
carried out on the basis of "semi-detailed" soil surveys to be carried out
by the Government Soil Survey Directorate, which should be completed before
June 1974.



ANNEX 5
Page 3
Yields
8.        Although farm development works would be completed over a period
of four years, a further period would be required to build up to optimum
yields. Projected yield increases (see Table below) would result from an
increase in the proportion of high yielding varieties in the cropping pattern,
land improvements, provision of additional irrigation, drainage and flood
control works, equipment of the farms with sufficient machinery for timely
cultivation and improved agronomic practices and management. The value of
production of crops other than certified seed crops of rice and wheat is
conservatively estimated to rise from Tks 370 per acre to Tks 670 per acre
as a result of farm improvements.
BADC Seed Farms - Gross Yield Assumption -
HYV and Local
Crop and Season           Yields Before Project    Yields from Year 8 Onwards
md/acre     tons/acre    md/acre            tons/acre
Paddy
boro                      30            1.1         42                 1.5
aus                       17            0.6         42                 1.5
t. -an                    22            0.8         34                 1.2
(aus grown in aman
season)                                         27                 1.0
Wheat                       11            0.4          25                 0.9
/1   Net seed yields would be equivalent to 80% of the gross grain yields.
Yield projections are conservative, to take account of poor soils on
some farms and the fact that in large scale rice production, yields may
not reach the level achieved by selected, outstanding smallholders.
D. Project Actions
Crop Production Equipment
9.        Since timeliness of operations is of vital importance in seed
production, provision is made for sufficient tractors and equipment to
undertake all land preparation work, threshing and haulage. The existing
power equipment is of mixed origin (including USA, Russian, Rumanian and
Canadian) and much of it is either old (over 7 years) or non-functional
(due to damage, breakdown or lack of spares) (see Table 1 of this Annex) and
would be phased out during the second and third year of the project. Tractors
to be provided by the project would be of either the 35-45 or the 60-70 HP
range, which have been found by BADC to be the most useful for general
cultivation work. Tractor-mounted rotavators have been included for rice
cultivation. This would allow land preparation and puddling in one operation
but would entail careful operator training and careful equipment maintenance.



ANNEX 5
Page 4
Threshing would be done with stripped self propelled combines. Since these
would, in some instances be controlled by the processing plants 1/ - to serve
contract growers as well as BADC farms their cost is listed in Annex 7.
Combine drills have been included where wheat is to be grown. Final choice
of machinery would be determined by the servicing facilities to be provided
by manufacturers in Bangladesh and the need for standardization.
Farm Development Equipment
10.       Two-cusec tubewells or lowlift pumps would be provided to
increase irrigation facilities, to permit full dry season irrigation and
supplemental irrigation when necessary at other times. The Irrigation
Directorate of BADC would check the groundwater supply for all tubewells
and would site the wells. The Directorate would also advise on the
installation of lowlift pumps.
11.       Workshops and workshop equipment for machinery maintenance and
repair would be provided on major farms. Routine maintenance and minor
repairs only would be carried out on smaller farms with major repairs to
be done by manufacturers' agents.
Land Development - Irrigation, Drainage, Grading and Road Construction
12.       The physical layout of farms would be planned on the basis of
semi-detailed soil surveys (see para 7) and one foot contour interval
topographical maps. Appropriate contour surveys of some farms have been
completed and the remainder would be surveyed by BADC or by the Government
Survey Directorate.  The surveys should be completed before June, 1974.
13.       Land grading of irrigable land, where necessary, would be
carried out by hand. In some areas this would require special care to avoid
reducing soil fertility and the Soil Survey Directorate would advise on
appropriate grading methods.
Buildings and Facilities
14.       Existing housing would be supplemented to provide accommodation
for all key staff members and some of the labor force. This Is essential
if high-caliber staff are to be recruited and retained. Additional
storage and sheds would be supplied where necessary. Electricity is treated
as an essential amenity, and where linkage to the national grid supply is
not feasible, provision is made for generating capacity to meet both on-farm
and domestic needs on the 500 acre farms and the foundation seed farms.
To ensure rapid communications for efficient project implementation and
operation, telecommunications would be provided to 18 seed farms and proces-
sing centers which do not have telephones at present. The Telegraph and
Telephone Department would be consulted to advise on the beat means of com-
munication for each site. Where possible the Department would be asked to
install telephones, but where the project sites are too far from existing
I/   Except for the two foundation seed farms.



ANNEX 5
Page 5
telephone facilities and the cost of providing normal telephone service would
be excessive it is proposed, subject to advice from the Telegraph and Telephone
Departmeat to install single side band (SSB) short wave stations with 20 to
100 watt transmitters operating at about 3-7 megacycles, to link the sites
with BADC Headquarters. The installation of SSB communications would depend
on provision by the Telegraph and Telephone Department of suitable frequencies
and on the availability of satisfactory maintenance facilities.
Transxortation
15.       Five-ton trucks would be provided by the processing centers to
transport threshed grain to processing centers. On-farm transport, and in
most zases, transport to and from railhead for supplies would be by tractor-
trailer. Farm superintendents would be provided with jeeps or pick-ups.
Phasing of Project Works
16.       Equipment, machinery and facilities for the foundation seed farms
would be provided at the earliest possible date so that they can be operative
by the end of the second year. On most of the other farms field equipment
and macninery and workshops would also be installed in the first year of
the project (see Tables 2(a) and 2(b)). Tubewell construction and
commissioning would be completed over two years and irrigation channel
constructions and land grading would be completed by the end of the third
year of the project. Construction of roads, buildings and facilities
would be spread over the disbursement period.
Organization and Management
17.       A superintendent responsible to the Manager Farms at BADC
Head Office in Dacca would have overall responsibility for each farm
other than Dattanagar, where a chief superintendent would have overall
responsibility for 5 sub-farms each in charge of a superintendent. The
superintendents selected for the foundation seed farms at Kashimpur and
Sadhuhati would have special expertise in seed agronomy and would be
trained to supervise the seed processing plants at these farms.
1i.       At Head Office the Manager Farms would be assisted by a Deputy
ManLager and specialists in farm management and farm mechanization. The
project would provide a training program partly at the BADC Staff Training
Institute at Madhupur and partly at the farms (see Annex 10). The Head
Office specialist staff would help plan and participate in the training
program.
E. Costs, Production and Returns
Procurement
19.       All imported machinery and equipment would be subject to inter-
national competitive bidding. Much of the farm machinery and equipment in



ANNEX 5
Page 6
common use in other countries has proved unsuitable for Bangladesh and the
farm machinery specialist would assist BADC draw up specifications for
suitable machinery. Since standardized equipment for the entire project
would be essential, to provide training, repair and maintenance services and
spare parts efficiently, single tenders would be let for each complete
range of machinery (e.g. all tractors and equipment would be supplied by
the same manufacturer). Successful bidders would assist in training BADC
staff in operation and maintenance of the equipment supplied and would
euarantee effective after-sales service.
20.       Building work would be packaged into six contract groups ahd would
also be subject to competitive international bidding. However, it is expected
that, because of the size and scattered nature of contracts most of them would
be won by local firms. The tubewell drilling would also be scattered through-
out the country. The largest probable tubevell contract would contain about
10 tubewells and would cost less than US$50,000. Experience with other IDA
tubewell projects in Bangladesh indicates that contracts containing even 300
tubewells in a relatively compact area fail to attract adequate response
from foreign bidders. Consequently, contracts for tubewell drilling would
be by local competitive bidding, in which foreign firms represented in
-..adesh could compete with local firms on an equal basis.
21.       Land development works consist of improving and brick surfacing
roads, constructing small cross-section drainage ditches and brick irrigation
furrows and a small amount of land levelling. The work is spread over 24
sites and is not suitable for mechanization. It would be most effectively
carried out by the existing farm labor force in off-peak periods supplemented
by some casual labor. Any small residual labor contracts to complete work
not undertaken by the farm labor force would be awarded after local competition.
Capital Costs
22.       Estimates of capital costs are based on current (1972) prices.
Imported Items of machinery and equipment are priced at FOB prices in
producer countries with an allowance of 25% for spares and a further 25%
for crating, shipping and insurance. Allowance of 5% on foreign exchange
costs has been made to cover local handling charges. Local-cost items
(e.g. housing, roads and irrigation canals) are priced on the basis of
up-to-date standard government costs. Capital costs for farm development
are summarized in Table 4.
Recurrent Costs
23.       A distinction is made between direct and indirect recurrent costs.
Direct recurrent costs include farm labor, bullock and field machinery opera-
tion and material inputs. The overhead costs of the farms, which include
farm staff, administrative and general services and basic infrastructure,
are treated as indirect recurrent costs. Preproject costs are based on BADC
annual farm reports, confirmed by examination of individual farm accounts.
24.       Direct costs for the project are based on current farm records,
on prices quoted by various suppliers of farm inputs and on conventional



ANNEX 5
Page 7
assumptions about machinery performance. Prices of inputs and costs of
operations are summarized in Table 5.
25.       Based on the farms' annual reports an average of indirect costs
has been calculated for the 100 and the 500 acre farms. Increases in in-
direct costs would result from regrading of staff and the creation of a
small number of new posts (e.g. mechanics). Provision is also made for
operation of vehicles, supply of electricity and increased maintenance work.
26.       Details of crop production and recurrent costs for farm groups are
summarized in Tables 6 and 7.
Replacement Costs
27.       Allowance is made for the replacement of farm machinery and
equipment which would become obsolete during the life of the project.
Frequency and costs of replacements are given in Table 9.
Production and Returns
28.       On the basis of the yield assumptions given in para 8 and assumed
cropping patterns given in Table8A, the total production of cereal seeds
on the farms servicing the 6 processing plants would be as follows:



ANNEX 5
Page 8
Processing Units                     Gross Seed Tons          Clean Seed Tons
Paddy   Wheat   Total  Paddy   Wheat   Total
1. NOORNAGAR
(Dattanagar, Noornagar,
Meherpur, Pangsa,
Tambulkhana)                 3,600     750   4,350   2,900       600  3,500
2. DINAJPUR
(Domar, Thakurgaon,
Nilphamari, Rangpur)           300     450      750     250      350    600
3. TEBNIA
(Tebnia, Kalyanpur)             450     200      650     350      150    500
4. MYMENSINGH
(Madhupur, Netrakona)           600     150      750     500      100    600
5. ITAKHOLA
(Itakhola)                      100      50      150      80       20    100
6. CHITTAGONG
(Panchgacia)                    150      _       150     100       -     100
TOTAL        5,200   1,600   6,800   4,180   1,220   52400
29.       The two small foundation seed farms would receive particularly
concentrated attention and would be supervised by above average managers.
Consequently, yields between 10% - 20% above the average on the other farms
is projected. Estimated annual foundation seed requirements to be met by
these farms are: wheat 120 tons, paddy 70 tons. Gross returns from the pro-
duction of cereal seed on certified farms would be supplemented by income
from the sale of consumption grain, residues and other crops grown in
rotation with paddy and wheat.
30.       The investments on the 17 BADC farms selected for the project are
oriented towards a continuous production of high quality seed rather than
towards maximum profitability. The requirements of timeliness and quality
in seed production involve higher investment and production costs as compared
to consumption grain production. As shown in Table 10, the farms, now
operating at a deficit, would be expected to generate an operating surplus
of Tks 3.6 million per annum at full development. These annual surpluses
would be sufficient to amortize the costs of investments and to cover the
costs of replacing machinery.



BANGLADESH CEPEAL SEEDS PROJECT
SELECTED BADC FARMS - PRESENT SITUlATION
Type and
Name of Farm              Total      Total      Land Classification   Number        Number of      Area      Tractors    Staff
Area      Arable    High   Medium   Low        of         Low-Lift  Irii:-ated   on BADC    Houses
(acres    (acres)    Land    Land    Land   Tubewells       PUmps        Acres      Books
-_-----acres----~
Foundation Seeds
Kashimpur                  98       86        42      44       -         -            1           20         iV          3
Sadhuhati                100        86         5      72       9        1             0           20         -           5
Certified Seeds
Noornagar Group                                                                                                  2
Dattanagar              2,805    2,350       960    438      952        18            3        1,100         2          37
Meherour                 545       458       345      38      25         3            2          160          3 i        2
Noornagar                102        88         -      61      27        1             -           ho         -           1
Tanbulkhana              103        89         8      69      12        12/           1           20         1           1
Pangsa                   100.       87        16      46      25        1             1           30         1           1
Dinaspur Groulp
Domar                     516      17        257.    60      100        3             -6/        120          45/        8
Thakurgaon               100        74        22      47       5        -1-                       15         -           6
Nilphamari                 99       89        52      16      21          6           -           40          -          3
Rangpur                  104       -75        14    h5        16        1_/           _           20          -4
Tebnia Group
Tebnia                    501      375       200    148       27        4             5.,        225          6kW       14
Kalyanpur                100        77        45      10      22        0             1-          20         -           1
My.mensinvh Group
Yadhiphur                 499      410       200      60     150        1             5          150                    10
Netrakona                  99       88        10      65      13        1             -           45          -          3
Itakhola
Itakhola                 122       101        42      10      49        -             1           20         1           5
Chittagong
Panchgacia               100        69         6      62       1        1             1           40         -           1
1/  In poor condition.
2/ 2 were lost during the war, 3 were damaged and are non-functional, 2 have been condemned and 6 others have reached
this stage, while 6 are largely out of action for lack of spares. Five of the functioning tractors and 9 of the
remainder are on loan and could be withdrawn at any tine.  None of the tractors o-wned by the farm is less than
7 years old.
3/  h on loan and practically useless.
/ One damaged the remainder to be condemned.                                                                                   \.rt
3/ To be condemned.
'/  Needs replacement.
_/  Out of order.






ANNEX 5
TABLE 2A
BANGLADESH
CEREAL SEEDS PROJECT
BADC FARM DEVELOPMENT - PHASING OF EQUIPMENT AND FACILITIES
TOTAL OF TEN-/ 100-ACRE CERTIFIED AND TWOS! FOUNDATION SEED FARMS
Item                      Unit      Year 1   Year 2   Year 3   Total
1. CROP PRODUCTION EQUIPMENT
Tractors (35-45H.P)                   No.         8         5         -        13
Traile-_s                             No.         6         3         -         9
Rcota-acors (Small)                   No.         8         5         -        13
Pioughs (Small)                       No.         8         5         -        13
Disc Harrows (Small)                  No.         8         5         -        13
Combine Drills                        No.         5         2         -         7
Comb ine Threshers                    No.         2         -         -         2
Sprayers (Motor)                      No.        16        10         -        26
Sprayers (Hand)                       No.        39        26         -        65
2. FARM1 .E VELOMENT EQUIPMENT
Tubewells                             No.         6         4         -        10
Low Lift Pumps                        No.         4         4         -         8
Mechanic's Tools                     Sets          8         5         -       13
Blades                                No.         8         5         -        13
. LANND DEVELOPMENT
Farm A,cess Roads                  '000 ft         3        7         4        14
Field Access Roads                 '000 ft        4        12         8        24
Irrigation Channels                '000 ft        8        26        17        51
Ditches                            '000 ft         1         -         -         1
Culverts (Small)                      No.          1         1         -         2
Grading (Minor)                     Acres        40        120       80       240
4. BUILDINGS AND FACILITIES
Housing (Size 1,350 sq ft)            No.          1         1         -         2
Housing 'Size 800 sq ft)              No.          3         6         _         9
Housing (Size 650 sq ft)              No.          5        11         -        16
Hous:Lng (Size 500 sq ft)             No.          I         I                   2
Hou3ing (Size 250 sq ft)              No.          1         2         -         3
Stores (Size 1,200 sq ft)             No.          3         6        -         9
Laboratories2/
(Size 1,200 sq ft)            No.          1         1        -         2
Electrification (25 KW + Wiring)  Sets             1         1         -         2
Electrification - Wiring Only        Sets          1         3         -        4
Telecommunication                    Sets          2         8         -       10
5. TRANSPORTATION
Jeep/Pick-Up                          No.          8         r         -        13
I/ Itakola, Kalyanpur, Netrakhona, Noornagar, Pangsa, Tambulkana, Thakurgaon,
Nilphamari, Noornagar, Panchgancia.
2/ Kashimpur, Saduhati.



ANNEX 5
TABLE 2B
BANGLADESH
CEREAL SEEDS PROJECT
BADC FARM DEVELOPMENT - PHASING OF EQUIPMENT AND FACILITIES
TOTAL OF NINE 500-ACRE CERTIFIED SEED FARMSI/
Total
Item                          Unit    Year 1   Year 2   Year 3   Units
1. CROP PRODUCTION EQUIPMENT
Tractors (60-70HP)                        No.        6         4         -        10
Tractors (35-45HP)                        No.       18         8         3        29
Trailers (3-4 tons)                       No.       16         8         2        26
Rotavators (Large)                        No.        9         -         -         9
Rotavators (Small)                        No.        9         -         -         9
Ploughs (Large)                           No.        9         -         -         9
Ploughs (Small)                           No.       27         -         -        27
Disc Harrows (Large)                      No.        9         -         -         9
Disc Harrows (Small)                      No.        9         -         -         9
Combine Drills                            No.        9         -         -         9
Sprayers (Motor)                          No.       20        15         -        35
Sprayers (Hand)                           No.       35        20         -        55
YirARM DEVELOPMENT EQUIPMENT
Tubewells                                 No.        7         8         -        15
Low Lift Pumps                            No.        3         2         -         5
Workshop Equipment (Major)                No.        1         -         _
Workshop Equipment (Minor)                No.        9         -         -         9
Fuel Tanks                                No.        9         -         -         9
Blades                                    No.        6         3         -         9
Field Planes                              No.        6         3         -         9
Chisel Ploughs                            No.        9         -         -         9
3. LAND DEVELOPMENT
?arm Access Roads                      '000 ft       8        26        17        51
Field Access Roads                     '000 ft      14        44        29        87
Irrigation Chaninels                  '000 ft       20        50        30       100
Ditches                                '000 ft      20        20        30       100
Culverts (Large)                          No.        1         2         1         4
Culverts (Small)                          No.        3         8         5        16
Grading (Major)                          Acres      65       265       200       530
Grading (Minor)                          Acres    100        450       350       900
4. BUILDINGS AND FACILITIES
Housing (Size 1,350 sq ft)                No.        1         -         -         1
Housing (Size 800 sq ft)                  No.        2         5         -         7
HousitLg (Size 650 sq ft)                 No.        1         5         3         9
Housing (Size 500 sq ft)                  No.        5        15         -        20
Housing (Size 200 sq ft)                  No.        2         4         -         6
Offices (Size 1,200 sq ft)                No.        1         1         -         2
Disp.ensary Bank (Size 1,600 sq ft)    No.           1         -         -         1
Electrification (25 KW + Wiring)         Sets        3         9         -        12
Telecommunication                        Sets        1         7         -         8
5. TRANSPORTATION
Jeeps/Pick-ups                            No.        6         5         -        11
1/ Dattanagar (5 farms at 500 acres approximately), Domar, Madhupur, Meherpur, Tebnia.



ANNEX 5
Table 3
Page 1
BANGLADESH
Cereal Seeds Project
Farm Equipment, Building and Facilities
Description and Unit Costs
Tks       kEC
Per Unit     m
1.   Crop Production Equipment
Tractor:        Wheel tractor, 60-70 HP, diesel
Hydraulic control, special rice
tires, 3-point hitch cage
wheels;                                31,600      100
Wheel tractor, 35-45 IIP (as
above);                               28,300      100
Trailer:        2-wheel low-pressure tires, wide
base, 3-4 tons capacity;               4,500      100
Rotavator
(Large):       Working width 6 ft, 3-point
linkage, adjustable blade speed,
depth control                           7,900     100
(Small)         As above but working width
5 ft                                   6,700      100
Plough:         5-Disc, 26" diameter, gauge
wheel support stand, alternatively
mould board, 3 bottom reversible;    7,900         100
3-Disc, 26" diameter (as above),
alternatively mould board 2 bottom
reversible;                             6,700     100
Harrow:         Disc 20", 18-20 front cut-out,
back plain discs;                       5,600      100
Disc 20", 14-16 front cut-out
discs, back plain discs;                4,800      100
Combine
Drill:        Fertilizer/seed for wheat              14,200      100
Thresher:       Self-propelled combine harvester
for paddy but without header, reel
etc.;                                  43,500      100
Sprayer:
(Motor):     For pesticides, knapsack                   790      100
(Iland):     For pesticides, knapsack                   400      100



ANNEX 5
Table 3
Page 2
Tks         FEC
Per Unit      (m)
2.   Farm Development Equipment
Tubewell:       2-cusec, average depth 300 ft,
screen 20 ft, pump set with
20-HP motor;                          80,000         50
Lowlift         2-cusec, diesel engine 15 HP
Pump:         plus accessories;                      15,000        70
Workshop:       Major workshop for tractor
repair and maintenance at
Dattanagar only;                       23,700       100
Minor workshops for main-
tenance on main farms;                  7,900       100
Mechanic tools for every
farm;                                   3,500       100
Fuel Tank:      1,000-gallon capacity                  12,300       100
Blade:          12 ft width;                            2,400       100
Fieldplane:    Hydraulic control, 6 ft width;          12,000       100
Chisel
Plough:       One tooth;                              5,700       100
3.   Land Development
Roads:          Main roads, fills and pavement
costs per 1,000 ft                     25,000        15
Internal roads, fills and
grading costs per 1,000 ft;             8,000       -
Irrigation:    Pucca canal embankment and lining
(2 cusec) per running ft;                  10        5
Drainage:       Culverts, major, plus flaps per
unit costs;                            21,000        15
Culverts, minor, per unit costs;        4,100        -
Ditches;                                    6 /1    -
Grading:        Major land grading, per acre;             500        -
Minor land grading, per acre;             250        -
4.   Buildings and Facilities
Farm
Building:    Per sq ft                                   40        30
/1   Average cost per foot for various sizes of ditches.



ANNEX 5
Table 3
Page 3
Tks       FEC
Per Unit    (
Housing:        Per sq ft                                  40       30
Laboratories:  Per sq ft                                   40       30
Electricity:   Generators for electricity for
both domestic and farm needs on
500-acre farms, foundation and
stock seed farms, plus H.Q.
Dattanagar, power:
25 KW - diesel engine;                55,000      100
Wiring only when mains electri-
city is available;                    30,000      1on
Telecommuni-
cations:      SSB receiver/transmitter;              16,000     100
Antenna                                 1,500      100
5.   Transportation
Truck:          Diesel, 4-wheel drive, 5 ton;          45,000      100
Jeep/Pick-up:  4-wheel drive;                          25,000      100
NOTE:     Costs for imported machinery are on a FOB basis.  Allowance is
made in capital cost tables for spares (25%) and for crating,
shipping and insurance (25%).






BANGLADESH
CEREAL SEEDS PROJECT
BADC FARM DEVELOPMENT - SUMMARY OF TOTAL CAPITAL COSTS
Foreign
Exchange
Year 1     Year 2      Year 3      Year 4       Total         Total      Component
---------------------TKs '000----------------------          -----US$ '000------
100 ACRE FARMS
Crop Production Equipment                              906.2       452.4        -           -         1,358.6        172.0        172.0
Farm Development Equipment                             835.8       599.4        -           -         1,435.2        181.7        126.6
Land Development                                       207.1       565.1       354.0        -         1,126.2        142.6         10.0
Buildings and Facilities                               622.0    1,193.0        412.0       392.0      2,619.0        331.5        148.6
Transportation                                         312.5       195.3        -           -           507.8         64.3         64.3
SUB-TOTAL                                       2,883.6    3,005.2       766.0       392.0      7,046.8         892.1        521.5
500 ACRE FARMS
Crop Production Equipment                            2,073.8       733.3       146.8        -         2,953.9        373.9        373.9
Farm Development Equipment                           1,257.0       931.1        -           -         2,188.1        277.0         198.3
Land Development                                       722.8    1,941.8    1,366.0          -         4,030.6        510.2          33.4
Buildings and Facilities                               554.5    1,287.5        299.1       252.1      2,393.2        302.9         268.3
Transportation                                         234.4       195.3        -           -           429.7         54.4          54.4
SUB-TOTAL                                       4,842.5    5,089.0    1,811.9         252.1    11,995.5       1,518.4        928.3
ALL FARMS
Crop Production Equipment                            2,980.0    1,185.7        146.8        -         4,312.5         545.9        545.9
Farm Development Equipment                           2,092.8    1,530.5         -           -         3,623.3        458.7         324.9
Land Development                                       929.9    2,506.9    1,720.0          -         5,156.8        652.8          43.4
Buildings and Facilities                             1,176.5    2,480.5        711.1       644.1      5,012.2        634.5         416.9
Transportation                                         546.9       390.6        -           -           937.5         118.7        118.7
SUB-TOTAL                                       7,726.1    8,094.2    2,577.9         644.1    19,042.3       2,410.6      1,449.8
Local Handling Costs: 5% of Foreign Exchange 1/            207.3       153.0         7.3        -           367.6         46.5        -
SUB-TOTAL                                      7,933.4    8,247.2       2,585.2       644.1    19,409.9       2,457.1      1,449.8
Physical Contingencies  107.                               793.3      824.7        258.5        64.4      1,941.0        245.7        145.0          I
TOTAL                                      8,726.7    9,071.9    2,843.7         708.5    21,350.9       2,702.8       1,594.8
1/  This percentage is only calculated on items directly imported for the project and not on the foreign exchange component of buildings,
etc.






ANTNEX 5
TABLE 5
BANGLADESH                             Page 1
CEREAL SEEDS PROJECT
FARM MACHINERY OPERATING ASSUMPTIONS AND COSTS
1.        Tractor - Wheel type, 35-45 HP
(i) Annual Utilization
Assumed that 35 - 45 HP tractors will be used for
1000 hours per annum on both 500 and 100 acre farms
for land preparation and culvitation, and saving,
harvesting (hauling) and general duties
(ii) Operating Cost Per Hour (35 - 45 HP tractor)      Tk/hr
- Repair, maintenancet
15% of capital cost per year -
0.15 x 28 300                              4.25
- Fuel:  1.5 ga/h, Tk 3.65 x 1.5                    5.48
- Lubricant: 10% fuel value .10 x 5.48               .55
- Implenents and contingencies                      1.72
Total           12.00
Oper_ting Cost Per Hour (60 - 70 HP tractor)
-  15% per cent of capital cost per year
0.15 x 316oo                    =4.74
'-1000
-  Fuel: 1.5 galAh, Tk 2.65 x 1.8         =         6.57
- Lubricant: 10% of fuel value,
0.10 x 6.51                    =          0.66
-  Implements and contingencies                     2.03
Total           14.00
(iii) Haulage
Unit operating cost per ton of paddy:
-  Capacity of 1 trailer                         3 tons
-  Average hauling distance                   .75 mile
- Round trip travel duration                   1.5 hour
- Rate of work - 3 tons                      2.0 ton/hr
1.5 h                 (straw & grain)
Unit cost per hour (tractor & trailer)       TI    12
Unit cost per ton (straw and grain)           TK     6
Unit cost per ton (grain)               say   TK    10



ANNEX 5
TABLE 5
Fage 2
2.        Threshing
Stripped Combine                              1.5 ton/hr
Investment per thresher                       Tk 43,500
Number of hours of operation per year:
Average:                                    750 ton/yr
Hours per year:   750 x 1/1.5        5      500 hours
Operating costs per hour:                          Tk/hr
- Repair, maintenance -
15% of capital cost = .15 x 43,500    appr.    13.00
- Fuel: 2 gal/h = Tk 3.65 x 2          =           7.30
- Lubricanti greas6 - 1C percent
fuel value                               0 0.73
- Contingencies                        =           0.97
Total          22_0_ 0
Unit cost per ton: 0.67 hr/ton =
Tk 22 x o.67                 =       TK  14.7
say TK  15 per ton
3.        Irrigation
Tu.bewells 2 cusec capacity/20 HP diesel engine
- Irrigation requirements (average)
Water Depth Requirement  RurEig       actimeac
Boro (HYVs)                   3141         2 hr/ac
Aman (additional watering)      8"          4 hr/ac
- Average acreage per tubewell (2 cusec) = 40 acres of
each crop
- Number of hours of operation:
Boro                   = 20 hr x 40 ac = 800 h
Aman                   =  4 hr x 40 acz -l6O h
960 h0
say:   1000 h/yr
- Repair, maintenance
10 percent of engine and pump
value: 0.1 x 20,000                            2.00
1000
- Fuel: 0.75 gal/h Tk 3.65 x 0.75                   2.74
- Lubricant                                         0.27
- Contingencies                                     0.99
Cost per hour:         6.00
Unit cost per acre:
Boro = 6 x 20 =                         120 per acre
Aus  = 6 x 4  =                          24 per acre



4.       Laour Costs - Tk 5 per man day (8.5 hrs).
5.       Draft Power _  Between Tk 4 day/per pair of bullocks.
5.       Fertilizer -   Average price Tk 0.32 per lb.
Pesticides -   Cost for each crop - see Table  '.






ANNEX
TABLE
BANGLADESH
CEREAL SEEDS PROJECT
BADC FARMS - DIRECT COST OF PRODUCTION PER ACRE
Crop                 Labor  Draft  Seed  Fertilizer  Pesticides  Irrigation  Total
---------------------Cost Per Acre In TKs--------------------
----------------- B E F O R E   P R O J E C T ---------------
SEED CROPS
Boro,>                         575    80       15      100            20           120        910
Aus .                          550    75       15       80            20            24        764
T. Aman-,                      550    80       15       80            15            30        770
Wheat                          320    50       65       60            10            24        529
Rabi Oil. Crop                 180    50       10       35            -             -         275
------------------ W I TH   P R O J E C T ---------
SEED CROPS
Boro-                          300    70       15      140            30            75        630
Aus -(Grown out of Season)   300    70         15      110            30            35        560
T. Aman-                       300    70       15      110            30            35        560
Wheat                          220    60       40       60            -             30        410
B. Aus (HYV)                   220    60       60       60            30            20        450
Rabi Oil Crop                  170    40       10       40            10            30        300






ANNEX 5
TABLE 7
BANGLADESH
CEREAL SEEDS PROJECT
BADC FARMS - INDIRECT COST OF PRODUCTION
BEFORE PROJECT                WITH PROJECT
Farm             Per Farm   All Farms          Per Farm    All Farms
---------------------TKs '000_--------------------
100 ACRE FARMS
Staffing                 21.0         252.0            22.0         264.0
Office Expenses           0.5           6.0             0.6           7.2
Repair & Maintenance      0.7           8.4             1.1          13.2
Vehicle Operation          1.3         15.6             2.6          31.2
Electricity Supply          -           -               5.0          60.0
Contingencies             0.7           8.4             1.1          13.2
TOTAL:              24.2         290.4            32.4        388.8
500 ACRE FARMS
Staffing                 50.0        450.0             54.0        486.0
Office Expenses           0.8          71.6             1.1           9.9
Repair & Maintenance      5.8          52.2             7.3          65.7
Vehicle Operation         8.4          75.6            14.0         126.0
Electricity Supply         5.0          5.0-I           6.5          58.5
Contingencies             0.9           8.1              1.5         13.5
TOTAL:              70.9        662.5             84.4        759.6
1/ At present only one farm is supplied with electricity.






BANGLADESH
CEREAL SEEDS PROJECT
BADC FARMS - RECURRENT COSTS AND CROPPING PATTERNS
Dinajpur Group        Tebnia Group       Noornagar Group    Mymensingh Group         Panchganchia             Itakola            Foundation               Total
Crop                                                                                                                                                        Seed Farus
Acres  TKs '000      Acres  TKs '000      Acres  TKI  '000     Acres  T9s '000       Acres  TKs '000       Acres  TKs '000      Acres  TKs '000       Acres  TKs '000
--------------------------------------------------------------- B E F O  R E   P R O J E C T ---------------------------------------------------------------
DIRECT COSTS OF PRODUCTION
SEED CROPS
Boro                             -       -            10      9.2            6        5.4        49       44.6        3        2.7           3         2.7         7      6.4           78      71.0
Aus                             156    119.2         150    114.6          804      614.2       100       90.9       28       21.4          40        30.6        58     44.3        1,336  1,035.2
T. Amian                        264    203.3         154    118.6          467      359.6       156      143.2       42       32.3          31        23.9        71     54.7        1,185    935.6
Wheat                           153     80.9          70      37.0         425      224.8        15         7.9      -         -             7         3.7        25     13.2          695    367.5
SUB-TOTAL                 573    403.4         384    279.4         1,702   1,204.0       320       286.6       73      56.4           81       60.9       161    118.6         3,294  2,409.3
NON-SEED CROPS                     21     10.3         164      14.8       1,516      742.8       164       95.0       13        6.4          37        18.1        90     35.0        2,005    922.0
INDIRECT COSTS                              138.5                  95.1                  468.0                  90.1               24.2                    24.2               48.4                  888.5
TOTAL                     694    552.2          548    389.0        3,218   2,414.8       484       471.7       86      87.0          118       103.2      251    202.0         5,299  4,49.4
---------------------------------------------------------------- W I T H   P R 0 J E C T ----------------------------------------------------------------
DIRECT COSTS OF PRODUCTION
SEED CROPS
Boro/Aus                        125     78.7         150      94.5        1,100     693.0       270       170.1       50      31.5          40        25.2        40      28.0        1,775  1,121.0
Aus (Grown out of Season)       150     84.0         200    112.0           800     448.0       200       112.0       50      28.0          40        22.4        -        -          1,440    806.4
T. Aman                          -       -            -        -            900     504.0        -         -          -        -             -         -          35      21.0          935    525.0
Wheat                           470    192.7         200      82.0          800     328.0       130        53.3       -         -           40        16.4       120      54.0        1,760    726.4
SUB-TOTAL                 745    355.4          550    288.5        3,600   1,973.0        600      335.4      100       59.5         120        64.0       195    103.0        5,910  3,178.8
NON-SEED CROPS
B. Aus (HYV)                    250    112.5         100      45.0          400     180.0        90        40.5       -         -            20         9.0        -       -            860    387.0
Oil Seed Crops                   50     15.0          50      15.0          500     150.0        90        22.0       10        3.0          -                    -        -            700    205.0
SUB-TOTAL                 300    127.5          150     60.0          900      330.0       180       62.5       10        3.0          20         9.0        -        -          1,560    592.0
INDIRECT COSTS                               149.2                116.8                  603.6                 116.8                32.4                    32.4               64.8                1,116.0   r
TOTAL                   1,045    631.1          700    465.3        4,500   2,906.6        780       514.7      110      94.9         140       105.4       195    167.8        7,470  4,886.8



BANGlADFSH
CEAL SEEDS PROJECT
BADC FAR4 - PRODUCTION AND INCOME
Dinejpus  Group    Tebnis Croup      Noornagar Grous    Mymensingh .roup    Fnnchga.nchis          Itkh.ol.         Foudniation Seed        Average         Totluti       Pre              yVP
______________   ____________   __________   ________________   ____________   ____________   ____________F_r ___ Yield/Ac  Productioti merer    4M
Acres     Tons    Acres   Tons         Acres       Tons      Acres    Tons      Acres   Tsns    Acres   Ton-        Acres      Tons            MO/          Tons           TEK         WT  Z'000
----------------------------------------------------------------- B E F   RE8 P R OJ E C T ----------.------.---------__----- -------------------------------------------------
SEED CROPS
Boro                               _         _        1L       11           f         6         49       60                  s        3       4          7           7          30              91           40               99.2
As.                                130        I       l,O     97        r804       464        119       33         O      24        40      06         58          36          17             783           40              8s535
0. Anon                            64      201       154     128         467       303        1846     141        ?8      47        31      26         71          57          22             903           40              984.3
Wheat                              1lS       40        70      3'         42?       259         15        5         -      -          7                 25                                     463           43              542.5
S'c-T0TA4.                      5"3                384               1,>7)0                 369                  735                                161                                                                2,479.5
NON-SEEL -'RPS                        121                164                          i_4                              13               3i                 90
TOTAL                           694                548               3,210                  563                  36              118                252                                                                3,284.6
-'"Tr.' TOVT AREA                     694                54c                3,027563                                   36              118                252
5oTAL ''LTIVABLE AFFA                  6,S               45°               3,070                  990                  70              1O0                192
CROP0'CN9 INTENSITY                    108s              ' 2                  105 Yo%                                                                     131 %2 118/  1317
SEED CROPS
Boro/Aus                           105      19s       14.     235       1,10)    C96           . )      416         )O     !7        40      62         40          73          42          2,751            40           2.998.590
1. Aus (arosn out of               150      149       5     0  19         300      7"4         2        19')        )O     40        40      40          -           -          27          1,421            40           1.548.890
Sesoos)
T. AP-sea.n                        -         -         -       -           100'   I  2'         -        -.        -       -        -        -          35          51-4                    1,176            40           1.281.840
T.-At                              470      432               10 820                735         1       1;0        -       -         40      17        120         132           2,         1,639            43        _  1     292     849
SUB-TOTAL                       7145                r3                                     /5<.                 100              >0                 195           _                                                    4,749. 818
HON-SEED CROPS
B Au   (BHYV)                      250      134  _ 00          75         400         -4        ..                     _ _            C      13          -           -           20            628           32              547.6
Oil Seed Crops                      50       18        50      I8         500        fJ'4 T                                  ~       -       -                                   10            256           70             488E3
TOTAL                         i,045                700               4,5.00                 114 1 oA                                                 195                                                               8.785.718
CU:LTIVATED AREA                    1,(44                700                L,'s5c                730                 110               If                 192           -
cROPPING INTENSITY                   i6                    6 1656                                 132'4               15<0              i',0               1010



BANGLADESH
CEREAL SEEDS PROJECT
BADC FARS -           RY AND EQUPENT REPLACEMENT COSTS
Life of    Unit
Iter                    Equipment   Cost   Year 5   Year 6   Year 7   Year 8   Year 9   Year 10   Year 11   Year 12   Year 13   Year 14   Ycar 15
Years      ----------------- -----------------------------7                               ----- -0  -----_  --____-________ -______--_-- _______-
Tractors (60-70 HP)                         5         31.6       -       189.5    126.4         -          -         -         189.5      126.4         -
Tractors (35-40 HP)                          5        28.3       _       735.8    367.9       84.8         -         -         735.8      367.9       84.9
Trailers                                    10        46.6       -         -         -          -          -         -         101.2       50.6        9.2         -          -
R.tLvators (Large)                           5         7.9       -        71.1       -         _           -         _          71.1       -            -
Rotavators (Small)                          5          6.7       -       113.9      33.5                                       1 _  -  i13.9  33.5
Ploughs (Large)                              7         7.9       -         -         -        71.1         -          -                                                       7 -  -  -  31.1
Ploughs (Small)                              7         6.0       -         -          -       48.0        30.0        -         -          -            -           -         48.0
Disc Harrows (Large)                         7         5.6       -         -         -        50.4         -          -         -          -            -          -          50.4
Disc Harrows (Small)                        7          4.8       -         _         -        81.6        24.0                                                                8 -  _  _  _  61.6
Combine Drills                               7        14.2       -                   _        198.8       28.4        -         -          -            -           -        198.8
Combine Threshers                           4         43.5      47.0       -         -          -         47.0        -         -          -          47.0          -         -
Sprayers (Motor)                            4          0.8      28.8      20.0       -          -         28.8      20.0        -          -          28.8        20.0
Sprayers (Hand)                             4          0.4      29.6      18.4       -          _         29,6       18.4       -          -          29.6        18.4
Tubewells; Pump and Engine                   5        20.0       -       420.0    360.0         -          -          -        420.0      360.0         -           -
Low-Lift Pumps                               5        15.0       -       180.0    165.0         -          -          -        181.1      165.0         -           -         -
Workshop Equipment (Major)                   7        23.7       -          -                  23.7        -          -                     - _                               23.7
Workshop Equipment (Minor)                   7         7.9       -          -         -        71.1        -          -         -           -           -           -         71.1
Mechanic Tool Sets                           7         3.5                  _         _        45.5        _                    _           _           _                     45.5
Blades                                       7        .2.4       -         -          -        33.6       19.2        -         -           -           -           -         33.6
Planes                                       7        12.0        -         _         _        72.0       36.0        _         _                                              72.0
Chisel Ploughs                               7         5.7       -          -         -        51.3         -         -         _                       _                     51.3
Laboratory                                  10        24.0                                      -          -          -         48-0                                          -
Telecommunicatisn Equipment                  7        17.5       -          -         -       122.5      192.5                  -
Electricity Generators                      10        55.0       -          -         -         -          -          -        440.0       330.0         -          -
Jeeps/Pick-Ups                               6        23.7       -                 331.8    237.0          -          _         _           _        331.8        237.0
SUB-TOTAL                                                105.4  1,748.7  1,384 6  1,191.5          435.5       38-4   2,299.5    1,433.4       531.3        275.4       747.1
SPARES 25%                                                26.5    437.2    346.1    297.9           108.9       9.6       574.9      358.4      132.8        68.8       186.8
SUB-TOTAL                                                131.9  2,185.9  1,'30.7   1,489.4          544.4      48.0    2   '..'   1,791 8    664.1          344.2       933.5
Shipping. Insurance, etc. 75~1                                  33.0     546.5    .32.7    372.4         136.1       12.0      718.6       448,0     166.0         86,1      2 3.5
Local Handling Costs 5r                                          6.6     109.3      86.>       74.5       27.2         2.4     143.7         0,5_   33.7           17.2       46.7
TOTAL                                                    171.5  2,841.7  2,249.9  1,936 3           707.r      62.,      .73t.7   2.329,h    863.3          447.5   1,21h.'



BANGLADESH
CEREAL SEEDS PROJECT
BADC FARMS - CASH FLOW
Before
Item                  Project   Year 1  Year 2  Year 3  Year 4   Year 5  Year 6   Year 7  Year 8   Year 9   Year 10 Year 11 Year 12  Year 13 Year 14  Year 15  Year 16
INCOME FROMt SALES
Rice Seed                         1.9       1.9      2.4     3.2        4.3      5.1      5.9       5.9      5.9      5.9       5.9      5.9       5.9      5.9       5.9      5.9       5.9
Wheat Seed                       0.5        0.5      0.7      1.0       1.4      1.6      1.9       1.9      1.9      1.9       1.9      1.9       1.9      1.9       1.9      1.9       1.9
Non-Seed Crops                    0.8       0.8      0.8     0.9        1.0      1.1       1.1      1.1     1L1        1.1      1.1       1.1      1.1       1.1      1.1       1.1      1.1
TOTAL                       3.2        3.2      3.9     5.1        6.7      7.8      8.9       8.9      8.9      8.9       8.9      8.9       8.9      8.9       8.9      8.9      8.9
RECURRENT COSTS                      4.2       4.3      4.6     4.8        4.9      4.9       4.9      4.9      4.9       4.9      4.9      4.9       4.9      4.9       4.9      4.9       4.9
OPERATING SURPLUS (Loss)           (-1.0)    (-1.1)   (-0.7)    0.3        1.8      2.9      4.0       4.0      4.0       4.0      4.0       4.0      4.0       4.0      4.0      4.0       4.0
CASH INFLOW
Operating Surplus (Loss)        (-1.0)    (-1.1)   (-0,7)    0.3        1.8      2.9       4.0      4.0      4.0       4.0      4.0       4.0      4.0      4.0       4.0      4.0       4.0
Investment Loan                                              2.8        0.7                                        -         -        -             -         -
TOTAL                      (-1.0)      8.5      8.6     3.1        2.5      2.9      4.0       4.0      4.0      4.0       4.0      4.0       4.0      4.0       4.0      4.0       4.0
CASH OUTFLOW
Loan Investment                   -         9.6      9.3     2.8        0.7       -         -                                      -        -             - _
Machinery Replacement
(Averaged)                  _            -        _        _                  1.5      1.5       1.5      1.5       1.5       1.5      1.5       1.5       1.5      1.5       1.5      1.5
TOTAL                        -         9.6      9.3     2.8        0.7      3.5       1.5      1.5      1.5       1.5       1.5       1.5      1.5       1.5      1.5       1.5      1.5
BALANCE                    (-1.0)    (-1.1)   (-0.7)    0.3        1.8      1.4       2.5      2.5      2.5       2.5       2.5       2.5      2.5       2.5      2.5       2.5      2.5
DEBT SERVICE
Outstanding Loan                            9.6      18.9    21.7      22.4     21.1      19.8     17.8     15.8      13.8      11.8       9.8      7.8       5.8      3.8       1.8        -
Loan Repayment                              -        -         -        1.3       1.3      2.0      2.0       2.0      2.0        2.0      2.0       2.0      2.0       2.0      0.8
NET BALANCE                (-1.0)    (-1.1)   (-0.7)    0.3        1.8      1.4      2.5       2.5      2.5       2.5       2.5       2.5      2.5       2.5      2.5       2.5
O 8



ANNEX 6
Page 1
BANGLADESH
CEREAL SEEDS PROJECT
Contract Growers Scheme
General
1.        Seed production on Government owned land is limited to 5,000 -
6,000 tons cereal seed per year and production of additional quantities must
come from the private sector. BADC has consequently initiated a "Registered
Growers Scheme". This scheme has not been altogether successful, and the
problems encountered by the scheme, described in Annex 4 can be surmarized
as follows:
(a) dispersal of growers over a wide area;
(b) inadequately trained staff;
(c) inadequate price incentives;
(d) unsatisfactory procurement arrangements;
(e) lack of processing equipment;
(f) lack of foundation seed.
2.        Under the proposed project the Registered Growers Scheme would be
phased out and replaced by a Contract Growers Scheme concentrated into five
areas near the proposed seed processing centers as follows:



ANNEX 6
Page 2
Production           Processing                               Annual
Area                Center             District          Production
(Thanas)                                                 (tons of clean
seed)
Patiya               Chittagong           Chittagong            1,900
Thakurgaon           Dinajpur             Dinajpur             1,900
Birgani
Atghoria             Tebnia               Pabna                 1,000
Pabna
Ishurdi
Madhupur             Mymensingh           Mymensingh              900
Brahmanbaria         Itakhola             Comilla               1,000
Madhabpur                                 Sylhet
TOTAL                     6,700
Criteria for Selection of Contract Growers Area
3.        The main criteria for selecting the areas were:
-    availabilicy of adequate irrigation for year-round irrigation
-    freedom from flooding during the aman crop
-    presence of an adequate number of farmers' cooperative groups
-    closeness to processing site
-    suitability for rice or wheat production
Description of Contract Growers Areas
4.        In the description which follows, land capability notes have been
extracted from Technical Report No. 2 of the Land and Water Resources Sector
Study 1/ prepared from work by the UNDP/FAO Soil Survey Project of the Soil
Survey Directorate.
1/   Bangladesh Land and Water Resources Sector Study prepared by Bank
Staff and Consultants - Volume II - The Regional Development Potentials
and Constraints, Technical Report No. 2 - Land Capability Potentials
and Constraints.



ANNEX 6
Page 3
(a) Patiya:
Land Development Unit: No. E8
Rainfall             -    100 - 150 inches per annum.
Farm Size            -    Average farm size is 1 - 1.25 acres, highly
fragmented.
Soils                -    Mainly loams with clays in basins, permeability
generally low.
Relief               -    Gently sloping or level.
Irrigation           -    Irrigation is by lowlift pumps (466 in 1971/72) and
by gravity diversion. Total area irrigated in thana
is 24,000 acres.
Drainage             -    Up to half the thana is affected by occasional
shallow flooding.
Cropping pattern    -    Boro 90%, transplant aman 100%, some vegetables.
Main Agencies
Operating in Area  -    BADC - Agricultural Development Estate - all
services including irrigation, extension, credit
and cooperative development. Department of Agri-
culture - extension and pest control.
Cooperative Movement-    There are 186 primary societies affiliated to the
Thana Central Association (TCCA) 1/. In addition
there are pump groups serviced for credit by a
Central Cooperative Bank 2/.
1/   The system of cooperative societies developed at the Bangladesh Academy
for Rural Development. In this system a group of primary societies,
most commonly production societies, form a secondary cooperative
society, the Thana Central Cooperative Society (TCCA). The TCCA caters
for supervised credit, and the bookkeeping and training needs of pri-
mary societies and may carry out other commercial activities. This
system is supervised by the Rural Development Department and is also
known as "Integrated Rural Development".
2/   The pump group comprises an average 30-50 farmers who cooperate to
hire a lowlift pump or tubewell from government, to purchase fuel for
the pump, to operate it and to distribute water to members. The
credit needs of these groups are catered for by long established
"Central Cooperative Banks" (CCB) supervised by the Cooperative Depart-
ment.



ANINEX 6
Page 4
General - Patiya Thana and its neighboring thanas are among the most
intensively developed areas in the country, with generally
higher irrigation intensity and fertilizer use and larger
areas planted with HYV than other parts of Bangladesh.
(b)  Thakurgaon - Birgani
Land Development Unit: No. NW2.
Rainfall             -    75 - 85 inches per annum
Farm size            -    Proportion of farms:
over 5 acres      50%J
2-5 acres         30%'
under 2 acres  - 20%
Farms are typically highly fragmented -
plot size: 0.5 acres.
Soils                -    Mainly sandy loams and loams, with some clay and
clay loams in depressions.
Relief               -    Mainly broad smooth ridges and shallow depresskons.
Drainage             -    Ridges are well above flood level but soils become
saturated during the aman season. Shallow floodinig
in depressions.
Cropping Pattern    -    Without irrigation broadcast aus and t. aman
dominate and jute, sugarcane and vegetables are
important secondary crops. With irrigation the
pattern is wheat and t. aus in the dry season and
t. aman during the monsoons.
Irrigation           -    Approximately 28,000 acres are commanded by tubewell
irrigation, in these two and adjoining thanas. And
a further 3,000 acres are supplied by lowlift
pumps. Of the 365 electrically powered tubewells
in the area about 90 were damaged during the war and
had not been repaired by November 1972.
Cooperatives         -    Strong cooperative movement centered around tubewells
and lowlift pumps. Primary cooperatives are
affiliated to Tharia Central Cooperative Association.
Main Agencies
Operating in Area  -    Bangladesh Water Development Board (BWDB) for -
extension and cooperative development in irrigated
area.
BADC - supply of inputs.
Department of Agriculture - extension and pest control.



ANNEX 6
Page 5
General  -  This is an area with high agricultural potential with good
farming standards in the irrigated areas. Because of
permeable soils, farmers grow wheat under irrigation and it
is the only area in Bangladesh where there are sufficient
and concentrated areas of irrigated wheatland which could be
used for seed production.
(c) Atghoria, Pabna and Ishurdi - (note the processing site at Tebnia
is on the boundary of the three thanas).
Land Development Unit: No. NW9. with part of Atghoria in LDU 10.
Far-n. s,ze          -    3 - 4 acres.
Rainfall             -    55 - 65 inches per annum.
Soils                -    Clays on 80% of the area with loams on higher ridges.
Relief               -    Broad floodplain ridges and basins.
Drainage             -    Basins mainly deeply flooded and ridges have shallow
floods with the exception of part of the proposed
project area where ridges are well above flood levels.
Irrigation           -    About 40 tubewells are in operation.  The project
area forms part of the IDA financed North West
Tubewells Project area (Credit 341-BD) and develk ment
of 90 more tubewells is planned over four years.
In addition there are about 50 lowlift pumps in
the project area.
Cropping Pattern    -    Mainly deepwater aman, mixed aus/aman and jute.
Boro replaces deep water aman in lowlift pump areas
and in tubewell areas the pattern is boro and t.
aman.
Cooperatives         -    Pump groups and CCB.
Main Agencies
Operating in Area  -    BADC provides tubewells and lowlift pumps serv.ces
and maintenance and supplies in,uts.
Agricultural Department - extension and pest control.



)
ANNEX 6
Page 6
(d) Madhupur.
Land Development Unit - Mostly 3B with a small portion in C9 and C13
Farm size            -    4 - 5 ac average.
Rainfall             -    70 - 80 inches per annum.
Soils                -    Loams on ridges, clays in basins.
Relief               -    Broad ridges and basins.
Drainage             -    Seasonal shallow flooding over most of the area with
some deep flooding in basins.
Irrigation           -    80 lowlift pumps are in operation and this repre-
sents the total surface water potential. So far, 15
tubewells have been commissioned and another 15 have
have been sunk. The area is in the "GEC Tubewells"
Project Area (not financed by the Bank Group) and
at least 75 more tubewells are scheduled for
construction over the next five years.
Cooperative Movement-    Pump groups and CCB.
Main Agencies
Operating in Area  -    BADC - tubewell and lowlift pump services and
supply of inputs. Agricultural Department -
extension and pest control.
General - Standards of farming are high and the land has high potential
for development. There is strong pressure from farmers for
tubewells development since surface water potential is already
fully utilized.



ANNEX 6
Page 7
(e) Brahmanbaria: LDU E4
Mbdhabpur: LDU ome E4, mostly E7
The two thanas have an entirely different ecology - as follows:
Rainfall             -    E4 - 75 - 100 inches per annum.
E7 - 100 inches per annum.
Soils                -    E4-Silts on ridges and heavy soils and clays in
depression, permeability slow.
-    E7-Light loams on higher ground and heavy loams on
lower land; land usually has effective ploughpan.
Relief               -    E4-Almost level broad ridges and depressions.
-    E7-Gently sloping and locally irregular.
Drainage             -    E4-Mainly deeply flooded in rainy season.
E7-Half the thana is above flood level.
Irrigation           -    E4-262 lowlift pumps operating.
E7-No ADC serviced irrigation. Some reports of
artesian water tapped with bamboo pipes. Geology
is complex and needs further exploration before
tubevell development would be possible.
Cropping pattern    -    E4-Without irrigation mainly deepwater, aman with
aus and jute and some t. aman on ridges. With the
massive deployment of lowlift pumps boro is now
forming a significant part of the overall cropping
pattern.
E7-Mostly aus and t. aman.
Cooperatives         -    In Brahmanbaria there is one of the strongest
TCCA with over 200 affiliated primary societies.
In Madhabpur there are practically no primary
production cooperative societies and in the absence
of irrigation pumps to date no pump groups have been
formed.
General  -  Brahmanbaria thana would supply the boro and some t. aman and
Madhabpur the rest of the t. aman for the Itakhola seed process-
ing plant. However, Madhabpur while ecologically very suitable
for the purpose has as yet no production cooperatives. These
are considered an advantage for organizing seed production
and would have to be established over the next four years.
However the quantity of t. aman seed required at Itakhola is
small only 400 tons a year and there should be no di fficulty in
organizing production.



ANNEX 6
Page 8
Selection of Farmers
5.        Growers would be selected by the field staff on the basis of their
declared interest, performance as farmers and the farm location relative to
roads. Farmers would be selected as groups who could carry out "block"
cropping (in tubewell or lowlift pump groups, for example). To ease super-
vision and quality control, and to reduce the dangers of mechanical admixture,
blocks of a single crop would be at least 10 acres.
Contractual Arrangements
6.        BADC would enter into contracts with selected groups of farms,
undertaking to provide threshing and transport services. Seed would be
purchased from growers on the basis of its dry grains equivalent (12%
moisture) weight and of a quantity and quality as defined in the contract, for
cash on delivery.
7.        The formula for calculating price would be related to avetage
consumption grain prices and would be an integral part of the contract.
Pricing policy would be reviewed regularly by the National Seeds Board to
ensure that adequate incentives would be offered to seed growers. As a
starting point, based on the experience of other countries, it is suggested
that a premium of 25% above the going farm-gate paddy price should be tried
which, together with other benefits (see para. 13), should prove adequate
incentive for seed production.
Seed Procurement
8.        There are a number of reasons why grain threshing and transport
must be organized and must be provided by the processing plant:
(a) traditional threshing damages the germinating capacity of
the grain;
(b)  individual threshing is difficult to supervise and,
consequently, mixture with other varieties is difficult
to prevent;
(c) the processing plant must have an even grain flow; and
(d) threshed grain must be processed within a short time after
threshing.
Consequently the processing plant staff in cooperation with the Growers and
the Contract Gro;ers Advisory Staff (see para. 9) would work out a harvesting
schedule, and the processing plant would provide mechanical threshers and the
necessary transport.  1. each block, farmers would carry the crop to an
agreed central threshing site and would provide the labor for threshing.
Straw would remain farmer's property.



ANNEX 6
Page 9
Field Services
9.        BADC would provide intensive advisory services with assistant
field officers (one per 100 acres seed production), supervised by a field
officer who would report directly to the chief superintendent in charge of
local field services and the local processing plants (see Annex 7). These
field staff would make contractual arrangements with growers, arrange farmer
training, visit growers' fields frequently during each growing season, as
well as help to plan and supervise harvesting. 1/ They would also arrange
for payment to the farmers. All field advisory staff would receive intensive
training (see Annex 10).
Farm Inputs
10.       Foundation seed would be supplied by the assistant field officers
while other farm inputs, including credit, would be supplied by the existing
responsible agencies operating in each area, including BADC, cooperatives
and the extension and plant protection services. The field services would
assist growers to estimate input requirements and each Chief Superintendent
would liaise with the services providing inputs to ensure timely availability.
Coordination
11.       A committee would be created in each contract growers' area to
coordinate action. It would comprise the superintendent of the seed center,
the seed control officer, the district agricultural officer, the field officer
and representatives of cooperatives and farmers.
Scheme Costs
12.       Both processing and contract growers services would be supervised
by the Seeds Division of BADC. As a result, some of the costs of the two
activities would be shared. To avoid splitting costs, those arising from
the Contract Growers Scheme have been included under processing (Annex 7).
Capital costs include housing and transport for advisory stafi and recurrent
costs include staff and transport costs.
Growers Benefits
13.       Incentives to farmers include the price premium (see para. 7) and
free seed threshing and transport. In addition, intensive field advisory
work should lead to increased crop yields. Farmers would need to give more
care to their crops and would be involved in small additional expenditures
from roguing, extra weeding, and pest control. Table 1 shows a comparison
of expected per acre returns of an average consumption grain grower and a
seed grower. Additional returns per acre obtained by seed growers are
expected to be Tks 540 per acre boro, Tks 430 per acre t. aman andt Tks 307
per acre wheat.
1f   Inspection for certification of seed quality would be carried out by
personnel of the Seeds Certification Service (see Annex 9).



ANNEX 6
Page 10
Phasing
14.       Introduction of the Contract Growers Scheme would be related to
the construction of facilities at the processing plants and the training
and employment of field staff and provision of their equipment. It is
estimated that the Scheme will come into operation as indicated below:
1974/75               Years
CENTER                 2          3          4          5
----------------tons-
Chittagong           500        1,000      1,900    1,900
Dinajpur             250          750      1,900    1,900
Tebnia               250          500      1,000    1,000
Mymensingh           250          750        900      900
Itakhola              -            -         400      850
TOTAL        1,250         3,000      6,100    6,550



BANGNIkDE SIP
CE--4RF  SEE0S PROIJECT
INCENT'IVE TO SEED GROWERS
Boro                       T. Aman                         Wheat
Foodga                       Foodgrair    Seed              Foocigrain    Seed
Procduction   Proauction      Proiduc .ion  Prlduction.     Prfoalction   Pro=ction
Without      With            Without       lith             -ithout      Wiith
Proj ect     Projec              P-                          Pr          ProCt
T   Tiks        Tcks          Tks             Tks           Tks
GROSS RETURNS
Yield Md/Ac            45             50              35           40               20          25
Price Tks/Md           32             40              32           40               34          42.5
Gross Returns        1440           2000            1120         1000             680         1062.50
COSTS
Labor                 260            275             225          255             180          220
Draft                 150            130             140          125               65          65
Seed                   15             15              15           15               80          80
Fertilizer            140            155              90          I10               50          65
Plant Protection       50             60              35           50               20          30
Irrigation             75             75              15           15               15          25
TOTAL         695           715              525         575              410          485
Net Returns           740           1280             590         1020              270         577.5
Incentive Per Acre
Crop                 -             540              -           430               -          307.5
A SUMPTIONS:
1. Only hired labor, 50% of tota-l labor charged - at Irks 5 n-  TaH
2.  Draft cosv Tks 4 per day per bullock pair.                                                          CD
3. Fert,lizer cost Tks 0.32/lb.
4. Seed coswt  - Irks 73/md paddy and Tkrs 78/Mtn w;eat-
5e  Water cost 'iks 15/ac ft.






ANNEX 7
Page 1
BANGLADESH
CEREAL SEEDS PROJECT
Seed Processin&L
General
1.        Current grain handling methods are unsatisfactory.  Even on BADC
seed farms, threshing consists of beating sheaves against metal drums, fol-
lowed either by cattle trampling or by a tractor running over a bed of straw!.
Sun drying follows, and the final operations involve hand cleaning and win-
nowing on earth floors.
2.        These operations are expensive and the seed, because of inadequate
drying and pest and mechanical damage, has poor keeping quality and low
germination capacity. In addition, storage facilities and methods are
poor and, with the high degree of inert matter and other impurities present
in the seed lots, further quality deterioration takes place. Not only have
wastage and storage losses been high, but under present conditions it has
been impossible for BADC to handle seed quantities large enough to make
significant impact on national grain production. Moreover, existing facili-
ties preclude processing contract growers' production.
3.        Provision of threshing, drying, processing, and transportation
equipment and the construction of additional improved storage facilities
is therefore essential for the production of high quality seeds in large
quantities. Such improved processing and storage facilities would com-
plement the actions required for seed quality control (Annex 9), all of
which are essential if purity of seed varieties and their production potential
are to be maintained.
4.        Permanent processing and storage facilities would be installed
with capacity to handle 12,000 tons of certified cereal seed annually at
six centers. Capacity at the various centers would range from 1,000 tons
to 3,500 tons a year of clean seed, as listed below:
Location             Annual Output - Clean Seed
(tons)
Dinajpur                       2,500
Noornagar                       3,500
Chittagong                      2,000
Tebnia                          1,500
Mymensingh                      1,500
Itakhola                        1,000
1/   Cost tables at the end of this Annex do not reflect the recent devalua-
tion of the US dollar.



ANNEX 7
Page 2
5.        BADC has already completed the civil works for seed drying an'
storage facilities at five locations where processing plants are required.
The actual selection of the sites for the processing plants was influenced
by the existence of these facilities close to selected seed production
areas. They are located at Dinajpur, Noornagar, Tebnia, Mymensingh and
Chittagong. Storage for 1,000 tons of seeds in bags and the concrete
structure for an in-sack drying platform have been completed. 1/ The pro-
ject would utilize the investment already made in these facilities.
Equipment for the completion of the in-sack dryers, seed cleaners and
testing equipment would be provided as early as possible so that up to
5,000 tons of seed could be handled in the second year of the project.
Construction of full processing capacity would be completed in the fourth
vear. The phasing of processing plants and available capacity at the end
of each project year would be as follows:
Site                 Year 2     Year 3      Year 4
- (tons) ---
Dinajpur             1,000      1,000       2,500
Noornagar            1,000      3,500       3,5on
Chittagong           1,000      1,000       2,000
Tebnia               1,000      1,500       1,500
Mymensingh           1,000      1,500       1,500
Itakhola               -          -         1,000
6.        The project would also provide specially designed processing
and storage facilities for handling up to 100 tons annually of foundation
seed at both Sadhuhati and Kashimpur farms. For phasing of all processing
plant see Chart WB-7500.
Plant and Equipment Design Parameters
General
7.        The performance standards given below allow for operational flexi-
bility essential at peak intake times, particularly at the critical stage of
drying. Equipment would be standardized to the extent possible and designed
for easy cleandown and maintenance.
Threshing and Haulage
8.        Grain would be threshed with self-propelled stripped-down combine
harvesters. These threshers would be under the control of the management
of the processing plants to ensure a reliable and regular supply of threshed
grain to the plants. The self-propelled threshers would have a threshing
capacity of up to 4 tons per hour enabling the threshing of grain in small
lots at reasonable average daily capacity. It Is assumed that on an average
1/   The construction at Mymensingh was actually 60% completed in
December 1972.



AINEX 7
Page 3
one combine would operate for 8 hours per day at 1.5 tons per hour. A total
of 20 combine threshers would be required; 7 at Noornagar, 4 at Dina;jpur,
3 at Chittagong and 2 each at M4ymensingh, Tebnia and Itakhola. A total of
24 trucks would be required to transport the threshed, bagged grain to the
plants.
Plant Intake and Throughput
9.        The total weight of the grain taken in by the plants would be
equivalent to 125% of clean seed output. Harvest periods and seaonal
proportions of total annual gross seed intake are as follows:
Boro      T/Aus   Aus/  Aman    Wheat
Harvest Season:            May-June  July-Aug.  ,Nov.-Dec.  Mar.-Apr.
Actual Threshing Days:         30         20         45          40
Dinajpur                200         375      100  1,000  1,450
Noornagar             1,750          -       750  1,125    750
Chittagong            1,375          -        -   1,125      -
Tebnia                  875          -       175    625    200
Mlymensingh             875          -       175    625    200
Itakhola                750          -        -     500      -
5,825        375   1,200  5,000  2,600
/1   Aus varieties grown in the aman season on BADC seed farms.
Calculation of peak requirements for drying, on this basis, would be:
Capacity           Season
Dinajpur             35 tons/day          wheat (dry)
Noornagar            60 tons/day           boro (wet)
Chittagong           45 tons/day          boro (wet)
Tebnia               30 tons/day           boro (wet)
Mymensingh           30 tons/day           boro (wet)
Itakhola             25 tons/day          boro (wet)
Intake of seed in any one processing plant on a single day would usually be
restricted to one variety, but at least three varieties could be handled in
each season in each production area.
Drying Procedures
10.       Coming reasonably clean from mechanical threshers, seed would
be dried from a moisture content at intake of 25% down to 12%. The machinery
would be able to handle seed with up to 30% moisture content. Driprs
would be designed to operate in an ambient air temperature of 3000 C and
a relative humidity of 85%. Drying in peak periods would be carried out



ANNEX 7
Page 4
on a two or three-shift basis and safety equipment would be provided to
present excessive heating of grain during the drying process.
Storage and Fine-Cleaning Procedures
11.       Seed would be stored for varying periods depending on crop and
season. Peak demand for storage occurs in April-May (t. aman, wheat) and
in August-September (wheat, boro and t. aus). It is assumed that with
efficient management, storage intake of t. aman would not overlap with
storage of boro. The storage already constructed by BADC at 5 sites, Dinajpur,
Noornagar, Chittagong, Tebnia and Mymensingh would be included in the pro-
posed processing plants. The maximum estimated storage capacities based on
dry clean seed calculated on the above assumption and proposed capacity
are shown in the table below:
Calculated Storage Capacity (tons)
Maximum Estimated         Proposed
Site                   Requirements            Provision
Dinajpur                  2,250                   2,900
Noornagar                 2,000                   2,900
Chittagong                1,100                   1,250
Tebnia                      700                     850
Mymensingh                  600                     850
Itakhola                    600                     850
Installation of the extra capacity would permit the carry over of reserves
for release at times of crop failure resulting from serious disease out-
breaks and natural disasters. Storage would mainly be in bags to maintain
the identity of each seedlot taken into the plant from both BADC seed farms
and Contract Growers Scheme.
12.       Fine cleaning capacities have been determined on the total time
available for this operation for separate crops. No seed cleaning would
be carried out when the drying plant is in full operation since all pro-
cessing staff would be required to operate the driers at that time. All
calculations are based on 24 operating days per month when working full
time and 10 effective operating hours per working day. (This would require
two-shift operation during peak periods). The recommended seed processing
capacity is rounded to the nearest two-ton capacity unit allowing for
maximum standardization of plant components. Fine cleaning capacity at
the various plants would be:



ANNEX 7
Page 5
Tons/Hour
Dinajpur                            4-
Noornagar                           6
Chittagong                          4
Tebnia                              4
Mymensingh                          4
Itakhola                            2
/1   Based on wheat processing at the peak period.
Re-drying of seed during the storage period would be undertaken as neces-
sary (see para. 17).
Bagging and Despatch
13.       Treatment of seeds with fungicide would commence not earlier
than four weeks before initial despatch. Seed would be packed and dis-
tributed in 10-seer (21 lb) jute bags, packed for ease of handling in 2
maund jute bags.
Power Supply
14.       All processing plants would be equipped with standard generating
equipment for normal supply, with stand-by capacity for use in emergencies.
Selection of Drying and Storage Systems
Drying
15.       The in-sack driers at the seed stores where civil works are com-
pleted, have a capacity of 144 sacks. They will be able to dry two loads
in 24 hours of continuous operation, or an estimated 15 tons of grain per
24 hours. While these driers would provide early drying capacity at five
centers they cannot cope with the total projected seed production at any
of the sites. In addition in-sack drying has high fuel costs and uniform
drying of seed is difficult; it would, therefore, be replaced by circulating
batch drying. However, the in-sack driers would be retained and would
provide spare capacity for unusually wet weather conditions and would
provide standby capacity in case of breakdowns.
16.       Circulating batch type driers would be installed at all six cer-
tified seed processing centers. This type of drier ensures safe and efficient
drying, particularly during high humidity harvest periods. In-bin drvinR
is not considered feasible because it requires longer drying times and
extremely careful management.



ANNEX 7
Page 6
Storage
17.       Storage of dried seed before and after processing would be mainly
in bags. Bulk storage cannot be recommended since the identity of indivi-
dual lots produced by contract growers and BADC seed farms has to be main-
tained. Continuous careful control of seed quality during the storage
season is essential. Provision has been made for staff training and
adequate testing equipment for this purpose. If the moisture content of
stored seeds increases beyond permissible limits, the grain has to be
redried either on the in-sack driers or in the cirulating batch driers.
However, bulk storage is provided at Dinajpur to a capacity of 500 tons in
units of 20 cu m for the storage of wheat, because maintenance of wheat
seed quality in bag storage is impracticable during the hot, humid con-
ditions in the wheat storage season. (See flowsheet-Chart IWB-7498).
Processing of Foundation Seed
18.       At each of the two foundation seed farms (Sadhuhati and Kashimpur)
about 100 tons of seed would be grown annually. For drying foundation seed,
provision is made for sack driers supplemented with tray driers, which allow
even smaller quantities to be dried individually. The shallow layer, high
air volume method of tray drying is simple to operate and easy to clean but
somewhat less efficient in energy consumption than continuous driers. This,
however, is not considered serious in view of the small quantities of seed
to be dried.
19.       Processing equipment would be designed for a normal daily intake
of 5 tons in small lots but with a capacity to handle up to 10 tons per
day for short peak periods. To allow for flexibility and the maintenance
of carry-over stocks, bagged storage for 200 tons would be provided at
each site. Additional airconditioned storage for up to 10 tons would be
constructed. Seed would be treated and bagged in 2 maund jute bags for
despatch.
20.       Seed flow (see Chart WB-7499). Bagged seed would be dried on an in-
sack drier or tray drier, pre-cleaned (using a dual purpose seed cleaner
fitted with pre-cleaner sieves), weighed, bagged and stored. Final cleaning
would be carried out in the dual purpose cleaner fitted withi three screens
and double aspiration followed by gravity separation. Before being issued,
seed would be treated with fungicide.
Organization and Management
Headquarters
21.       General respo=sAibility for seed processing would rest with a
manager (seed) in the Project Manager's office in Dacca. He would be assis-
ted by a Seed Processing Adviser and an Adviser for Contract Growers' Seed
Production.



ANNEX 7
Page 7
Field
22.       There would be a Chief Superintendent at each of the four larger
plants dealing with growers' seed, responsible for both contract growers'
seed production and seed processing. Because of its size, the plant at
Itakhola would be headed by a Superintendent. At Noornagar, the largest
of the processing plants, which would be fed from BADC farmers only,
there would also be a Chief Superintendent in charge of the processing
plant. Each of these superintendents would be assisted by two overseers
who would be fully familiar with the operation of all equipment. In the
harvest season, when two-shift operation would be required, the overseers
would take charge of one shift each. Between harvest seasons, one over-
seer would be made responsible for seed storage activities, including
quality control, etc., while the second overseer would take charge of seed
cleaning, treatment, packaging, and despatch. Mechanics and electricians
would be responsible for maintenance and repairs; maintenance would be
carried out according to a fixed schedule provided by the supplier of the
plants. 'Machine attendants to operate packaging lines and the seed-
treatment plant would be sufficient to handle seed intake, and operate the
cleaner, weigher, and the continuous drier in two shifts of three attendants
each during harvest. Laborers would be required for unloading of paddy
during the harvest seasons and handling packaged seed between harvest
seasons. A clerk-storekeeper would be responsible for storekeeping and
routine administration. Power plants would be operated by up to three
attendants working up to three shifts in peak seasons.
23.       Foundation seed plants would be supervised by the farm managers.
each assisted by an overseer and two operators for the drier, cleaner
and power plant, and two laborers.
24.       Since the technology is new to Bangladesh, personnel would
require thorough training both in technical and management aspects relevant
to their positions. Staff training requirements and proposed courses are
described in Annex 10.
Costs
Capital Costs
25.       Estimates of capital costs of processing plants have been Dre-
pared for individual plants using current prices for equinment similar to
that proposed. Details of the plants shown in Tables 1-4 are meant primarily
for preparation of cost estimates and as an indication of a possible tech-
nical plant design and layout. Final plant design would depend on the
successful bidder(s) for supply of processing plants in accordance with
the ten.er specifications to be prepared by the proiect's consultant
(see para. 30). Imported items are priced at FOB prices in producer
countries with 10% allowance for spares, 25% for crating, shipping and
insurance and 5% for installation and running-in. Estimates of capital



AXNEX 7
Page S
costs of electricity generating plauts, threshers, trucks, pick-ups. Jeeps
and motorcycles include 25% for spares, 257 for freight an! insurarnce.  For
installation and running-in of generating plant, 57 is allowed in FF.  Locat
costs are based on standard government costings. Installation costs allovT
for supervision of construction and installation of equipment, as well
as running-in and operator training by suppliers.
26.       Capital costs for processing plants, threslhers, transport equir-
ment and housing are given in Table 4. A summary of the total costs, whic&'
would be phased over four years, is given in Table 5. Included in these
costs are all capital costs for threshing and transport of grain, both
from BADC farms and Contract Growers Schemes. In addition, to avold
allocating the cost of facilities shared by the processing plant and .ontract
groups scheme all costs for the latter have also been included. The Ceutract
Growers Scheme is described in Annex 6.
Recurrent Costs
27.       Recurrent costs of threshing, transport, processing and storage
include staffing, fuel, packaging materials, chemicals for seed treatment,
and repair and maintenance. Staff costs are based on current BADC salary
scales for similar types of employment and on the staff patterns proposed
for each plant in Table 6. Fuel costs were taken as Tks. 3.65 per gallon
for diesel oil, and include an allowance for lubricants. Chemical costs
include costs of fungicides and insecticides used for seed treatment and
for pest control during storage. Packaging costs are based on current jute
bag prices. Repair and maintenance costs are estimated at 5% of the capital
cost of the equipment and cost of generators and do not include costs of
spare parts. Total recurrent costs are summarized in Table 7.
Procurement
28.       As described in the main report (para 3.30-3.34) processing plants,
imported equipment and building construction would be subject to international
competitive bidding, following IDA guidelines. Paras 29 to 33 below
describe proposals for procuring the processing plant.
29.       To allow early quality improvement of 5,000 tons seed per year
and to allow early production of foundation seed, two tenders would be
called. The first, which will need only two months to prepare, would be
for the supply of equipment for the five stores already constructed bv the
Government and for the supply of the two foundation seed processing plants.
This would allow installation of equipment for the five plants early in the
second year of the?~ project and the operation of foundation seed plants before
the end of tha cecond year.  The Government may initiate the procurement of
equipment for the five VIants prior to the signing of the credit. However,
to qualify for IDA finance, Government would have to procure the equipment
after international competition. The second tender would be for the supply
IF six processing plants and ancillary equipment and would take six months
to prepare (see Chart 1WB-7500).  The tendering procedure would allow for only



ANNEX 7
Page 9
one contractor to supply the processing equipment, for each tender. While
it would be desirable to have the same contractor supply the equipment
for the first and second tender, this would not be essential and early
operation of existing facilities and foundation seed farms is more important.
30.       International bidding would call for fully operational plants con-
taining equipment produced by many different manufacturers. Experience
with other seeds projects has shown that competition is limited when tenders
for such processing plant require suppliers to meet detailed specifications.
The project consultant will therefore prepare tender documents giving only
the main guidelines for final planning and establishment of the plants. The
guidelines would include, but not be limited to, information such as re-
quired plant performance, climatic characteristics, site conditions and
scheduled project implementation.
31.       The successful bidder would be asked to provide detailed engineer-
ing only after contract award. However, at the time of tendering, all
bidders would be requested to provide:
(a) preliminary design showing dimensions of layouts of
buildings, and the layout of equipment and seeds
throughput process;
(b) detailed specifications, drawings, performance ratings
and brochures of all proposed equipment, and detailed
price estimates itemized by components of equipment
and by unit cost of materials to be supplied;
(c) the cost estimate for providing detailed construction
drawings, plant layouts, and detailed engineering to be
prepared as part of the approved tender, for all facilities
required, in the event of acceptance of the tender; and
(d) the cost of installation of all seed-processing equipment
and machinery including power generators, the cost of train-
ing operating personnel and that of running-in until
operation is satisfactory. Personnel requirements should
be specified, including the proportion to be supplied
and financed locally.
32.       A contractor, selected through international competitive bidding,
would construct the processing plant buildings on the basis ot cesigiis
prepared by the supplier of the processing plants.
33.       The supplier would be responsible for installation of the pro-
cessing plants and would hand them over to BADC after completion of trial
operations. These trial operations would have to demonstrate that the
plant meets capacity and quality of processed grain specifications detailed
by the consultants in the tender documents and in the plant supply con-
tract. The supplier would he required to train proiert personnel
to operate processing equipment and facilities, and any other equipment
procured, and would have to guarantee satisfactory after-sales service.






.BANGLADESH
CEREAL SEEDS PROJECT
PROCESSING PLAN COMPONENTS
Foundation
1,500 T/Year                        Seed Farms
3,500 T/Year  2,500 T/Year    2,500 T/!ear        Tebnia and        1,000 T/Year    Saduhatti
Noorhagar     Dima,pur        Chittagong         NymenAingh           Itakhola       Kashimpar
Intake Pit                           1               1               1                 2                  1
Bucket Elevator 15T                  3
Bucket Elevator lOT                                  3               2                 4                  2
Bucket Elevator 5T                   2               2               2                 4                  2                 4
Precleaner 15T                       1
Precleaner lOT                                       1               1                 2                  1
Automatic Weighsr . 15T              1
Automatic Weigher lOT                                1               1                 2                  1
Automatic Weigher 5T                                                                                                        2
Batch Drier 15T                      1
Batch Drier lOT                                      1               1                 2                  1
Tray Drier 1 T                                                                                                              2
Fine Seed Cleaner 2T                 3               2               2                 4                  2
Fine Seed Cleaner 0.5T                                                                                                      2
Surge Bins 2T                        3               3               3                 6                  3
Seed Treater 3T                      2               2               2                 4                   2                2
Bag Weigher and Closer               4               4               3                 6                  3
Storage Bins (20 cu. m)                             50
Fan Heater 8,500 cfm                 3               3               3                 6                                    2
Dust Contr. Equipm.                  2               2               2                 4                  2
Measuring and Testing Equipm.        1               1               1                 2                   1                2
Industrial Vacuum Cleaner            1               1               1                 2                  1                 2
Sack Cleaner                         1               1               1                 2                   1                2
Warehouse Transp. Equipm.            2               1               1                 2                   1
Platform Scale                       2               2               1                 2                  1                 2
Air Conditioning Unit 1lfP                                                                                                  4  X 14
Gravity Separator ½~T                                                                                                       2 c   ti
Electrical Fittings                                                                                                         2j   
Belt Conveyors lOT/h                                 2                                                                      2



BANGLADESH
CEREAL SEEDS PROJECT
Tebnia and                 Saduhatti and
Noornagar    Dinajpur    Chittagong    Mymensingh    Itakhola         Kashimpur
Diesel Generators
25 kw                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2 (1+1)
50 kw                      3           2              2         4 (2+2)           2              (
Fuel Tanks                         2            1             1          2 (1+1)          1
Buildings (in '000 sq. ft.)
Paving                          5           4              2          4 (2+2)          2            2 (1+1)
Reception and Cleaning          3            2             2          4 (2+2)          2            5 (2.5+2.5)
Bagging and Storage            24          23              6         4 (2+2)           8            4 (2+2)
Office and Laboratory           1.5          1.5           1          2 (1+1)          1.5
Powerplant                      0.8         o.6            o.6        1.2(0.6+0.6)    o.6           o.8(0.4+o.4)
Housing
800 sq. ft.                     1           1              1          2 (1+])         1
650 sq. ft.2,                   4            g/            4/         8 (k&+4I/)      4
500 sq. ft.-                   10          18             18         31 (13+10)      13             4 (2+2)
200 sq. ft.                    10           6              6        12                5
1/ Includes one for contract growers scheme.
2/ Includes housing for contract growers scheme: 10 each at Chittagong, DinLjpur and Mymensingh;
5 each at Tebnia and Itakhola.



ANNEX 7
TABLE 2
Page 1
BANGLADESH
CEREAL SEEDS PROJECT
SEED PROCESSING - GENERAL SPECIFICATIONS OF EQUIPMENT
Equipment listed below for each of the plants is described in
general terms. Detailed specifications for the tender documents would be
precared by a consultant.
Intake pit: Intake pit with suitable grate covering and discharge. Metal
construction, slope of sides not less than 45° to allow proper flow and
self-cleaning.
Bucket elevator: Heavy duty construction, centrifugal discharge, complete
with adjustable intake, discharge, individual electric motor drive.
Elevators of the following capacities are required:  15, 10, 5 ton/hour.
Precleaners: A precleaner for the removal of straw, strings, dust, unripe
grains and foreign material. Flat screen or reel type. Strong, adjustable
aspiration required. Expansion chamber for aspirated material such as light
grains and empty husks.  Complete with adjustable feed, drive by electric
motor. Capacity 15, 10 ton/hour.
Automatic weigher and counter: Automatic net-weigher enclosed in dust-proof
ce'sing equipped with counter and provision for weighing of fractional loads.
Bottom-valve or tipping bucket type, complete with adjustable outlet chute
and discharge hopper of 1½ times the holding capacity of the weighing
hopper. Capacity 15, 10, 5 ton hour.
Circulating batch drier: The drier is of the mixing, column (baffle) type
or flow through inverted V-shaped airduct type, but should be easy to clean.
Seed intake hopper above drying section of minimal one-fourth of the hourly
throughput capacity. Drying section mounted on top of a cooling section.
The air to be heated by a direct fired diesel oil burner, therMostatically
controlled to avoid excessive temperatures.  Maxiim  temperature of
the ingoing drying air not to exceed 50°C.  Holding capacity 15, 10 ton/hour.
Tray or box drier: Total tray area, 30 sq ft. Side of trays or boxes
suitable for lifting by hoist on one side for gravity emptying. Direct
diesel fired fan heater unit.
Seed cleaner: Air and screen cleaner. Four or five screen type with
adjustable aspiration at upper and lower end of cleaner. Sieve cleaning
devices are required. Complete with electric motor, adjustable outlet, dust
collector and extra sieves. Capacity 3, 2 ton/hour.



ANNEX 7
Page 2
Fine seed cleaner: Three-screen fine seed cleaner for 1/2 tonAour capacityr.
Accurate adjustable double aspiration. Sieve cleaning devices provided.
C3leaner would also be used as precleaner/scalper for cleaning of 5 tonAour
ea dy after drying.  Separate sieves for paddy and wheat seed. For pre-
Y eaning only one or two sieves with suitable perforations would be used.
..ravity separator: Capacity 1/2 ton/Aour suitable to grade paddy according
to specific weight with adjustable air volume, stroke and inclination;
coiwplete with individual electric motor drive.
Seed treater: For the application of fungicides in liquid form of a suitable
design;  capacity of 3 ton dry seed per hour.  Complete with individual
electric motor drive, metering devices and agitation tank.
Bag weigher and closer: Semi-automatic with a capacity to fill and weigh
seed paddy in 21 lb. jute bags at the rate of 150 bags per hour.  Accuracy
within the range of 0.5%percent. Bag closer to be electrically operated,
of the heavy-duty type and suitable for the type of Jute bags to be used.
Belt conveZ2r: Belt conveyor on trough-shaped rollers would be preferred
type of horizontal conveyors for silos.  Suitable design and length in
accordance with final la-out of machinery and silo bins.
F,.r heater unit: 8,500 cfm at 2.8" w.g. to be connected to the already
constructed in-sack drying facilities.
Dust contrPl equipment:  One or more systems to r emove dust from machines
operating in the processing plant and silo, including from conrveyors.
Complete with dust collector and tubing.
Measuring and testing equilmnent: Comprising bag triers, deep bin probes,
.-.iple cans, moisture meter, recording thermo-hydrograph, etc.
Vacnui.m cleaner:  Industrial type, heavy duty, complete with attachments.
2eneratngjplants: To deliver the required AC electrical current output
.300votltuld be the same as mains supply). Heavy duty, medium speed
(1ine3l engine. To be furnished as complete units including main distribu-
tiro  boards. Capacities 25 Kw and 50 Kw.
t3ins. Square metal silo bins, storage capacity per bin approximately 10
Gors of dry clean paddy; (Sg 40 lb/cu ft or more) with hopper bottom slope
rmnimumr, 1j7J adjustable outlet.



ANNEX 7
TABU '
BANGLADESH
CEREAL SEEDS PROJECT
SEED PROCESSING EQUIPMENT - UNIT COSTS
Tkc/unit     FEC %
Fan Heaters    8,500 cfm at 2.8" w.g.                       6,350        100
Seed Cleaners    2 tAiour                                  31,600        100
Elevators    5 tAour                                        9,5oo        100
Elevators   10 t/hour                                      15,800        100
Elevators   15 tA/our                                      20,000        100
Precleaners    15 tA/our                                   23s700        100
Precleaners    10 tA/our                                   15,800        100
Automatic Weigher    15 t/hour                             11,900        100
Automatic Weigher    10 tJhour                               7,100       100
Automatic Weigher     5 t/hour                              6,300        100
Batch Drier    15 tons                                    102,700        100
Batch Drier    10 tons                                     77,1400       100
Tray Drier    1 ton                                        31,600        100
Fine Seed Cleaner    0.5 t/hour                            15,800        100
Surge Bins    2 tons                                        1,600        100
Seed Treaters    3 t/hour                                    8,700       100
Bag Weigher and Closer                                     10,300        100
Storage Bins    600 ea ft                                    7s,100      100
Dust Control Equipment (Unit)                               6,300        100
Measuring and Testing Equipment                            11s900        100
Industrial Vacuum Cleaner                                   4,000        100
Warehouse Transport Equipment                              15,800        100
Platform Scale                                                 800       100
Airconditioning Unit    1½ HP                                2,350       100
Gravity Separator    ½ t/hour                              15,800        100
Electrical Fittings (depending on plant sffe)                            100
Bin Conveyors    10 t/hour                                  50,500       100
Treick:        Diesel, 4-wheel drive, 5 ton;               45,000        1%
Jeep/Pick-up:  4-wheel drive;                              25,000        100
Motorcycle     150cc                                        6,250        100
Thresher: Self-propelled combine harvester for paddy
but without header, reel etc.                    43,500        100
Housing: Per sq. ft.                                           40         30
Laboratories: Per sq. ft.                                      40         30
Generating plants
25KW-Units including distribution boards                55,000        100
50KW-Units including distribution boards                95,000        100



OUA  SUD  PROJWT
SBED F)0WSING - PHASING OP PI.ANS. BDILDINGS AND EQUIM
I1                      UNIS         M1R  1           MAR 2               M  3            M                TOL             1l$  '0o0
1,000-ton sto"st      --------------------------______------------------- Tks  000-----------------------------------------------------
l.000-ton Stores:-                                                                 Ta00
Pan Heaters                      15          135.4                                 -                -             135.4             17.1
Seed Cleaners, 2-ton              5          225.1                                 -                -             225.1             28.5
Elevaors, 5-ton                   5           67.7                -                -                -              67.7              8.6
Seed-texting Equiyusnt            5           84.8                -                -                -              84.8             10.7
Platform Scales                   5                               -                                          -                       0.7
Sub-total                          WF7                  -                -                -            5l                 T
Seed Proo*sMW  PIsa
Foundation Sed Plazt              2              _            318.1             56.1                -             374.2             47.4
3,500-ton Plant (Noornagar)       1                           543.8             96.0                -            639.8              81.0
1,500-ton Ylant  ( 1mmingh)       1              _            362.5             64.0                -            426.5              54.0
1,500-ton Plat (Tobnia)           1                               -            362.5             64.0            426.5              54.0
2,500-ton Plant (Chittagong)      1                               -            360.8             63.7            424.5              53.7
2,500-ton Plant (Dinajpur)        1                               -            965.6            170.4          1,136.0             143.8
1,000-ton Plant (iltakola)        I              -                -            426.0             75.2            52                 63.4
Stib-total                            -           1,224.4          2,331.0            373.3           3.928.7            697.3
Transoortation and Paoilitiao
TSeehers                         20          340.0            407.9            272.0             340.0          1,359.9            172.2
Jeep/iok-upse                    14          195.4            117.2            156.3              78.2            547.1             69.3
Motor Cycles .2/                 34           68.7             87.5             25.0              31-3            212.5             26.9
Trucks, 5-ton                    24          351.8            351.8            562.9             422.0          1,688.5            213.7
Field Scales                     20            6.3              7.5              5.0               6.3             25.1              3.2
Electricitys
25-kw Generators       2              -            179.7                -                -             179.7             22.7
50-kv Generators      13              -          1,078.4            924-3                            2,002.7            253.5
Fuel Tanks                        7          -   -                0            102.                  -            179.7             22.7
Sub-total                          962.2          2,307.0          2,048.2            877.8           6,195.2            784.2
BuildiAge in '000 Squgre Feet
Paving                           19           42.0             36.0             36.o                 _            114.0              0.2
Reception - Cleaning             18           28.0            434.0            140.0              28.0            630.0             23.9
Bagging - Storage                69           98.0           1,134.0         1,085.0              98.0          2,415.0             91-7
Office - Laboratory               7.5         60.0            140.0             90.0                 -            290.0             11.0
Power Plant                       4.6         56.0             63.0             42.0                 -            161.0              6.1
Sub-total                          284.0          1,807.0          1,393.0             126.0          3,610.0            132.9
Housi   3/
800 Sq Ft              6           32.0             96.0             64.0                 -            192.0              7.3
650 Sq Ft             25          104.0            312.0            234.0                 -            650.0             24.7
500 Sq Ft j/          84          220.0            820.0            640.0                -           1,680.0             63.8
200 Sq Ft             39           80.0                              88.0                               2 0              11.9
Sub-tot4l 36.0                                    1,372.0          1,026.0                 -          2,34.0             107.7
j/ Includes 5 Jeeps for Contract Growers' Scheoe.
1/ For Contract Growers' Scheme.                                                                                                             |
8/ Includes 5 bouses for Contract Growers! Scheme.
,/ Includes 40 houses for Contract Growers' Schee.
Pebruary 5, 1973



,i!'T zIi  7
'T' ,9 rLE   !:p 
BMIGLAGES,q
CERAL SEEDS PROJECT
SEED PROCESSING- TOTAL CAPITALG COSTS
Forei-n
item                    Year 1      -ear 2      Year 3     Year L      Total      Exchange
----~~~-------   Tks 'ooo --_________                          000
1. Ectuipment for
Processing Plant         518.7    1,224.4    2,331.0         373.3    <27.5        ' 
.  'lectricity Cenerators
and Fuel Tanks                     1,335.1   1, 027.0         -       2 ,36'.1 
3. Cost of Installation
10  oI 1of   -1.)                  277.6      351.5        -          621.0
L, Local Trano-ort of
1 and 2'  5,              26.0       13G.8      175.7                   3b0.5
5. Threshers, Trucks, JeepL,
..otorcycles, i'.eld
Scales                   962, 2      972.0   1,0,21.2        677.6    3;3. 3           *.
6. _-Aalding5s for Pocessing
Plants and Storage       284.0    1,807.0   1,393.0          126.0    3,610,0      137.1
7. Staff Housing             436.o    1,372.0   1,026.o            -       2,83b.0     107.S
Su"-Total           2,278.8    7,126.9   7,325.4       1,377.1   18,105,3   1,591.9
Physical Contingencies
10;              227.9      712.7      732.5        137.7  j210.8   ____
TOTAL               2,506.7    7,839.6   8.057.9       1,514.8   19,919.1   1,751.1



ft. 'ft
o      o                   '  H  0  0)  H  C  en  -  .          'ft  -  tO  H  'ft  H  N  3      
.i.10.    -  -  C'                3     2                                        ft  ft
ft  0  ft  0   ft  ft  0  0'  ft
ft  ft  '0  0  3      -   ft     0                     ft  ft  H  0   ft
Vt  0  tO ft  ft  0'    'ft          000    CO  n  ft  Ct  ft ft  H  0)  Oft
ft   0000"-. ft -'0., ft  ten    EN
V  -       Ho    )Oft  Oft          H  00    0  -  0           0  ft  -  ft ft  ft                     'ft ft  
NO    00-40                  0.0   0  ft  oft   ft  ON    ft                            -  -    ft  '  ft
0'     Co  -.     ft  ft  ft  N  0   ft  0'  ft  0'  0  ft  -  -.     ft  ft         -   -   -
-C  -  -C  U'  H              0         ft  -'  CO                                       0  ft  ft             '   'ft  ft  0  0
0      9  Vt  0)    ft  C        0-   "H               ft         ft      COO       ft  ft  tEE                'C  'CO
0      ft  C   ft     N      ft  C"  ft  -          ft  ft  ft  -  '-'  ft    C'
0'     0'                        0   'C    ft    ft  ft    ft.    N  -  0  ft    ft    H "   C"    C"    ft    C)   '-CC   CO    CC    -
      ft         ft     .0  CO    ft    .0  0  ft  0  "0    N  N  Oft    H   0  0   0
ON    fts0'Hg 0 ..HHj%g    000
H      ft                            0                     ft  ft
-      ft      ftftft   a'..         ?                LCCftft                HO
0 ft oft
'4 -4 0' 0' N N 0) tO N 0 t.fl CO 0 0 N 0 '0 N N N N N 0 0 0 0 0 H H H
'0     0'    0)  0'  -           ft  -      ft                 -  CO  to  H  0           -  -           C'               3
CCC 00 4 NC0 '00) ft300) 0 0' ft N N 0 N0)ftft0)NH'00.0 'ft N
o 0 .0 C'3 0 0 N 04 N N 0 0 '0OONC4HNNNO'HL.C    .0 N H N -
H  '0  -'    CD    03     -      ft    0)              03                    -
-4  0'  0  CC' H          H      N  CCC      N          0  N                  H
IT   .0  0'    '0  0'    .0  CCC    0   0      0'         0   0                  0'
tft
-                             H  0  C'
0'  0  H        -  ftC  N                      N                                                                                 
0                                                                                                       .            ,          El
0)       03      0  0'  N  0  0                    0  N                   'ft                                      N                    9
                                       0000                                                                                 N
'0                                       ,,,,,'N'N'''''' NW
0' N  "C  '0 tO      H  ft  N  0  ft        -                     N           ft     0                             N  ft
O  CCC  0)  0  C)     N  N  0  0  N          N                     H          N       0)
ft  0'  N  to    .0  '4                                                               ft         ft
- 0) '0 CCC 4' N  ''C                             CC't,C4',Nt 03 N *I'  H 0'
0  .0  0)  '0  N  0)                                                   N              N      -4  0)                    0'  N
H      H  0  H  CD                              N                      ft             0      0'  "4                    0  N
CC) 0  0)  N  N
-  N  0'  0'  0                                                                       N      N
-  0)  '0  H   0                                0'             N       H              N      '0      03
N  0'  0'  '0  '0                               .              -       '
0              N      ft             N       N      N
0    CC'    N
0'         N   'C    H                             "C    ft
*              *                                    ,   'ft    N  H
0'         N  N       ft
g  z      K   N  I                                  N          0' CCC      N                             0)     N
0'  0  CCC  N  N  I                                 N           4  0       3                             N      '4'                  '0
N  CCC   '0    H                                03          N  0'     '0                             0'      N
: J'I0Vi
L )CONNV



ANNEX 7
Page 1
BANGLADESH
CEREAL SEEDS PROJECT
SEEDS PROCESSING - RECURRENT COSTS
.1/
Annual-         Total
Salary          Year
Plant Type                    Staffing              No.         _Tks.             Tks.
1. Staffing Costs
3,500-ton plant (Noornagar)   Chief Superintendent         1         16,000           15,600
Overseer                    2          9,300           18,600
Machine Attendant           6          3,250           19,500
Mechanic                    1          5,4o0            5,400
Electrician                 1          5,4oo            5,!tco
Clerk/Storekeeper           1          3,250            3,250
Laborers                    10         1,500           15,000
Powerplant Attendant        3          3,250            9,750
Darwan                      2          1,500            3,0OC
Total               27                         95,900
2,500-ton plant Dinajpur
and Chittagong                Superintendent              1         i6,000           16,000
Overseer                    2          9,300           18,(O00
Machine Attendant           6          3,250           l?,$CO
Mechanic                    1          5,1 00              ('
Electrician                 1          5,h00             ,
Clerk/Storekeeper           1          3,250            3,2:0
Laborers                    6          1,500            9,000
Powerplant Attendant        3          3,250            9,750
Darwan                      2          .,500            3,00or
Total               23                          9 ;Co
1,500-ton plant (Tebnia and
Mymensingh)                   Chief Superintendent        1         16,000           16,0o0
Overseer                    2          9,300           18,600
Machine Attendant           6          3,250           l',,50C
Mechanic/Electrician        1          5,o00            5,4CO
Clerk/Storekeeper           1          3,250            3,25C
Laborers                    6          1,500            9,000
Powerplant Attendant        2          3,250            6,500
Darwan                      2          1,500            3,00C
Total               21                          l,25C
2/ Salary levels are based on current BADC scales for similar activities.



ANNEX 7
TABLE- 6
Page 2
Annual          Total
.Salary          Year
Plant Type                  Staffing                No.          Tks.             Tks.
1,000-ton plant Itakhola       Superintendent                1        11,000           11,000
Overseer                     2          9,300           18,600
Machine/Powerplant
Attendants                 3          3,250              0 7 5
Clerk/Storekeever            1          3,250            3,25.C
Mechanic/Electrician        1          5,400            5,4oo
Laborers                     L          1,500            5, 2o r
Darwan                       2          1,500            3, 0
Total                iNt                        5 7 oo),
toundation and Stock seed      Overseer                                  00             9,300
plant at Sadhuhati and        Drier-Cleaner Attendants    2           3,250            6,5o0
Kashimpur                     Laborers                      2         1,500            3,OO
Total                5                          18,800
Staff for seed threshing       Field Officers               5         16,000           8o,o()
and transport                  Assistant Field Officers   40           9,300          372,00G
Combine Thresher Operators 20           5,400         108,000
Drivers                     14          3,250          45,500
Truck Drivers               24         5,400          129,600
Field Mechanics              6          5,400          32,400
Total              109                         767,500
Initial Staffing for           Chief Superintendent         1         16,000           16,I000
1,000-ton stores               Overseer                     2          9,300           18,600
(to form nicleus for full      Machine Attendant            2          3,250            6,500
staffing as detailed          Mechanic/Electrician         1          5,400            ,}190
above)                        Laborers                     6          1,500            9,000
Clerk/Storekeeper            1         3,250            3,250
Darwan                       2          1,500            3,000
Total                15                         61,750
Above staff is required for each of five plants.



ANNEX 7
Page 3
2. Direct Costs per Ton Seed
Permanent Plants                   Fuel (Drying and Power)   Tks. 35/ton  )
Packaging                  Tks. 140/ton ) Tks. 190/ton
Chemicals                  Tks. 15/ton  )
Foundation and stock               Fuel (Drying and Power)   Tks. 50/ton  )
seed plant                        Packaging                  Tks. 50/ton  ) Tks. 115/ton
Chemicals                  Tks. 15/ton  )
Note:   Fuel costs based on diesel oil price of Tks 360 per gallon.   Packaging allows
Tks. 1.0 per 10 seer bag and Tks. 3.0 per 2 md bag.   Chemicals cost allows for
regular fungicide dressing and insecticide dressing as necessary.






BANGLADESH
CEREAL SEEDS PROJECT
S-EMS PTrOCESSTNI - R7CnURNT COSTS
fear 1     Year 2     Year 3      Year 1h    Year 5--Onward
-------------           Tks '000    -        ---------------
Staffing-                                  502.6      863.2      1,161.8    1,315.5
Fuel=                             -        215.0      334.o        389.0      504.o
Packaging                         -        400.0    1,184.0      1,330.0    1,680.0
Chamicals                         -         75.0      120.0        i42.5      180.0
Repair and maintenance-d/         -        115.0      184.0        218.5       276.0
Total:                      -      1,307.6    2,685.2      3,241.8    3,955.5
Processing cost per ton:
Production                        -      5,000      8,000        ,500      12,000
Costs per ton                     -        321.5      335.6        341.2      329.6
1l  Includes processing plant staff, operators for combine threshers, truck drivers,
field mechanics.
2/ Fuel for electric generators, driers, trucks, thresiher and vehicles.
F-3 >



BANGLADESH
CEREAL SEEDS PROJECT
AVERAGE MtONTHLY TEMPERATURE IN 0C AND RELATIVE HUMIDITY IN PERCENTAGE
District:            ymensin   (Madhupur)        Pabna (Tebda)         Chittagonig (Patiya)    Dinajpur (Thakurgaon)
Min   Max   Av   RH%   Min   Max   Av   RH%   Min    Max   Av   RH    Min   Max   Av   RHK
Month
January                   5    30   19    78       3    30   18    72        8    31   20    65        5    30   18    73
February                  5    33   20    75       8    37   21    70    10    32   11    62          5    35   20    69
March                     9    39   25    65    13    41   26    63    15    37   27    65    10    41   25    58
April                    15    h3   30    70    15    43   31    65    20    h1   28    68    13    43   28    53
May                      16    h2   28    80    20   143   31    80    20    h1   28    72    17    43   30    70
June                     20    37   28    88    21    40   29    85    22    37   28    83    18    42   30    84
July                     22    36   28    87    22    37   28    90    24    34   28    83    22    38   30    85
August                   22    35   28    86    23    35   29    88    23    34   27    83    21    28   30    85
September                21    35   28    85    22    37   29    87    24    34   27    82    21    38   30    84
October                  15    34   27    814   18    37   27    85    16    34   27    78    12    37   27    84
November                 12    32   24    79    10    34   22    83    15    32   24    70    10    35   22    79
Pecember                  9    30   20    82       6    32   20    84    10    32   24    69          5    30   20    79



ANNEX 7
TABIE, 9
BANGLADESH
CEREAL SEEDS PROJECT
AVERAGE MONTHLY RAINFALL IN INCHES
Month                 Mytensingh         Pabna        Chittagong       Dinajpur
January                    0               1               0               1
FebruarY                   1               2               1               1
March                      2               3               3               2
April                      4               14              6               3
May                       12               8              10               8
June                      18              13              21              14l
July                      15              11              26              15
August                    16              12              23              13
September                 214              9              214             12
October                    7               7               8               5
November                   1               2               3               1
December                   0               1               0               0
Total            90              73            115               75
e E= 
Source: EPWAPDA - Masterplan Supplement A Climate and Hydrology.






BANGLADESH
CEREAL SEEDS PROJECT
FLOWSHEET OF SEED DRYING, STORAGE AND PROCESSING PLANT
Dispatch
World Bank-7498






BANGLADESH
CEREAL SEEDS PROJECT
FLOW OF FOUNDATION SEED THROUGH DRYING, STORAGE AND PROCESSING PLANT
Intake       Intake
Drier                        Separator                        Weighn          Storage
Dispatch
Drier                                          Storagr
World Bank-7499






BANG LADESH
CEREAL SEEDS PROJECT
PHASING OF PROCESSING PLANT
Year 1                     Year 2                     Year 3                      Year 4                     Year 5
Equipment for 1,000 ton stores        ... Onlll
7                           AL2
Foundation seed plants              -i                         r                    ll--X
3,500 ton (Noornagar)               ...                                                       26
1,500 ton (Mymensingh)                           6 ........
1,500 ton (Tebnia)                                      __                                                              B
6   11                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~32 3 
2,000 ton (Chittagong)                                           - .     .iuii.
_6         17i                          t         
2,500  ton   (Dinajpur)             .............
1,000 (Itakhola)                                   6         1
2 5          etc. indicates no. of months from starting date of project.
1III3:       Preparation of tender specifications.                                               Installation of plant
Tender submission and selection.                                                    Running in and training of operators.
Delivery time including shipping.                                          m        Time available for construction of buildings.
World Bank-7500






AINEX 8
Page 1
BANGLADESH
CEREAL SEEDS PROJECT
Distribution and Marketing-'
A. MIarketing
1.        The distribution of 12,000 tons of seed (10,000 tons of rice and
2,000 tons of wheat) produced under the project would only be about 2% nf
the volume of BADC's projected fertilizer sales. BADC has adapted itself
to accommodate the rapidly expanding operations of procuring and distributing
farm requisites, for many of which very little experience existed previously
in Bangladesh. BADC's 1972-73 program for procurement and distribution of
farm requisites amounts to more than Tks 800 million (over US$100 million).
The principal operations are in fertilizers, pesticides, fuel, plant
protection and irrigation equipment, as well as repair and maintenance
services. In comparison, the volume of seed supply has played only a small
role in these overall operations. The rapid growth of BADC's principal
operations over the last six years is shown in Annex 4, Table 1.
2.        The present fertilizer distribution system would offer a more
satisfactory pattern to strengthen seed marketing under the project than the
current seed marketing system. BADC is solely responsible for fertilizer
distribution in Bangladesh covering wholesale distribution to the thana
level and the arrangements for retail distribution at the local level. For
wholesale distribution, BADC has its thana storage system from which it
distributes fertilizer to retail dealers. The dealers, numbering about
22,000, include both cooperatives and private dealers. On the whole, the
system has worked reasonably well, although recently, dealers have
complained that BADC's authorized sales commission is too low and does not
cover their transportation costs from the thana stores. (While fertilizer
prices were doubled in 1972, the sales commission remained unchanged at
Tks 35 per ton or Tks 1.29 per maund).
3.        The seed distribution system differs from that of the fertilizer
system. There is no distribution at the cooperative or village level.
Wholesaling takes place at the district level and retailing of seed at the
thana level.
(a) The Movement, Storage and Sales Division of the Supply
Wing in BADC which distributes and sells fertilizers and other
inputs, also handles the distribution and marketing of seed;
(b) Indents are regularly solicited from BADC District Officers
who are responsible for estimating their District's seed
demands in the period for which procurement is being made;
I/   The cost table at the end of this Annex does not reflect the recent
devaluation of the US dollar.



ANNEX 8
Page 2
(c) Based on these indents, the Division works out delivery
and shipment schedules, taking into account the availability
of seed from BADC farms, from stocks procured by the existing
Registered Growers and sometimes from imports, the relative
estimated demands of the Districts and the available
transportation capacity;
(d)  Transportation is arranged by trucks, usually under contracts,
and by railway; and
(e) Shipments are made to appropriate thana business centers
where the Division has transient storage in some rented
godowns or in BADC-owned fertilizer godowns, from which
seed is sold directly to farmers.
4.        As BADC seed is usually sold at the same price, and sometimes even
at a lower price, than consumption grain it is difficult to discern how much
of the seed distributed in the past has indeed been used as seed and how
much has been purchased by farmers for consumption or by Government for
relief provisions. In addition, there has been farmer dissatisfaction with
the seed quality and farmers have been reluctant to purchase BADC seed,
particularly for replenishing stocks of established varieties.
B. Project Features
5.        Considering the existing institutional infrastructure
and the complementarity of seed and fertilizer, the Movement, Storage and
Sales Division of BADC would be the logical sales outlet for the highly
fertilizer- responsive seed varieties produced under the project. Because
of the relatively small quantities of seed which would be involved, the
existing structure of the Division could easily accommodate the distribution
and marketing of project seed. Only one new post, a deputy manager in
charge of nationwide seed distribution and marketing operations would be
required. The integration of seed distribution with the existing fertilizer
would be a distinct economic and promotional advantage.
Thana Stores
6.        The proposed arrangement would entail essentially the same
activities as the present seed distribution system except for the final
stages. The existing BADC-owned thana stores all have excess capacity. One
store in each thana would be modified by constructing a wall to provide a
separate bay for seed storage. The estimated cost to modify these stores to
serve their future dual purpose would be Tks 2,000 per store. The storekeeper
would continue to be in charge of both fertilizer and seed.
Dealejrystem
7.        Following the fertilizer dealership system, a retail dealer
svstein would be established at cooperative and village level drawing aF



AMNEX 8
Page 3
much as possible on those retailers and cooneratives already selling
fertilizers. Seed and fertilizer would be procured by the retailer at
the same time saving both time and transportation costs. Every potential
buyer  of project seed would be within reach of these merchants.  Retail
dealers would charge as sales commission Tks 5 per maund. The higher
comrission charge for seed would be required since:
(a)  the volume of sales would be relatively low and it
would be necessary to make the trade attractive;
(b)  unit costs would be high and dealers would have to be
rewarded for initial investment: and
(c)  a more intensive sales effort would be required.
Promotion
8.        Creation of Demand.  The early creation of sufficient demand for
project seed would be fundamental to the success of the project. An
intensive effort involving extension, demonstration and promotion would need
to be undertaken to convince farmers to replace their own seed with the
superior seed which the project would produce. In the earlier stages,
potential customers would be progressive and respected farmers who have
traditionally supplied seeds to other farmers. Efforts would need to be
made to identify such growers for the dual function of exemplifying the
advantages of project seed and providing a continuing farmer to farmer supply
of highi quality seed to supplement the direct sale of project seed.
9.        Extension and Demonstration.  The institution most able to help
BADC to foster the sale of seed is the Directorate of Extension of the
Department of Agriculture.  The Accelerated Rice Production Program, which
the Directorate operates, lhas developed wrhat appears to be a very effective
network of demonstration-cum-production blocks directed by specially trained
TUnion Agricultural Assistants in almost every district. The Program
demonstrated its capability to popularize new varieties wlhen in 1970, it
succeeded in persuading over 200,000 farmers to plant 1,200 tons of the
new high-yielding anan variety, IR-20, which had been imported from  the
Philippines.  Not only did this show the Program's capncity to promote
the sale of seed but also the Bangladesh farmer's readiness to responcd to
prqfitable innovations. The staff and experience of the Accelerated Rice
Production Program would be utilized to introduce project seed throughout
the country. Provision is made in the project for special training of
Thana Agricultural Officers (Annex 10) who, in turn, would instruct the
Union Agricultural Assistants to supervise demonstrations and advise farmers
on planting new varieties. There would also be demonstration on private
farms involving demonstration plots planted with project seed in areas where
additional stimulation of demand wouldl be required. The total cost of
these demonstrations to be financed by the project and managed by the
Directorate of Extension has been estimated at Tks 0.7 million phased over
four years.



ANNEX 8
Page 4
10.       Credit.  The 1970/71 report of the Evaluation Committee on
Accelerated Rice Production Program expressed concern about the amount of
credit provided by the Program and credit repayment. This concern is
supported by the mission's findings. Repayments have dropped to as low
as 20% recently- However, for the time being it is difficult to clearly
discern the effects of past disturbances on credit repayment as opposed to
the general attitude of farmers to repay and the institutional capacity
to collect repayments. Although seed costs represent only a small portion
of total production costs, provision of sufficient credit is essential for
the exploitation of high yielding varieties which require the application
of complementary inputs.
11.       Promotional Materials.  To reinforce the basic stimulus of expansion
and demonstration, the standard promotional usage of publicity materials
wotuld be necessary. The Public Relations Division of BADC, which has
experience in such activities, would intensify their program of preparation
and distribution of publicity materials such as films, posters and leaflets
in order to promote farmers' interest in the new seed. To support the
required intensification, the Division would receive an annual allocation
of Tks 150,000.
C. Project Costs
12.       The phasing of capital costs of providing separate storage space
in the thana fertilizer stores and four years workc of promotional materials
and demonstration activities, is slhown below. Recurrent costs of distribtution
and marketing comprise the direct cost of distribution at the rate of
Tks 5 per maund based on an average movement of 70 miles 1/ and the cost
of demonstration and promotional materials after year 4.
Including carrying and loading for shipment, freight and delivery.



ANNEX 8
Page 5
Year 5
Capital Cost        Year 1   Year 2   Year 3   Year Li  Onwarxd   Total   ±i.chan-e
------------ Tks 1000 --vot 00
Seed Storage          200      43o       200       -         -        800      30.b
Demonstration         100      200       20C      200        -         700       -
Promotion              75      150       150      150        _        525      .o.o
Sub-total      375       750      550       350        -      ;
Contingencies 105      38        75       55        35       -          °-03
T 0T.J         413       825       605      385        -      2, 28      553.
.ecurrent Jost
Distribution          32.8     29.6      43.7     50.        60.0
Demon.stration         -        -         -        -        .00.0
Fromotio--                                                  10 0
32.8     29.6      43.i     50.5      z10.0






ANNEX 9
Page  1
BANGLADESH
CEREAL SEEDS PROJECT
Seed Quality Control-
Introduction
1.        The success of a seeds project depends on the quality of seed
produced. The farmer must be sure that when he buys seed it is true to
genetic type, free from disease, free from weed seeds and has a high
germinating capacity. The absence of seed quality control in the past has
contributed to the lack of success in quality seed production, and to fill
this gap, the project would provide a Seed Certification Agency, (SCA)
backed by seeds legislation. SCA would consist of a headquarters with
seed analysis laboratory and 10 acres of land for test plots at Joydebpur
and field inspection services located in the six seed production areas.
Seed Certification
2.        The essence of seed certification is to ensure seed origin, seed
purity and seed health through all stages, from the plant breeder to the
farmer. This entails certification of three types of seed, for the purpose
of this project called: "Breeders Seed, Foundation Seed and Certified Seed."
-    Breeders Seed - would be produced by BRRI (rice) and ARI
(wheat) and seed crops would have to correspond to the
description registered in the seeds legislation (see para
3 (a)).
-    Foundation Seed - is the first generation following certi-
fied Breeders Seed. It would be produced on two BADC farms
selected for this purpose.
-    Certified Seed - would be grown on BADC farms and by
contract growers from certified foundation seed.
Certified seed would be the commercial seed sold for
consumption grain production, but not for further seed
production.
Steps in Certification
3.        The following are steps in the seed certification process:
(a) Variety Listing - On instruction of the National Seed
Board (see main report para 4.02) SCA would annually
register crops and varieties which would be eligible for
certification. For new varieties breeders would have to
describe the plant structure, yield and other agronomic
characteristics of use in Bangladesh.
1/   Cost tables at the end of this annex do not reflect the recent devaluation
of the US dollar.



ANNEX 9
Page 2
(b) Field Inspection - Depending on the crop, one or more field
inspections may be necessary to allow accurate determination
of:
-    varietal and species purity;
-    presence of volunteer plants from earlier crops;
-    weed population;
-    pests and diseases.
Field inspectors would supervise harvesting and threshing and would
provide provisional labels for sacks of seed. In addition they would
take samples (about one sample per 10-20 ton lot of seed) for laboratory
tests. Inspectors would be present during subsequent processing and
would carry out final labeling and sealing to prevent tampering with the
seed. If, during storage, the seed needs further drying, inspectors would
relabel and reseal the bags on each occasion.
(c) Law Enforcement - Seed could be inspected at any time after
processing so that provisions of the seed law can be enforced
if quality falls below the prescribed standard.
(d)  Sampling a^.d Testing - A seed sample would be drawn and part
of each sample would be tested for moisture, purity and
germination. Part of the sample would be kept for at least
a year. Samples would also be provided for check growing
on plots. There would be one plot for each lot of breeders
or foundation seed and random selection at a prescribed rate
(e.g. 1:4) of samples of certified seed to be grown on plots.
All sampling and testing would be in accordance with the
rules of the International Seed Testing Association.
Seeds Legislation
4.        Seeds legislation would include provision for:
-    the establishment of a National Seeds Board 1/;
-    prescribing crops and varieties for seed
certification and seed quality standards for them;
1/   This Board would be set up as an Advisory Board before legislation can
be drafted.



ANNEX 9
Page 3
procedures,  labeling,  documentation and sealing
seed containers;
vesting powers of seed law enforcement in SCA--
including right of entry into fields or premises;
regulating all aspects of the seed trade;
penalties;
-    any other provisions relevant to the breeding,
bulking, processing, storing and distribution of
seed.
The legislation would be "consumer protection" legislation and would help
to give farmers confidence (somewhat lacking at the moment) in BADC traded
seeds.
5.        The Seed Certification Agency would be established in the Ministry
of Agriculture, with its chief reporting directly to the Secretary of
Agriculture. It would have two main divisions responsible respectively
for laboratory (Seed Technology) and field (Seed Control) (see Chart WB-7497),
with responsibilities as follows:
6.        Seed Technology.  The National Seed Testing Station would have
a laboratory and plots for field testing seed under the Control of a Chief
Seed Technologist who would have the authority to issue international seed
analysis certificates and to set up local training for analysts and
samplers. He would be required to complete successfully a course in seed
testing and certification overseas. 1/
7.        Apart from samples from SCA the laboratory would test samples
for research stations and on demand for the private sector. On the basis
of the estimated work load (see Table 1), the staff complement should include
one Chief Analyst, six analysts, an agronomist, and support staff.
8.        Seed Control.  A Senior Seed Control Officer (SCO) would be
responsible for:
-    registration of seed stocks, crops, growers and
processing units;
-    crop inspection;
-    seed sampling;
-    promotion and education 2/;
1/   A suitable course is provided at the National Institute of Agricultural
Botany, Cambridge, England.
2/   Close liaison would be maintained with Movement, Supply and Service
Division of BADC, and Extension Services of the Ministry of Agriculture
and Universities.



ANNEX 9
Page 4
-    licensing of imports and exports of seeds.
The Senior SCO would be assisted by three Executive Officers at headquarters
and four Divisional SCOs, with a staff of 30 field inspectors (one per
200-250 acres see Table 2) who would also inspect processing plants, thana
stires and retail outlets drawing official sealed samples of seed for testing
bj the National Seed Testing Laboratory.
roject Actions
9.        The project would provide the expertise to establish the Seed
Certification Agency, formulate seed certification standards, and prepare
supporting legislation in conjunction with the Judicial Department. It
would also provide vehicles for field inspection staff, a central laboratory
with equipment to handle 10,000 samples a year and field machinery, office
equipment (at Joydebpur) and transport. Some housing is provided for key
staff members.
Phasing
10.       The Seeds Certification Agency would be established in the first
year of the project when senior executives (who would have had overseas
training) would, under the guidance of a specialist adviser, set up training
programs for field staff This staff would initially be selected from the
existing BADC Staff supervising the present Registered Growers Scheme. At
the same time, the Chief Seed Technologist would commence training analysts
who would be selected from graduates in botany or plant science (see Table 3).
Costs
11.       Capital Costs.  All the required facilities and items of equipment
are summarized in Table 4.
12.       Recurrent Costs.  Salaries, which account for the major portion
of recurrent costs, are related to current BADC rates for similar posts.
Recurrent costs are summarized in Tables 5 and 6.
Returns
13.       No charges would be made for certification and seed testing
services for official agencies. However, the laboratories would also
handle samples for the private sector, and the National Seed Board would
advise the level of charges from time to time.



ANNEX 9
Table 1
BANGLADESH
CEREAL SEEDS PROJECT
Estimated Number of Seed Samples
Type of Sample                            Year        1      2     3       4
Farmers' Samples                                     200   500   700   1,000
Samples from Provinces                             2,000 2,000 2,000   2,000
Samples from Certification                           -       50   750   1,000
Scheme (pre-post control)
Check Samples /1                              1,000 2,000 3,000   4,000
Reference Samples /2                            -     150   250      300
Import, Export (ISTA)                                 50   100   200    250
Plant Health                                          50   100   200    250
Identification                                        50   100   200    250
Research Stations                                    200   300   400    500
3,750 5,750 8,000  9,550
/1   Check samples taken on unscheduled visits to seed processing plants,
stores and retail outlets.
/2   Reference samples are those taken at other seed testing stations for
comparison purposes.



ANNEX 9
Table 2
BANGLADESH
CEREAL SEEDS PROJECT
Estimated Areas to be Inspected
Years 2-4
Y E A R S/
2                  3                4
T. aman, boro and    T. aman, boro and   T. aman, boro and
wheat                 wheat               wheat
Acres
(000)                   2        2            4       4          5.8       6.2
Staff (Field
Inspectors)
requirement /2              10                    20                   30
/1   In years 2 and 3 each field will be inspected before the crop is
planted and at least once during the growing season. An inspector
will be present during the threshing of contract crops.
/2   Basis for calculation:  Each inspector responsible for 200-250
acres per season.



ANNEX 9
Table 3
BANGLADESH
CEREAL SEEDS PROJECT
Employment of Seeds Analysts-
Year             Total
1    2    3    4
Chief Seed Technologist             1    -    -    -          1
Assistant (Chief Seed Analyst)    1    -    -    -            1
Analysts /2                         -    3    3    -          6
Trainees                            3    2    3    3         11
Quality Control Inspectors /3       6    -    -    -          6
/1   Staff would be employed in relation to anticipated expansion
from rice and wheat to other species, and it is assumed
that a fully trained analyst will handle 7 germination or
purity tests per working day.
/2   It is expected that analysts would also be trained as crop
inspectors, samplers and to assist in field work at peak
times.
/3   Quality control inspectors, after training to use a moisture
meter, Vitroscope for quick germination testing and sampling,
will return to processing units, but will complete seed
analysts training in later years.



BANGLADiS3H
SEEDS CERTIFTCATIOIN AGENCY
CAPITAL COSTS
Unit                                                                    Foreign
Cost        Year 1        Year 2         Year 3           Total         3xchange
Item                       (Tks)        --(Tks '000)- -------------------                          US$000
1.   Dacca_.
Office Equipment                   6,500           6.5            -                             6.5             0.7
l'urniture                         6,500           6.5            -              -              6.5              -
Jeep/Pick-up                      41,000 3/       41.0            -              -             41.0             4.9
2.   Joydephur (Seed Testing
Station)
Laboratory (3,000 sq ft) 2/       50/sq ft       150.0            -              -            150.0             7.6
Offices (1,000 sq ft)             40/sq ft        40.0            -              -             40.0             1.5
Laboratory Equipment 2/
Incubators                          -           24.6 31      24.6              -             49.2            5.9
Others                              -           24.6         12.3              -             36.9            4.4
Cultivation Equipment             62,500          62.5            -              -             62.5             7.5
Furniture and Office
Equipment                        6,500           6.5           --                             6.5            0.3
Jeep/Pick-up                      41,000          41.0           _               _             41.0             4.9
House (1) (1,650 sq ft)           66,000          66.0            -              -             66.0             2.5
House (4) (8,008 sq ft)           32,000          64.0          64.o             -            128.0             4.9
Living Quarters (8)
(500 sq ft)                     40,000         160.0        160.0              -            320.0           12.2
Fencing (2,500 ft)                  8/ft          23.8            -              -             23.8             1.8
3.   Divisional Seed Centers
Jeep/Pick-up                      41,000 Y        82.0         82.0              -            164.0            19.7
Motor Cycles                      10,000 3/       100.0        100.0           100.0          300.0            36.1
Houses  (4)                       36,ooo          72.0         7?.0            __             144.0             5.5
Sub-Total                                  971.0        51.9             100.0        1,585.9          120.4
Physical Contingencies (10%)                      97.1         51.5             10.0          158.6            12.0
TOTAL                                    1,068.1        566.4           1.10.0        1,744.5          132.4
1/ Office to be in existing Ministry acconmodation.
2/  Specifications for Laboratory and Equipment are available from:  The Official Seed Testing Station,                    e >
Wageningen, Holland.  See Proceedings Seed Testing, Vol. 34/1969.                                                      a
3/  Including spares (25%), shipment, etc. (25%) and local handling (5%).                                                  CD
Trs



ANNEX 9
TABLE 5
BANGLADESH
CEREAL SEEDS PROJECT
SEED CERTIFICATION AGENCY - NATTONAL SEE  TRSTTNC  X'fON
RECUXRET COSTS
Salary         Year 1      Year 2      Year 3      Year 4
-___---------Tks '000---------------
1. Staff
Chief Seed Technologist         20,000            20.0      20.0         20.0        20.0
Assistant Analyst               10,000            10.0       10.0        10.0        10.0
Analyst                          4,000            12.0      12.0         24.0        24.0
Trainees                         2,500             7.5        7.5         5.0         5.0
Clerk/Typist                     3,000             3.0        3.0         6.0         6.0
Driver                           2,500             2.5        2.5          2.5        2.5
Darwan (2)                       1,000             1.0        1.0          2.0        2.0
Agronomist (1)                   4,000             4.0        4.0         4.0         4.0
Peons (2)                        1,000             1.0       1.0          2.0         2.0
SUB-TOTAL                                   61.0       61.0         75.5        75.5
2.  Vehicle Maintenance
Jeep/Pick-up                                       4.5       4.5          4.5         4.5
3.  Office & Laboratory Sapplies                          6.5       13.0         20.0        20.0
TOTAL                                       72.0       78.5        100.0       100.0



ANNEX 9
TABLE 6
BANGLADESH
CEREAL SEEDS PROJECT
SEED CERTIFICATI ON AGENCY - FIELD INSPWTTON q.ERvrE
RECURRENT COSTS
Salary Or       Year 1    Year 2       Year 3      Year 4
Cost    ----------Tkcs 000--------------
1. Staff
Deputy Director (1)              25,000          25.0       25.0       25.0        25.0
Seed Control Officer (1)        20,000           20.0      20.0        20.0        20.0
Division Control Officer (4)   10,000             -        40.0        40.0        40.0
Inspectors (30)                   4,500          45.0      90.0       135.0       135.0
Clerks/Typist (7)                 3,000           9.0      21.0        21.0        21.0
Executive Officer (3)             7,500          22.5      22.5        22.5        22.5
Stenographer (1)                  5,500           5.5       5.5         5.5         5.5
Drivers  (7)                      2,500           7.5       17.5       17.5        17.5
Darwan (2)                        1,000           1.0       1.0         2.0         2.0
SUB-TOTAL                         135.5     242.5       288.5       288.5
2. Vehicle Maintenance
Jeep/Pick-up (6)                  4,500           9.0      27.0        27.0        27.0
Motor cycles (30)                   650           6.5      13.0        19.5        19.5
3.  Office Supplies                                      5.0       10.0        15.0       15.0
SUB-TOTAL                         156.0     292.5       350.0       350.0
4.  Promotion & Education                               50.0      100.0       100.0      100.0
TOTAL                             206.0     392.5       450.0       450.0



BANGLADESH
CEREAL SEEDS PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART
SEED CERTIFICATION AGENCY
DIRECTOR
SECRETARY
FIELD CONTROL                                          NATIONAL SEED
FIELD CONTROL                          ~ ~~~~~~TESTING STATION
|SEED CONTROL  || CHIEF SEED                                            I
I OFFICER      IITECHNOLOGISTI
DIVISION SEED
CONTROL OFFICERS              CHIEF ANALYST
(4)
EXECUTIVE                                                                         AGRONOMIST
OFFICERS (3)l
SEED CONTROL                ANALYSTS (6)
INSPECTORS (30)






ANNEX 10
Page 1
BANGLADESH
CEREAL SEEDS PROJECT
Training and Technical Assistance -
General
1.        In framing these proposals cognizance has been taken of Government's
desire to train and use local staff to assume full responsibility for the
project as soon as possible. It must be recognized, however, that local skills
in some aspects of the seeds industry--production technology of high yielding
crop varieties, farm management, mechanization, seed processing and quality
control--are at present deficient. Consequently training, and technical
assistance are required for the successful implementation of the project.
Local Training
2.        An overall training program, including training abroad and local
training would be prepared by the project management assisted by consultants,
on the basis of the information contained in Table 3 and Table 4 of this
Annex. The program should include the following information:
(a) Training Responsibility: (i) setting-up of a training unit
with specific functions and responsibilities; (ii) deter-
mining what the training unit is expected to do within
its functions; (iii) establishing means by which these
functions will be carried out.
(b) Training Program: (i) detailed information of how the
program objectives will be implemented; (ii) allocation
of responsibility for its execution; (iii) training
timetable; (iv) details on resources utilization to carry
out the program objectives; (v) detailed information for
placement of trainees on completion of training program.
(c) Methods of selecting trainees.
(d) Trainees undertaking to serve their employers for a
reasonable period after completing training abroad.
(e) Methods for evaluation of training.
1I   Cost tables at the end of this Annex do not reflect the recent devalua-
tion of the US dollar.



ANNEX 10
Page 2
BADC Staff Training Institute
3.        Most of the local training would take plicnc a,t;- BADC Staff
Training Institute at Madhupur Farm. The Institute is biLvated on a Certi-
fied Seed Production Farm, adjacent to a Contract Growers Area, a Founda-
tion Seed Farm and close to a processing center. It is, therefore, well
situated to cater for range of training needed for the project.
Buildings and Facilities
4.        The Institute facilities include a classroom building, dormitory
accommodation for 120 students, offices and staff housing. Additional
buildings and facilities would be required for the proposed training program
and would be provided by the project. Buildings to be provided would
include classrooms-cum-common rooms, a machinery training wiorkshop, staff
housing and an additional guest-house for visiting lecturers. Electrical
power for both the existing and new buildings would be provided from genera-
tors and the new buildings would be furnished, Tractorp, farm machinery and
workshop equipment would be provided for demonstration        practical training
purposes. In addition, provision would be made for two mini-buses for
transporting students on field visits; and for teaching alds, including
projectors, films and training manuals, sports e.quipment and recreation
facilities.
5.        Organization and Staff.  The Institute is administered by the
Principal, responsible directly to the Chairman BADC, supported by an Assis-
tant Principal and a small lecturing staff.  Existing staff would not be
able to handle the proposed project training program and six new instructors
would be employed and seconded to the Institute. The senior instructor
would be in charge of project training at the institute (under the Principal)
and he would in addition coordinate and arrange other lecal training (see
para 5). Three of the instructors would be agronomists, one specializing
in crop production, one in water management and the other in pest and
disease control. The remaining staff would be lnstructors in farm manage-
ment, machinery operation and maintenance, and storage and marketing. All
instructors would take short overseas training courses in their specialties.
Project implementation would be speeded up if instructors were employed
immediately upon commencement of the project, so that training courses
could start during the first year.  Senior project staff and consultants
would participate in curriculum formation, in training the instructors and
in the teaching program at the Institute. The Institute would, in addition,
be able to call upon specialists from the nearby Agricultural University
at Mymensingh, from the Bangladesh Rice Research Institute (BRRI) and from
other relevant agencies. Farm machinery suppliers would be expected to
participate in training tractor drivers and mechanics (see para 7 below).
Seed Inspection and Seed Certification Courses
6.        Training of seed inspection staff and seed analysts would be
conducted jointly at the National Seed Testing Laboratory to be established
at Joydebpur and the adjacent BRRI. The Chief of the Seeds Certification



ANNEX 10
Page 3
Service would organize and conduct the courses. The Senior Instructor BADC
(para 5) would assist with organizing courses and with the preparation of
training materials.
In-Service Training
7.        The Senior Instructor would also assist in organizing project staff
in-service training, to be conducted by processing plant and farm machinerv
suppliers as part of their contracts. Their contracts should clearly indicate
(i) number and level of staff to be trained; (ii) training timetable; (iii)
level of achievement to be reached at completion of training.
Local Training Programs
8.        The following is a guideline for courses during the project
implementation period:
Courses at Madhupur
(a)  Project Orientation.  A short introduction would be given
to the concept of the project, its components and specific
objectives. All key project staff would take this course
which would serve in most cases as an introduction to a
subsequent longer and more specialized period of instruc-
tion.
(b) Tractor and Field Equipment
(i) Operation. The intensification of mechanization on
BADC farms can only be effective if standards of
mechanical cultivation are significantly improved.
This calls for training of tractor drivers in the
operation and day-to-day maintenance of all machinery
to be supplied by the project. Assistance would be
sought from the machinery manufacturers in the
training program.
(ii)  Repair and Maintenance.  This course for mechanics
would be carried out jointly by the manufacturers
of the equipment and project staff and consultants.
This contribution from the suppliers would be
part of their contract and they would use project
facilities and equipment as necessary.
(c)  Seed Production and Irrigation Agronomy.  These courses
would be designed to improve standards of crop husbandry
with particular reference to the new technology of High-
Yielding Varieties and the special requirements of seed
crops. Land preparation for irrigation and water manage-
ment and use would be covered, giving special attention
to systems including rice and other crops.



ANNEX 10
Page 4
(d)  Farm Managers.  Efficiency in farm operatiftns generally
must be considerably improved; this course would be
designed primarily for farm superintendents and assistant
superintendents, to cover farmL planning, record kzeeping
and interpretation, efficient utilization of labor,
machinery and other inputs, and farm maintenance
(buildings, equipment, roads, ditches, etc.). The
course would have a practical orientation.
(e)  Storage and Marketing.  Instruction would be given in
the elements of store design, store maintenance, pest
and disease control, and inventory control (including
record keeping), with reference to the special requirements
of seed storage. In marketing, the special characteristics
of the commodity and sales promotion techniques would be
taught including both marketing and extention systems and
approaches.
(f)  Thana Agricultural Officers Course, The use of project
seed and consequently the rapid spre-d of IHYV would
depend to a large measure on the worR o. the Department
of Agriculture Extension Services, Consequently,
special intensive courses would be conducted for all
Thana Agricultural Officers combining the main features
of the Orientation and the Agronomy and Irrigation
course.
Courses Provided by Joydebpur
(g)  Seed Inspection and Certification.  Staff of the Seed Certification
Services would work with BRRI stafi and, using the facilities of
both organizations, would provide the e*sential training of the
Seed Certification Service, as follows.
(i)  Seed Inspection.  The Seed Irnspection course would
cover topics such as varietal identification, disease
assessment, sampling procedures and crop hygiene. It
would involve an initial two-week course, followed by
further courses of one week each during the other two
rice seasons and by refresher courses.
(ii) Seed Testing (Short Course). This course would be
designed primarily for Quality Control Inspectors
for training in rapid testing and sampling. They
would in later years take the longer course. Other
interested persons would take this course as an intro-
duction to the subject (see Table 3).
(iii)  Seed Testing (Long Course).  This would be a specialized
course in which laboratory staff would be trained in
the techniques of seed analysis. The course would cover
a'zl seeds, including wheat and rice.



ANNEX 10
Page 5
In-Service Training
(h) Processing plant. As indicated in para 7, processing plant suppliers
would, as part of their contract, provide on-the-job training for
all processing plant staff in plant operation and maintenance.
Training Abroad
9.        This program would consist of fellowships for short-term study
abroad for project management staff and for the BADC Staff Institute
training staff. Proposals for this program are listed in Table 4. The
program would be organized and actministered by the Cereal Seeds Project
Manager or prior to his appointment, by the Member Director Field of BADC.
Phasing of Local Training and Training Abroad
10.       An early start of the training program would allow improved seed
production in the second half of project year two, when some seed processing
capacity will be available (see Annex 7). Critical project actions would
include recruitment of management personnel and instructors for Madhupur prior
to the beginning of the project and organization of their fellowships abroad
and study visits. Timing of training seed certification staff is particu-
larly critical since the courses are only held during the middle of the
year. With the exception of two farm management courses, to be taken one
each in the second and third year, the program for training abroad should
be completed during the first year.
11.       Guideline proposals for a schedule for local training are shown
in Table 3. In drawing up the schedule it has been assumed that local
training would start in the second half of project year one, in particular
(a) the training of some BADC farm management staff, (b) some tractor
drivers and mechanics (because new farm machinery begins to arrive during
project year one) (c) field advisory staff and (d) seed certification
staff. The rest of the training program is spread over the project imple-
mentation period with a peak in the second year.
Technical Assistance
General
12.       Technical assistance would be needed to ensure that the new
technologies associated both with the cultivation of HYV seed crops and with
the industrial aspects of seed production, are introduced smoothly into
the project. An essential feature in the employment of technical assistance
personnel is that they should be fully absorbed by the various services
and should spend much of their time in the field. They will be expected



ANNEX 10
Page 6
to act as Government servants and share executive responsibility for activities
in their field of competence to the extent requested by the Government. There
would be a cour,terpart official to each specialist who would take over the
duties of the technical assistance staff when the latter departs. Since a
number of different specialists would be required for seed production,
processing and quality control it is considered that the necessary services
would be most effectively provided by a firm of consultants. Experience
shows that it is difficult to recruit specialists individually, that it is
difficult to replace them if this becomes necessary and that it is often
difficult to weld them into an effective team.
Expertise and Terms of Reference
13.       The expertise required, abbreviated terms of reference and the
timing and length of stay for the experts are given below:
(a) Seeds Processing Specialist
Duties. This specialist would be required as soon as the
project begins, to assist in the preparation of specifi-
cations for the tender documents for threshing, transport,
processing and storage equipment required for the proces-
sing plants. Subsequently he would advise on the evalua-
tion of the tenders submitted. He would assist with the
supervision of the construction of buildings for the
processing plant, with the installation of the plant
itself and would supervise running-in and acceptance
trials. He would also help with staff selection and to
establish the processing organization. Training of key
staff in processing would be a particularly important
contribution from the expert; while most of the training
would be in-service, he would insure that the training
program is well organized.
Qualifications. The consultant should have a degree or
equivalent qualification in agriculture or a related
subject and extensive practical experience in the design,
construction, operation and management of cereal grain
(seeds) drying, processing, and storage plants under humid
tropical conditions and in training operating staff.
Employment Schedule. The consultant should be employed
for 24 months initially and there is provision for extending
his services to 36 months over the four-year disbursement
period. He would spend the first twelve months of the
project in the country and thereafter could either stay a
further continuous period or, in agreement with BADC
management, divide the remaining service period into
several long term visits.



ANNEX 10
Page 7
(b) Farm Management Specialist
The present lack of experience in the practical aspects
of seed farm management, due to the absence of large
grain farms in Bangladesh, calls for the help of a
suitably qualified person. He would install management
systems on the farms, in particular concerning general
organization, including labor management, planning of
farm work schedules related to cropping systems, the
organization of machinery use, record keeping, and
costing of farm enterprises. He would be expected to
assist with the supervision of farm managers and to make
inter-farm comparisons. In addition he would participate
in the training program at Madhupur.
Qualifications. The specialist should have a degree or
diploma in agriculture or a recognized farm management
qualification and extensive experience on large farms
with at least ten years as a manager, preferably of a
farm or farms belonging to an institution or a firm
engaged in the seeds business. He should have experience
in staff training.
Employment Schedule. The consultant would be employed
for 12 months initially with provision for extending his
services up to 24 months and should preferably join the
project before the date of the effectiveness of the
proposed credit.
(c) Farm Machinery Specialist
The project would provide tractors and farm machinery worth
US$207,000. While there has been some experience in the use
of power equipment on the farms, help is needed with the
selection of the most suitable machinery, with the efficient
use of machinery in the field, the proper organization of
farm maintenance and repair work and the establishment of
farm workshops. The specialist would in addition assist
with the training of staff engaged in both operation and
maintenance of machinery. While the suppliers will be
required to provide some of the training, the specialist
will ensure that the training programs are properly organized.
Qualifications. The consultant should have an agricultural/
mechanical engineering degree and extensive experience in
tractor workshop management and the use of agricultural
power equipment, and he should have experience in staff
training.
Employment Schedule. He would be employed for 12 months
initially with provision for extending his services to 24
months and should start work preferably, before the proposed
credit becomes effective.



ANNEX 10
Page 8
(d)  Seed Testing and Certification Speciall,--t
At present these activities are rudimentary in Bangladesh
and the specialist will be required to set up laboratory
facilities and establish and, initially, help to manage
the Seed Certification Agency and to assist Government
lawyers draw up seed legislation. The objective would
be to set up an adequate but not over-elaborate service
for quality control (to conform with seed legislation)
in both the laboratory and the field. He would arrange
and supervise training of local personnel.
Qualifications. The consultant should have a degree in
agriculture or a related subject, specialist q1lalifications,
and at least ten years of practical experience in all
aspects of seed quality control, and experience in staff
training.
Employment Schedule. The consultant would be required
early to help arrange for laboratory plans,
plot layout and ordering of equipment and supplies. He
would be employed for 12 months initially with provision
for extending his service to 30 months. Re would be needed
while the laboratory is being built and to assist in the
installation of equipment and with the staff training
program.
(e)  Specialist Services for Architectural Design and for
Building Supervision
Specialists provided under these services would have to
plan the BRRI building development and provide site plans
and building designs (also for the BAiDC and SCA part of
the project if necessary). Specialists would have to
draw up contract specifications, help prepare and evaluate
tenders and supervise the building operations.
Qualifications. At least ten years experience in the
following: the planning and design of housing complexes
and preferably some experience in laboratory design; at
least ten years experience in preparing tenders for large
building contracts (contract value at least US$1 million)
preferably in humid tropical conditions, and in
supervising such contracts. The specialists should be
familiar with local building materials, construction
procedures and building methods.
Employment Schedule. Would be required for 36 man-months
commencing early in the first project year and phased as
required over the project construction period.



ANNEX 10
Page 9
(f) Unspecified. An additional nine months of uncommitted
specialists' time is included to meet needs for expertise
not foreseen at present or to extend other experts if
required. For the sake of cost estimates the unallocated
allowance for specialists has been distributed evenly
over the first three project years.
Feasibility Study
14.       At present the demand for cereal seed is difficult to forecast.
While it can be safely assumed that there will be a strong demand for new
seed varieties with marked economic advantages over existing varieties,
the demand for seed to renew stock rather than to change varieties cannot
be gauged. The present demand for BADC seed to renew stocks is low but
farmers in Bangladesh have never been exposed to a high quality seed. At
the same time, the demand for seeds for other crops or the feasibility of
producing other seeds efficiently is not known. Consequently, it is proposed
to finance a feasibility study to take place during project year three
which would:
(a) estimate the future demand for rice and wheat seed;
(b) estimate the future demand for seeds of other crops;
(c) examine the feasibility of meeting seed demands by
local production; and
(d) on the basis of demand and feasibility of local production,
make detailed project proposals, suitable for appraisal by
IDA for the future development of the seed industry.
(e) review the financial structure of the seeds project and
seeds price levels and would prepare recommendations on
future seed price policy aimed at raising sufficient
revenue to cover full operating costs and to provide a
reasonable return on capital.
15.       The study would be prepared by consultants engaged on the
implementation of the first seed project, or by different consultants,
preferably in cooperation with local consultants. A seed market study would
be the first step and could well determine whether further studies are
warranted. It may be best carried out by a local economic research institute
such as Dacca University Bureau for Economic Studies, the Bangladesh Institute
for Development Economics or Mymensingh University Agricultural Economics
Faculty; in cooperation with a consultant who would help design the study.
It is expected that the complete feasibility study would take four to five
months to prepare and would require about 20-25 man-months to complete.
Study Team Composition
16.       Team Leader.  The mission leader should be experienced in the
preparation and appraisal of agricultural investment projects and have



ANNEX 10
Page 10
special knowledge of seed projects. He should have academic qualifications
in agriculture or economics and a background of agricultural planning and
project implementation.
17.       Economist.  The economist should have special experience in the
preparation of feasibility studies and their reports. He would review
the financial and economic implications of the project, for both the
executing agency and the private sectors involved, and draw up proposals
for their improvement if required. He should be able to transform the
estimates of potential seed demand into the required seed project invest-
ments.
18.       Agronomist.  The agronomist should have experience in rice seed
production and preferably also in rice breeding. Also, he should have
sound knowledge of the production methods for the other major crops grown
in Bangladesh, including their adaptability to various areas in relation
to soils, climate, flooding and seasons. He should be able to appraise
developments on BADC farms and the Contract Growers Scheme and indicate
the measures of success obtained and further improvement required. He
should be experienced also in the preparation of report material on
agronomy for a feasibility study.
19.       Processing Specialist.  The expert should be able to review
the existing installations and indicate how they might be expanded or
replaced (as necessary) by new equipment for drying, cleaning, treating
and bagging. The appointee should have appropriate experience in seed
processing in the humid tropics. He should be able to appraise the
effectiveness of the seed quality control (in association with the agronomist)
and if necessary suggest measures for its improvement.
20.       Marketing Specialist.  The marketing specialist should have
experience in the transport, distribution, and sale of seeds and their
promotion. He should be able to review the marketing system developed
under the project and suggest measures for improvement, including the
possibility of moving more responsibility to private organizations.
21.       Financial Analyst.  To collate cost data and prepare financial and
economic analyses. He would also be primarily responsible for assisting the
team leader and the economist prepare the cereal seed price review and to
prepare recommendations for a seeds pricing policy.
Cost of Local Training, Training Abroad and Technical Assistance
22.       The capital cost of expanding facilities at the BADC Staff
Training Institute at Madhupur is shown in Table 1 and amounts to Tks 1.38
million (Tks 0.72 foreign exchange component) and the recurrent cost of
new staff is shown in Table 2 and totals Tks 0.628 million over the project
deriod. Additional local training costs, both at Madhupur and at Joydebpur
have been estimated at Tks 150 a training week (based on cost of transport



ANNEX 10
Page 11
per trainee Tks 56, board and lodging Tks 84 and miscellaneous cost of
Tks 10). A 20% allowance is added to estimated training requirements to
allow for trainees who leave their employment after training. With the
total number of training weeks projected at 4,446 the cost over four years
is Tks 0.8 million. Phasing of these costs is shown on Table 3.
23.       The estimated cost of the program of fellowships and study visits
broken down in Table 4 amounts to Tks 720,000, (all foreign exchange). The
estimated cost and phasing of the technical assistance program is shown
in Table 5. The cost of technical assistance for project implementation
amounts to Tks 10.167 million and the feasibility study to Tks 1.200 million,
a total Tks 11.367 million of which 80% or Tks 9.093 million represents the
foreign component.
24.       The total training and technical assistance cost and phasing are
summarized in Table 6 and the total cost is estimated at Tks 16.380 million
(Tks 10.529 million foreign exchange).






ANNEX 10
BANIGLADESH                                              TABLE 1
CEREAL SEEDS PROJECT
CONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT COSTS - MADHUPUR TRAINING INSTITUTE
Foreign    Foreign
Item                            Unit          Number   Unit Cost   Total Cost   Exchange   Exchange
(Tk '000)   (Tk '000)        (7.)      (Tk '000)
Buildings
Classroom/Common Room (w/furniture and
fittings)                                 1,250 sq ft         1         70.0           70.0          30          21.0
Workshop (w/benches and cupboards)           1,000 sq ft         1        41.4           41.4          30           12.4
Guest House (w/furniture and fittings)   1,600 sq ft             1        89.6           89.6          30          26.9
Staff Quarters (w/basic furniture)           1,400 sq ft        6         67.2         403.2           30         121.0
It     it          it        it              650 sq ft        8         26.0         208.0           30          62.4
Servants Quarters                              600 sq ft        4         26.4          105.6          30          31.7
Garages (for minibuses)                           No.            2          6.0          12.0          30            3.6
Generator Shed                                 300 sq ft         1          6.0           6.0          30            1.8
Sub-Total                                                                         935.8                      280.8
Electrification
Generators                                      25 kw            1        90.31/         90.3         100          90.3
Workshop Equipment                                set              1         15.02/        15.0         100           15.0
Farm Machinery (Demonstration)
Tractor (35 - 45 hp)                              No.            1        28.3           28.3         100
Trailer                                           No.            1         4.5            4.5
Rotavator                                         No.            1         6.7            6.7
Plough                                            No.            1         6.7            6.7
Disc Harrows                                      No.           1          4.8            4.8
Combine Drill                                     No.            1        14.2           14.2
Thresher                                          No.            1        43.5           43.5
Sprayer (motor)                                   No.           2          0.8            1.6
Sprayer (hand)                                    No.           5          0.4            2.0
Sub-Total                                                                         112.3
Spares (25%)                                                                             28.1
Sub-Total                                                                         140.4
Shipping etc. (25%)                                                                      35.1
Sub-Total                                                                         175.5
Local Handling (5%)                                                                       8.8
Sub-Total                                                                         184.3                      184.3
Transport                                                                                      2/
Minibuses                                         No.            2        41.0           82.0-        100          82.0
Teaching Aids and Materials                                                                    2/
Shipping etc. (25%)                                                       65.7           65.7-        100          65.7
Recreational Facilities                                                       2.0           2.0           20           4.0
Total                                                                             1,375.1                      718.5
I/  Includes allowance for shipping and local handling.
2/ Includes allowance for spares, shipping ana local handling.



ANNEX 10
TABLE 2
BANGLADESH
CEREAL SEEDS PROJECT
STAFF COSTS - MADHUPUR TRAINING INSTITUTE
Y e a r
Item                      Number  Unit Rate       1      2     3      4     Total
(Tk '000)
Instructors
Salary and Allowances               6         14.4       72.0  86.4  86.4  86.4   331.2
Travel and Per Diem                 6          1.2        6.0   7.2   7.2   7.2    27.6
Other Staff
Demonstrators, Mechanics etc.       8          6.0       36.0  48.0  48.0  48.0   180.0
Workers                             8          3.0       18.0  24.0  24.0  24.0    90.0
Total                                             132.0 165.6 165.6 165.6   628.8
-                _--



BANGLADESH
CEREAL SEEDS PROJECT
LOCAL TRAINING SCHEDULE AND COSTS
No. of Train-       Number of Trainee Weeks                                                    Courses32
No. of Ap-  ing geeks perY    a----------             _                                            c    d_         e P---------   b  d d ev
Staff                            pointments  Participani        1         2         3         4    Total            (1)    (ii)                           (i,    (ii)      (iii)
(Weeks)      -----------------------Course Weeks-- ---- --- --
1/                                                                                                  (2)   (4)    (4)    (4)  (8)  (2)  (2)   (21    (2)           (12)
Pro ect Management-
Yanager (Seeds)                               1             2            2        -         -         -         2     x
nasager (Farms)                               1            16            2         B         6        -       16      x      -              x s        -    -              -
Deputy Manager (Farsing)                      1             2            2        -         -         -         2     x
Adviser (Processiag)                          1             2            2        -         -            -     2      x      -      -       -    -                 _ -
Adviser (Contract Growers)                    1             8            6         2        -         -        8      x      -      -       x          x
Advier (Mechlaniatfon)                        1            14            2         8         4        -       14      x      x      x       x
Agronomist                                    I            10            2         4         4        -       10      x      x       -      x
Farms
Chief Superiatendent                          1            20            2         6         8         4       20     x      x       -      x    x    -    -       x       -
Superintendents and
Assistant Superintendents                  22            20           12       144       144       140     440      i      x      -       x    a    -                    -        -
Overseers                                    60            12           72       240       240       168      720     N      x       -      x    _    -    -               -
Tractor Drivers                              48             6           36        96        96        60     288      x      x       -      -    -    -    -       -
Mechanics                                    12             6           24        48        -         -        72     x             x
Processing Plants
Superintendents                               6             6           18        12         6        -       36      x      -       _      -    -    x    -        -      x        _
Field Officers                                5            10           24        16        10        -        50     x      x       -      x    -    -    _        -      -        -
Assistant Field Officers                     29            10           66       176        48        -       290     x      x       -            -    -
Overseers                                    12             4           12        24        12        -        48     x      -       -      -    _    _    -        -      x        -
Marketing
Assistant Manager                             1             4            2         2        -         -         4     x      -       -       -    _    x    _       -      -         -
District Manager                             21             4           14        24        22        24       84     x      -       _       _    -    x
Thana Inspectors                            415             2           -        280       280       270      830      -     -       -       -    -    x    -       -       -        -
Extension
Extension officers                          415             2           -        280       280       270      830      -     -       -       -    -    -    x       -       -        -
Seed Certification
Director                                      1             2            2        -                   -         2     x
Chief Seed Technologist                       1             2            2        -         -         -         2      x
Seed Control Officer                          1             6            2         4        -         -         6     x      -       -      x
Division Seed Control Officers                4            10            4        12        12        12       40      x     _       -       x    -    _    _       x       x
Chief Analyst                                 1             2            2        -         -         -         2     x
Executive Officers                            3             2            2         4        -         -         6     x
Agronmist                                     1            10            6         4        -         -        10      x     -       -       x    -    -    -       x       x
Seed Control Inspectors                      30            12          120       120       120        -       360      x     -       -       x    -    x    -       x       x
Quality Control Inspectors                    6            22           36        36        36        24      132      x     -       -       x    -    -    -       x       x        x
Analysts                                      6            20            4        48        48        20      120      x     -       -       x    -    -    -       x       - 
Totals                                                        480    1,598    1,376        992   4,446
Cost @ Tk 150 per Week (lk)                                           72,000  239,700  206,400  148,800 666,900
Wastage Allowance (20%)                                               14,400   47,940   41,280   20,760 133,380
Total                                                     86,400  287,640  247,680  178,560 800,280
x = Participating in Course
1/ Management staff attend courses for observation purposes ouly.
2t The letters indicate the type of course and the sub-paraSraphs of paragraph seven in the text of the Annex.



ANNEX 10
TABL;E 4
BANGLADESH
CEREAL SEEDS PROJECT
PROPOSED FELLOWSHIPS AND STUDIES ABROiD
Title                   Type of Training                   Location    Length       Cost
(months) (Tks '000)
Headquarters Staff
Manager (Seeds)        Study tour of seeds projects, )  India   )
firms, and quality control    ) Europe  )        3         50.0
facilities                     ) U.S.A.  )
Manager (Farms)        Study visit                       India           1         5.0
Deputy Manager                                                           3/
(Farms)              Farm management                    Swaziland      3-        28.0
Adviser (Processing)  Processing equipment operation   PhiliyFines'  1    )   20.0
and maintenance                   India          1.5  )
Plant Sup-       3 5     30.0
plierd Works)
Adviser (Mechani-      Farm equipment operation and      Suppliers'
zation)              maintenance                       Works           6         50.0
Agronomist             Irrigation agronomy               U.S.A.          6        80.0
Farm Staff
Chief Superinten-
dent (Farms)         Farm management                    Swaziland      3_        28.0
Superintendents                                                          3/
(Farms)              Farm management                   Swaziland    2x3-/        56.0
Five Processing Plant Processing equipment operation          4/
Superintendents       and maintenance                   India-      1 mo ea.    25.0
Quality Control Staff                                        5
Director (SCS)        Seed quality control           )  UR- , U.S.A.,
)   India          2         30.0
Chief Seed Techno-    Seed certification and seed          6/
logist               testing to international          UK3             4         48.0
standards
Chief Analyst          Seed certification and seed
testing                                          3         36.0
Seed Control Officer  Seed certification             )  U.SKV           1    )
Teaching Staff
Two Agronomists       Rice production                    IRRI Phil.  6 mo ea.   100.0
Agronomist             Irrigation water management       U.S.A.         3         40.0
Farm Management
Specialist           Management                         Swaziland       3-       28.0
Mechanization         Farm machinery operation           Manufactu-     3
Specialist           and maintenance                    rers' Works              36.0
Tota.1 s   720.0
__=
11  FAD/UNDP grain processing course at the Agricultural University Philippines.
2/  Indian Institute of Technology (Kharagpur) for one month followed by two weeks at
the seed processing plant at Pantanagar.
3/  This is a formal training course arranged by the Commonwealth Development Corporation
with international staffing and students.
4| At Pantanagar seed processing plant.
5/  Visits to study seed certification and seed testing organizations.
6/ The only for.rt  :ouroe available leading to qualifications in seed certification and
seed testing _Sa a..able in Cambridge, UK.
7/ For rice seed.



BANGLADESH
CEREAL SEEDS PROJECT
TECHSICAL ASSISTANCE - CAPITAL COSTS
Number of                                                          Y E A R                                                   Foreign    Foreign
Units     Unit Cost1                                     2                    3                  4-              Total     Exchag    Exchange
Item                 Unit        (mn-months   Uni-tonth         (Units)  (Tk '000)  (Units)  (Tk f000)  (Units)  (Tk '000)  (Units)  (Tk '000)  (T k'000)           3       E
Seed Processimg Consultant         man-months         36          39.500          12        474.0      12        474.0      12        474.0       _           _      1,422.0
Farm Managament Consultant              "             24         39,500            6        237.0      12        474.0       6        237.0       -           _        948.0
Farm Machinery Consultant                             24          39,500          12       474.0       12         474.0      -          -         -           _         948.0
Seed Testing, and Certification         "             30          39,500          12       474.0       12        474.0       6        237.0       -           -      1,185.0
Architecture/Building Supervision       "             36          37,900          12        454.8      12         454.8     12        454.8        _          _       1,364.4
short-term Consultants                  "              9          39,500           3        118.5       3         118.5      3        118.5       _           -        355.5
Sub-Total                                     159                          57     2,232.3       63      2,469.3      39     1,521.3        -           _      6,222.9       80         4,978.3
Second Phase Feasibility                                                                                                            1,200.0                           1,200.0      80            960.0
Total    7,422.9                   5,938.3
1/ Costs include salaries, hardship allowance, retirement, long-term disability insurance, medical care, accident benefits, life insurance, family and educational allowances, housing,
home leave, local transport, various recurrent costs as capital and agency overheads.



ANNEX 10
Table 6
BANGLADESH
CEREAL SEEDS PROJECT
SUMMARY OF TOTAL COSTS - TRAINING AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Foreign
1         2          3           4       Total         Exchange
----------------(Tk '000)-i__  -US$ '000)
1. Training Institute
Development         450.0      925.1        -           -      1,375.1          90.9
2. Training Institute
Staff               132.0      165.6      165.6       165.6      628.8           -
3. Cost of Local
Training             86.4      287.6      247.7       178.6      800.3           _
4.  Training Abroad       664.0      28.0        28.0        -        720.0          91.1
W.  Technical Assistance
and Feasibility
Study            2,232.3   2,469.3    2,721.3                -7,422.9         751.7
Sub Total       3,564.7   3,875.6    3,162.6       344.2   10,947.1         933.7
10% Contin-
gency            356.5      387.6      316.3        34.4    1,094.7          93.4
TOTAL           3,921.2   4,263.2    3,478.9        378.6   12,041.8       1,027.1



BANGLADESH
CEREAL SEEDS PROJECT
SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS
Tks                     Tks                                                                          Foreign
Million                Million                               US$ Equivalent Million                    Exchange
Item                       Local                  Foreign          Total           Local          Foreign        Total           Percent
BADC Farm Development
Crop Production Equipment                      -                     4.53            4.53               -            .57           .57              100
Farm Development Equipment                   1.05                    2.70            3.75              .14           .34           .48               71
Land Development                             4.85                     .33            5.18              .62           .04           .66                 6
Buildings and Facilities                     1.75                    3.42            5.17              .22           .43           .65               66
Transportation                                  -                     .99              .99              -            .12           .12               100
Sub-Total                               7.65                   11.97           19.62              .98         1.50           248 460
Local Handling Costs:
5% of Foreign Exchange                   .40                                     .40              .05            -            .05               _
8.05                  11.97           20.02             1.03          1.50          2 53                59
Seed Processing Plants
Equipment for Processing                       .87                   7.32            8.19              .11           .93          1.04                89
Buildings                                    4.83                    1.69            6.52              .61           .21           .82                26
Transportation and Threshing
Equipment                               _                       4.02            4.02               -            .50           .50              100
Sub-Total                               5.70                   13.03           18.73              .72          1.64          2.36               69
Distribution and Narketing
Seed Storage                                   .56                     .25             .81             .07           .03           .10                30
Demonstration                                  .70                     -               .70             .09            -            .09                -
Promotion                                      .37                    ,17              -54             .05           .02            .07               29
Sub-Total                               1-3                      .42            2.05              21             05            26i9
Seed Certification Service
Equipment and Facilities                       .04                     16              .20             .01           .02            .03               67
Buildings                                       62                     .23             .85             .08           .03            .11               27
Transportation                                  -                      .63             .63              -            .08            .08              100
Sub-Total                                .66                    1.02            1.68              .09           .13           .22               -59
keNi9gc     w  %MtMce       Training           .65                     .79            1.44             .08           .10            .18               56
Training Institute Staff                       .63                      -              .63             .08            -             .08               -
Local and Foreign Training                     .81                     .75            1.56             .10            .09           .19               47
Technical Assistance                          1.49                   6.24             7.73             .19            .79           .98               81
Sub-Total                               3.58                    7.78           11.36              .45           .98          1.43                69
Rice Research
Equipment                                      .29                     .87            1.16             .04           .11            .15               73
Land Development                               .35                     -               .35             .04             -            .04               -
Buildings                                     8.09                   3.79            11.88            1.03           .48           1.51               32
Transportation Equipment                        -                      .08             .08              _             .01           .01              100
Sub-Total                               8.73                    4.74           13.47             1.11           .60          1 71                35
TOTAL                                  28.35                   38.96           67.31             3.61          4.90          8.51
10% Contingencies                       2.84                    3.89            6.73              .36           .49           .85
31.19                  42.85            74.04            3.97          5.39           9.36
Price Contingencies 2/                   3.56                   4.90            8.46              .45           .62          1.07
TOTAL                                  34.75                   47.75           82.50             4.42          6.01         10.43                58
1/   This percentage is only calculated on items directly imported for the project and not on the foreign exchange component
of buildings, etc.
2/   5% per annum.



ANNEX 12
BANGLADESH
CEREAL SEEDS PROJECT
Estimated Quarterly Schedule of Disbursement
IBRD Fiscal Year           Disbursement during            Cumulative Disbursement
and Quarter                   the Quarter                  at end of Quarter
------Us$1000 --$- --------US$ -000---
EY 1974
lst 
2nd                          400                                 400
3rd                          600                               1,000
4th                        1,000                                2,000
FY 1975
lst                           800                               2,800
2nd                          700                                3,500
3rd                           700                               4,200
4th                           600                               4,800
FY 1976
lst                          500                               500
2nd                          500                               5,800
3rd                          600                               6,400
4th                           600                               7,000
FY 1977
1st                          200                               7,200
2nd                          100                               7,300
3rd                           50                               7,350
4th                           50                               7,400
FY 1978
lst                           50                               7,450
2nd                           50                               7,500



BANGLADESH
CEREAL SEEDS PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART
Chairmen 
Member
Dlrector                                                      Director
Suppl                                                           Fd
General      |                                                                         Manager
Manager                                   rainin                                Seeds Project
Supplynttt                                          _Mngl
Maneger                                     _
Movement and
Storage and Sales                                             Manager                                                                      anager
_                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Seeds                                                          Farms
Deputv Manager                                                 Deputy Manager Seeds                                                                                                 Deputy Manager Farms
Seed Movement                                                   Processing Advisor        _-_ _ _ _ _ _ _                            Consultants     =mm ==                 a           Mechanization
and Sales                                                 Contract Grovwers Adv.                                                                                                        Advisor
District                                                  Chief
Manager                                               Superintendent
_                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~Processing Plant
I~~~~~~
SubdivisiOt                           Prwcnung                                        crField Officer
Manvagr                                Plant                            tCooract Gromors                       m                                   lT nl
I                                                                                           | ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Superintendent|
Thana
Inspector
|  Viliage 
Shop
World Bank-7501(R)



I



ANNEX 14
Page 1
BANGLADESH
CEREAL SEEDS PROJECT
Financial Implications 1/
1.        The financial implications of the project to BADC and the Govern-
ment over the project life have been tabulated in Tables 1 and 2. The
income to BADC from the sale of foundation and certified seed as well as
from non-seed crops raised on the seed multiplication farms would increase
to about Tks 23.9 million per year from the current level of Tks 3.5
million and would meet the operating expenditures from the sixth year onwards
except for the operating costs of about Tks 0.3 million for the Seed Certi-
fication Service and about Tks 1 million spent by the Department of Agricul-
ture for field demonstrations of HYV. The Seed Certification Service
should be considered an integral part of the institutional infrastructure
and it would not be justifiable to charge it fully to any one project.
Field demonstrations carried out by the Department of Agriculture for the
promotion of high yielding varieties would stimulate the use of certified
seed produced under the project. As, however, these field demonstrations
serve the purpose of a general improvement of agricultural technology, the
costs involved should not be charged to the project. Following the pricing
policy outlined in the main text, Chapter V it would be necessary for the
Government to bear the operating deficit of the project for the first five
years, plus Tks 0.3 million and Tks 1 million for the Seed Certification
Service and the Department of Agriculture's field demonstration respectively.
2.        The proposed price policy for the initial years is to provide
adequate benefits both to end-user farmers and to seed retailers. Projections
based on this price structure show that in year six with a price of 130%
above consumption grain price, all recurrent costs of seed production,
processing and marketing are recovered. A 5% price increase would just
about eliminate the deficit of Tks 60 per ton which includes the cost of
the Seed Certification Service and the field demonstrations. After the
certified seed has become a well known and accepted input among farmers,
within five years from the date of the Credit Agreement, the price would
be increased to cover full operating costs and a return on capital as defined
in the following paragraph.
3.   (a)  Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, "full
production cost," to be determined in accordance with
sound accounting principles, means all costs necessarily
incurred in the production and sale of seed including:
1/   Tables at the end of this Annex do not reflect the recent devaluation
of the US dollar.



ANNEX 14
Page 2
(i) direct cultivation, harvesting, marketing
and distribution expenses;
(ii) adaquate maintenance of, and depreciation on,
buildings, plant, machinery and equipment used in
growing, processing, marketing and distributing
seed, and provisions made in accordance with sound
business practice, including amortization of
intangible assets referred to below;
(iii) overheads, representing the indirect expenses
incurred;
(iv) interest paid on short-term borrowing to finance
working capital;
(v) taxes paid or payable by BADC; and
(vi) a return on net capital employed related to the
cost of borrowing funds for 20 years and the risks
of investment in BADC;
(b)  For the abovr purpose "net capital employed" shall be
the total value of all tangible and intangible net assets
used in seed production, which value shall include costs
less depreciation and amounts written-off plus revaluation
for any purpose, in particular because of changes in the
value of money and in replacement cost, as recorded in the
books of BADC from time to time, in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles and sound methods
of valuation acceptable to the Association.
(c)  'Intangible assets" shall include the balance of training
and technical assistance costs incurred under the project
which are capitalized, to be written-off as a charge against
profits over a period of years.
(d) The following shall not be included in "full production cost"
(i) interest and other charges on debt, other than the
short-term borrowing referred to in "a (iv)" above;
(ii) any costs incurred by BADC, which are reimbursed to
BADC-, and are not attributable to the earning of
revenue from sale of seeds"
(iii) any costs capitaiized and not charged against
revenue except that proportion of such costs
written-off against revenue in any year.



865LADM8
CIAL SUBS njcr
8ADC  9CMS P8IK SALES OF 81   AND PM-SEED  CROPS
ef ore
it_                 Fro1ect    year 1      Year 2     Yeer 3      Year 4      Yeer 5       Yeer 6   _Yer 7         Year 8       Year 9      Y"r 10       Yeer 11      Yeer 12     Yeer 13      Y"r 14       Yeer 15
Prref  per ten of Procesd Certifled and
Foimdatiom Seed:    Rice                             -        1,310.0    1.310.0    1.390.0      1.610.0      2.050.0      2.050.0     2.050.0     2.050.0      2,050.0      2,050.0     2,050.0      2,050.e      2,050.0     2,050.0
Vbeht                 -          -       1,390.0    1,390.0    1,500.0       1,720.0      2,130.0     2,130.0      2,130.0     2,130.0      2,130.0     2,130.0      2,130.0      2,130.0     2,130.0      2,130.0
1-cm  ro  sleofPro"sderifed------------------------------------------- ------------------ --- -- --n  ok    o o-------- -- --- ------- --- -- ---- ----- --- - ------ - ------ ---------- --------- ----------- -- ---
Iscoms from sale of Proceesed Certified
Seed:               Si                                -       3,140.3    5,296.3   11,734.0    153691.6       18,530.0    18,530.0    18,530.0    18,530.0    18,530.0    18,530.0    18,530.0    18,530.0    18,530.0    18,530.0
c-r.                                        852.4    1,303.6    2,446.0      3,364.8      3,845.5     3,845.5      3,845.5     3,845.5      3,845.5      3,845.5     3,845.5      3,845.5     3,845.5      3,845.5
Ico_m from  ele of Foundation Seed           -           -          74.9      108.8       208.7       240.1         399.1       399.1        399.1       399.1       399.1        399.1        399.1       399.1        399.1        399.1
Incom  from sale of Unprocsed Seed        4,412.1    4.412.1    1,211.0                           -             -   -                                    -            - -         -                  -                               -
TOTAL I18OM FROl SEED SALES             4,412.1    4,412.1    5,278.0    6,708.7   14,388.7    19,296.5       22,764.6    22,764.6    22,764.6    22.764.6    22.764.6    22,764.6    22,764.6    22,764.6    22,764.6    22,764.6
IncONe from eele of gom-Seed Crops           700.0      700.0      800.0       900.0    1.000.0     1,100.0       1.100.0     1,100.0      1.100.0     1.100,0      1.100.0     1,100.0      1.100.0     1.100.0      1,100.0      1.1000.
TOTAL I1OOU                             5,112.1    5,112.1    6,078.0    7,608.7   15,388.7    20,396.5       23,864.6    23,864.6    23,864.6    23,864.6    23,864.6    23,864.6    23,864.6    23,864.6    23,664.6    23,864.6



BADGIADESH
CEREAL SEEDS PROJECT
FINANCIAL IMPLICATIONS OF PROJECT TO BADC AND GOVERNMENT
Before                                                                          Y  e  a  r
Project            1              2             3             4              5             6              7                            9             10
------------------------------------------------------------ Tks  000 ----------------------------------------_----------_____-----
BADC
Operating results for multipli-
cation, processing and distri-
bution of seed:
Income                               5,112.1       5,1L2.1       6,078.0        7,608.7    _5,388.7        20,396.5      23,864.6       23,864.6       23,364.6      23,864.6       23,864.6
Operating Costs:
Recurrent Costs                    8,045.0       8,950.0      11,944.5      17,598.2       19,436.5      20,494.4      20,533.0       20,533.0      20,533.0       20,533.0       20,533.0
Replacement of Equipment             -             -             -              -             -           1,500.0        1,500.0       2,750.0       2,750.0        2,750.0        2,750.0
Net Operating Results BADC            (-2,932.9)   (-3,837.9)   (-5,866.5)   (-9,989.5)   (-4,047.8)   (-1,597.9)             1,831.6          581.6          581.6         581.6          581.6
Government
Seed Certification Service:
Recurrent Costs                        _             _               96.5         143.0         188.5          188.5         188.5         188.5          188.5          188.5         188.5
Replacement of Equipment               -             -             -              -             -              -             120.0          120.0         120.0          120.0         120.0
Department of Agriculture
field demonstrations                     --                                                                    1,_  o._      1,000.0       1,000.0        1,000.0        1,000.0       1,000.0
Total                                                      96.5         143.0         188.5        1,188.5       1,308.5        1,308.5       1,308.5        1,308.5       1,308.5
Net Operating Results                                              (-5,963.0)  (-10,132.5)   (-4,236.3)   (-2,786.4)             523.1       (-726.9)       (-726.9)      (-726.9)       (-726.9)
Operating results per ton of          -------------------------------------------------------------- Tks ------------------------------------------------------------------------
processed seed:
Including All Recurrent Costs -                                (-1,775.0)   (-1,82-2.4)       (-419.3       (-237.4)          43.7         (-60.8)       (-60.8)        (-60.8)       (-60.8)          
Excluding costs of seed cer-
tification and field demon-
strations                             -             -         (-1,745.9)   (-1,796.7)        (-400.6)       (-136.3)        153.1           48.6          48.6           48.6           48.6



ANNEX 15
Page I
ClVRFAT FrMD. rpOJECT
PTEE OF REThTIN T(O THE ECONOMY
1.        Rate of return computations are based on a project life of 15
Costs
The costs of the pzoject have been classified into capital,
replacement and recurrent costs and are net of duties, subsidies and taxes.
3.        Ca-ital costs include J21 foreign and local expenditures of all
investments necessary to implemer! the project. A physical contingency
allowance of 10% has been added to all items to allow for unforeseen
modifications. On foreign exchatige and on local expenditures a price
contingency of 4% and 7% rcspectively has been included in the calculations.
4.        Recurrent costs include the net increase in BADC expenditures as
a result of the project, the staff, maintenance and operating costs of the
Seed Certification Service and the cost of demonstration activities
cerried out in relation with the project by the Department of Agriculture.
5.        Replacement costs have been assessed on project components, includ-
ing farm machinery, vehicles and processing equipment which have a life of
less than 15 years. Replacement estimates take into account the particularly
corrosive climatic conditions of Bangladesh.
Ben :i ts
6.        The principal project benefits would be the increased production
of rice and wheat. This and other benefits would result from the following
project cffects:
(a) Accelerated introduction of new high-yielding varieties
due to rapid multiplication of HYV in adequate quantities
and improved seed marketing and promotion activities;
(b)  IpiinrOVed quality of seed, particularly in terms of
varitetal purity, better germinating capacity, protection
against seed borne diseases and seed vigor, which would
have beneficial effects on yields;
(c) Theduced seed requirements due to increased germination
a   freedem from foreign matter which would allow a larger
r!rea to be planted with project seed;



ANNEX 15
Page 2
(d) Improved cultural practices resulting from the field
demonstrations and the extension advice provided under
the project; and
(e)  The physical uniformity of grain derived from project
seed which would improve milling efficiency.
Of these five effects, only (a), (b) and (c) have been accounted for in the
rate of return calculation since they are major and more easily quantifiable
factors.
7.        The principal assumptions made for the computation of these
benefits were as follows:
(a) Project seed production for the major 3 rice crops and
wheat would built up as follows:
Year 1      Year 2       Year 3       Year 4       Year 5      Year 6 onwards
-0-         3,000        5,000       10,000       11,700           12,000
----------------------------long tons---------------------------------
(b)  Assumptions for the spread of HYV were as follows:
(i) for aus - that 4 million out of the 8.5 million ac aus
(this includes 2.5 million ac mixed aus/aman) would be
sown with HYV after 14 years;
(ii) for t. aman - that 8.5 million ac would be sown with HYV
after 14 years;
(iii) that the irrigated area representing the boro/t aus acreage
would expand by 3 million ac over 14 years; and
(iv) that the hYV wheat acreage would expand to 600,000 ac over
14 years.
(c)  Due to the project, the build-up of HYV acreage as indicated
in para 7(b) above would be accelerated by one year. This
means that with the project, the acreage under new varieties
(either IEV replacing local varieties or new HYV replacing
existing HYV) would be greater each year than without the
project. Increased production on the incremental area each
year has been taken as benefit to the project.
(d)  The benef-1cial effect of replacing a traditional local paddy
variety with a new high-yielding variety has been quantified
in terms of the net incremental value of production. The
beneficial effect of replacing an existing high-yielding paddy
variety with a new high-yielding variety has been quantified
in terms of 10% increast. in the net value of production. The
yield of wheat increase; linearly between the present yield
and the yield projected for year 15 of the project. This yield



ANNEX. 15
Pa~ge 3
increase would be obtained one year sooner due to the projert.
The benefit to the project would be the incrpas:d net value of
production obtained from wheat on the annual incerewitrtal area,
under improved seed;
(e)  The introduction of Dew high-yielding varieties has
been evenly spread over the project life;
(f) The beneficial effect of t'ne improved quality of project
seed has been quantifiRd at an additional increase in the
incremental uet value of production of 5% for ainan  n-d horo
and 10% for wheat and atis on that portion of the area
covered each year by project seed;
(g)  Seed requirements for project seed would be 0.75 md per acrt
for broadcast crops and 0.19 md per acre for  transpL-ent
crops, or about 25% less than for non-project seed; ;xnd
(h)  R4ce has beein valued at tehe 1980 projected world wanrlkt
price for Burniese rice (42% brokten) of US$95 par tn ci.f
Chittagong ar.1 wheac has been valued at the 1980 projected
price for North Anericau wheat of US$75 per ton cif
C'h:ittagong.
8.        The expected rate of return to the economy is about 72- it the
current official exchange rate, Tks 7.9 per US$1.00, is used and la'bor is
valued at its financial price of Tks 5 per day. If a shadow price .tJr
foreign exchange of 15G%, Tks 11.95 - US$1.00, is used and if labor is
shadow priced at Tks 2.5 par day, the rate of return risen well abo-ie 100%.
Sensitivity AnalyEs
9.        The e.:pected levels of the factors contribixting to the rat. o£
return were varied to determine the sensitivity of the rate of return.



ANNEX 15
Page 4
Rate of Return
Variation                       at Tks 7.9 - US$1.00    At Tks 11.85 = US$1.00
Labor at Tks 5          Labor at Tks 2.5
Per Man Day                Per Man Day
Capital costs are overrun
by 15% and benefits slip
according to the cost overrun            62%                        100%
Operating cost increase by 25%           70%                        100%
Benefits decrease by 25%                 53%                         98%
Benefits decrease by 50%                 33%                         66X
Benefits increase by 25%                 88%                        100%



BANGLADESH
CEREAL SEEDS PROJECT
SUMMABY OF PROJECT CAPITAL COSTS
Tks Million                                           US $ Million
Reference                                                                                                                       Foreign          F.E.
to                                                                                                                          Exchange        Component
Annex                       Item                         Year 1      Year 2      Year 3      Year 4      Total       Total   Component       Percentage
5          BADC Farm Development 2                     8.73         9.07         2.84        .71       21.35        2.70       1.62            60
7          Seed Processing Plants                      2.51         7.84         8.05       1.51       19.91        2.52       1.71            68
8          Distribution and Marketing                   .41          .83          .60        .38        2.22         .28        .05            19
9          Seed Certification Service                  1.07          .56          .11         -         1.74         .22        .12            57
10          Technical Assistance and Training .         5.19         5.56         4.67        .96       16.38        2.09       1.47            70
3          Rice Research                               2.70         5.28         5.31       1.29       14.58        1.85        .60            32
Sub Total                                 20.61        29.14        21.58       4.85       76.18        9.64       5.57             56
Of Which:  Total Foreign Exchange          12.04       17.08        12.13       2,75       44.00        5.57          -              -
And:  Total Local Costs                     8.57        12.06        9.45       2.10       32.18        4.07          -              -
Price Contingencies - 3/
Local Costs                               .60         .84          .66        .15        2.25        0.28         -               -
Foreign Costs                             .48         .68           .49       .11        1.76        0.22         -               -
Devaluation Effect of 5% on
Foreign Costs                         .60          .85          .61        .14        2.20        0.28         -               -
TOTAL                       22.29        31.51       23.34       5.25       82.39        10.42         -              -
1/ All items include physical contingencies of 10%.
2/ Figures include local handling costs of 5% of foreign exchange.
These coats diffe!u slightly from recalculated costs shown in Amuexes 10 and 11. The differonce in total
' costs are insignificant and do not affect tbe rate of return.
April 14, 1973
I& I-
U' 



BANGLADESH
CERAL SUEDS PROJECT
TOTAL REPLACEMNT COSTS
Item             Year 5   Year 6       Year 7    Year 8    Year 9   Year 10   Year 11   Year 12    Year 13   Year 14    Year 15
BADC PARKS                     171.5    2,841.7   2,249.9    1,936.3      707.2       62.4    3,736.7    2,329.8       863.3      447.5    1,214.1
SEED PROCESSING PLANTS          -          -        972.4    1,121.2    1,613.4    2,170.4    2,118.8    1,031.2       354.7      604.2        -
SEED CERTIFICATION SERVICE       -        100.0     264.0      182.0       -          -         149.2       136.9      264.0       82.0        -
SUB-TOTAL                     171.5   2,941.7   3,486.3    3,239.5    2,320.6    2,232.8    6,004.7    3,497.9    1,482.0    1,133.7    1,214.1
5%  DEVALUATION EFFECT           8.6      147.1    174.3       162.0      116.0      111.6      300.2       174.9       74.1       56.7        60.7
TOTAL                     180.1    3,088.8   3,660.6    3,401.5    2,436.6    2,344.4    6,304.9    3,672.8    1,556.1    1,190.4    1,274.8
r-.i



Nmop
Project    TOW I    TOW I         har 3       2 4        TOW          raw 6      TKEr I      hasr A        uiJr       Tar 10    TOW 11    yar             TowU  11ar 14            Tear 15
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------T usODO----------------------------------------------------------------------___________.*______
mm YAW                     4.500.0   4,400.0    4,700.0    4,600.0    4900.0         5,000.0    5,000.0    5,000.0       5,000.0    5,000.0      5,000.0     5,000.0    5,000.0      5,000.0      5,000.0     5,000.0
gmD  f                     2,242.0'/ 2,242.0O/  4,121.0    8,380.0    B,946.0        8,948.0     6,94.0    6,9" .0 8      ,99.0      6,946.0 6O8,9.0         6,94U.0     0,9U.0       8,9U.0       ,9"6.0    6,9U.O
sU  SR=SDnC                   -          -        1,607.6    2,685.2     3,241.8    3,955.5      3,955.5    3,955.5      3,955.5     3.955.5     3,955.5     3,955.5      3,955.5     3,955.5     3,955.5     3,955.5
DISTIUIWtON AND NAMZlG    603.0         603.0      615.9       763.0    1,376.7      1,596.9    1,629.5    1,629.5       1,629.5    1,629.5      1,629.5     1,629.5      1,619.5     1,619.5     1,629.5     1,629.5
?IUD  I ITt Tlou              -          -         -                                 1,000.0     1,000.0    1,000.0      1,000.0     1,000.0     1,000.0     1,000.0      1,000.0     1,000.0     1.000.0     1,000.0
ID  CUIIFICLTIOII             -          f6.5       145.0       188.5       I".        166.5       168.5      1in.5       16.5        184.5       16.5        166.5        16.5        1U.S       I1.5          166.5
BDC OEIAD ODSTS              90.0       950.0      950.0       970.0       970.0    1.000.0    1.000.0    1.000.0        1,000.0    1.000.0    1.000.0       1.000.0      1.00, 0    1.000.0    1,000.0       1.000.0
TOML                  8,0X5.0   S,291.5    12,137.5   17,786.7   19,625.0   21,668.9   21,721.5   21,721.5    21,721.5   21,721.5   21,721.5   21,721.5    21,721.5   21,721.5    21,721.5    21,721.5
j/  bw1u    gm1n  ano t hore"ared growers w t_  fe  r nod tm  uwdy cmated ombract Onwer Sow  a_t met threjotd de. d






BANGLADESH
CEREAL SEEDS PROJECT
ESTIMATED COST AND BENEFITS STREAMS
At Official Rate of Exchange Tks 7.9 = US$1.00
Incremental
Incremental           Value of              Total
Capital           Replacement            Recurrent           Total            Value of               BADC             Incremental
Year              Costs                Costs                Costs             Costs           Production           Production          Production
---------------------------------------------------------Tks '000-___________________________________               ----------------------------
1              22,290                  -                  2,606            24,896
2              31,510                  -                  5,212            36,722             16,579                 376               16,955
3              23,340                  -                  10,424           33,764             30,633                 895               31,528
4               5,250                  -                  13,030           18,280             70,524               1,579               72,103
5                 -                    180                14,030           14,210             98,489               2,050              100,539
6                 -                  3,089                14,030           17,119            125,199               2,357              127,556
7 >               -                  3,660                14,030           17,690            100,616               2,357              102,973
8                 -                  3,401                14,030            17,431           124,217               2,357               126,574
9                 -                  2,437                14,030           16,467            125,237               2,357               127,594
10                 -                  2,345                14,030           16,375            116,030               2,357              118,387
11                 -                  6,305                14,030           20,335            116,030               2,357               118,387
12                 -                  3,673                14,030           17,703             88,100               2,357                90,457
13                 -                  1,556                14,030            15,586            69,449               2,357                71,806
14                 -                  1,191                14,030           15,221             91,644               2,357                94,001
15                 -                  1,275                14,030           15,305             90,357                2,357               92,714
April 14, 1973



BANGLADESH
CEUAL SEEDS PROJECT
ESTIMATED COST AND BENEFIT STREAMS
At Shadow Rate Tks 11.85 - US1l.o0
Incremental          Incremental          Incremental            Total
Production           Production           Production          IncrementAl
Capital          Replacement          Recurrent         Total             due to                due to             on BADC            Production
Year            Costs               Costs              Coats            Costs          Acceleration           Quality              Farms
-__                                                                            _   -------- ------ ------ --_-_-_ -_-_- _ -_-_- _ -_-_-_ -_-_-_ -_-_  _-_-_-_ -_- _   _-_ _ _ _-_-_-_ -_-_-_ -_-_-_ -_-_- _ -_-_-_ -_-_- _ -_-_-_ -_-_- _ -_-_- _ -_-_-_
1              28,850                                   681          29,531                -                    -                    -                    -
2              40,815                                 1,262          42,077              33,660               2,026                  531               36,217
3              29,955                                 6,427          36,382              63,261               3,657                  884               67,802
4               6,750                 -              12,075           18,825            155,628               6,801                1,591              164,020
5                 -                 286              14,787           15,073            160,182               7,857                2,652              170,691
6                 -                 449              14,819           15,268            259,578               8,062                2,828              270,468
7                 -               5,880              14,819           20,699            219,206               8,213                3,536              230,955
8                 -                5,480             14,819           20,299            255,994               8,213                3,536              267,743
9                 -               3,983              14,819           18,802            251,658               8,282                3,536              263,476
10                 -               3,872              14,819           18,691            241,362               8,282                3,536              253,180
11                 -              10,159              14,819          24,978             241,362               8,282                3,536              253,180
12                 -               5,905              14,819           20,724            199,723               8,417                3,536              211,676
13                 -               2,493              14,819           17,312            166,280               8,417                3,536              178,233
14                 -               1,930              14,819           16,749            213,642               8,417                3,536              225,595
15                 -               2,028              14,819           16,847            205,920               8,417                3,536              217,873
April 14, 1973                                                                                                                                                         to



IBRD 10293
t 5 X .¢ 3 ,.g:;,.:9 j teSlS, :;{{zZ:S:,; . ! ig  lV31PAC75
SW;!i;i$%49;WWIW   S      Fi!4;Si%;l=S;'; F*'t,0Wst->lusl>E, SM -
tfig   a''', , L  ,.   <.v2f
iit ffll U i f Fme: S r- r 8 )- .                     CH 
NM AZe~hA
FSf1! *eo   *+w o 0{fllglGlGlg>;A so  6 fK
i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-S
~ 2               f7>         H 2< C                         2ttt W-§l7vC;;k>t$ =
,Ft4-~~~~~~~~~~ I,  ,                                                  i:
Cl-~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
'4
>r                                                                ~      ~~ r> r--    c1d$C,d



