CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 410 BD
Development Credit
Agreement
(Cereal Seeds Project)
BETWEEN
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 29, 1973


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 410 BD
Development Credit
Agreement
(Cereal Seeds Project)
BETWEEN
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 29, 1973


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 29, 1973, between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC
OF BANGLADESH (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the deletion of Sections 5.01 and
6.02(h) thereof and to the renumbering of Section 6.02(i) into 6.02(h) thereoi
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "BADC" means Bangladesh Agricultural Development Corporation, a
corporate entity established under Ordinance No. XXXVII of 1961, and includes
any successor thereto.
(b)   "BRRI" means Bangladesh Rice Research Institute, established under
Ordinance No. VI of 1973 dated Mny 5, 1973 and includes any successor thereto.
(c)   "SCA" means Seeds Certification Agency in the Borrower's Ministry
of Agriculture.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to seven million five hundred thousand
dollars ($7,500,000).


﻿4
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as
such Schedule shall be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed under the Development Credit Agreement; provided,
however, that, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall
be made on account of expenditures in the territories of any country which is
not a member of the Bank (other than Switzerland) or for goods produced in,
or services supplied from, such territories.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods and
services (other than services of consultants) required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured on the basis of
international competition under procedures consistent with the Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits, published by the Bank
in April 1972 as revised in October 1972 (hereinafter called Guidelines) and in
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions set forth in Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1977 or such other
date as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on June I and
December 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each June 1 and December 1 commencing
December 1, 1983, and ending June 1, 2023, each installment to and including
the installment payable on June 1, 1993 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of
1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.


﻿5
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project, or cause the Project
to be carried out through BADC and BRRI, with due diligence and efficiency
and in conformity with sound administrative, agricultural and financial practices,
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ or cause to be employed, agricultural and such other
consultants acceptable to the Association as may be required for the Project upon
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.03. In carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall employ or cause
to be employed contractors acceptable to the Association upon terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation
and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used
exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, contract
documents, construction schedules, procurement schedules and training programs
for the Project, as well as any material modifications thereof or additions thereto,
in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
(b)   The Borrower: (i) shall maintain or cause to be maintained, records
adequate to record the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and
to identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit,
and to disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's
accredited representatives to examine the Project, the goods financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall


﻿6
furnish or cause to be furnished to the Association all such information as the
Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the expenditure of the
proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken all such action
as shall be necessary to acquire all such land and rights in respect of land as shall
be required for carrying out the Project. In particular, except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, the land specified in Schedule 4 to this Agreement shall
be acquired or purchased, or shall be reserved from the Borrower's previously
acquired or purchased land, by the date indicated against each item in the said
Schedule.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall cause BADC Staff Training Institute at
Madhupur to provide such facilities as may be necessary for the training of staff
required under the Project.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall establish and maintain a National Seeds
Board in its Ministry of Agriculture consisting of, among others, representatives
from the Planning Commission, BADC, SCA, BRRI, Agricultural Research Institute,
Integrated Rural Development Program and Bangladesh Water Development Board,
to be responsible for, inter alia, coordinating the implementation of the Project
and making recommendations to the Borrower with respect to release of new seed
varieties, seed importation and multiplication targets, quality standards and prices.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall -(i) ensure that the General Manager Field
of BADC will be responsible for the seed production and processing aspects of
the Project, and (ii) inform or cause BADC to inform the Association with respect
to any appointment to such post.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained
records adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the
Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)   The Borrower shall: (i) cause the accounts and financial statements
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) with
respect to the Project for each fiscal year of BADC, BRRI and any other


﻿7
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out or operating
the Project or any part thereof to be audited, in accordance with sound auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association; (ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case
not later than six months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies
of said financial statements for such year as so audited and (B) the report of
such audit by said auditors; and (iii) furnish to the Association such other
information concerning the said accounts and financial statements and the audit
thereof as the Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c)   Without prejudice to other provisions of (a) and (b) above, the
Borrower shall cause BADC to maintain separate accounts in accordance with sound
financial and accounting practices, showing overall commercial performance under
Part A of the Project and separate sub-accounts in respect of: (i) BADC farms
included in the Project; (ii) the private seed growers scheme referred to in Part
A(ii) of the Project; (iii) seed processing operations; and (iv) seed distribution and
marketing operations.
Section 4.02. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, and without
*           restriction or limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement,
the Borrower shall (i) establish or cause to be established three special revolving
funds (hereinafter called the BADC Seeds Fund, the Ministry of Agriculture Seeds
Fund, and the BRRI Fund, respectively) to be used for the sole purpose of making
payments of local expenditures for goods and services required for Parts A, B and
C of the Project respectively, (ii) deposit or cause to be deposited in the said
Funds all amounts as shall from time to time be required to enable the payments
heretofore specified to be made, promptly as needed, out of the said Funds, and
(iii) maintain or cause to be maintained records adequate to reflect, in accordance
with consistently maintained sound accounting practices, the operations and
financial condition of the said Funds.
(b)   Without restriction or limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section, the Borrower shall make or cause to be made an initial deposit
in the said Funds (and subsequent deposits in the first week of each calendar
month) which deposits shall be of such amounts as shall be required to bring the
respective Funds to a level which will be sufficient to meet local expenditures
expected to be incurred by the Borrower, in respect of the parts of the Project
to be carried out by the Ministry of Agriculture, BADC and BRRI, respectively,
during the forthcoming two months, as estimated on the basis of the Project work
schedules.


﻿8
(c)   The Borrower shall cause the Ministry of Agriculture, BADC and BRRI
each to employ a qualified and experienced Senior Officer who shall have power
to operate the respective Funds referred to in (a) above.
(d)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
establish the Ministry of Agriculture Seeds Fund not later than four months from
the date of this Agreement.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall establish and maintain a Seeds Certification
Agency attached to its Ministry of Agricultare, but not under the control of any
directorate, which shall be responsible for certifying seed quality, and shall provide
the said Agency with such laboratories, land for test plots, staff, equipment and
other facilities as shall be adequate for the said purposes.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall cause BADC, BRRI and SCA to take out
and maintain with responsible insurers, or to make other provisions satisfactory
to the Association for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall
be consistent with sound financial practices.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall take necessary measures to complete by
March 31, 1979, or such other date as may be agreed upon between the Borrower
and   the   Association,  the   reconstruction  and   improvement    of  the
Kaliganj-Jibannager-Chuadanga road in order to provide year-round access to
Dattanagar Farm.
Section 4.06. For the purpose of planning of the BADC farms to be developed
under Part A(i) of.the Project, the Borrower shall cause (i) a topographic survey
to be carried out on the basis of 1":100' scale contour maps with ' contour
intervals or such other scale acceptable to the Association and (ii) soil surveys
to be carried out on semi-detailed basis, on the farm areas; such surveys to be
completed by June 30, 1974, or such other date as may be agreed upon between
the Borrower and the Association.
Section 4.07. The Borrower shall provide such advice and assistance as shall
be required by BADC for the installation within 18 months of the date of this
Agreement, or such other period as may be agreed upon between the Borrower
and the Association, of a telephone or transceiver communications system at sites
included in Part A of the Project. Such advice and assistance shall continue to
be made available to BADC for proper operation and maintenance of the telephone
or transceiver system at said sites.
Section 4.08. The Borrower shall, within three years from the date of this
Agreement, or such other period as shall be agreed upon between the Borrower


﻿9
and the Association, provide or cause to be provided, one bay of seed storage
in at least one fertilizer store in each thana in the territories of the Borrower
wherein BADC owns a fertilizer store.
Section 4.09. (a) The Borrower shall consult with the Association on the
procedures to be employed in the operations of the private seed growers scheme
referred to in Part A(i) of the Project.
(b)   The Borrower shall, on a time schedule to be agreed between the
Borrower and the Association, but not later than December 1975 unless the
Association shall otherwise agree, discontinue the current arrangements of the sale
of rice and wheat seeds to BADC by farmers not included in the scheme referred
to in (a) above.
Section 4.10. The Borrower shall ensure that BRRI and the Agricultural
Research Institute of the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture continue to supply
BADC with rice and wheat seed certified by the SCA as suitable for seed
multiplication in adequate quantities to permit efficient operation of the facilities
financed under Part A(i) of the Project.
Section 4.11. The Borrower shall cause BADC, in accordance with a program
to be agreed upon between the Borrower and the Association and based upon
the financial analysis forming part of the feasibility study included in Part A(vi)
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, to set and maintain prices for rice and wheat
seeds produced under the Project with the objective of providing, within five years
from the date of this Agreement, or such other date as may be agreed upon between
the Borrower and the Association, sufficient revenues to cover full production costs
which costs, unless the Association shall otherwise agree, shall be as defined in
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party:
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
performance of their respective obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the administration, operations, resources and expenditures of BADC


﻿10
and BRRI and, in respect of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the
Borrower responsible for carrying out any part of the Project, and other matters
relating to the purposes of the Credit; and
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its balance of payments,
and the external debt of the Borrower and of any agency of the Borrower.
Section 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the administration, operations, resources and expenditures of BADC
and BRRI and, in respect of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the
Borrower responsible for carrying out any part of the Project.
(b)   The Borrower and the Association shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service
thereof or the performance by either of them of its obligations under the
Development Credit Agreement.
Section 5.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Association to visit any part of the territories
of the Borrower for purposes related to the Credit.
ARTICLE VI
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 6.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.02. The Development Credit Agreement shall be free from any
taxes on or in connection with the execution, delivery or registration thereof,
imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
IA


﻿11
ARTICLE VII
Remedies of the Association
Section 7.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
shall occur and shall continue for the period, if any, therein set forth, then at
any subsequent time during the continuance thereof, the Association, at its option,
may by notice to the Borrower declare the principal of the Credit then outstanding
to be due and payable immediately together with the service charges thereon, and
upon any such declaration such principal and service charges shall become due
and payable immediately, anything to the contrary in the Development Credit
Agreement notwithstanding.
ARTICLE VUI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 8.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 10.01(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)   The Borrower shall have employed one specialist each for seed
processing, farm machinery, and seed testing and certification.
(b)   BADC shall have appointed a General Manager Field referred to in
Section 3.09 of this Agreement.
(c)   The BADC Seeds Fund and the BRRI Fund referred to in Section
4.02(a) to this Agreement shall have been established.
(d)   The National Seeds Board referred to in Section 3.08 of this Agreement
shall have been established.
(e)   The Seeds Certification Agency referred to in Section 4.03 to this
Agreement shall have been established.
Section 8.02. The date Septeitber 28, 1973 is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections 3.08 and 3.09
and those of Article IV of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date
on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date 20 years
after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
I


﻿12
ARTICLE IX
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 9.01. The Secretary, Planning Commission of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 9.03 of
the General Conditions.
Section 9.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Secretary
Planning Commission
Bangladesh Secretariat
Dacca
Bangladesh
Cable address:
PLANCOM
Dacca
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed


﻿13
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
By /s/ A. R. Choudhury
Authorized Representative
On behalf of the President
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ I. P. M. Cargill
Regional Vice President
Asia


﻿14
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below    sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of amounts of the Credit to each Category
and the percentage of eligible expenditures so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated               Of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
I.   For BADC
(a)  Farm, tele-              2,780,000          100   of foreign
communication                               expenditures (c.i.f.),
and Seed Pro-                               100% local expendi-
cessing equitures (ex-facto)
ment vehils,
pumps and tube-
wells
(b)  Consultants'              590,000           100% of foreign
Services, and                               expn
training abroad                               reign consultants;
70% of total expendi-
tures for local con-
sultants; 10Ko of
total expenditures
for training abroad
(c)  Civil Works               730,000           50% of total
for Buildings                               expenditures
(d)  Civil Works               390,000           50% of total
for Land                                    expenditures
Development
(e)  Local Training             90,000           50% of total
Costs other
than Consultants'
Services
(f)  Materials for              30,000           50% of total
Market                                      expenditures
Promotion
II. For BRRI
(a)  Farm and labo-            120,000           100% of foreign
ratory equipment,                           expenditures
tubewells and                               100% local expendi-
vehicles                                    tures (ex-factory)
100  lca epedi


﻿15
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(b)   Consultants'              160,000           100% of foreign
Services                                    expenditures for
foreign consultants;
70% of total ex-
penditures for
local consultants
(c)   Civil Works for           750,000           50% of total
Buildings                                   expenditures
(d)   Civil Works for            40,000           50% of total
Land Development                            expenditures
III.  For Ministry of
Agriculture
(a)   Equipment and              90,000           100% of foreign
vehicles for                                expenditures (c.i.f.),
SCA                                         100% local expendi-
tures (ex-factory)
(b)   Consultants'              160,000           100% of foreign
Services and                                expenditures or
training abroad                             foreign consultants;
70% of total expendi-
tures for local
consultants; 100%
of total expenditures
for training abroad
(c)   Civil Works for            60,000           50% of total
Buildings for                               expenditures
SCA
(d)   Materials for              40,000           50% of total
Market Promotion                            expenditures
(e)   Local Training             10,000           50% of total
costs other than                            expenditures
Consultants'
Services
IV.   Unallocated                   1,460,000
TOTAL              7,500,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:


﻿16
(a)   the term   "foreign expenditures" means expenditures for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, the territories, and in the currency, of
any country other than the Borrower.
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of
the Borrower, or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, the territories
of the Borrower; and
(c)   the term "total expenditures" means the aggregate of foreign and local
expenditures.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement except that
withdrawals may be made under Category I(a) and expenditures for training abroad
under Categories I(b) and 111(b) on account of payments made for expenditures
incurred after February 1, 1973 in an aggregate amount not exceeding the
equivalent of $50,000.
(b)   payments for taxes imposed directly under the laws of the Borrower
or laws in effect in its territories on goods or services, or on the importation,
manufacture, procurement or supply thereof. To the extent that the amount
represented by the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph
I above in respect of any Category would exceed the amount payable net of all
such taxes, such percentage shall be reduced to ensure that no proceeds of the
Credit will be withdrawn on account of payments for such taxes.
4.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit set forth in the
second column of the table in paragraph I above:
(a)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Sub-Category shall
decrease, the amount of the Credit then allocated to such Sub-Category and no
longer required therefor will be reallocated by the Association by increasing
correspondingly the unallocated amount of the Credit;
(b)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Sub-Category shall
increase, the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph
I above in respect of such expenditures shall be applied to the amount of such
increase, and a corresponding amount will be allocated by the Association, at the
request of the Borrower, to such Sub-Category from the unallocated amount of
the Credit, subject, however, to the requirements for contingencies, as determined
by the Association, in respect of any other expenditures; and


﻿17
(c)   if the Association  shall have reasonably   determined  that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set
forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement, no expenditures for such
item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Association may,
without in any way restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of
the Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the
Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as in the Association's reasonable
opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have
been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.
5.    Notwithstanding the percentages set forth in the third column of the table
in paragraph I above, if the estimate of total expenditures under any Sub-Category
shall increase. and no proceeds of the Credit are available for reallocation to such
Sub-Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, adjust the
percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals
under such Sub-Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have
been made.


﻿18
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project represents the first phase in the development of a modem rice
and wheat seeds industry in Bangladesh and consists of the following parts:
Part A:    (To be carried out by BADC)
(i)        On-farm development for seed multiplication of about 5,000
acres on the Kashimpur, Sadhuhati, Dattanager, Meherpur,
Noornagar, Tambulkhana, Tebnia, Pangsa, Domar, Thakurgaon,
Nilphamari,  Rangpur, Kalyanpur, Madhupur, Netrakona,
Itakhola and Panchgacia farms of BADC; including the
installation of tubewells and low-lift pumps, improvement of
access and farm   roads, completion of drainage and water
distribution  systems, construction  of housing, purchase,
installation and utilization of farm  machinery, vehicles and
equipment, telephone or transceiver communication system and,
at the Sadhuhati and Kashimpur farms, small seed processing
units.
(ii)       Purchase and utilization of equipment, provision of advisory
services, and construction of staff housing to establish a private
seed growers scheme involving about 5,000 acres of production
area in Patiya, Thakurgaon, Atghoria, Pabna, Ishurdi, Madhupur,
Brahmanbaria and Madhabpur thanas.
(iii)      Acquisition, installation and  operation of seed processing
equipment at Itakhola, Dinajpur, Noornagar, Chittagong, Tebnia
and Mymensingh centers.
(iv)       Improvement of seed storage and seed market promotion.
(v)        Consultants' services to assist in Project implementation; training
for BADC seed production, processing and distribution staff; and
construction of staff housing and facilities at the BADC Staff
Training Institute, Madhupur.
(vi)       A study of the feasibility of expansion of seed production and
distribution, including analysis of the appropriate institutional
framework and a financial analysis for pricing policies.


﻿19
Part B:     (To be carried out by Ministry of Agriculture)
(i)        Construction of a seed laboratory and staff housing at or near
Joydebpur; and acquisition and utilization of equipment and
vehicles for SCA.
(ii)       Training of SCA staff and consultants' services to assist SCA
in Project implementation.
(iii)      A program of field demonstrations of improved seed.
Part C:     (To be carried out by BRRI)
(i)        Development of BRRI substations at Barisal, Comilla, Dinajpur
and Habiganj by construction of staff housing, offices and
laboratories, tubewells and water distribution systems and by
purchase and utilization of equipment.
(ii)       Construction  of staff housing at BRRI headquarters in
Joydebpur.
(iii)      Consultants'   services  to  BRRI    to   assist  in  Project
implementation.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1977.


﻿20
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.    Contracts Governed by Guidelines
1.    With respect to any contract for civil works for buildings estimated to cost
the equivalent of $100,000 or more, or for the supply of equipment or materials
estimated to cost the equivaleni of $50,000 or more:
(a)   If bidders are required to prequalify, the Borrower shall, before
qualification is invited, inform the Association in detail of the procedure to be
followed and shall introduce such modifications in said procedure as the Association
shall reasonably request. The list of prequalified bidders, together with a statement
of their qualifications and of the reasons for the exclusion of any applicant for
prequalification, shall be furnished by the Borrower to the Association for its
comments before the applicants are notified and the Borrower shall make such
additions to or deletions from the said list as the Association shall reasonably
request.
(b)   Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
for its comments, the text of the inVitations to bid and the specifications and
other bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures
to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedure as the Association shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Association's concurrence
before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(c)   After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower shall, before
a final decision on the award is made, inform the Association of the name of
the bidder to whom it intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the
Association, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report, by the consultants
referred to in Section 3.02 of this Agreement, on the evaluation and comparison
of the bids received, together with the recommendations for award of the said
consultants, and the reasons for the intended award. The Association shall, if it
determines that the intended award would be inconsistent with the procedures
set forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement, promptly inform the
Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(d)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the
Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked.


﻿21
(e)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the
Association promptly after its execution and prior to the delivery to the Association
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect
of any such contract.
2.    Any contracts for civil works for land development estimated to cost the
equivalent of $10,000 or more shall be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding
following advertisement in newspapers of general circulation in the territories of
the Borrower.
3.    With respect to any contract for civil works for land development or any
contract for civil works for buildings or the supply of equipment and materials
not referred to in paragraph 1 above, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
promptly after its execution and prior to the delivery to the Association of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of
any such contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together with the
analysis of bids, recommendations for award and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it determines that
the award of the contract is not consistent with the procedures set forth or referred
to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement, promptly inform the Borrower and state
the reasons for such determination.
4.    Identical or similar items of equipment or material shall, to the extent
possible, be consolidated in a single invitation for the purposes of bidding by each
participant.
5.    Equipment, vehicles and materials up to an equivalent of $40,000 to be
financed under Categories 1(a), 11(a) and 111(a) of Table I of Schedule I to this
Agreement are hereby exempted from the provisions of Section 2.03 to this
Agreement.
B.    Supplemental Rules on Bid Evaluation and Comparison
1.    For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids, customs duties and
other import taxes on imported goods, and sales and similar taxes on locally
produced goods, shall be excluded, except to the extent hereinafter provided.
Bidders shall be required to state in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for
imported goods, or the ex-factory price for locally manufactured goods. The cost
to the Borrower of inland freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery
of goods to the place of their use or installation shall be taken into account in
the evaluation of bids in accordance with paragraph 4.7 of the Guidelines for
Procurement.


﻿22
2.    For goods included in Categories I(a) and (f), 11(a) and 111(a) and (d) of
the table set forth in paragraph I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, the Borrower
may grant a margin of preference to goods manufactured in Bangladesh in
accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
(a)   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in one of the
following groups:
(1)   Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Bangladesh, if the bidder
shall have established to the satisfaction of the Borrower and the
Association that the manufacturing cost of such goods includes a value
added in Bangladesh equal to at least 20% of the ex-factory bid price
of such goods.
(2)   Group B: bids offering goods manufactured in Bangladesh, other than
bids classified in Group A.
(3)   Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(b)   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared among
themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import taxes in goods to be
imported and any sales or similar taxes on goods to be supplied locally, to determine
the lowest evaluated bid of each group. The lowest evaluated bids of each group
shall then be compared with each other and if, as a result of this comparison,
a bid from Group A or Group B is the lowest, it shall be selected for purposes
of award.
(c)   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (b) above, the lowest
bid is a bid from Group C, all Group C bids shall be further compared with the
lowest bid from Group A, as determined under paragraph (b) above, after adding
to the c.i.f bid price of goods to be imported offered in each Group C bid, for
the purpose of this further comparison only, an amount equal to the smaller of
(i) the amount of customs duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt
importer would have to pay for the importation of goods offered in such Group
C bid, or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods. If the Group A bid in
such further comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected for purposes of award;
if not, the lowest bid from Group C, as determined under paragraph (b) above,
shall be selected for purposes of award.
3.   The bidding documents shall clearly indicate any preference which will be
granted, the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for such
preference and the methods and stages that will be followed in the evaluation
and comparison of bids to give effect to such preference.


﻿23
SCHEDULE 4
Land For the Project
For the purpose of Section 3.06 of this Agreement, the lands described below
shall be acquired, purchased or reserved, as the case may be, by the date indicated
against each item.
1 .  DINAJPUR TOWNSHIP
One acre adjacent to                   Before May 31, 1975
and contiguous with
the 1000-ton BADC
Seed Store for a
seed processing
center
2.    NOORNAGAR
One acre adjacent to                   Before May 31, 1974
and contiguous with
the 1000-ton BADC
Seed Store for a
seed processing
center
3.    CHITTAGONG BADC LAND
One half of one acre                   Before November 30, 1974
adjacent to and con-
tiguous with the
1000-ton BADC Seed
Store for a seed
processing center
4.    MYMENSINGH TOWNSHIP
One half of one acre                   Before May 31, 1974
adjacent to and con-
tiguous with the
1000-ton BADC Seed
Store for a seed
processing center


﻿24
5.    TEBNIA BADC SEED FARM
One half of one acre                   Before November 30, 1974
adjacent to and con-
tiguous with the
1000-ton BADC Seed
Store for a seed
processing center
6.    ITHAKOLA BADC SEED FARM
One half of one acre                   Before May 31, 1975
of land for a seed
processing center
7.    NATIONAL SEEDS LABORATORY
Either on the Agricul-                 Before March 31, 1974
tural Research Insti-
tute land or on land
contiguous with the
Agricultural Research
land, not less than
10 acres of land for
the National Seeds
Laboratory


﻿25
SCHEDULE 5
Definition of Full Production Costs
1.    "Full Production costs" means all costs, determined in accordance with sound
accounting principles, necessarily incurred in the production and sale of seed.
2.    Full Production costs shall include:
(i)         direct  cultivation, harvesting, marketing   and  distribution
expenses;
(ii)        adequate maintenance of, and depreciation on, buildings, plant,
machinery and equipment used in growing, processing, marketing
and distributing seed, and provisions made in accordance with
sound business practice, including amortization of intangible
assets referred to below;
(iii)       overheads, representing the indirect expenses incurred;
(iv)        interest paid on short-term borrowing to finance working capital;
(v)         taxes paid or payable by BADC; and
(vi)        a return on net capital employed related to the cost of BADC
borrowing funds on a long-term basis.
3.    Full Production costs shall not include:
(i)         interest and other charges on debt, other than the short-term
borrowing referred to in "2(iv)" above;
(ii)        any costs incurred by BADC, which are reimbursed to BADC,
and are not attributable to the earning of revenue from sale
of seed; and
(iii)       any costs capitalized and not charged against revenue except that
proportion of such costs written-off against revenue in any year.
4.    For the above purpose "net capital employed" shall be the total value of
all tangible and intangible net assets used in seed production, which value shall
include costs less depreciation and amounts written-off plus revaluation for any


﻿26
purpose, in particular because of changes in the value of money and in replacement
cost, as recorded in the books of BADC from time to time, in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles and sound methods of valuation acceptable
to the Association.
5.    "Intangible assets" shall include the balance of training and technical
assistance costs incurred under the project which are capitalized, to be written-off
as a charge against profits over a period of years.


