CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1549 IN
Loan Agreement
(Third Trombay Thermal Power Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
THE TATA HYDRO-ELECTRIC POWER SUPPLY COMPANY LIMITED
THE ANDHRA VALLEY POWER SUPPLY COMPANY LIMITED
and
THE TATA POWER COMPANY LIMITED
Dated June 19, 1978


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1549 IN
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 19, 1978, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank)
of the one part and THE TATA HYDRO-ELECTRIC POWER SUPPLY COMPANY
LIMITED (hereinafter called Hydro), THE ANDHRA VALLEY POWER SUPPLY
COMPANY LIMITED (hereinafter called Andhra) and THE TATA POWER
COMPANY LIMITED (hereinafter called Power), all being companies
duly incorporated under the Indian Companies Acts (hereinafter
collectively called the Borrowers), of the other part.
WHEREAS (A) the Borrowers have requested the Bank to assist
in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement by making the Loan as hereinafter provided;
(B) by an agreement (hereinafter called the Guarantee
Agreement) of even date herewith between India, acting by its
President (hereinafter called the Guarantor), and the Bank, the
Guarantor has agreed to guarantee the obligations of the Borrowers
in respect of the Loan;
(C) the Borrowers intend to contract from local financial
institutions and banks a loan or loans in the amount of about
Rs550,000,000 on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank to
assist in the financing of the Project;
(D) the Borrowers intend to collect from their consumers
security deposits and/or to conclude arrangements satisfactory
to the Bank pursuant to which the State of Maharashtra will make
available to the Borrowers funds equivalent to about Rsl72,000,000
to assist in the financing of the Project;
(E) the Guarantor intends to contract from the Federal
Republic of Germany, acting through the Kreditanstalt fUr
Wiederaufbau (hereinafter called KfW), a loan (hereinafter called
the KfW Loan) in an amount equivalent to DM85,000,000 to assist
in the financing of the turbo-generating unit and its associated
equipment for the Project under the terms and conditions to
be set forth in a loan agreement (hereinafter called the KfW Loan
Agreement) to be entered into between the Guarantor and KfW and in
a Pr-ject Agreement (hereinafter called the KfW Project Agreement)
to be entered into between KfW and the Borrowers;
(F) the Loan is to be secured as provided in Section 5.06
of this Agreement, which security is to be constituted by and


﻿-2-
provided for in the Trust Deed as hereinafter defined in Section
1.02 (f) of this Agreement;
(G) the Borrowers have agreed to cause all other necessary
parties to consent to modifications of the Existing Deeds, as
hereinafter defined in Section 1.02 (e) of this Agreement, so as
to ensure that full effect may be given to the provisions of
Section 5.06 of this Agreement; and
(H) the Bank has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the
foregoing, to make the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with the
same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein,
subject, however, to the following modification thereof, namely,
the substitution of the term "Borrowers" for the term "Borrower"
wherever the latter appears in said General Conditions (said
General Conditions, as so modified, being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional
terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Hydro Deeds" means the trust deeds executed by Hydro
to secure certain of its Debentures as set forth in paragraph (A)
of Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
(b) "Andhra Deeds" means the trust deeds executed by Andhra
to secure certain of its Debentures as set forth in paragraph (B)
of Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
(c) "Power Deeds" means the trust deeds executed by Power to
secure certain of its Debentures as set forth in paragraph (C) of
Schedule 5 to this Agreement;


﻿-3-
(d) "Joint Deed" means the trust deed jointly executed by
the Borrowers to secure a joint loan as set forth in paragraph (D)
of Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
(e) "Existing Deeds" means the trust deeds referred to in
paragraphs (a) through (d) of this Section;
(f) "Trust Deed" means the Trust Deed to be executed and
delivered pursuant to Section 5.06 of this Agreement, and such
term includes any deed supplemental thereto that may be executed
and delivered;
(g) "Guarantor" means India, acting by its President;
(h) "Borrower" means any of the Borrowers;
(i) "Subsidiary" means any company which is a subsidiary of
any of the Borrowers within the meaning of the Guarantor's Com-
panies Act, 1956, as amended;
(j) "Rupees" and "Rs" mean the currency of India; and
(k) "Licence" means the Trombay Thermal Power Electric
Licence, 1953, granted by the then Government of Bombay to the
Borrowers, and this term includes any amendments, extensions or
renewals of the Licence.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrowers, on
the terms and conditions in this Agreement set forth or referred
to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to one hundred and
five million dollars ($105,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time, for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the


﻿-4-
Loan, shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to
this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 1984
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Guarantor and the Borrowers of such later
date.
Section 2.05. The Borrowers shall pay to the Bank a commit-
ment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrowers shall pay interest at the rate
of seven and one half per cent (7.50%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on January 1 and July 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrowers shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.09. The Borrowers shall pay to the Guarantor the
guarantee fee provided for in Section 3.05 of the Guarantee
Agreement.
Section 2.10. (a) All obligations of the Borrowers under
this Agreement and the Trust Deed shall be joint and several
and the obligations of any of them to comply with any provi-
sion of this Loan Agreement is not subject to any prior notice
to, demand upon or action against or in relation to any of the
others.
(b) The Bank may release, or grant extension of time or
forbearance to, any of the Borrowers in respect of the perfor-
mance of any obligations under this Agreement or the Trust Deed
without affecting the obligations of the other or others of the
Borrowers.
(c) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement
any notice, demand or protest given or made by the Bank to any of
the Borrowers shall be deemed to have been given or made to all
the Borrowers.


﻿-5-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrowers shall carry out the Project
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appro-
priate administrative, financial, engineering and public utility
practices.
(b) For the purpose of carrying out the Project and without
limitation or restriction upon the generality of subsection (a) of
this Section, the Borrowers shall, not later than March 31, 1982,
or such later date as the Bank may agree, increase their equity by
a sum of approximately Rsl75,000,000,
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrowers in the
design of, preparation of specifications and bidding documents
for, and the supervision of the construction of the Project, the
Borrowers shall employ engineering consultants whose qualifica-
tions, experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to zhe Bank.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrowers undertake to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or inatallation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrowers to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrowers
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrowers shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
repor,, contract documents and work and procurement schedules for
the Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrowers: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project (in-
cluding its cost and impact), to identify the goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, and to disclose their
use in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Bank's accredited


﻿-6-
representatives to visit the facilities and construction sites
included in the Project and to examine the goods financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan and any relevant records and documents;
and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank at regular intervals all such
information as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning the
Project, its cost and, where appropriate, its impact, the expendi-
ture of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services
financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the the Bank
and the Borrowers, the Borrowers shall prepare and furnish to the
Bank a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation of
the Project, its cost and impact, the performance by the Bank and
the Borrowers of their respective obligations under the Loan
Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.
(d) The Borrowers shall enable the Bank's representatives
to examine all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings,
property and equipment of the Borrowers and any relevant records
and documents.
Section 3.05. The Borrowers shall take all such action as
shall be necessary to acquire as and when needed all such land and
rights in respect of land as shall be required for the construc-
tion (and operation) of the facilities included in the Project and
shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after such acquisition,
evidence satisfactory to the Bank that such land and rights in
respect of land are available for purposes related - the Project.
Section 3.06. The Borrowers shall take all measures necessary
to ensure that the execution and operations of the Project are
carried out with due regard to appropriate ecological and environ-
mental factors in accordance with the environmental quality
standards prescribed by the relevant national, state or local
authorities.
ARTICLE IV
Management and Operations of the Borrowers
Section 4.01. The Borrowers shall at all times manage their
affairs, maintain their financial positions, plan their future
expansion and carry on their operations, all in accordance with


﻿-7-
sound business, financial, administrative and engineering prac-
tices and under the supervision of experienced and competent
management, assisted by qualified staff.
Section 4.02. The Borrowers shall take out and maintain
with responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory
to the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts
as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 4.03. The Borrowers shall operate and maintain their
plants, equipment and properties, and from time to time make all
necessary renewals and repairs thereof, all in accordance with
sound engineering practices.
Section 4.04. The Borrowers shall at all times take all steps
necessary to maintain their corporate existence and the right to
carry on their operations, including the Project, and shall,
except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, take all steps necessary
to acquire and to retain such land, interests in land and pro-
perties, and to acquire, maintain and renew such licenses, con-
sents, franchises or other rights, as may be necessary or useful
for the construction and operation of the Project and the conduct
of their businesses and undertakings.
Section 4.05. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrowers shall not sell, lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of
any of their properties or assets which shall be required for the
efficient carrying on of their businesses 3nd undertakings,
including the Project, but the Borrowers shall be at liberty to
dispose of any of their properties or assets which are not so
required.
Section 4.06. Each of the Borrowers shall cause each of its
subsidiaries (if any) to observe and perform the obligations of
the Borrowers under this Agreement to the extent to which the same
may be applicable thereto as though such obligations were binding
upon each such subsidiary.
ARTICLE V
Financial Covenants
Section 5.01. The Borrowers shall maintain records adequate
to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices their operations and financial conditions.


﻿-8-
Section 5.02. The Borrowers shall: (i) each have its accounts
and financial statements (statements of income, sources and
application of funds, balance sheets and related statements) for
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors accept-
able to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after the end of each
such year, (A) certified copies of their financial statements for
such year as so audited and (B) certified copies of the auditors'
reports; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information
concerning the accounts and financial statements of the Borrowers
and the audits thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reason-
ably request.
Section 5.03. The Borrowers shall consult with the Bank on
any proposal to alter or modify the existing limitation of
Rs2,379,300,000 in the aggregate on the powers of the Borrowers'
Boards of Directors to borrow funds before placing such proposals
on the agendas for consideration by the Borrowers in general
meetings.
Section 5.04. (a) The Borrowers shall, for the fiscal year
commencing April 1, 1983, and each year thereafter, include
provision for such special appropriation as may be necessary to
meet the cash shortfall for debt redemption for purposes of
determining their tariffs under Section XVII 2 (c) of the Sixth
Schedule of the Electricity (Supply) Act, 1948.
(b) The Borrowers shall secure all necessary permissions
under the Electricity (Supply) Act, 1948, from the Government of
the State of Maharashtra to enable them to carry out their obli-
gations under this Section.
Section 5.05. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, if
the Borrowers or any of the Borrowers shall directly or indirectly
pay or otherwise settle for a consideration, before maturity, part
or all of any outstanding secured debt of the Borrowers or of
any of the Borrowers, the Borrowers or the concerned Borrower, as
the case may be, shall repay a proportionate part, or all, as the
case may be, of the Loan.
Section 5.06. (a) The Borrowers shall execute and deliver
a Trust Deed in favor of such Trustees and in such form as the
Bank may reasonably require to constitute by way of security for
the Loan:


﻿(i) a First Specific Mortgage upon all the assets
included or to be included in the Project or
subsequently added thereto together with all rights
and interests appertaining to or necessary for said
assets to which the Borrowers or any of them are
now or may hereafter become beneficially entitled,
such Mortgage to rank in point of security, subject
to the provisions of subsection (b) of this Sec-
tion, prior to any other lien upon any of the
assets of the Borrowers or any of them, now exist-
ing or hereafter created, including the Existing
Deeds;
(ii) an Assignment by way of Mortgage of the Licence,
together with any extensions, amendments or
renewals thereof, such Assignment to rank in point
of security equally and ratably with the assignment
by way of mortgage provided in the Joint Deed;
and
(iii) a First Specific Charge upon all immovable and a
First Floating Charge upon all movable assets or
rights of the Borrowers at and in respect of the
Trombay Thermal Station, now existing or subse-
quently added thereto, but excluding the assets and
rights mentioned in subsections (a) (i) and (ii) of
this Section, together with all rights and inter-
ests appertaining to or necessary for said assets
to which the Borrowers or any of them are now or
may hereafter become beneficially entitled; such
Charge to rank in point of security equally and
ratably with the liens provided for in the Existing
Deeds upon the assets of the Borrowers or any of
them, and, subject to the provisions of subsection
(b) of this Section, prior to any other lien upon
such assets, now existing or hereafter created.
(b) Each of the Borrowers undertakes that, except as the
Bank may otherwise agree, no lien shall be created on any of its
assets at and in respect of the Trombay Thermal Station as
security for any debt, or extended to secure any additional debt,
except that any or all of the Borrowers may:
(i) (A) create liens, ranking in point of security
equally and ratably with the assignment of the


﻿- 10 -
Licence under subsection (a) (ii) of this
Section and the First Specific Mortgage
referred to in subsection (a) (i) of this
Section, upon all the assets included or
to be included in the Project or subsequently
added thereto together with all rights and
interests appertaining to or necessary for
said assets to which the Borrowers or any of
them are now or may hereafter become benefi-
cially entitled;
(B) create liens, ranking in point of security
equally and ratably with the First Specific
Floating Charge under the Trust Deed and
referred to in subsection (a) (iii) of this
Section, upon all or any assets of the
Borrowers or any of them not referred to in
subsection (a) (iii) of this Section; and
(C) without prejudice to the provisions of sub-
section (b) (i) (A) and (B) above and subject
to the priority of the security created or to
be created by or pursuant to the Trust Deed,
create liens upon any of the assets referred
to in subsection (a) of this Section, of the
Borrowers or any of them;
for securing debts or borrowings up to an aggregate
for all the Borrowers under (A), (B) and (C) of
this subsection of seven hundred fifty million
Rupees (Rs750,000,000) for the purposes of
financing or refinancing the original cost of the
Project; and
(ii) create liens, including hypothecations, on their
stores, spare parts and fuel including coal,
securing debts or borrowings maturing not more than
one year (at a time) from their respective dates
and incurred to bankers in the ordinary course of
business, in an amount not exceeding in the aggre-
gate for all the Borrowers at any one time one
hundred million Rupees (RslOO,000,000).
(c) The Trust Deed shall, inter alia, provide that no
subsidiary (if any) of any Borrower shall at any time without the


﻿- 11 -
consent of the Bank create any lien on its undertakings or assets
(including uncalled capital) or any part thereof otherwise than in
favor of such Borrower and that all liens created by any subsid-
iary of any Borrower in favor of such Borrower shall be retained
by such Borrower and shall not be sold, transferred or otherwise
disposed of by it and that it will not sell, transfer or otherwise
dispose of any shares for the time being held by it in any sub-
sidiary.
(d) The Borrowers shall:
(i) take all necessary steps and shall require all
other necessary parties to take all necessary steps
to ensure that all liens, including those provided
for in the Existing Deeds, outstanding upon the
assets to be subject to a lien by or pursuant to
the Trust Deed shall be discharged or be varied to
the reasonable satisfaction of the Bank so as to
ensure that full effect may be given to the fore-
going provisions of this Section; and
(ii) obtain all necessary consents for the valid exe-
cution and delivery of the Trust Deed and shall
duly register, or cause to be duly registered, the
Trust Deed, together with such other documents as
may be necessary or proper in order to render the
same fully effective in accordance with its terms.
(e) The Borrower shall secure all necessary permissions from
the Government of the State of Maharashtra to enable them to carry
out their obligations under this Section.
Section 5.07. The Borrowers shall pay or cause to be paid all
taxes, if any, imposed under the laws of the Guarantor or laws in
effect in its territories on, in connection with or pursuant to
the execution, issue, delivery or registration of the Trust Deed.
Section 5.08. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, the
Borrowers and each of them undertake not to reissue any debentures
secured by any of the Existing Deeds after the respective dates
fixed therein for their final payment.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Bank
Section 6.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (k) thereof:


﻿- 12 -
(a) The Memorandum or Articles of Association of any of the
Borrowers as at the date of this Agreement shall have been amended
without the prior consent of the Bank.
(b) The Licence shall have been amended, abrogated, waived,
assigned, suspended or revoked without the prior consent of the
Bonk.
(c) Any action shall have been taken for the dissolution or
disestablishment of any of the Borrowers or for the suspension of
its operations.
(d) A default shall have occurred in the implementation of
any undertaking referred to in Section 3.06 of the Guarantee
Agreement.
(e) (i) The Borrowers shall have failed to increase their
equity as provided in Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement by the
date specified therein, or (ii) the collection or arrangements
referred to in Recital (D) of this Agreement shall have failed to
be made by March 31, 1982, or such later date as the Bank may
establish, or (iii) all conditions precedent to the disbursement
of funds pursuant to the KfW Loan and Project Agreements shall
have failed to be satisfied by August 31, 1978, or such later
date as the Bank may establish; provided, however, that the
provisions of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrowers
establish to the satisfaction of the Bank that adequate funds
for the Project are available to the Borrowers from other sources
on terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of the
Borrowers under this Agreement.
(f) (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) The right of the Borrowers to withdraw the
proceeds of any loan or grant made to, or
made available to, the Borrowers for the
financing of the Project shall have been
suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole
or in part, pursuant to the terms of the
agreement providing therefor, or
(B) any such loan shall have become due and
payable prior to the agreed maturity
thereof.


﻿- 13 -
(ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
apply if the Borrowers establish to the satisfac-
tion of the Bank that: (A) such suspension, cancel-
lation, termination or prematuring is not caused by
the failure of the Borrowers or any of them to
perform any obligation under such agreement, and
(B) adequate funds for the Project are available
to the Borrowers from other sources on terms and
conditions consistent with the obligations of the
Borrowers under this Agreement.
Section 6.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following events are specified pursuant to
paragraph (h) thereof, namely, any event specified in paragraphs
(a) through (e) and (f) (i) (B) of Section 6.01 of this Agreement
shall occur.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Condi-
tions:
(a) arrangements satisfactory to the Bank for the provision
of the loan or loans referred to in Recital (C) of this Agreement
have been made;
(b) the requirements of Section 5.06 of this Agreement have
been validly complied with; and
(c) the undertakings and permissions referred to in Sections
5.04 (b) and 5.06 (e) of this Agreement and Section 3.06 of
the Guarantee Agreement have been duly secured.
Section 7.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank, namely, that all action necessary or proper
in order to render the requirements of Section 5.06 of this
Agreement fully effective in accordance with the provisions of
said Section has been taken.


﻿-14 -
Section 7.03. The date September 19, 1978, is hereby speci-
fied for the purpose of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VIII
Addresses
Section 8.01. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For the Borrowers:
Tata Electric Companies
Bombay House
Homi Mody Street
Bombay 400023
India
Cable address:                     Telex:
HYDROCO                            011-2618
Bombay
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District


﻿- 15 -
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ W. David Hopper
Regional Vice President
South Asia
THE TATA HYDRO-ELECTRIC POWER
SUPPLY COMPANY LIMITED
THE ANDHRA VALLEY POWER SUPPLY
COMPANY LIMITED
THE TATA POWER COMPANY LIMITED
By /s/ K.M. Chinnappa
Authorized Representative


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Electrical and           90,000,000         100% of foreign
mechanical equip-                          expenditures and
ment                                       100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory)
(2) Consultants'              7,000,000         100%
services
(3) Unallocated               8,000,000
TOTAL      105,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures
in the currency of any country other than the Guarantor and for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than the Guarantor; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Guarantor and for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Guarantor.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the
Loan shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Guarantor on goods or services,
or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;


﻿- 17 -
to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in
respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrowers,
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned
policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made:
(a) in respect of payments made for expenditures prior
to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals in an
aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of $250,000 may be
made on account of such expenditures before that date but after
March 15, 1978;
(b) in respect of all Categories, until and unless the
Bank has been furnished with satisfactory evidence that the
Government of Maharashtra has extended the following licenses of
the Borrowers for a period not less than the duration of the
Loan:
(i) Bombay (Hydro Electric) Licence, 1907;
(ii) The Andhra Valley (Hydro Electric) Licence, 1919;
(iii) The Nila Mula Valley (Hydro Electric) Licence,
1921; and
(iv) The Trombay Thermal Power Electric Licence, 1953.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph 1
above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount
of the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient
to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that
Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrowers: (i) reallocate
to such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to
another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are not
needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii) if such reallocation
cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement
percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that
further withdrawals under such Category may continue until all
expenditures thereunder shall have been made.


﻿- 18 -
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expendi-
tures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or limiting
any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the Loan
Agreement, by notice to the Borrowers, cancel such amount of the
Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the amount
of such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of associated civil works for, and the
provision and installation at the Trombay Thermal Power Station
of, one 500 MW turbo-generating unit and boiler rated at about
1,680 tonnes/hour capacity, complete with all auxiliaries and
ancillary electrical and mechanical equipment.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1982.


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*
On each January 1 and July 1
beginning January 1, 1984
through   July 1, 1998                      3,500,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in
a currency other than dollars (see General Conditions,
Section 4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar
equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 21 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                               Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                              1.15%
More than three years but
not more than six years
before maturity                              2.25%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                              4.15%
More than eleven years but
not more than sixteen
years before maturity                        6.00%
More than sixteen years but
not more than eighteen
years before maturity                        6.75%
More than eighteen years
before maturity                              7.50%


﻿- 22 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B hereof, contracts for the
purchase of goods shall be procured in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement
under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in
March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of
international competitive bidding as described in Part A of the
Guidelines.
2.   For goods to be procured on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding under the Project, the Borrowers shall prepare
and forward to the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event not
later than 60 days prior to the proposed date of availability to
the public of the first tender or prequalification documents
relating thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement
notice, in such form and detail and containing such information as
the Bank shall reasonably request; the Bank will arrange for the
publication of such notice in order to provide timely notification
to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods in
question. The Borrowers shall provide the necessary information to
update such notice annually so long as any goods remain to be
procured on the basis of international competitive bidding.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
Notwithstanding the provisions set forth in Part A.1 above,
procurement of items costing the equivalent of $100,000 or less
each and with an aggregate value not exceeding the equivalent of
$500,000 may be procured on the basis of competitive bidding
advertised locally in accordance with procedures satisfactory
to the Bank.
C.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for
Domestic Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods except those to be procured in accordance with
local procedures: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods, or the
ex-factory price for domestically manufactured goods; (ii) customs


﻿- 23 -
duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales and
similar taxes on domestically supplied goods, shall be excluded;
and (iii) the cost to the Borrowers of inland freight and other
expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to the place of
their use or installation shall be included.
2.   Goods manufactured in India may be granted a margin of
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the following
provisions:
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
India if the bidder shall have established to the
satisfaction of the Borrowers and the Bank that the
manufacturing cost of such goods includes a value
added in India equal to at least 20% of the ex-
factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in India.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c) All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes
on goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest
evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall
then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this
comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall
be selected for the award.
(d) If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c)
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from group
A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported goods
offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further


﻿-24-
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c,i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) is
the lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equiva-
lent of $500,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrowers shall furnish
to the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request.
Any further modification to the bidding documents shall require
the Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rowers shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for
its review, a detailed report, by the consultants referred to in
Section 3.02 of this Agreement, on the evaluation and comparison
of the bids received, together with the recommendations for award
of the said consultants and such other information as the Bank
shall reasonably request, The Bank shall, if it determines that
the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or
this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrowers and state the reasons
for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.


﻿- 25 -
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sicn to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan and not governed by the preceding paragraph,
the Borrowers shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after its
execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the first
application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in
respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract,
together with the analysis of the respective bids, recommendations
for award and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably
request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the award of the
contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform the Borrowers and state the reasons for such
determination.


﻿- 26 -
SCHEDULE 5
Existing Deeds
A.   Hydro Deeds
1.   Trust Deed dated December 12, 1957, as modified from
time to time, creating a concurrent first mortgage and first
charge on the immovable properties, plant and licences of Hydro
and floating charge on all of Hydro's other assets, subject,
however, to the priority of the security created pursuant to the
Joint Deed, securing Hydro's 7-3/4% First Debentures, maturing by
their terms on April 1, 1980, with the option to redeem them on
April 1, 1978 or on any interest payment date thereafter.
2.   Trust Deed dated June 7, 1963, as modified from time to
time, creating a concurrent first mortgage and first charge on the
immovable properties, plant and licences of Hydro and floating
charge on all of Hydro's other assets, subject, however, to the
priority of the security created pursuant to the Joint Deed,
securing Hydro's 7-3/4% "B" Second Debentures, maturing by their
terms on April 1, 1980, with the option to redeem them on April 1,
1978 or on any interest payment date thereafter.
3.   Trust Deed dated April 30, 1969, as modified from time
to time, creating a concurrent first 7ortgage and first charge on
the immovable properties, plant and licences of Hydro and floating
charge on all of Hydro's other assets, subject, however, to the
priority of the security created pursuant to the Joint Deed,
securing Hydro's 7-3/4% Third Debentures, maturing by their terms
on April 1, 1980, with the option to redeem them on April 1, 1978
or on any interest payment date thereafter.
4.   Trust Deed dated November 19, 1976, as modified from
time to time, creating a concurrent first mortgage and first
charge on the immovable properties, plant and licences of Hydro
and floating charge on all of Hydro's other assets, subject,
however, to the priority of the security created pursuant to
the Joint Deed, securing Hydro's 8-1/2% Fourth Debentures,
redeemable at par in four equal annual installments commencing
from September 30, 1984 and ending on September 30, 1987.
B.   Andhra Deeds
1.   Trust Deed dated September 25, 1940, as modified from
time to time, creating a concurrent first mortgage and first


﻿- 27 -
charge on the immovable properties, plant and licences of Andhra
and floating charge on all of Andhra's other assets, subject,
however, to the priority of the security created pursuant to
the Joint Deed, securing Andhra's 7-3/4% First Debentures,
maturing by their terms on April 1, 1980, with the option to
redeem them on April 1, 1978 or on any interest payment date
thereafter.
2.   Trust Deed dated January 9, 1958, as modified from
time to time, creating a concurrent first mortgage and first
charge on the immovable properties, plant and licences of Andhra
and floating charge on all of Andhra's other assets, subject,
however, to the priority of the security created pursuant to
the Joint Deed, securing Andhra's 7-3/4% Second Debentures,
maturing by their terms on April 1, 1980, with the option to
redeem them on April 1, 1978 or on any interest payment date
thereafter.
3.   Trust Deed dated April 6, 1961, as modified from
time to time, creating a concurrent first mortgage and first
charge on the immovable properties, plant and licences of Andhra
and floating charge on all of Andhra's other assets, subject,
however, to the priority of the security created pursuant to
the Joint Deed, securing Andhra's 7-3/4% Third Debentures,
maturing by their terms on April 1, 1980, with the option to
redeem them on April 1, 1978 or on any interest payment date
thereafter.
4.   Trust Deed dated September 26, 1967, as modified from
time to time, creating a concurrent first mortgage and first
charge on the immovable properties, plant and licences of Andhra
and floating charge on all of Andhra's other assets, subject,
however, to the priority of the security created pursuant to the
Joint Deed, securing Andhra's 7-3/4% Fourth Debentures, maturing
by their terms on April 1. 1980, with the option to redeem them on
April 1, 1978 or on any interest payment date thereafter.
5.   Trust Deed dated December 31, 1975, as modified from
time to time, creating a concurrent first mortgage and first
charge on the immovable properties, plant and licences of Andhra
and floating charge on all of Andhra's other assets, subject,
however, to the priority of the security created pursuant to
the Joint Deed, securing Andhra's 8-1/2% Fifth Debentures,
redeemable at par in four equal annual installments commencing
from September 30, 1984 and ending on September 30, 1987.


﻿- 28 -
C.   Power Deeds
1.   Trust Deed dated August 22, 1940, as modified from
time to time, creating a concurrent first mortgage and first
charge on the immovable properties, plant and licences of Power
and floating charge on all of Power's other assets, subject,
however, to the priority of the security created pursuant to the
Joint Deed, securing Power's 7-3/4% First Debentures, maturing by
their terms on April 1, 1980, with the option to redeem them on
April 1, 1978 or on any interest payment date thereafter.
2.   Trust Deed dated June 29, 1949, as modified from time to
time, creating a concurrent first mortgage and first charge on the
immovable properties, plant and licences of Power and floating
charge on all of Power's other assets, subject, however, to the
priority of the security created pursuant to the Joint Deed,
securing Power's 7-3/4% "B" Second Debentures, maturing by their
terms on April 1, 1980, with the option to redeem them on April 1,
1978 or on any interest payment date thereafter.
3.   Trust Deed dated December 12, 1957, as modified from
time to time, creating a concurrent first mortgage and first
charge on the immovable properties, plant and licences of Power
and floating charge on all of Power's other assets, subject,
however, to the priority of the security created pursuant to the
Joint Deed, securing Power's 7-3/4% Third Debentures, maturing by
their terms on April 1, 1980, with the option to redeem them on
April 1, 1978 or on any interest payment date thereafter.
4.   Trust Deed dated April 6, 1961, as modified from
time to time, creating a concurrent first mortgage and first
charge on the immovable properties, plant and licences of Power
and floating charge on all of Power's other assets, subject,
however, to the priority of the security created pursuant to the
Joint Deed, securing Power's 7-3/4% Fourth Debentures, maturing
by their terms on April 1, 1980, with the option to redeem them on
April 1, 1978 or on any interest payment date thereafter.
5.   Trust Deed dated June 7, 1963, as modified from time to
time, creating a concurrent first mortgage and first charge on the
immovable properties, plant and licences of Power and floating
charge on all of Power's other assets, subject, however, to the
priority of the security created pursuant to the Joint Deed,
securing Power's 7-3/4% "B" Fifth Debentures, maturing by their
terms on April 1, 1980, with the option to redeem them on April 1,
1978 or on any interest payment date thereafter.


﻿- 29 -
6.   Trust Deed dated December 19, 1975, as modified from
time to time, creating a concurrent first mortgage and first
charge on the immovable properties, plant and licences of Power
and floating charge on all of Power's other assets, subject,
however, to the priority of the security created pursuant to
the Joint Deed, securing Power's 8-1/2% Sixth Debentures,
redeemable at par in four equal annual installments commencing
from September 30, 1984 and ending on September 30, 1987.
D.   Joint Deed
Trust Deed dated November 4, 1955, as modified from time to
time, creating a first mortgage, charge and a floating charge
on the assets of the Trombay Thermal Station and the Carnac
Receiving Station and the License, securing a loan jointly con-
tracted by Hydro, Andhra and Power from the United States Agency
for International Development repayable in accordance with its
terms by January 2, 1981.


