CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1549 IN
Guarantee Agreement
(Third Trombay Thermal Power Project)
between
INDIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated June 19, 1978


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1549 IN
GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, 'ated June 19, 1978, between INDIA, acting by its
President (hereinafter called the Guarantor) and INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the
Bank).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
the Bank of the one part and THE TATA HYDRO-ELECTRIC POWER SUPPLY
COMPANY LIMITED, THE ANDHRA VALLEY POWER SUPPLY COMPANY LIMITED,
and THE TATA POWER COMPANY LIMITED (hereinafter collectively
called the Borrowers) of the other part, the Bank has agreed to
make to the Borrowers a loan in various currencies equivalent to
one hundred and five million dollars ($105,000,000), on the terms
and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on
condition that the Guarantor agree to guarantee the obligations of
the Borrowers in respect of such loan as hereinafter provided;
and
WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank's
entering into the Loan Agreement with the Borrowers, has agreed
so to guarantee such obligations of the Borrowers;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein,
subject, however, to the modification thereof set forth in
Section 1.01 of the Loan Agreement (said General Conditions,
as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in Section 1.02 of the Loan Agreement
have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Guarantee
Section 2.01. Without limitation or restriction upon any
of its other obliga,tions under the Guarantee Agreement, the


﻿-2-
Guarantor hereby unconditionally guarantees, as primary obligor
and not as surety merely, the due and punctual payment of the
principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the
premium, if any, on the prepayment of the Loan, all as set forth
in the Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Other Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, specific security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of such
member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any public
assets (as hereinafter defined', as security for any external debt,
which will or might result in a priority for the benefit of the
creditor of such external debt in the allocation, realization or
distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall, unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, ipso facto, and at no cost to the Bank,
equally and ratably secure the principal of, and interest and
other charges on, the Loan, and the Guarantor, in creating or
permitting the creation of such lien, shall make express provision
to that effect; provided, however, that, if for any constitutional
or other legal reason such provision cannot be made with respect
to any lien created on assets of any of its political or adminis-
trative subdivisions, the Guarantor shall promptly and at no cost
to the Bank secure the principal of, and interest and other
charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on other public assets
satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i)
any lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof,
solely as security for payment of the purchase price of such
property; and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of
banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more
than one year after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets"
means assets of the Guarantor, of any political or administrative
subdivision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by,
or operating for the account or benefit of, the Guarantor or any
such subdivision, including gold and other foreign exchange


﻿-3-
assets held by any-institution performing the functions of a
central bank or exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions,
for the Guarantor.
Section 3.02. The Guarantor covenants that it will not take,
or cause or permit any of its political subdivisions or any
of its agencies or any agency of any such political subdivisions
to take, any action which would prevent or interfere with the
performance by the Borrowers of their obligations contained in the
Loan Agreement and will take or cause to be taken all reasonable
action necessary or appropriate to enable the Borrowers to perform
such obligations.
Section 3.03. When, with respect to any contract for goods
to be procured under Section 2.04 of the Loan Agreement, the
selected bid is a bid from Group C (as defined in paragraph
C.2 (b) (3) of Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement), the Guarantor
shall immediately grant or cause to be granted permission to
import the goods covered by the contract, and no further review of
such permission to import shall be made by the Guarantor or by any
of its agencies. When, with respect to any contract, the selected
bid is a bid from Group A or Group B (as defined in paragraphs C.2
(b) (1) and (2) of Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement), the Guar-
antor shall (i) promptly upon receipt of the appropriate applica-
tions, issue, or cause to be issued, such import licenses as shall
be required to implement the contract; (ii) make available, or
cause to be made available, promptly as needed, all foreign
exchange which shall be required therefor; and (iii) with respect
to locally produced materials which are subject to allocation,
make, or cause to be made, allocations of such materials promptly
and in such quantities as shall be required for such contract.
Section 3.04. The Guarantor shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to ensure the availability
of (i) adequate coal supplies for the efficient operation of the
Project at its fully installed capacity; and (ii) rail transport
facilities for up to two million tons of coal each year to serve
the Project, by the time the Project shall have been completed.
Section 3.05. The Guarantor covenants that, in consideration
of its guaranteeing the obligations of the Borrowers in respect
of the Loan as set forth in this Agreement, it will enter into
an agreement satisfactory to the Bank, whereby the Borrowers
undertake to pay the Guarantor on January 1 and July 1 in each
year until the entire principal amount of the Loan and the inter-
est and other charges thereon have been repaid, an effective fee


﻿-4-
of two and three-fourths per cent (2-3/4%) per annum on the
principal amounts of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time.
Section 3.06. The Guarantor shall take all steps necessary to
secure from the State of Maharashtra undertakings that the State
of Maharashtra shall: (a) not take, or cause or permit to be
taken, any action which would prevent or interfere with the
performance by the Borrowers of their obligations contained in
the Loan Agreement, or which would have the effect of delimiting
the Borrowers' licensed area of supply in such a manner as to
adversely affect the Borrowers' financial position; and (b) take,
or cause to be taken, all action necessary or appropriate to
enable the Borrowers to perform the covenants, agreements and
obligations of the Borrowers under the said Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Representative of the Guarantor; Addresses
Section 4.01. Any Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint
Secretary, Director or Deputy Secretary in the Department of
Economic Affairs of the Ministry of Finance of the Guarantor
is designated as representative of the Guarantor for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 4.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Guarantor:
The Secretary to the
Government of India
Ministry of Finance
Department of Economic Affairs
New Delhi, India
Cable address:                      Telex:
ECOFAIRS                           953-313546
New Delhi


﻿-5-
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INTBAFRAD                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INDIA
By /s/ J. S. Baijal
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ W. David Hopper
Regional Vice President
South Asia


