Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 6610-CHA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CHINA
WUJING THERMAL POWER PROJECT
May 18, 1987
Projects Department
East Asia and Pacific Region
This document bas a restric'ed distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their ofcial duties. Its eontents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency - Yuan (Y)
Y 1      =  US$0.27
US$1     =  Y 3.7
(As of December 1986)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
DWT  =    Dead Weight Ton
km   =    Kilometer (= 0.62 miles)
kWh  =    Kilowatt hour (= 860.42 kcals)
GWh  =    Gigawatt hour (1,000,000 kilowatt hours)
TWh  -    Terawatt hour (1,000,000,000 kilowatt hours)
kW   =    Kilowatt (1,000 watts)
MW        Megawatt (1,000 kilowatts)
kV   =    Kilovolt (1,000 volts)
kVA  =    Kilovolt-ampere (1,000 volt-amperes)
MVA  =    Megavolt-ampere (1,000 kilovolt-amperes)
TPD  =    Ton per day
mg   =    Milligram
TCF  =    Trillion Cubic Feet
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
CIECC      -   China International Engineering Consulting Corporation
CPECC      -   China Power Engineering Consulting Corporation
ECEPA      -   East China Electric Power Administration
ECEPDI     -   East China Electric Power Design Institute
ECPG       -   East China Power Grid
EPPEI      -   Electric Power Planning and Engineering Institute
GVIAO      -   Gross Value of Industrial and Agricultural Output
HIPDC      -   Huaneng International Power Development Corporation
IAEA       -   International Atomic Energy Agency
MGS        -   Municipal Government of Shanghai
MOF        -   Ministry of Finance
MWREP      -   Ministry of Water Resources and Electric Power
PCBC       -   People's Construction Bank of China
SAA        -   State Audit Administration
SAB        -   Shanghai Audit Bureau
SEC        -   State Economic Commission
SMEPB      -   Shanghai Municipal Electric Power Bureau
SPC        -   State Planning Commission
SPG        -   Shanghai Power Grid
WREPERI    -   Water Resources and Electric Power Economic Research
Institute



FOR OFFICIL USE ONLY
CHINA
WUJING THERMAL POWER PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
WOAN AND PROJECT S.MMARYeoo..oo.o****,***                       iv
I.  THE ENERGY SECTOR ..................................              1
A.  Overview..... ......*,., .e..,e*  00000 000.000000e.0000*    1
B. Resource Endowment...................................0000000  1
C.  Efficiency of Energy Use2.........................           2
II.  THE POWER SUBSECTOR..,. oo....**...... *0....*.*..*...*.... *.    3
A.  Background.. ............. *......*. ,. .oo.oo.ooo.o..*o     3
B. Market Conditions .............o..,,,.... , ,oo.0..oo000      3
D. Iansiuions0.0..... .... ., ;....... ....000000000            4
E.  Tariffs .... 0000000 00000000000000000000000000000000        5
F. Technology Transfer............................  0            5
C. Subsector Strategy  6000000................,  0               6
H. Role of the Bank in the Power Sector oOeooo*00                6
{III,  THE BENEFICIARY ......o...*********v****                         8
111   THegattsadOgnzto ....................................... ... ..............  8
A. Legal Status and Organization...........................      8
C.  Staffing and Trainingo..................................     9
D. Planning, Budget and Control............................*     9
E.  Accounting......................... .0.0.o............. .    11
F.  Audite     ......                                ,          12
G.  ....................................... oooo*oo........0    13
H. Billing and Collectiono...............o...............os     13
I. Data Processing....... .......,.....000..O                   14
Jo Insurance......,....,o...ooo.. .................... 0000     14
K. Distribution System. .................o.o..sO....000000oo o  15
This report was prepared by D. B. Mehta, J. Sopher and K. C. Ling who
appraised the project in November/December 1986 with the assistance of
S. Z. Sung (consultent).
This document has a restrcted distdbution and may be used by ncipints only in the performance
of their oMcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authoriation.



- ii -
Page No.
IV.   THE POWER MARKET AND THE PROGRAM.*..*..................*o...      16
A.  The Cast China Power Grid..Q.....o....e..........0..0..0      16
S. The Shanghai Power Grid.o ...............................      16
Co Load Forecast.0o..0.. ........o......................O..       17
D.  The 1986-95 Power Development Program...................      18
V.   THE PROJECT.*00000000ere*0000000000000*000000009e000*0000         20
A.  Project Objectiveso........ .........o................oooo*   20
S.  Project Decrpton...............................................  20
Co Cost Eite*¢¢@***¢*ovevo*                                       23
DC    F inancinmate P       ...............             ,         25
E. Focing ..................................... ....... .         26
F. Project Implementationo............s.o*. *. .o.. .........o.o  27
Go Disbursement0.00..0.0.0.0 @006ooeo*o o.............. ..o       28
H.  Monitoring and  eporting........................................  28
I. Environmental Impact0..................................        28
VI*  FCA.........................................                       30
A.i Introductilon  ............. @ - ...........o,oooog           30
B.  Financial System........................................      30
C.  Past and Present Financial Performance..................      30
Do Fingacing Plafiser*ooo*oo**oo*ooo*oooo*eo***@@@eooooooo        31
E.  Future Financesoo.............,oo ooo,oooooo..........,.o    33
VII.   JUSTIFICATIONo..o..oo.*.,.*..  .*e0*0*0.. ....  0.00. 000.....0   36
A. Need for the Projecto........................*.........*    36
Bo Least Cost Stud. esoo................... . ... e.........o oe  37
C. Economic Rate of Return.................................       37
Do  ikvo*vs**e*e¢¢***¢***¢*                                       38
VIII.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS,..................,..      39
ANNEXES
1.  Installed Capacity, Electricity Generation and Sales in the Power
Subsector
2.   glectricty Generation by Region and by Type of Plant
3.  Performance Indicators for SPG
4.   Staff of SMEPB
5.  Planning, Budget and Control of Chinese Power Bureaux
6.   Electricity Tariffs of SMEPB
7.   Generating Facilities of the SPG
8.   System Demand and Energy Balance of SPG
9.   Energy Consumption by Category of Consumers (SMEPB)
10.   Development Program of the ECPC (1986-95)



- ii -
ANNEXE8 (Cont'd)
11.  Master Plan Study for Distribution Network in Shanghai - Terms of
Reference
12.   Training Program
13.   Terms of Reference for Consultancy Services for Vujing Power Station
14.   Project Cost Estimate
15.   Procurement Schedule
16.   Disbursement Schedule
17. Chinese National Environmental Protection Standards
18.   Financial System Followed by Chinese Power Bureaux
19.   Annual Financial Statements of 514PB
20.   Economic Rate of Return Calculation
21.   Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
CUARTS
1.   Organization of MWREP
2.   Organization of SMEPS
3.   Project Implementation Schedule
MAP
1.   East China Power Grid (IBID 20220)
2.   Shanghai Power Grid (IBiD 20221)



- iv -
CHINA
WUJING THERMAL POWER PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:            The People's Republic of China
Beneficiary:         Shanghai Municipal Electric Power Bureau (SMEPB)
Amount:              US$190 million equivalent
Terms:               20 years, including five years grace, at the standard
variable interest rate.
Onlending Terms:     The proceeds of the loan will be onlent from the
Government to SMEPB under a subsidiary loan agreement,
with a 20 year term, including five years grace and an
interest rate of 8.5% p.a. SMEPB will bear the foreign
exchange risk.
Project Objectives   Inadequacies in electric generating capacity are
and Description:   likely to be a constraint on China's medium term growth
objectives and potential. Estimated losses in industrial
production due to lack of power were of the order of Y 40
billion in 1984. The Government gives high priority to
electric power development, with a strategy that combines
(i) massive investment in new generating capacity,
together with use of advanced plant design and modern
construction techniques; (ii) rapid expansion of trans-
mission and distribution networks; (iii) use of up-to-
date techniques of load management, forecasting and
investment planning; and (iv) staff development to bridge
considerable skill gaps. The proposed project seeks
to: (i) address the acute power shortage at a major load
center in the East China power grid; (ii) support devel-
opment of a modern distribution network masLer plan for
the city of Shanghai; (iii) promote efficiency in the
Shanghai Municipal Electric Power Bureau through a staff
training program; and (iv) encourage financial reform
through adoption of more appropriate financial perfor-
mance targets than in use hitherto. The project entails
an extension of the existing coal-fired Wujing thermal
power station by adding two generating units of 300 MW
each; construction of associated 220 kV transmission
lines and substations; provision of on-line computer
control and automatic load dispatching system for SMEPB's
load dispatching center; a master plan study of the
distribution network in Shanghai; and a training program.



v 
Benefits and
Risks:             The project will contribute significantly towards
relieving expected power shortages in Shanghai in the
early 1990s, thereby enabling planned industrial growth
and improvement in the living standards of the popula-
tion. The project will also lead to more efficient
planning and management of the Shanghai distribution
network and achieve better system dispatch and control.
SMEPB's financial health will be maintained by the intro-
duction of full fuel cost recovery adjustment in the
price of power and by movement away from a break even
financial covenant to a contribution to investment cove-
nant. Finally, the project will contribute substantially
towards institutional development by strengthening the
managerial and technical capabilities of the staff of
SMEPB. The technical and economic feasibility of the
project has been well established; ancillary risks due to
delays in implementation of coal mines and transport
links, being priority projects of the Government, are
minimal.



- Vi -
Estimated Costs                               Local           Foreign           Total
(US8 million)
Site preparation                             15.7               -              15 7
Civil works                                  26.7             sS.4             42.1
Plant equipment and materials                18.1            156.5            174.6
Transmission system                          13.3             13.0             26.3
Distribution network study                    0.5              1.5              2.0
Load dispatching equipment                     -               3.0              3.0
Training                                      1.0               1.7             2.7
Supervision and administration               16.7              -               16.7
Base Cost                                 92.0            191.1            283.1
Physical contingencies                       10.6              9.3             19.9
Price contiagen.des                           5.3             13.6              18.9
Total Project Cost la                    107.9            214.0            321.9
Interest during construction                  5.3             24.2             29.5
Total Financing Required                 113,2            238.2            351.4
Financing Plan                                Local           Foreign           Total
---- (USe million)            ----- 
IBID loan                                      -             190.0            190.0
Municipal government loan                   113.2               -             113.2
Local bank loans                              -               48.2             48.2
Total                                    113.2            238.2            351.4
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank FY                     1988      1989       1990      1991       1992      1993
- --  ru-s miiion)  ------
Annual                        10.7      26.4       51.9      51.8       29.0       20.2
Cumulative                    10.7      37.1       89.0     140.8      169.8      190.0
Economic Rate of Return: 122
/a   The project is exempt from taxes and duties.



CHINA
WUJING THERMAL POWER PROJECT
I. THE ENERGY SECTOR
A. Overview
1.1       China is the fourth largest producer and the third largest consumer
of commercial energy in the world. Coal is by far the most important source
of energy in the country, accounting for some 752 of its commercial energy
consumption. Oil production has increased rapidly since the 1950s to become
an important source of both commercial energy and export earnings, repre-
senting about 182 and 222 of the respective totals. Some 25Z of oil pro-
duction and 12 of coal production are currently exported. Natural gas (22),
hydroelectric power (52) and limited quantities of shale oil and geothermal
power make up the balance of commercial energy. Non-commercial energy
resources supply energy equivalent to about one-third of commercial
production.
1.2       China has made remarkable progress in developing energy resources
over the last three decades. Annual coal production has increased from about
60 million tons in 1952 to 850 million tons in 1985. During the same period,
annual oil production increased from 0.1 million tons to 125 million tons, and
annual electricity generation increased from about 7.3 TWh to 410 TWh. Never-
theless the rate of growth of energy supplies could constrain the Government's
efforts to quadruple the Gross Value of Industrial and Agricultural Output
(GVIAO) during the period from 1980 to 2000. To avoid an energy bottleneck to
economic development, China will need to increase coal production beyond
current targets for the year 2000 and meet at least the official output
targets set for other types of energy resources as well as greatly improve the
efficiency of energy use. Achievement of these targets will require the
modernization of technology and management throughout the energy sector,
increased commitment of financial resources, and a strengthening of planning
and coordination among the diverse components of the sector. In its Sixth
Five-Year Plan (1981-85), the Government accorded high priority to the devel-
opment of these sectors, which are continuing to receive emphasis in the
Seventh Five-Year Plan (1986-90).
B. Resource Endowment
1.3       China is well endowed with primary energy.  Coal and lipnite
reserves are concentrated in the north and northeast, which have about 702 of
the total recoverable reserves (700 billion tons). Future plans call for
increasing coal production significantly, but this poses difficult transport
problems primarily due to a shortage of railroad capacity. Biomass fuels
account for more than 25Z of final consumption. Recoverable reserves of oil
onshore have been variously estimated between 6-15 billion tons, and estimates
of offshore oil reserves range from 3-10 billion tons. Recoverable reserves
of non-associated gas have so far been estimated at about 3 trillion cubic
feet (TCF), about 902 of which are located in Sichuan province. In addition,



- 2 -
recoverable reserves of associated gas are estimateu at about 1.8 TCF.
Unofficial estimates of oil shale in China place reserves at 400 billion
tons. China's hydropower potential, among the largest in the world, is
estimated at 1900 TWh p.a., of which 87 TWh p.a. has so far been developed.
A major constraint has been that tie bulk of the undeveloped potential is
located in four major basins in the southwest and the northwest of China,
1,200-1,500 km away from major industrial load centers. The slow pace of
construction has also contributed to the low level of utilization of hydro
resources. Known uranium reserves in China are sufficient to sustain 15,000
MW of nuclear power plant for 30 years. Although potential sources of
geothermal energy are abundant in the mountainous southwestern part of the
country, the role of geothermal energy is likely to remain limited due to its
distance from major load centers.
C. Efficiency of Energy Use
1.4       China's consumption of energy per unit of CDP is well above that of
any major developed or developing country. The underlying reasons for the
high intensity and relative inefficiency of fuel use in China are the struc-
ture of industrial production, the scale of industrial units, the raw
materials used and the technology employed. In the late 1970s, the Government
began to address these inefficiencies by instituting regulations on energy
use, establishing conservation centers to provide technical assistance, and
allocating a larger share of investment funds for industrial modernization,
particularly for those projects which contributed to energy conservation. As
a result, energy consumption per unit of GVIAO declined by 72 p.a. during
1979-81, 31 p.a. during 1982-83 and 72 in 1984. Technical and operational
improvements accounted for an estimated 40% of these energy savings. About
602 is due to a decline in the relative importance of heavy industry, the
closure of some inefficient small-scale plants and other structural changes
within industry. There is now an urgent need to complement and gradually
replace the .urrent system of administrative controls with a system that would
provide more autonomy to individual entities and rely on an energy price
structure that reflects the cost and relative scarcity of each cource of
energy.



- 3 -
II. THE POWER SUBSECTOR
A. Background
2.1       Since the 1950s, China has grown to become the fifth largest pro-
ducer of electricity in the world. Annual per capita generation of electrical
energy grew from 8 kWh in 1949 to 389 kWh in 1985. The total installed
capacity reached 86,493 MW in 1985, of which 301 was hydro and 701 thermal.
Power is distributed through 30 grids, of which 13 (representing over 80X of
the total capacity) exceed 1,000 MW each. Energy sales in 1985 reached 330
TWh, having grown at an average rate of 13.81 p.a. since 1949 and 7.91 since
1974. Of these sales, 80X represented industrial consumption, 101 agricul-
tural, 11 transportation and 9% residential and urban commercial usage. About
65% of the population has access to electricity. Annex 1 summarizes the
growth of installed capacity, electricity generation and sales since 1949, and
Annex 2 shows electricity generation by region and by type of plant. The rate
of growth of installed capacity has fallen in recent years; during the Sixth
Five-Year Plan it was only about 5.6Z p.a. on the average, the total increase
being about 17,500 MW. At present, customer requests excqed available
supplies by between 45 and 50 TWh per year; this shortage is likely to
co.atinue in the medium term. Electricity is presently allocated through
quotas based on priorities set by central, provincial and county
authorities4.
2.2       The Seventh Five Year Plan (1986-90) envisages increasing the
generating capdcity by as much as 35,000 MW; the total generation reaching
about 550 TWh p.a. by 1990. Large thermal power stations are planned along
the coast and near major coal mines in Shanxi, Heilongjiang, Henan, Shaanxi,
Shandong, Anhui, Guizhou, Inner Mongolia and Ningxia. Large hydroelectric
stations are planned at the middle and upper reaches of the Yellow River, the
Yangtze River, and the Hongshui River valleys. Construction of a nuclear
plant in Guandong Province will start during the plan period. By the year
1992, a 500 kV grid, supplying electricity to northeastern, eastern, southern
and central China, is expected to be commissioned. These expansions, when
implemented, would alleviate shortages by the early 1990s.
B. Market Conditions
2.3       Electricity consumption increased at an average rate of 10.6% p.a.
between 1965 and 1979, but this rate slowed down to 6.01 p.a. during 1979-
85. On a countrywide basis, the power shortage is about 151 of industrial
electricity requirements. By the year 2000, generation requirements are
expected to be in the 960-1,290 TWh p.a. range and to require 109,000-178,000
MW in additional generating capacity. The share of electricity in commercial
energy consumption increased from about 13% in 1970 to about 15% in 1975 and
18% in 1980. It is expected to reach 26-27Z in 2000. The manufacturing
.ector will continue to account for a major share of final electricity
consumption, although electricity use per unit of value added and its share of
total consumption may fall slightly. Electricity use in residential and
commercial sectors is expected to grow at 11-13% p.a., reflecting household
income and service sector growth. Use will also increase in transportation,
reflecting the increase in the share of electric locomotives in total railway
haulage.



- 4 -
C. Institutions
2.4       Since 1982, the Ministry of Water Resources and Electric Power
(MWREP) has been responsible for overseeing all aspects of electric power
development and water resource management including policy making, system
planning and design, construction and operation of power and water resource
projects of regional importance. Under MWREP, there are six regional power
administrations which coordinate operations and load dispatching for the
regional grids and formulate long-term development plans for approval by MWREP
and the State Planning Commission (SPC). Below the regional administrations
are 22 provincial and municipal power bureaux operating as parts of the
regional grids, while eight other power bureaux still operate in isolation
(see Chart 1). In addition to the power supplies administered by MWREP, the
Government in 1985 established the Huaneng International Power Development
Corp. (HIPDC) as a joint venture company to attract foreign investment to
establish power plants mainly in the open coastal cities.
2.5       MWREP has about 2.6 million employees, of whom about 52% are
directly under the Ministry and about 481 are under the provincial administra-
tions. Only 30% have received formal education beyond junior secondary school
level, indicating a shortage of trained manpower, particularly for well-
trained administrative and technical staff. In the late 1970s, MWREP
initiated a long-term training program to upgrade the quality of its existing
staff at all levels. MWREP is also strengthening its capacity for full-time
training of potential employees through its Education Department which spon-
sors 9 colleges, 4 polytechnic institutes, 30 television and correspondence
universities and 27 secondary-level technical schools. About 30,000 students
were enrolled in these schools in 1985. About 15,300 new staff are assigned
to MWREP annually. An estimated 7,000 come from colleges, and 8,300 are
polytechnic institute graduates. These programs, supplemented by periodic
in-service short courses for managerial and technical staff and on-the-job
worker training are expected to lead gradually to improvements in the
productivity of the workers in the sector. The proposed project would include
a training component in support of SMEPB's programs in these areas
(para. 5.10).
D. Planning
2.6       Overall system planning is the responsibility of the Planning
Department of MWREP which reviews the proposals of the regional administra-
tions and provincial bureaux for short-term (annual), medium term (5-year) and
tong-term (10-15 year) plans. For major hydro projects, the investigation,
pllanning and design are carried out by the regional hydroelectric investiga-
cion and design institutes and reviewed for MWREP by the Water Resources and
Hydro Power Planning Institute. For system expansion, transmission lines and
substations above 110kV and major thermal projects, the studies, planning and
design are carried out by the regional electric power design institutes and
reviewed for MWREP by the Electric Power Planning and Engineering Institute
(EPPEI). As the planning of China's power development becomes increasingly
complex, up-to-date system planning techniques will need to be adopted, par-
ticularly to evaluate large-scale projects with long lead times and to make
decisions about the appropriate generating plant mix, power plant location,



and grid configuration. Under the Bank's Second Power Project (Loan 2493-CHA)
least cost investment programming techniques were introduced through technical
assistance from the International Atomic Energy Agency and staff of MWREP and
Water Resources and Electric Power Economic Research Institute (WREPERI) were
trained in their use. During 1985-86 WREPERI assisted the Guangxi and Fujian
Provincial Electric power bureaux to formulate their least cost development
programs. A wider application of these techniques, directed towards project
selection on a regional basis, needs to be pursued.
E. Tariffs
2.7       The national average revenue was about 7.0 fen/kWh (US01.9/kWh) in
1985, well below the marginal cost of supply, which is estimated to be in the
range of Y 10-15/kWh. To support the Government's recent policy to move
towards increased reliance on prices rather than administrated quotas, the
electricity allocation system (para. 2.1) will need to be revised and more
appropriate tariff structures introduced. To assist the Government in
developing appropriate electricity tariffs, the Bank financed Beilungang
Thermal Power Project (Loan 2706-CHA) includes an important tariff study.
This study commenced in April 1986 with the establishment of a task force
drawn from personnel of MWREP and East China Electric Power Administration
(ECEPA) and the conduct of a workshop by Bank staff. Focusing on the East
China Power Grid (ECPG), the study covers economic, financial and administra-
tive aspects of tariff planning including intersystem purchases. The task
force has produced an interim report which was discussed in a second workshop
by Bank staff in early 1987. This report was found to be comprehensive and
well-conceived, producing for the first time estimates of long run marginal
costs of electricity at various voltage levels and tariff levels to meet the
financial requirements of the ECEPA. When completed by mid 1987, the study
will provide an analytical framework for and a nucleus of staff trained in the
task of introducing tariff reforms in China.
F. Technology Transfer
2.8       The transfer and development of modern technologies will be crucial
if China is to increase energy production and efficiency sufficiently to
achieve its broader economic goals. Technology transfer is critical for
thermal power plants, where increases in pressure and size of units and
greater development of cogeneration (combined heat and power generation) could
reduce net fuel consumption by some 20% by the year 2000, thus greatly allevi-
ating pressures on coal supplies and transport. The Government is already
implementing this strategy through the gradual introduction of standardized
300 MW and 600 MW coal-fired units. Coal-based thermal generation is expected
to provide about three-quarters of the total generation until the end of the
century. Technology transfer needed for hydroelectric projects includes
interpretation of geological data, judgment of foundation excavation, design
of sophisticated structures, modern construction management techniques and
adoption of the largest possible generating unit sizes. The slow pace of
construction of hydroelectric projects has contributed to the low level of
hydro development in the past. Timely progress in construction will be an
important focus of ongoing proiects financed under previous Bank loans.



- 6 -
C. Subsector Strategy
2.9       The Government's basic policy for the power subsector is to
modernize, increase efficiency, and expand at a rate sufhicient to meet the
requirements of industrial development and improve the living conditions of
the population. The policy includes the following objectives: (i) expanding
generating capacity as rapidly as possible; (ii) increasing the financial
autonomy of the power bureaux; (iii) introducing a more rational pricing
system; (iv) adopting modern techniques in project design and system planning;
(v) accelerating the pace of hydroelectric development; (vi) developing coal-
fired thermal stations at mine-mouths and near ports and load centers;
(vii) constructing extra high voltage transmission lines for interconnection
between regions; (viii) replacing low pressure medium size (50-100 MW) thermal
units by higher pressure 300-600 MW units and conversion of oil-fired units to
coal-firing; and (ix) developing nuclear power in areas where other forms of
energy are scarce.
H. Role of the Bank in the Power Sector
2.10      The major thrust of Bank assistance has been to introduce modern
concepts of utility management and power system technology. Each operation
has focused on specific aspects of the Government's sectoral objectives.
2.11      The first power project of FY84 (the 600 MW Lubuge Hydroelectric
Project, Loan 2382-CHA) successfully promoted cofinancing arrangements includ-
ing export credits for the major electrical and mechanical equipment and
bilateral grants for engineering services; introduced international competi-
tive bidding for civil works and modern construction techniques for a rockfill
dam, power tunnel and underground powerhouse; and enhanced the financial
autonomy of the Yunnan Provincial Electric Power Bureau. The training compo-
nent under the project included training of staff on design, construction
management, quality control, accounting and cost control through technical
assistance, and the upgrading and equipping of an electrical training school.
2.12      The second power project of FY85 (Loan 2493-CRA) provided for the
transmission of power from a 1300 MW mine-mouth, coal-fired thermal power
station at Xuzhou to the ECPG, promoted a bilateral loan for the Yangtze River
crossing works, and assi3ted with the transfer of technology in 500 kV trans-
mission line and substation design, construction, operation and maintenance.
The training component under the project included the establishment of a
training center and equipping of two technical schools in Nanjing and Shanghai
for the operation and maintenance of 500 kV transmission lines and substa-
tions. The project also introduced least cost programming techniques to
several provincial power bureaux.
2.13      Under the third and fourth power projects of FY86 the Bank is
financing an integrated 600 MW coal-fired unit (Beilungang Thermal, Loan
2706-CHA) and an 1100 MW hydroelectric project (Yantan Hydro, Loan 2707-CHA)
respectively. These will set performance standards for large thermal and
hydro plants. Both projects were selected on the basis of least-cost studies
(para. 2.6). They will help alleviate severe power shortages in Eastern and
Southern China.



- 7 -
2.14      The fifth project of FY87 (the 1,400 MW Shuikou Hydroelectric
Project, Loan 2775-CHA) will help reduce the shortage of generating capacity
and energy in the East China and Fujian provincial grids, assist in developing
techniques to speed up construction of large hydro-electric projects, and
promote integrated operation of an emerging large regional power system.
2.15      The Bank is currently engaged in the management of a feasibility
study for the Three Gorges Hydroelectric Project, which with a forseeable
capacity of 15,000 MW, would be one of the largest hydroelectric projects in
the world.
Rationale for Bank Involvement
2.16      The Bank project would be a continuation of support for major
elements of the Government's strategy for electric power development. The
five power projects financed by the Bank so far have successfully introduced
international competitive bidding, modern construction techniques, technology
transfer in the fields of extra high voltage transmission and construction of
modern, large coal-fired thermal power stations. The Bank has also been
instrumental in introducing systL.'a planning and least-cost investment metho-
dologies and helping to strengthen financial planning and management capabili-
ties of the power bureaux. Moreover, the tariff study for the East China
Power Grid, initiated under the Beilungang Thernmal Power Project (Loan
2706-CiA) has provided the opportunity to lay the analytical groundwork for a
new tariff structure in the region that could be implemented during the
proposed project.
2.17      The rationale for financing the proposed project is to support rapid
expansion of capacity in an area experiencing acute shortages. The project
also fits into the Government's policy of building large base-load thermal
plants at load centers or near ports, utilizing coal from North China trans-
ported via newly developed railroad and port facilities. At the same time,
the project provides the opportunity to continue the process of introducing
modern technical, financial and managerial practices, a process begun under
previous projects financed by the Bank.  Notably, this is the first project in
the power sector to introduce a self financing ratio covenant (para. 6.12).
It also supports badly needed distribution system planning for Shanghai.
Finally, it enables the Bank to continue the dialogue with various institu-
tions in the power sector on issues of pricing, long-range investment and
financial planning and institutional development.



III. THE BENEFICIARY
3.1       The beneficiary of the proposed loan will be the Shanghai Nunicipal
Electric Power Bureau (SMEPB).
A. Legal Status and Organization
3.2       SMEPB is a state-owned enterprise under the jurisdiction of MWREP
and the Municipal Government of Shanghai (MGS). It is a legal entity with
contractual and self accounting capacity. SMEPB began operating as an
independent entity on January 1, 1986; it drew much of its staff and internal
systems and procedures as -jell as assets from a unit that had operated under
the direct jurisdiction of MGS. SMEPB has been assigned responsibility by the
State for execution within its jurisdiction of the goverwment progr*m for
power generation, capital investments power sales and tariffs, employment and
payroll, materials consumption and tax and profit remittances to the State. A
charter of SMEPB acceptable to the Bank has been issued.
3e3       SMEPB is headed by a director appointed by MWREP.  Three deputy
directors are functionally responsible respectively for capital construction;
for production, power supply and load dispatching; and for personnel, finance,
materials, and training. The planning and auditing departments and a general
affairs office report directly to the director. In addition, the director is
assisted by one chief engineer, one chief economist and one chief
accountant. Operations are carried out through a number of units engaged in
power generation, transmission, power supply, construction, and manufacture
and repair. Each of these units is headed by a director with line
responsibility to the director of SMEPB. SMEPB's organization structure is
shown in Chart 2.
B. Management
3.4       Under the current institutional framework, within which the central
government maintains a high degree of control over the power subsector, SMEPB
appears to be well managed. The performance indicators for the Shanghai Power
Grid (SPG) shown in Annex 3 reveal high plant capacity factors and low
transmission and distribution losses. While the customers per employee ratio
is low, the kWh sales per employee is reasonable. SMEPB prepares accounting
information in a timely fashion (para. 3.14) and maintains an effective
billing and collection system (paras. 3.24-25). Nevertheless, as the insti-
tutional framework is moving toward a reduction in centralized control with
corresponding increases in financial autonomy and responsibility for decision-
making at the power bureau level, SMEPB management needs to prepare itself for
greater responsibilities.
3.5       Areas deserving special attention in this regard are the upgrading
of management systems and procedures and the strengthening of financial plan-
ning (paras. 3.9-3.13).   At this time, senior officials of relevant minis-
tries and planning organizations are preparing to familiarize themselves with
modern concepts of utility management through carefully designed overseas
study tours being financed under the Beilungang Thermal Power Project



- 9 -
(Loan 2706-CHA) and the Yantan Hydroelectric Project (Loan 2707-CHA). Upon
completion of those study tours, power bureau managers and administrators need
to master these concepts through a well designed program of training and semi-
nars organized in China. The implementation of modern management methods and
the strengthening of financial planning should include development of a
management information system that is oriented towards meeting the needs of
management in addition to the reporting requirements of the Government.
Specific assistance for strengthening SMEPB's management is included in the
proposed project (paras. 5.10-5.14 and Annexes 11 and 12).
3.6       SMEPB is able to formulate its expansion program and to oversee
implementation of medium size thermal projects (100-300 MW) by itself. How-
ever, for the proposed project, outside assistance will be required in the
preparation of bid documents, bid evaluation and contract negotiations.
C. Staffing and Training
3.7       As of December 31, 1985, SMEPB had a total staff of about 34,895, of
which about 9% are college graduates, about 13% are graduates of polytechnic
institutes, about 20% are senior high school graduates, and about 55% are
junior high school graduates. Except for the core group of key technical and
managerial personnel who are assigned by MWREP, virtually all of SMEPB's
employees are recruited locally. They are hired on a permanent basis with the
exception of some contract labor for construction work.- SMEPB has 16 depart-
ments and offices in its headquarters and 42 outside units (Annex 4). In
general, SMEPB does not have sufficient engineering and technical staff, but
is overstaffed in the semi-skilled and unskilled worker categories.
3.8       The Education Division of SMEPB administers two technical schools
for skilled workers (one for power supply and services and one for civil con-
struction and equipment installation), one secondary technical school for
training of technicians, one staff college and one staff high school for
training of SMEPB's staff. In addition, a technical school for training of
skilled workers in operation and maintenance of power stations is being
established. However, SMEPB's training capacity is not adequate to meet its
long-term needs (currently it is capable of meeting about 30% of its annual
requirement). The quality of teaching staff as well as teaching facilities
need to be upgraded and modernized. Training is needed for senior managerial
and technical staff to adapt to new situations with larger units, higher
voltage levels and larger power grid. A training component has therefore been
included in the proposed project (para. 5.10).
D. Planning, Budget and Control
3.9       The evolution of the systems for planning, budget, and control in
use in China's power bureaux is discussed in detail in Annex 5. In brief, the
power bureaux are responsible for developing annual and five-year production
and investment plans which are integrated into the national plans and are
approved, through MWREP's auspices, by' SPC. In the past, these plans have
emphasized the planning of quantities of inputs and outputs; financial plan-
ning was confined to attaching monetary values, predetermined by MWREP, to the
quantities being planned. Although a power bureau's plan might be revised to



- 10 -
reflect changes in inputs or outputs arising from changed or unforeseen
circumstances, the plans would ordinarily not be revised merely to reflect
differences between the prices being assumed for planning purposes and those
actually being paid by a particular power bureau. This planning system func-
tioned effectively in an environment of controlled prices that were relat:.vely
free of inflation and where investments were financed almost exclusively by
grants.
3.10      However, under initiatives begun in the early 1980s, prices have
begun to move, albeit slowly, toward market levels. Moreover, the government
is increasingly using loans rather than grants to finance investments. Thus,
money is taking on the characteristics of the other commodities which need to
be planned, including: (a) possible variations in constituent prices on
account of unforeseer circumstances, and (b) a cost, payable over a period of
years, associated with finance for investment. Thus, MWREP will need to
adjust its planning system to include financial planning.
3.11      In fact, MWREP has been making adjustments to the planning, budget
and control systems. As the power bureaux have grown larger and technically
more complex and as the scope of their businesses has expanded, the manual
methods that had been used to compile plans, budgets, and control accounts
becam increasingly unwieldy. MWREP provided many of the bureaux with small
computers to be used for planning, budgetting and control accounting purposes
and the software needed to enable the bureaux to compile the necessary
statements according to highly standardized formats. Information stored on
computer diskettes would then be transferred to MWREP where it would be
consolidated into regional and national data.
3.12      In conjunction with the appraisal of the Yantan Hydroelectric Proj-
ect (Loan 2707-CHA), the Bank retained a consultant to assess the impact of
changes to the planning, budget and control accounting systems introduced by
MWREP. While he concluded that the new systems represented a good first gene-
ration of automated management information, the new systems were still not
sufficiently flexible to take account of price changes at the local level or
of large-scale debt service obligations. Consequently, two study tours were
included in the Yantan Hydroelectric Project (Loan 2707-CHA): (a) the first
is intended to provide senior officials of relevant government units with
exposure to modern management information systems in use in efficient power
utilities abroad, and (b) the second is intended to provide senior officials
of relevant government units with exposure to modern power utility accounting
standards and practices. These study tours are currently being planned; after
they have been concluded, the Bank will engage in discussions with MWREP aimed
at assisting in the development of a second generation of automated management
information that is comprehensive and yet appropriate to the Chinese
environment.
3.13      While working toward development of a second generation management
information system that would include modern financial planning, budget, and
control accounting systems, MWREP has agreed to the introduction of a rudimen-
tary financial planning system in power bureaux implementing Bank-financed
projects. In connection with the Lubuge Hydroelectric Project (Loan 2382-CHA),
the Bank furnished MWREP with a financial forecasting model to enable the



- 11 -
power bureaux to study the impact of both their expansion plans and variations
in prices on their future financial positions. MWREP continues to use this
model successfully in preparing projects for appraisal by the Bank. The model
also forms the basis for the rudimentary financial plans to be provided
annually by the bureaux to the Bank. At negotiations, SMEPB agreed that, by
December 31st of each year commencing December 31, 1987, it will furnish to
the Bank a financial plan containing forecast income statements, sources and
uses of funds, and balance sheets for the next five years.  In addition, SMEPB
gave an undertaking that, at the Bank's request, it will prepare and furnish
financial projections for three years sutbsequent to the period of the agreed
financial plans.
E. Accounting
3.14      Each of SMEPB's operating departments maintains financial accounts
which are consolidated with those of all other SMEPB operating departments.
The units prepare accounting information in a timely fashion monthly; head-
quarters compiles consolidated acc-4nts monthly, quarterly and annually.
Accounts are prepared on an accrual basis using a double entry system. Finan-
cial regulations are established by the Ministry of Finance (MOF) for all
sectors. The MOF regulations cover matters such as accounting methods atid
procedures; provisions for depreciation; procedures for distribution of net
income; taxation; allocations to and use of proceeds from Special Funds;
etc. MOF reviews these regulations and corresponding accounting standards on
an ongoing basis. These are supplemented by detailed implementation proce-
dures issued by MWREP.
3.15      SMEPB has an extensive accounting staff who are well trained in
maintaining ledgers and compiling accounts in the prescribed manner. However,
as the accounts are used essentially to document historical financial informa-
tion, SMEPB is only beginning to develop other financial analytical skills.
As SMEPB modernizes its financial management practices, its staff will have to
learn modern management techniques involving the analysis of financial and
cost accounts for decision-making purposes; prior to that modernization,
however, SMEPB's modest steps to introduce financial analysis are
satisfactory.
Fixed Asset Accounting
3.16      SMEPB has several construction units that are responsible for con-
structing its power plants, erecting transmission and distribution facilities
and implementing asset renovations. The accounts of those of SKEPB's construc-
tion units which are engaged primarily in managing construction are consolidated
with those of SMEPB's operating units. The accounts of the SMEPB construction
units, which function primarily in the manner of contractors for the bureau, are
not consolidated with SMEPB's accounts. Virtually all major new assets are
being financed with loans made directly to SMEPB itself, and SMEPB in turn will
remit progress payments to those construction units, functioning as contrac-
tors. SMEPB's future accounts are therefore expected to reflect properly the
value of major new assets under construction.



- 12 -
F. Audit
3.17      Before 1982 the financial statements of power entities in China were
not subject to comprhensive audit, Various bodies-including KOF, line minis-
tries, tax bureauxt provincial financial bureu:, and banks--conducted checks to
meet their own particular needs. Vone of these bodies prepared an independent
report on the accuracy and reliability of the annual financial statements.
China had no professional body of auditors to prescribe auditing standards and
regulations.
3.18      With ratification of China's new Constitution by the People's Congress
in December 1982, this situation changed. A State Audit Administration (SAA)
was established in September 1983. It has the status of a ministry and reports
directly to the State Council. Provincial audit bureaux are also being
established in each province and municipality (large city).  MOF has been
responsible for establishing the audit bureaux and has drafted regulations and
standards based on international auditing practices in other countries. These
interim regulations have been promulgated by the State Council.
3.19      Thus far, SAA's Foreign Investment Audit Bureau is conducting the
audits of Bank-financed projects; it focuses particularly on audits of enter-
prises or undertakings with foreign participation in the form of equity or loan
finance. The Bank assisted the establishment of this bureau through an initial
three-week training seminar (held in late 1984); extensive comments on SAA's
first few draft audit reports; and a follow-up seminar to review field experi-
ence with SAA's staff and clients. As evidenced by its first few audit reports,
SAA's work is of generally good standard; now, the principal challenges include
enhancing the central and provincial staff capacity to handle an increasing work
load and develop procedures for ensuring a consistently high standard of work in
the provincial offices.
3.20      The Shanghai Audit Bureau (SAB) was established in June 1984.  Under
the proposed project, SNBPB's annual accounts will be audited by SAB under the
overall supervision of SAA. This arrangement is satisfactory. At negotiations,
SMEPB agreed that it will furnish annual financial statements, certified by an
acceptable auditor, to the Bank within six months of the end of each financial
year.
Internal Audit
3.21      SMEPB has recently developed an internal audit staff which will
conduct periodic examinations of the accounts of each operating unit; they will
also conduct occasional spot checks. The objective of these examinations is
primarily to test for accuracy and compliance with MOF regulations. The
internal audit unit is not expected to review the appropriateness of accounting
regulations and procedures; such reviews are considered to be the responsibil-
ities of HOF and MW?EP respectively. The Bank will review the internal audit
function during project implementation with a view toward increasing its
efficacy and usefulness to SMIPB. The first SAB audit of SMEPB in 1988 is
expected to include a review and commentary on SNEPE's internal checks and
controls and internal audit.



- 13 -
C.  Tariffs
3.22      SMEPB's tariff is shown in Annex 6.  Large industrial consumers pay
both a demand charge, based on maximum demand or capacity of the installed
transformer, and an energy charge based on consumption; all other consumers pay
only an energy charge. The rate for domestic customers (20 fen or about
USW 5.4 per/kWh) is nearly two and one-half times as high as SNEPB's average
revenue per kWh of 8.2 fen (about USe 2.2/kWh); large industrial consumers pay
an average charge including demand and energy of about 7.4 fen/kWh
(USE 2.0/kWh), or about 90Z of the total average. Domestic consumers do not pay
a connection charge to SMEPB but must provide their own meter and internal
wiring. Industrial consumers pay connection charges, which include the cost of
substations, distribution lines (if any), and service drops.  Significant
reforms in the tariff structure and levels are foreseen to be introduced
following completion of the tariff study under the Bank financed Beilungang
Thermal Power Project (para. 2.7).
H. Billing and Collection
3.23      As of December 31, 1985, the sales of SMEPB's predecessor organization
were distributed according to consumer categories as shown in Table 3.1.
Residential and commercial users and municipal customers including public
service establishments such as schools and hospitals, public transportation
systems and street lighting constitute the major portion of customers; they
account however for only about 101 of SIEPB's power sales.
Table 3.1: DISTRIBUTION OF SMEPB's CONSUMPTION
(As of December 31, 1985)
Customer                      No. of           Consumption
Category                    Consumers    X        (CWh)        X
Urban industrial               7,720    1.3      13,653      79.2
Rural industrial              20,914    3.3       1,344       7.8
Agriculture                   19,353    3.1         441       2.6
Transportation                   147       -          18      0.1
Residential and commercial  549,220   88.3          771       4.5
Municipal                     24,443    4.0       1,002       5.8
Total                   615,567  100.0      17,229    100.0
3.24      SMEPB conducts its billing and collection activities through four
district offices. All major industrial consumers are charged in advance three
times per month at approximate ten day intervals. The last two bills, ren-
dered at about the sixteenth and twenty-sixth days of the month, are based on
estimated usage derived from the consumer's production or sales plans. The
first bill, rendered on about the sixth of the month, is also based on



- 14 -
estimated usage but includes an adjustment to reflect the previous month's
actual usage as computed from a meter reading. Smaller industrial consumers
are billed twice a month, normally on the fifteenth and last day of the
month. These bills are also based on estimated usage, and the bill rendered
on the fifteenth contains the adjustment for the previous month's meter
reading. All other customers are billed once a month based on actual usage.
Most consumers buying power from SMEPB are metered individually. Those
consumers who do not have individual meters are residents of older large
buildings; in those cases, the building has a master meter and the residents
must arrange among themselves the apportionment of consumption. Most rural
communities in the Shanghai area receive bulk power directly from SMEPB; theyt
in turn, distribute it for agricultural, light industrial, and low voltage
consumption within their jurisdiction. SHEPB measures these sales at its step
down transformer, normally 35 kV, serving the community. Higher voltage con-
sumption within agricultural communities is usually metered; lower voltage
consumption often is not.
3.25      Industrial, commercial and bulk consumers pay their bills through
direct debit from their bank accounts. Domestic and low voltage agricultural
consumers receiving power directly from SMEPB render paymer.ts either directly
to SMEPB offices or to local branches of the State Bank.  Payment is due
within five days of receipt of the bill. Regulations stipulate that consumers
who do not pay within the five-day period are to be disconnected; because this
regulation is strictly enforced, consumers very rarely allow themselves to
fall into arrears. Any nonagricultural consumer is required to pay a charge
for reconnection. These arrangements have established a reliable cash flow
from sales and reduced SMEPB's accounts receivable from current power sales to
unusually low levels; at the end of 1985 they were less than Y 66 million on
sales of Y 1300 million.
I. Data Processing
3.26      Recently, SMEPB purchased computer facilities which it plans to use
to modernize its load dispatching and design functions. Microprocessors are
being used to modernize SMEPB's financial management practices and planning
activities. SMEPB purchased the computer hardware and some software based on
an MWREP analysis of its data processing needs and of available financial
resources. A small provision is included in the proposed project to enable
SMEPB to purchase additional data processing equipment and software for use in
connection with modernizing its financial management practices.
J. Insurance
3.27      Until recently coverage was not available from a domestic insurance
industry; instead, SMEPB relied on self-insurance. SMEPB currently is suffi-
ciently liquid to self-insure all of its assets adequately against normal
levels of risk, However, as agencies such as the People's Insurance Company
of China are now making various kinds of commercial coverage available, SMEPB
intends to consider purchasing commercial insurance, particularly for vehicles
and public liability. SMEPB's current insurance arrangements are satisfactory.



- 15 -
K. Distribution System
3.28      SMEPB's primary distribution system operates at 1 kV, 10 kY and 35
kV voltage levels. Due to power shortages in China, much attention has been
paid to the development of generation and transmission (110 kV ard above)
projects. In cases where the extension of the distribution network has been
the responsib.lity of the municipal or local governments, this has often been
neglected owing to the lack of funds.
3.29      SMEPB affirmed that, based on measurements, total system losses have
been averaging about 10.7% (6.1% for plant use, 1.7% for transmission losses
at 220 kV and 2.9% for distribution losses below 110 kV). The distribution
loss appears to be very low in view of the paucity of investment in distribu-
tion. Perhaps this is because SMEPB sells a very significant percentage of
its power in bulk to industrial, agricultural, and municipal consumers, the
losses in whose subsystems are not reflected in SMEPB's losses. While the
consumers are currently bearing the financial cost, those unmeasured losses
still need to be brought under control if the consumers are to enjoy the full
benefits of SMEPB's extensive investments.
3.30      The Bank is currently engaged in discussions with MWREP to develop
methods to acquire a firmer grasp of system losses and distribution require-
ments. The system losses at different voltage levels will be addressed under
the ongoing tariff study being carried out under the Beilungang Thermal Power
Project (para. 2.7). However, under the proposed project, a master plan study
is being included for the improvement and extension of the outdated and
overcongested distribution network of the city of Shanghai (para. 5.9).



- 16 -
IV. THE POWER MARKET AND THE PROGRAM
A. The East China Power Grid
4.1       The ECPG covers the provinces of Jiangsu, Anhui and Zhejiang and the
Shanghai municipality which have a combined population of 168 millioni. The
installed capacity of ECPC was about 12,585 MV in 1985, consisting of about
10,691 MW of thermal (84.22) and 1,894 MU of hydro (15.8X). The system peak
load and energy generation in 1985 were 10,400 MW and 74,432 GWh, respec-
tively. Only 5158 CGVh or about 6.91, was generated from hydro.
4.2       In 1985, hydro plants were derated by 386 MV due to shortage of
water in dry seasons and thermal plants by 1,593 MW due to transmission system
constraints, equipment troubles, conversion of oil-fired units to coal firing,
weather conditions, etc. As a result, ECPG's dependable capacity was only
10,606 MW which provided a reserve margin of only about 21 over the peak
demand of 10,400 MW. This is grossly inadequate.
4.3       At present, the highest transmission voltage level in ECPG is
220 kV. The total length of 220 kV transmission lines was 7,741 km at the end
of 1985 and the total capacity of 220 kV step-down transformers was 11,140 MVA
involving 68 substations. A system of 500 kV transmission lines including a
direct current transmission line from Gezhouba to Shanghai is now being
constructed (see Map 1). The 500 kV system would strengthen the transmission
network of ECPC and facilitate interconnection with other regions.
4.4       There are four load dispatching centers in ECPG:  Shanghai, under
the supervision of ECEPA, has overall responsibility for transfer of power
between the three provinces and the municipality, which are presently inter-
connected at 220 kV; Hangshou (Zhejiang), Hefei (Anhui) and Nanjing (Jiangsu)
centers control the operation of generating stations, transmission and sub-
transmission systems within respective provinces. Power is transferred
between provinces on the basis of availability and relative costs of energy
generation. 
B. The Shanghai Power Grid
4.5       The municipal city of Shanghai, with a population of 12.2 million in
1985, is a major industrial and commercial center in the East China region.
As of 1985, the power subsector of Shanghai consisted of 11 thermal plants
with an installed capacity of 3,014 MW (see Annex 7 for details). There is no
hydro installation. SMIPB owns and operates six plants of 50 units with an
aggregate capacity of 1,932 MW. Of this, 20 units totalling 545 MW are oil-
fired and the balance coal-fired. They are mostly small and old units.
Currently, the largest unit size is 125 MW (a total of eight such units). The
installed capacity, energy generation and consumption of SPG are given in
Annex 8.
4.6       Total energy generation in 1985 was 18,929 GWh of which 11,742 GWh
(62X) were generated by SMEPB plants and 7,187 GWh (381) by industrial
plants. Generation by oil was 5,726 GWh (about 55X from SMEPB and 451 from
industrial plants) and by coal, 13,203 GWh.



- 17 -
4.7       The current transmission and distribution network consists of 682 km
of 220 kV, 408 km of 110 kV and 12,000 km of 6-25 kV lines (including about
2400 km of underground cables), all owned and operated by SMEPBe The total
capacity of 220 kV step-down transformers is 2,585 MVA and of 110 kV trans-
formers, 1,571 MVA.
4.8       The growth of peak demand and energy requirement of ECPG and SPG
systems from 1970 to 1985 is shown in Table 4.1. The growth rates for the
ECPG are substantially higher than those for the SPC, due to more severe power
shortages prevailing in the highly developed Shanghai region.
Table 4.1: HISTORICAL LOAD GROWTI FOR EAST CHINA
AND SANGUHAI POh2R GRIDS
Peak Demand (0W)             Energy Requirement (GWh)
ECPC                SPC            ECPC              SPG
1970            3,224.6              1v339.0       20,315.0           8t421.0
1975            4t985.1              1,753.0       33,400.0          11,819.0
1976            5,180.0              1,831.0       36,260.0          12,062.0
1977            5,658.6              1,902.0       3,6l0t.O          12t695.0
1978            69175.5              1t976.0       45,699.0          14t075.0
1979            7,071.3             29089.0        50,206.0          14,783.0
1980            7,380.1             2t273.0        53,875.0          15,087.0
1981            7,770.4             2,335.0        55t947.0          15,441.0
1982            8,306.1             2,461.0        58,973.0          16,018.0
1983            8,874.7             2,569.0        63t011.0          16,537.0
1984            9,400.0             2,670.0        69,075.0          17,500.0
1985           10,400.0             2,816.0        74,432.0          19,287.0
Average rate
of growth
(p.a.)              801%                 5.1X           9.O              5.7%
4.9       Of the 17,229 GWh total energy consumption in Shanghai in 1985,
87.0% was consumed by industrial users (79.22 heavy industry and 7.8% rural
industry), 2.6% by agricultural users, 3x7X by transportation, and 6.7% by
residential and commercial users. Annex 9 gives details of energy consumption
by categories of SMEPB consumers from 1981 to 1985.
C. Load Forecast
4.10      Load forecasts were developed as part of the economic planning
process, through a combination of statistical methods and planning targets
applied to every significant consumer category. Industrial loads were
estimated on the basis of survey and analysis of projected industrial products
and unit consumption per product for different categories of industries.
Agricultural loads were estimated based on past trends of growth for



- 18 -
irrigation pumping loads and lighting. Municipal loads were estimated based
on market surveys of hotels, buildings and government projects to be put in
operation over the next ten years. Population growth and increasing use of
home appliances were taken into consideration in estimating residential and
commercial loads. Transportation loads which are relatively small were
estimated according to the city planning for airports, railway stations and
seaports. The resulting forecasts for peak demand and energy requirement of
ECPG and SPG for the period 1986-1995 are shown in Table 4.2.
Table 4.2: LOAD FORECAST FOR EAST CHINA AND SHANGHAI POWR GRIDS
Peak Demand (MW)            Energy Requirement (GWh)
ECPG                SPG         ECPG                  SPG
1986              11,730             3,186         82,000               21,320
1987              13,300             3,460         91,200               23,000
1988              15,100             3,880        101,500               24,800
1989              17,100             4,360        113,000               27,450
1990              19,000             4t900        125,600               31,000
1991              21,200             5,400        139,000               34,000
1992              23,400             6,000        152,000               37,500
1993              25,300             6,360        164,000               39,800
1994              27,400             6,730        177,000               42,100
1995              29,650             7,100        191,000               44,500
Average rate
of growth
(p.a.)
1986-95            11.1Z              9.3X           9.9Z                 8.5%
4.11      The above load forecasts are reasonable considering that:  (a) East
China is one of the most prosperous areas in China with many important indus-
tries and a booming economy accounting for almost a quarter of China's gross
national product; (b) a number of large users such as the Baoshan steel mill,
textile and petrochemical industries, oil refineries and pumping stations for
the South-North Water Diversion Scheme will be put into operation or expanded
in the next few years; (c) modernization is proceeding rapidly in the region
and is likely to lead to substitution of other forms of energy by electricity;
and (d) there is a large suppressed demand for eleczricity (parao 7.2).
D. The 1986-1995 Power Development Program
4.12      East China is short of natural energy resources.  The 1,400 MW
Shuikou project in Fujian province is the only sizable conventional hydro
project located within the region but it is capable of providing only peaking
capacity to the system. Additional generation expansion will depend primarily
on coal-fired thermal power stations.



- 19 -
4.13      Two studies have been made in the past on the long-term power
development program of the ECEPA power system: one for the Beilungang Thermal
Power Project in June 1985 and the other for the Shuikou Hydroelectric Project
in March 1986. These studies confirm that a considerable number of thermal
power stations would need to be built in the future utilizing coal from North
China. A suumary of the development program of ECPG including generation and
transmission is given in Annex 10. The program takes into account the
replacement of oil-fired units and the retirement of old and small units.



-20-
VO THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives
5.1       Inadequacies in electric generating capacity are likely to be a
constaint on China's medium term growth objectives and potential. Estimated
losses in industrial production due to lack of power were of the order of
Y 40 billion in 1984; these losses do not take into account discouraged
investments and inefficiencies in adjustment due to constrained and unreliable
power supplies. The Government gives high priority to electric power develop-
ment, with a strategy that combines (i) massive investment in new generating
capacity of all types (hydro, thermal and nuclear), together with use of
advanced plant design; (ii) rapid expansion of transmission and distribution
networks; (iii) exploitation of up-to-date techniques of load management,
forecasting and investment planning; (iv) adoption of more effective construc-
tion techniques to bring capacity on stream more quickly; and (v) training and
staff development to bridge considerable skill gaps.
5.2       The major objectives of the proposed project are:  (i) to address
the acute power shortage at a major load center in the East China power grid;
(ii) to support development of a modern distribution network master plan for
the city of Shanghai; (iii) to promote efficiency in the Shanghai Municipal
Electric Power Bureau through a staff training program; and (iv) to encourage
financial reform through introduction of more appropriate financial
performance targets.
B. Project Description
5.3       The proposed project comprises:
(a) extension of the existing coal-fired Wujing thermal power station by
adding two generating units of 300 MW each, including:
(i) civil works for a wharf for coal unloading, an intake struc-
ture, inlet and outlet conduits for cooling water, a chimney,
and auxiliary structures;
(ii) electrical and mechanical equipment including boilers, turbo-
generators, coal and ash handling facilities, and other
auxiliaries;
(b) associated 220 kV transmission lines and substations to feed power
into the grid;
(c) on-line computer control and automatic load dispatching system for
SMEPB's load dispatching center;
(d) a master plan study of the distribution network in Shanghai; and
(e) a training program for upgrading the technical, financial and man-
agement skills of SMEPB staff and equipping and upgrading SMEPB's
technical schools.



- 21 -
5.4       Project Origin and Design.  The investigation and study of the
project began in January 1984 by the East China Electric Power Design Insti-
tute (ECEPDI). The feasibility report was completed in August 1984 and
reviewed and approved by MWREP in December 1984. The project was first
brought to the attention of the Bank in June 1986 during the annual review of
the lending program for FY87 and FY88 between the government and the Bank. An
identification/preparation mission of the Bank visited the SMEPB and the plant
site in September 1986. The feasibility report was revised in August 1986 to
reflect refinements in design and to provide additional information required
by the Bank. The technical soundness and feasibility of the project have been
well established. The State Council approved the project for implementation
in November 1986.
5.5       Wujing Thermal Power Station Extension.  The power station is
located at Wujing along the Huangpu River about 17 km south of Shanghai. This
is an existing site with favorable topographical conditions, necessary land
for expansion, adequate supply of fresh and cooling water, and easy access by
road and river. The present installed capacity is 350 MW, consisting of three
units of 25 MW, and one unit each of 50 MW, 100 MS and 125 MW. A power
development program study has confirmed that development of Wujing site to its
ultimate capacity of about 950 MW is the quickest and least cost solution for
meeting the acute power shortage in the SPG.
5.6       Coal Supply for the 2 x 300 MW Units.  Coal will be supplied from
the Shen-mu and Fugu mines in the northern part of Shaanxi province and the
Dong-Sheng mine in South Inner Mongolia. These are high quality coal fields
yielding coal with heating value more than 6,500 kcal per kg, low sulfur (less
than 0.81) and low ash (less than 12X) contents. The production capacity of
these two mines is expected to reach 7.4 and 4.6 million tons p.a. respec-
tively by 1990. The requirement of coal for the two 300 MW units, about
1.6 million tons p.a., has already been included in the Seventh Plan and given
highest priority by the government. The coal will be transported partly by
the Da-Liu-Ta to Bao-tao railroad (170 km), the northern route, and partly by
the Shen-mu to Suxian railroad (280 km), the eastern route, which are expected
to be completed by 1988 and 1992 with a capacity of 10 and 20 million tons
p.a. respectively. These lines will connect with the Datong-Qinhuangdao rail-
road at Datong through the Bao-Jing and Tong-pu railroads. The Bao-jing rail-
road (437 km) is being electrified, targeted for completion by 1988; the
expected transportation capacity is 10 million tons p.a. The Datong-
Qinhaungdao line (about 637 km in length) is a double-track electrified
railroad specifically designed for coal transportation. It will reach 70 mil-
lion tons p.a. by 1988 and 100 million tons p.a. by 1992. The loading
capacity at Qinhuangdao port will be about 70 million tons p.a. by 1990. As
the railroads and Qinhuangdao port are the government's key projects for coal
export, their timely completion is assured. The tonnage of ships will be
about 25,000 DWT. The coal loading at Qinhuangdao and ocean shipment will be
contracted out by SMEPB to the Shanghai Marine Transportation Bureau on a
long-term basis. Coal unloading and handling facilities consisting of a
wharf, a belt conveyor system and a storage yard with adequate storage
capacity, will be built under the proposed project and operated by SMEPB.
Under the Seventh Five-Year Plan, the government intends to dredge and improve



- 22 -
the navigation channel of the Huangpu river up to Wujing and to build eight
deep water wharfs for 25,000 DWT ships. Construction will be started in 1987
and completed by 1990, prior to commissioning of the first unit (June 1991).
5.7       Transmission System.  In order to feed power from the Wujing plant
into the SMEPB's system, four 220 kV transmission lines (about 54 km in total
length) will be constructed from Wujing to Minhang, Caoxi, Gangkou and
Zhoujiadu. In addition to the extension of these four substations, two new
substations at Shibei and Gubei will be established.
5.8       Shanghai Load Dispatching Center.  With the rapid growth of the
power grid and the commissioning of 500 kV transmission lines, the existing
load dispatching center with manual operated control and communication
facilities will no longer be adequate to meet the safety and economic
requirements for system operation. A new load dispatching center is under
construction. The project includes on-line computer control and automatic
load dispatching equipment for SMEPB's new load dispatching center.
5.9       Distribution Network Study.  The distribution network in Shanghai is
overcongested and outdated. Improvement and extension of the existing
distribution system along with the expected development of the generation and
transmission systems is necessary to meet the rapid load growth. The project
includes a study of the distribution network in Shanghai to formulate a master
plan for the next 15 years. The study would include a training component that
would expose SMEPB's planning and implementation staff to modern methods of
distribution system planning, design, construction, and management. The terms
of reference for the study are given in Annex 11.
5.10      Training.  The proposed project supports three categories of
training (outlined in detail in Annex 12): (i) related to improving the
efficiency of SMEPB's high level and teaching staff; (ii) related to improving
the technical skills of SMEPB's technical staff; and (iii) related to
equipping and upgrading of SMEPB's technical schools.
5.11      To initiate modernization of utility management (in areas such as
management information system) and financial planning, study tours and
training will be arranged for the management and financial staff of SMEPB to
visit a few selected utilities overseas. Seminars on utility management and
financial planning will be conducted in China, with the assistance of
management specialists (Annex 12).
5.12      Training for technical staff would include:  (i) on-the-job training
of the engineering and design staff by the consultants; (ii) training of the
electrical and mechanical staff by vendors of major equipment; and
(iii) training of operation and maintenance staff at other power stations and
simulator facilities in China. The cost for such training will be included in
the contracts.
5.13      To meet the long-term needs of SMEPB's human resources, SMEPB's
staff college, staff high school, secondary technical school, and two skilled
worker schools in Shanghai (para. 3.8) will be expanded to provide more
training capacity through provision of funds for laboratory equipment,



- 23 -
teaching aids and upgrading of teaching staff (Annex 12). The facilities will
also be utilized for conducting in-service training.
5.14      All the training components will be implemented by SMEPB.  At nego-
tiations, SMEPB agreed to implemeuit a training program acceptable to the Bank.
5.15      Consulting Arrangements.  China International Engineering Consulting
Corporation (CIECC) will be the leading consultant for the project. CIECC is
a state-owned consulting firm and has under its management the consulting
branches for specific fields such as the China Power Engineering Consulting
Corporation (CPECC), which is a subsidiary of the Electric Power Planning and
Engineering Institute (EPPEI) of MWREP. EPPEI will provide full support to
CPECC in manpower as well as facilities. The East China Electric Power Design
Institute (ECEPDI) will assist CIECC in detailed engineering and design
work. This arrangement is satisfactory. To provide input on the most current
engineering designs and practices, foreign consulting engineers will be
employed by SMEPB to support CIECC under terms of reference outlined in
Annex 13.
5.16      About 80 man-months of foreign consultancy services are required.
The average man-month cost including man-month rate, international travel,
subsistence and other reimbursable expenses is estimated at about US$12,000.
To cover these costs, an amount of US$1.0 million has been provided for
project preparation, as one of the subprojects under the Second Technical
Cooperation Credit (Credit 1412-CHA). Consultants have-been employed
according to Bank guidelines.
C. Cost Estimate
5.17      The estimated cost of the project is summarized in Table 5.1.  The
cost estimates are at December 1986 price levels and are based on the latest
tendering information available for 350/600 MW units in China. Unit costs of
civil works are based on similar projects being carried out in the East China
power grid. Since this is an extension project, site conditions are well
known. Physical contingencies are calculated at 5% for foreign costs of plant
equipment and materials, transmission facilities and a network study, 15% for
civil works, and 10% for other local costs. Price escalation for costs
expressed in terms of foreign exchange (US dollars) is calculated according to
anticipated international price movements of 3.0% for 1987, 1.0% for 1988-90,
and 3.5% for 1991 and thereafter. Price escalation for costs expressed in
local currency is calculated according to projected local inflation rates of
6.5% for 1987-90 and 4.5% for 1991 and thereafter. Detailed project cost
estimates are provided in Annex 14.



- 24 -
Table 5.1: SUMMARY OF PROJECT COST
Foreign
Local  Foreign   Total   Local  Foreign  Total   cost a.
--- (Yuan million) ---   --- (US$ million) -- X of total
Site preparation                  58.1       -        58.1   15.7       -     15.7        -
Civil works                       98.8    57.0       155.8   26.7    15.4    42.1        36
Plant equipment and materials    67.0   579.0        646.0   18.1   156.5   174.6        90
Transmission system               49.2    48.1        97.3   13.3    13.0    26.3        49
Distribution network study          1.8     5.6        7.4    0.5      1.5     2.0       75
Load dispatching equipment           -     11.1       11.1     -       3.0     3.0      100
Training                            3.7     6.3       10.0    1.0      1.7     2.7       63
Supervision and administration   61.8        -        61.8   16.7       -     16.7        -
Total Base Cost             340.4   707.1  1047.5   92.0   191.1   283.1           67
Contingencies
Physical                        39.2    34.4        73.6   10*6      9.3    19.9       47
Price                           73.6   186.0      259.6    5.3    13.6    18.9         72
Total Project Cost          453.2   927.5   1,380.7  107.9   214.0   321.9          66
Interest during construction
IBRD loan                         -    104.5       104.5     -     24.2    24e2       100
Local loans                     22.8       -        22.8    5.3       -      5.3      100
Total Financing Required   476.0 1,032.0  1508.0  113.2   238.2   351.4            68
Notes:    1.   Base cost and physical contingency (at December 1986 prices) have been
calculated using an exchange rate of Y 3.7O=US$1.
1.   The project would be exempted from import duties and taxes.
2.   Total physical contingencies are about 7.0% of base cost; local price
contingencies are about 5.2Z and foreign cost contingencies are about 6.8Z
of the base cost plus physical contingencies, when expressed in US dollars.



- 25 -
D. Financing Plan
5.18      The financing plan for the project is shown in Table 5.2:
Table 5.2: FINANIIC PLAN FOR THE PROJECT
Local cost     Foreign cost      Total
------ (US$ miLlion equivalent) ---
IBRD /a                                      -           190.0          190.0
Municipal government loan                 112.7             -           112.7
Local bank loans                             -            48.8           48.8
Total                                112.7          238.8          351.5
/a   An additional sum of US$1.0 million has been provided under the Second
Technical Cooperation Credit (para. 5.16).
5.19      The proposed Bank loan of $190.0 million would meet about 59% of the
total project cost or about 802 of the foreign exchange requirements. It
would be used to finance the following components:
(a) imported construction materials for civil works including cement and
timber;
(b) plant equipment and materials (including structural steel and rein-
forcement steel) for the entire power block;
(c) 220 kV transmission system expansion;
(d)  distribution network study for the city of Shanghai; and
(e) training program.
5.20      Financing of equipment for the load dispatching center, the foreign
exchange components of interest during construction and price contingencies
would be obtained from the People's Construction Bank of China (PCBC) at 3.6%
interest. The loan would be repaid over 15 years, beginning after completion
of the project. All local costs would be financed by the Municipal Government
of Shanghai using loans bearing terms similar to those of PCBC. The
government would provide necessary funds to cover any shortfall of funds for
the project.
5.21      The proposed Bank loan would be made to the People's Republic of
China at the standard variable interest rate for a 20 year term (including
5 years of grace on repayment of principal). At negotiations, the government
agreed to onlend the proceeds of the proposed Bank loan to SMEPB under a



- 26 -
subsidiary loan agreement with a 20-year term (including 5 years of grace on
repayment of principal) at an interest rate of 8.52 p.a. SMEPB would bear the
commitment charges and the foreign exchange risk. A Project Agreement will be
concluded between the Bank and SMEPBe Execution of a subsidiary loan agree-
ment satisfactory to the Bank and approval of the Loan Agreement by the State
Council would be conditions of effectiveness of the loan.
E. Procurement
5.22      Equipment and materials financed under the proposed Bank loan will
be procured by international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with the
Bank's Procurement Guidelines. Items or groups of items estimated to cost
less than $100,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount of $5 million, may
be procured under Bank guidelines for limited international bidding. The
following procedurec will be adopted for procurement of the power plant:
(i) the power plant will be procured under a single responsibility contract
covering detailed design, equipment supply and management of erection, testing
and commissioning; (ii) the specifications will be of performance type but
will incorporate adequate safeguards for quality and reliability; (iii) civil
works will be constructed by SMEPB; (iv) SHEPB will provide local labor for
erection of the plant under force account, but the responsibility for proper
erection will rest with the contractor; (iv) prequalification of contractors
will be done prior to bid invitation.
5.23      Domestic preference, following Bank guidelines, will be applicable
for selected goods in the evaluation of bids. The margin of preference will
be 15Z of the CIF price of imported goods or the prevailing custom duties and
oth'er import taxes, whichever is lower.



- 27 -
5.24      Procurement arrangements are summarized in Table 5.2 belows
Table 5.2: PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
(US$ million)
Procurement method             Total
Item                                     ICB      Others/a    N.A.        cost
Site development                         -        18.9          -          18.9
Civil works                              -        32.3          -         32.3
Power plant and transmission
equipment and materials            203.8        38.6          -        242.4
(including cement and timber)    (186.8)                              (186.8)
Load dispatching equipment              3.5         -           -           3.5
Distribution network                     -         2.2          -           2.2
consultancy study                               (1.5)                   (1.5)
Training                                 -         3.0          -           3.0
-        (1.7)                   (1.7)
Supervision and administration           -          -         19.6        19.6
Total                           207.3        95.0        19.6       321.9
(186.8) /b   (3.2)                 (190.0)
/a   "Others" include goods to be procured within the country; site
development, civil works, plant installation to be executed by SMEPB and
consultancy study.
/b   Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the
proposed Bank loan.
5.25      All bidding packages for goods financed by the Bank and estimated to
cost over US$1.0 million equivalent would be subject to the Bank's prior
review of procurement documents; this covers the five foreseen major Bank-
financed contracts.
F. Project Implementation
5.26      Status of Project Preparation.  Since this is an extension project,
all the land needed for the power plant is available. Two pieces of land of
about 17 ha would be rented during construction for storage of equipment
components and materials. The conceptual design of the plant has been
completed by ECEPDI. The local consultant has been appointed to start prepa-
ration of bid documents. The foreign consultant has been selected following
Bank's guidelines and has been employed in February 1987.
5.27      As this will be a single responsibility contract, the detailed
design, equipment supply and management of erection, start-up, testing and
commissioning will be the responsibility of the contractor. A suitably
staffed construction unit will be set up under SMEPB to supervise and coordi-
nate the construction of the project.



- 28 -
5.28      SMEPB has targeted to complete the project in five years.  The first
unit is planned to be commissoned no later than June 1991 and the second unit
by June 1992. The schedule is tight and its accomplishment would depend
largely on meeting the critical key dates for the procurement activities as
shown in Annex 15.
5.29      Chart 3 gives the implementation schedule for the various components
of the project. Site preparation will be started in late 1987. Piling will
be started in July 1988 and foundation excavation, in December 1988. Thirty
months would be targeted for the commissioning of the first unit after the
start of foundation excavation, followed by the second unit in twelve
months. The project completion date would be December 31, 1992 and the
closing date of the Bank loan would be June 30, 1993.
G. Disbursement
5.30      The Bank loan would be disbursed against: (a) 100% of the foreign
expenditures of directly imported equipment and materials quoted on CIF basis;
(b) 100% of local expenditures ex-factory of locally manafactured items;
(c) 75% of the cost of other items procured locally; and (d) 100% of the
foreign expenditures of consulting services and training. For expenditures
relating to training and contracts for goods and services each valued less
than $200,000 equivalent, reimbursement would be made on the basis of state-
ments of expenditures. Documentation supporting such expenditures need not be
submitted to the Bank but should be retained in SMEPB offices in Shanghai and
made available for review by the Bank's supervision mission. To facilitate
disbursements under this project, a Special Account with an authorized
allocation of $10.0 million, representing approximately four months' average
project expenditures would be established. Applications for replenishment
will be submitted quarterly or when the amounts withdrawn equal 50% of the
initial deposit, whichever comes sooner.
5.31      Annex 16 gives the disbursement schedule for the proposed Bank loan
as well as a Bank-wide profile of disbursements for power projects. As the
plant is proposed to bo procured under one single responsibility contract, the
implementation period (according to recent experience in China) is expected to
be much shorter than usual for similar projects when procurement is undertaken
through a large number of packages. The disbursements are therefore expected
to be faster and hence the disbursement period is scheduled for six years
instead of the Bank-wide profile of seven years.
H.  Monitoring and Reporting
5.32      Satisfactory procedures have been agreed for monitoring the progress
of the project in terms of financial reports (paras. 3.13 and 3.20). Quar-
terly progress reports on project execution and a project completion report
will be submitted by SMEPB.
I. Environmental Impact
5.33      The Wujing site is located on the outskirts of the city of Shanghai.
Within a radius of 10 km, it is primarily a low population density agricul-



- 29 -
tural area with a few industries. As Wujing is an existing site, no resettle-
ment problem would be involved. The prevailing wind direction is northwest in
the winter months and southeast in the summer months. This is favorable for
flue gas diffusion, as the City of Shanghai is located about 17 km north of
Wujing site.
5.34      Design of the Wujing extension project has taken into account the
requirement that the environmental impact of operation of the station should
not exceed internationally accepted norms. In addition, the following steps
have been taken in accordance with the comients made by the Shanghai
Environmental Protection Bureau.
5.35      Air Quality.  Coal to be used for the plant will be of high quality
with an ash content of less than 12% and sulfur content of less than 1.0%.
Electrostatic precipitators with a particulate removal efficiency better than
99X would be installed to minimize pollution from ash and dust particles. To
ensure that the ground level concentration of sulfur dioxide and nitrogen
oxides will not exceed the limits laid down by the Chinese National Environ-
mental Protection Standards (Annex 17), a stack height of 210 m has been
selected for the two new units and the 80 m high stack for the old units would
be replaced by a 150 m stack. It is estimated that with all units in
operation, the maximum expected S02 ground level increment to ambient on a
one-day average basis would not exceed 0.08 vg/m3p compared with a current
background concentration of about 0.048 mg/m . This level is acceptable under
Bank guidelines and no flue gas desulfurization system is required.
5.36      Water Temperature.  As the Huangpu River is a very busy navigation
channel, there are no fishing activities. The layout and design of the circu-
lating water system will ensure that dispersal of the thermal plume will
create no adverse effects to the Wujing plant as well as other downstream
plants. This has been confirmed by a mathematical model study.
5.37      Liquid Chemical Effluent.  Plant liquid chemical effluents and
runoff from coal pile will be held in a neutralization basin and treated prior
to discharge into the city sewage system.
5.38      Ash Disposal.  About 50% of the fly ash produced will be utilized
for industrial purposes and the remaining will be disposed off on the tidal
land enclosed by dykes along the coast in the Hangzhou Bay. Sufficient
disposal area is available for 25 years of plant operation. Water used for
fly ash disposal will be settled in a tank and recirculated.
5.39      The transmision facilities will be designed and constructed in
accordance with current technological practices using available corridors
where possible and will cause minimum disturbance to the environment. In some
areas, underground cables will be used instead of overhead lines. No safety
hazards are foreseen.
5.40      At negotiations, SMEPB agreed to implement an environmental monitor-
ing program satisfactory to the Bank.



- 30 -
VI. FINANCE
A. Introduction
6.1       SMEPB is a self-accounting entity reporting functionally to MWREP.
It must follow financial regulations issued by MOF for all state enterprises
and procedures developed by MWREP for adapting those MOF regulations for use
by all power bureaus. Within this framework, SMEPB enjoys broad autonomy for
managing its own affairs. Its predecessor realized revenues which covered
operating requirements and left comfortable liquidity. Most surpluses,
however, were remitted to the Government; in turn, the Government provided all
funds necessary for investment in approved projects, historically on a grant
basis but more recently as loans.
B. Financial System
6.2       All Chinese power bureaux conduct their affairs according to a stan-
dardized financial system, the salient points of which are described briefly
in Annex 18. As was the case under previous Bank-financed projects in the
Chinese power subsector, SMEPB is not permitted to retain more than a nominal
amount of its earnings, and the cash corresponding to the earnings that are
retained must ultimately be applied to certain specified categories of expen-
ditures or investments. Thus, SMEPB's incentive to realize revenues in excess
of its obligations is limited. Thus also, the familiar indicators of finan-
cial performance, such as rate of return and self-financing ratio, have only a
limited applicability to an analysis of SMEPB at this time.
C. Past and Present Financial Performance
6.3       Since SMEPB only began operating as an independent organization on
January 1, 1986, it has no financial history. Its opening balance sheet which
is shown on page 5 of Annex 19, indicates that SMEPB was created with a sqund
financial base. Moreover, SMEPB's operations to date, considered in the
context of MWREP's rules for financial operation, provide an acceptable basis
for projecting the future.
Valuation of Assets
6.4       Since an average of only about 92% of the amount of Government
grants used to finance new fixed assets was transferred upon project comple-
tion from the books of construction units to the consolidated balance sheet of
SMEPB's predecessor organization, the value of inherited gross fixed assets in
operation might be somewhat understated. The residual was considered to have
been expended to purchase assets, such as trucks or construction machinery
which were not fully depreciated and remained with the construction units upon
the completion of construction. Also, the Chinese financial system still does
not recognize the concept of revaluation of fixed assets. However, because
inflation in China during the past 30 years has been low and because most
existing power-related fixed assets have negligible foreign content, asset
revaluation would have a limited financial impact on most power bureaux in the
short to intermediate term. Because of incipient changes in the structure of



- 31 -
prices, revaluation of assets will become increasingly relevant for the
Chinese power subsector in the longer term; however, adoption of revaluation
would have a nationwide impact and not one restricted to the power subsec-
tor. Therefore, this matter cannot be addressed in the context of the pro-
posed project; rather, it will become a component of the continuing policy
dialogue between the Bank, MOFP and SAM. A pro forma revaluation conducted in
the context of appraisal of the proposed projectp making broad assumptions
about the average age of SMEPB's plant and equipment, indicated that at its
inception in January 1986, the replacement cost of SMEPB's gross fixed assets
in service would have exceeded the historical value of those same assets by
about 91%.
Tariffs
6.5       Currently the average revenue per kWh sold (8.2 fen or about USC-2.2)
provides SMEPB with adequate operating revenue. However, inflation and other
specific price adjustments are becoming perceptible in SMEPB's cost struc-
ture. In the future, the impact of price changes is expected to become much
more pronounced, as the price SMEPB pays for coal is expected to increase
substantially in real terms in the future. MWREP has authorized SMEPB to
introduce a fuel adjustment into its pricing arrangements in order to recover
the full additional increment o, cost resulting from coal price increases.
Under the Beilungang Thermal Power Project (Loan 2706-CHA), GOC agreed to
conduct a tariff study, which will form the basis for further policy
discussions on power pricing (para. 2.7).
D. Financing Plan
6.6       SMEPB's financing plan for the project implementation period (1987-
1993) is displayed in Table 6.1:



- 32 -
Table 6.1: SMEPB's FINANCING PLAN 1987-93
(Years ended December 31)
Item                               Y million            US$ million      X
Sources of funds
Internal cash generation               4,404                1,190        58
(less) Incr. in working capital           341                 92          4
(less) Incr. in Special Fund assets       148                 40          2
(less) Repayment of loans               1,140                 308        15
(less) Remittances to Government          660                 178         9
(less) Special Fund expenditures          584                 158         8
Cash available for investment           1,531                 414        20
Proposed IBRD loan                        703                 190         9
Other loans for proposed project          806                 218         8
All other loans                         4,055               1,096        54
Government grants                         535                 145         7
Total Financing                         62099               1,648        80
Total Sources of Funds                  72630               29062       100
Application of Funds
Proposed project                        1,397                 378        18
Other construction                      4,494               1,214        59
Interest during construction              341                  92         4
Renovations                               719                 194        10
Distribution Improvements                 679                 184         9
Total Application of Funds              7,630               2,062       100
The Chinese financial system constrains a power bureau from meeting signifi-
cant amounts of its investment program from internal cash generation. SMEPB
projects it will cover only the following categories of investments with fatds
generated from operations: (a) renovations, which must be financed from the
special funds earmarked for that purpose; (b) distribution improvements, which
must be financed from the special funds earmarked for that purpose; and
(c) that portion of interest during construction which must be met from net
income. Together, these three components comprise about 20Z of SMEPB's
investment program for the period.
6.7       The proposed project (exclusive of interest during construction),
accounts for about 18X of SMEPB's investment program for the period. The
proposed Bank loan will only meet about 9X of SMEPB's financing requirements.



- 33 -
6.8       The project's expected foreign cost exceeds the proposed Bank loan
by about US$48 million. Of that amount about US$24 million represents
interesL during construction, about US$14 million corresponds to price
contingencies and about US$10 million corresponds to physical contingencies.
MWREL has arranged for SMEPB to borrow the yuan equivalent of the needed
addit .onal foreign exchange requirement from the People's Construction Bank of
China (PCBC) at 3.6% interest with repayment over a 15-year period beginning
upon completion of the proposed project. Arrangements have been made to
enable SMEPB to purchase the needed foreign exchange from the Bank of China.
SMEPB will borrow the local currency needed to implement the proposed project
from the Shanghai Municipal Government on terms and conditions identical to
those prevailing at PCBC at the time of commitment.
6.9       SMEPB will borrow most of the financing required for the remainder
of its investment program from PCBC on terms prevailing at the time of commit-
ment. SMEPB projects receiving a small portion of its financing requirements
in the form of grants. Those grants have already been committed by MWREP and
are intended to finance projects which were approved several years ago. MOF
is no longer making grants available to finance new projects.
E. Future Finances
6.10      Projections of SMEPB's financial performance for the period 1986-94
are displayed in Annex 19 and summarized in Table 6.2. The assumptions under-
lying these projections are also presented in Annex 19.
6.11      During the 1987-94 period, SMEPB is projected to realize high rates
of growth. Energy sales are expected to increase by about 108% over 1986
levels, representing a compound annual growth rate of about 10%. Net fixed
assets in operation are expected to increase by about 8112 over current
levels, representing a compound annual growth rate of about 28%. Yearly capi-
tal expenditure is expected to increase by about 112% over the 1986 level,
representing a compound annual growth rate of about 10%. If SMEPB is to main-
tain its financial viability in the face of this growth, the forecast implies
that it will need to increase its average revenue by about 36% over the cur-
rent level by 1994. This represents a compound annual growth rate of about
4.0% in nominal terms, or slightly less than inflation projected for the same
period.
6.12      Although the conventional indicators of financial performance, such
as rate of return or self-financing ratio, have limited applicability to the
financial analysis of a government controlled and directed utility such as
SMEPB (para. 6.2 and Annex 18), the relationships between pricing, operating
costs, and size of investment program are becoming increasingly important to
MWREP.  In its role as nationwide manager of the sector, MWREP must arrange
financing for the currently large and still rapidly increasing investment
programs of the numerous power bureaux. It has therefore become acutely
conscious of the need to mobilize appropriate resources from the consumer. To
further MWREP's efforts for resource mobilization, at negotiations, SMEPB
agreed that it will take measures, including but not limited to tariff
increases, to ensure that annually it earns cash surpluses sufficient to meet
a minimum of 25% of its three-year average investment program. In this case,



Table 6.2:  SMEPB'S KEY FINANCIAL INDICATORS, 1986-94
(Yuan million)
Year ended December 31,                   1986    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994
Energy sales (GWh)                       15,990  17,202  18,368  20,384  23,040  25,460  28,120  30,382  33,189
Average price/kWh (fen)                    8.61    8.95    9.12    9.64    9.91   10.60   11.02   11.25   11.74
Operating revenue                         1,377   1,540   1,675   1,966   2,283   2,699   3,099   3,419   3,898
Operating income                            271      296     316      377      423      471     548      600      721
Remittances to government                   103      111       71      82      102       93      86      115       59
Annual capital expenditure                  577      831   1,089   1,007   1,104   1,193   1,164   1,243   1,225
Rate base                                   877   1,198   1,954   2,759   3,652   4,796   5,364   5,772   6,783
Long-term debt                              656   1,254   1,970   2,544   3,162   3,800   4,373   5,009   5,371
Debt service                                  9       19      139     199      216      311     427      413     662
Cash in banks                               228      265     296      316      321     327      377      433     482
Rate of return
Historically valued assets (%)           30.9    24*7    16.2    13.7    11.6        9.8    10.2    10.4    10.6
Notionally revalued assets (Z)           13.2    11.8      8.0      6.9      5.7     4.8      5.0      4.9     5.1
Self-financing ratio (%)                   30*2    30.9    26.9    28.0    30.6    30.0    27.1    30.1    31.3
Operating ratio (%)                        80.4    80.8    81*1    80.8    81.5    82.5    82.3    82.4    81.5
Debt/total capital (%)                     31.3    43.3    50.3    53.0    55.3    56.9    57.3    58.0    55.9
Debt service coverage                      37.7    19.9       3.5     2.8      2.9      2.3     1.9      2.1      1.7



- 35 -
earned cash surplus would be defined as total cash revenues (including income
from tne sale of electricity and from connection charges) less tie aggregate
of (i) cash operating expenses; (ii) interest charged to operations;
(iii) income taxes; (iv) gross increases in working capital (including changes
in cash balances); (v) net increases in Special Fund Assets; (vi) loan repay-
ments; and (vii) Special Fund Expenditures for Maintenance and Employee
Benefits. For purposes of this agreement, the Adjustment Tax would not be
considered a reduction in earned cash because (a) it is a remittance of a
residual and not a tax built into the cost structure; and (b) the proceeds are
generally recycled into investments in the sector. The average annual invest-
ment program would be defined as the average of (i) the previous year's actual
capital expenditure; (ii) the current year's planned capital expenditure; and
(iii) the next year's projected capital expenditure.
6.13      During the projection period, SMEPB is expected to comply consis-
tently with the 25% recommended internal cash generation target. Its notional
self-financing ratio is expected to average 29%; its rate of return on histo-
rically valued assets is expected to average 13%; and its rate or return on
notionally revalued assets is expected to average 7%. These already accep-
table financial perfornance indicators could improve substantially as the
anticipated tariff reforms are realized.
6.14      The Government's current policy of using loans rather than grants to
finance capital expenditure is expected to have an important impact on SMEPB
during the projection period. From a capital structure which included only
about 20% debt at its inception in 1986, SMEPB is projected to move to a debt/
total capital ratio of about 58% in 1994. Debt service coverage, which is
projected to drop from about 20 in 1986 to about 1.7 in 1994, remains satis-
factory; however, this ratio should be monitored carefully. At negotiations,
SMEPB agreed that it will incur additional debt only if a reasonable forecast
of its revenues and expenditures indicates that internal cash generation would
provide debt service coverage of at least 1.3. This assurance taken in
conjunction with its undertaking to furnish rolling eight year financial
projections (para. 3.13) to the Bank annually are expected to begin directing
SMEPB's attention to the long term financial impact of decisions relating to
its investment program.



- 36 -
VII. JUSTIFICATION
A. Need for the Project
7.1       East China is one of the most important industrial areas in China
accounting for about 25X of total national production. Shortage of electri-
city has been one of the major constraints to economic development in this
region; estimated losses in industrial production due to lack of power were of
the order of Y 10 billion in 1984. Power curtailment by rotation has been in
force in almost all industries, allowing them to operate only four to five
days a week and thus causing considerable underutilisation of plant facilities
and manpower. Each kWh of electricity not supplied has been estimated to
result in loss of industrial output to the tune of Y 1.0.
7.2       Shanghai is the largest load center of the East China region.  With
a Gross Value of Industrial Output of Y 83 billion in 1985, the gross value of
industrial production was about Y 5.75 per kWh, which is the highest level in
China. Power curtailments were enforced during 162 days in 1985 with a loss
of energy supply of about 58 CWh. Two thousand five hundred and sitty-two
applications with a demand of about 410 MW were received for connection or
extension, but they could not be fulfilled due to shortage of generating
capacity.
7.3       The demand and energy balances of the Shanghai Power Grid with and
without two additional 300 KW units of the Wujing plant, shown in Table 7.1,
strikingly indicate the urgent need of the proposed project. Without the
project, SKEPB's reserve capacity margin will be precarious and the system
will not be able to meet the energy requirement in the early 1990s.



- 37 -
Table 7.1: ENERGY AND CAPACITY BALANCE
1991                        1992
Without         With        Without        With
project       project       project      project
Peak demand (MW)                5,400.0        5,400.0      6,000.0       6,000.0
Dependable peaking
capacity /a (NW)              4,315.2        4,615.2        5,019         5,619
Capacity purchased from ECPG
(MW)                              935            935        1,182         1,182
Capacity shortage or surplus
(NW)                           -149.8          150.2         97.5         697.5
Energy requirement (GWh)         34,000         34,000       37,500        37,500
Energy generation /b             28,406         29,231       32,306        35,081
Energy purchased from ECPG        2,520          2,520        3,860         3,860
(h)
Energy shortage or surplus
(GWh)                          -3,074        -2,249        -1,334         1,441
/a   The dependable peaking capacity of a thermal unit is its rated capacity
unless it has to be derated due to special reasons.
lb   The energy generation of thermal units is calculated at an annual capa-
city factor of 62Z (5,500 hours) for the first year and, 74.0% (6,500
hours) for the second year and thereafter.
B. Least Cost Studies
7.4       A study on "the Optimized Power Development Program for the East
China Power Grid" was prepared by WREPERI in December 1986. The study con-
firmed that the development program of ECPG should depend largely on building
of large coal-fired base-load thermal plants at mine-mouths (such as Huainan
and Huaibei plants in the Anhui province) and near ports or load centers along
the costal areas of Zhejiang and Jiangsu provinces (such as Beilungang and
Shihdongkou). The study also confirmed that development of the existing site
at Wujing to its ultimate design capacity is the quickest and least cost
solution for meeting the acute power shortage in Shanghai area.
C. Economic Rate of Return
7.5       The internal economic rate of return (IERR) was calculated using the
estimated economic costs of inputs and SMEPB's average revenue per kWh in
December 1986 (plus a 20% surcharge levied by the Shanghai Municipal
Government) as a minimum proxy for the economic benefits of electricity
consumption. On this basis, the IERR of the project is about 11.7X (see Annex
20 for details). This is a conservative estimate, as the economic value of
electricity is considerably higher, lying somewhere between the estimate of
"#willingness to pay" of Y 0.15/kWh (Annex 20, para 5) and the estimate of



- 38 -
"shortage cost" of Y 1.0/kWh (para. 7.1). If the electricity consumption is
valued at the willingness to pay level cf Y 0.15/kWh, the IERR is about 22%.
If the potential loss of industrial consumption in the first two years of the
project is valued at Y 1.0/kWh, the IERR jumps to about 40%. The range of
economic return indicated by these two measures, more reasonably captures the
true economic value of the project, given what is known about electric power
shortages in China.
Sensitivity Analysis
7.6       The sensitivity of the IERR of the project was measured under two
other possible scenarios: (i) a 10% increase in investment cost and (ii) a
one-year delay in commissioning. It is unlikely that project parameters will
exceed these limits. The following results are obtained.
IERR (X)
Base case                               11.7
10% cost overrun                        10.6
One-year delay in commissioning         10.5
7.7       Considering that a series of base-load coal fired plants form part
of the least cost development program for the East China power grid, and that
extension of the existing Wujing power station provides the cheapest and
fastest option for achieving this objective, there are no better alternatives
to the proposed project.
D. Risks
7.8       No major risks are associated with the project which is an extension
of an existing facility to be implemented by a power bureau whose staff have
had significant experience in the power field, although lacking exposure to
various modern techniques. Land is already available, and field conditions
are well known. The technical soundness and economic feasibility of the
project have been well established. Consulting engineers, both local and
foreign, will assist in engineering and design, coordination and construction
supervision. To reduce the project implementation period and also to achieve
cost savings, the plant equipment will be procured under a single responsibil-
ity contract. The principal challenge will be the implementation schedules
which is ambitious but achieveable, with both units to be commissioned by June
1992. An ancillary ri-k is possible delays in coal mine and transport links,
but these are priority projects of the government and are scheduled to be com-
missioned well in advance of commissioning of the generating units; therefore
no serious problems are anticipated.



- 39 -
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
8.1       The following agreements were reached at negotiations:
(a)  from the Government, that it will onlend the proceeds of the pro-
posed Bank loan to SMEPB on terms satisfactory to the Bank
(para. 5.21); and
(b)  from SMEPB that it will:
(i) furnish to the Bank a five-year financial plan containing
projected income statements, sources and uses of funds, and
balance sheets (para. 3.13);
(ii) furnish its annual financial statements, certified by an accep-
table auditor, to the Bank within six months of the end of each
financial year (para. 3.20);
(iii) agree to implement a training program acceptable to the Bank
(para. 5.14);
(iv) carry out an environmental monitoring program satisfactory to
the Bank (para. 5.40);
(v) take measures, including but not limited to tariff increases,
to ensure that it earns cash surpluses sufficient to meet a
minimum of 25% of its average annual investment program
(para. 6.12); and
(vi) incur additional debt only if a reasonable forecast of its
revenues and expenditures indicates that internal cash genera-
tion would provide debt service coverage of at least 1.3
(para. 6.14).
8.2       At negotiations, SMEPB agreed that, at the Bank's request, it will
prepare and furnish financial projections for three years subsequent to the
agreed financial plans (para. 3.13).
8.3       Execution of the subsidiary loan agreement between the Government
and SMEPB and approval of the Loan Agreement by the State Council would be
conditions of loan effectiveness (para. 5.21).
8.4       The proposed project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$190 million
to the People's Republic of China for a term of 20 years, including a 5-year
grace period, at the standard variable interest rate.



- 40 -
ANNEX 1
CHINA
WUJING THERMAL POWER PROJECT
Installed Capacity, Electricity Generation
and Sales in the Power Subsector
Energy
Installed capacity (MW)      Energy generation (GWh)    sales
Year             Hydro   Thermal    Total       Hydro  Thermal   Total    (GWh)
1949                163    1,686    1,849        710    3,600    4,310    3,460
1952                188    1,776    1,964      1,260    6,001    7,261    6,277
1957              1,019    3,616    4,635      4,820   14,515   19,335   16,407
1962              2,379   10,686   13,065      9,042   36,753   45,795      N.A.
1965              3,020   12,056   15,076    10,414   57,190   67,604   56,802
1970              6,235   17,535   23,770    20,450   95,420  115,870       NeA*
1971              7,804   18,478   26,282    25,060  113,300  138,360  101,274
1972              8,700   20,801   29,501    28,820  123,630  152,450  123,600
1973             10,299   23,626   33,925    38,900  127,860  166,760  135,106
1974             11,817   26,291   38,108    41,440  127,410  168,850  135,708
1975             13,428   29,978   43,406    47,630  148,210  195,840  156,969
1976             14,655   32,492   47,147    45,640  157,490  203,130  164,698
1977             15,765   35,686   51,451    47,670  175,740  223,410  181,691
1978             17,277   39,845   57,122    44,630  211,920  256,550  210,239
1979             19,110   43,906   63,016    50,120  231,827  281,947  233,577
1980             20,318   45,551   65,869    58,211  242,416  300,627  257,300
1981             21,933   47,069   69,002    65,546  243,723  309,269  263,410
1982             22,959   49,401   72,360    74,399  253,279  327,678  280,080
1983             24,160   52,280   76,440    86,450  264,990  351,440  301,600
1984             25,547   54,373   79,920    86,780  290,207  376,987  319,010
1985             26,120   60,373   86,493    92,374  318,315  410,689  330,600
Average growth                       11.3%                        13.6%    13.8X
rate (p.a.)
Source: NWREP.



ANNEX 2
CHINA
WIJ1ING THERMAL POWER PROJECT
Electricity Generation by Region and by Type of Plant
(GVh)
1970     1975      1976      1977     1978      1979      1980     1981      1982      1983     1984      1985
Total            115,870  195,840  203.130  223,410  256,550  281,947  300,627  309,269  327,678  351,440  376,987  410,689
Hydro           20,450   47,630   45,640   47,670   44,630   50,120   58,211   65,546   74,399   86,450   86,780   92,374
Thermal         95,420  148,210  157,490  175,740  211,920  231,827  242,416  243,723  253,279  264,990  290,207  318,315
Northeast         28,820   41.160   43,020   43.610   48,520   51,580   53,995   54.210   56,147   59.613   63,176   67.376
Hydro            3,350    5,350    3,560    3,850    2,690    4,746    5,072    6,343    4,509    5,423    6,647    8,067
Thermal         25,470   35,810   39,460   39,760   45,830   46,834   48,923   47,867   51,638   54,190   56,529   59,309
North             20,870   34,950   35,480   38.640   45,830   50,559   53,556   55.071   57,527   61,061   66,167   71,136 
Hydro              680       710      560       800       970    1,376    1,313        873      962    1,282    1,124    1,120 *
Thermal         20,190   34,240   34,920   37,840   44,860   49,183   52,243   54,198   56,565   59,779   65,043   70,016
East              29,710   49.490   54,670   60.860   70,140   77,535   83,816   87.429   92.149   98,849  106,431  118.064
Hydro            4,320    7,920    7,150    7,900    6,450    5,996    9,018   11,109   11,337   14,816   12,392   13,163
Thermal         25,390   41,570   47,520   52,960   63,690   71,539   74,798   76,320   80,812   84,033   94,039  104,901
Central-South    18,360   35,410   35,000   39.930   46,150   52,534   57,592   60,883   65,922   72,443   75,996   83,437
Hydro            6,950   17,020   17,170   16,030   15,630   17,178   20,245   23,327   30,256   35,569   34,654   37,370
Thermal         11,410   18,390   17,830   23,900   30,520   35,356   37,347   37,556   35,666   36,874   41,342   46,067
Northwest          8,340   17 010   18,660   20 790   22,460   23 928   24 989   24,774   26.501   27.366   30,330   32,935
Hydro            2,670    8,580   10,060   10,440    9,750   10,416   10,560   11,060   12,525   12,807   13,330   12,898
Thermal          5,670    8,430    8,600   10,350   12,710   13,512   14,429   13,714   13,976   14,559   17,001   20,037
Southwest          9,770   17,820   16,300   19,580   23,450   25,811   26,679   26.902   29,432   32,108   34,886   37,741
Hydro            2,480    8,050    7,140    8,650    9,150   10,408   12,003   12,834   14,810   16,553   18,633   19,756
Thermal          7,290    9,770    9,160   10,930   14,300   15,403   14,676   14,068   14,622   15,555   16,253   17,985
Source: MWREP.



- 42 -
ANNEX 3
CHINA
WUJING THERMAL POWER PROJECT
Performance Indicators for SPG
1981      L982       1983       1984       1985
Installed Capacity (MW)         2,186      2,524      2,844      2,833      3,014
SMEPB                         1,805      1,793      1,763      1,751      1,932
(545)/a
Industrial plants               381        731      1,081      1,082     1,082
(376)/a
Energy Generation (GWh)        14,290    15,601    15,901    18,014    18,929
SMEPB                        11,751    11,829    10,302    10,725    11,742
(3,128)/a
Industrial plants             2,539      3,772      5,599      7,289     7,187)/
(2,598)/a
Energy Generation (GWh)        14,290    159601    15,901    18,014    18,929
Coal                          5,613      7,651      9,498    12,299    13,203
Oil                           8,677      7,950      6,403      5,715     5,726
Energy Purchased (GWh)          1,511        417        636       (514)       358
Capacity Factor (%)              74.6       70.6       63.8       72.6       71.7
SMEPB                          74.3       75.3       66.7       69.9      69.4
(65.6)/a
Industrial plants              90.2       58.9       59.1      76.9       75.8 8
(78.A)/a
Peak Demand (MW)                2,335      21461      2,569      2,670      2,820
Energy Consumption (GWh)       17?2       14,219    14,769    15,608    17,229
System Losses (GWh)             1 712      1,799      1,768      1,892     2,058
riant use ---                  im )57                           5*34     -6 6.1
T & D losses (%)               5.40       5.63       5.08       5.47      4.60
Total (%)                11.09      11.23     10.69      10.81      10.70
Average Coal Consumption
(Standard coal) (g7W)           362        357        349        344       344
Number of customers              n.a.       n.a.       n.a.       n.a.   621,797
Number of employees              n.a.       n.a.       n.a.       n.a.    34,895
Customers per employee           n.a,       n.a.       n.a.       n.a.       17.8
Sales per employee (kWh)         n,a.       n.a.       n.a.       n.a.   494,000
/a  Installed capacity, energy generation and capacity factor for oil-fired
plants.
Source: SMEPB.



- 43 -
ANNEX 4
CHINA
WUJING THERMAL POWER PROJECT
Staff of SMEPB
(as of December 31, 1985)
Number of units    Number of staff       X
By Specialty
Staff
Technical                                                3,444            9.9
Administrative /a                                          299            0.8
Subtotal                                              31743          10*7
Workers
Junior                                                  12,556          36.0
Medium-skilled                                           8,084           23.1
High-skilled                                                38           0.1
Apprentices                                              1,169           3.4
Subtotal                                             21,847          62.6
Others                                                     9,305          26.7
Total                                                34,895         100.0
By Functional Units
Headquarters                            16                   164           0*5
Generation                               9                10,390          29.8
Transmission and distribution            3                   963           2*8
Supply and services                      6                 7,433          21.3
Construction                            10                 9,713          27.8
Design                                   1                    67           0.2
Education                                5                   442            1.3
Medical services                         1                   475            1.4
Nanufacturing and repair                 4                 2,603           7.4
Miscellaneous /b                         3                 2,645           7.5
Total                                                                 100.0
/a Includes finance and accounting personnel.
/b Includes one material supply enterprise and two research institutes.
Source: SMEPB.



-44-                              ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 3
CHINA
MUJING THERMAL POWER PROJECT
Planning, Budget and Control of Chinese Power Bureaux
1.        All power bureaus are responsible for developing annual and five-
year production and investment plane which are integrated with the national
plans and are approved, through MWREP's auspicest by SPC. MWREP plays a major
role in shaping the bureau ' individual plans. The ministry, in conjunction
with regional administrations, uses past operating results received from all
the bureaus to compile the quantities and related prices to be used by the
bureaus in developing their operating plans. The investment plans are
developed on a project by project basis using estimates of quantities and
prices of inputs included in feasibility studies prepared by the regional
design institutes; however, the investment plans do not take account of the
movement of prices after completion of final design. Thus, in the planning
process, the bureaus themselves do not make a direct linkage between their
projected costs and their realised costs. The bureaus' operating plans do
include monitoring indicators; and variance analyses are conducted to compare
quantities actually produced or consumed with plan targets. Because the
bureaus themselves do not link their plan targets directly to realized
financial performance, the variance analyses have limited usefulness as
measures of the efficiency of their operations or the cost effectiveness of
their investment program. Still, within the environment of a centrally
planned economy where large grants have been used to finance significant
portions of investment and prices have been maintained at stable levels, this
approach to planning has served reasonably well.
2.        Until 1980, all funds required for implementation of the annual
construction plans were provided through grants allocated from the State
budget. The State also provided minor amounts of finance to cover liquidity
requirements through an account entitled Working Capital Funds. Under China's
economic reform program which began about 1978, major changeR have been intro-
duced to encourage the economic use of the Government's limited resources.
Funds for major new investments are now being provided in the form of loans
from the People's Construction Bank of China. These loans are made only after
projects have been reviewed extensively and cost estimates have been
approved. In addition to construction loans, now bearing an annual interest
rate of about 3.6S, funds are provided for liquidity by way of non-repayable
government contributions, which carry annual finance charges of 3%. The
construction loans are scheduled for repayment over 15 years after completion
of the work.
3.        Through 1984, the prices the power bureaux have been paying for the
constituents of operating and investment costs have been controlled, mostly at
constant levels. However, the Government has announced that it is relaxing
some controls over the pricing system so that, slowly, prices will move toward
market levels. In coming years, with the power bureaus continuing to expand
their operations rapidly and costs increasingly becoming variable, actual cost



-45-                              ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 3
data used together with projections of (a) productivity improvements;
(b) future price movements; and (b) interest rates, will become more important
as the basis for planning and budgeting. Moreover, as the cost of
inefficiency will certainly increase, management will need to enhance its
ability to evaluate and control more closely the operations of individual cost
centers.
4.        The Chinese system of planning and budgeting does not include
provision for long term financial planning. In connection with the Lubuge
Hydroelectric Project (Loan 2382-CHA), the Bank furnished MWVRP with a finan-
cial forecasting model to enable the power bureaux to study the impact of both
their expansion plans and variations in prices on their future financial posi-
tions. Under all subsequent Bank-financed power projects, assurances have
been obtained that, by December 31 of each year commencing in the year
following loan signing, the beneficiary power bureau will furnish to the Bank
a financial plan containing forecast income statements, sources and uses of
funds, and balance sheets for the next five years. So far, only the Yunnan
and Jiangsu Power Bureaux have been required to furnish such rolling plans.
5.        MWREP recognizes that it needs to modernize the financial and
management procedures being followed by the power bureaux. It has authorized
numerous power bureaux to acquire microprocessors to be -used for financial,
planning, and administrative purposes. Additionally, it has developed some
software aimed at enabling the bureaux to produce computerized standard
reports regularly. For their part, most power bureaux with which the Bank is
dealing have already computerized some of their personnel, payroll, and
administrative records and are adapting software to computerize materials
management, system planning, and production management. Once the bureaux
complete computerization of these records, they will all be expected to
furnish monthly reports to MWREP on diskettes rather than on paper. Most of
the Bank financed projects have included a provision under which the benefi-
ciary power bureaux could obtain additional microprocessors and both they and
MWREP can obtain the software support needed to facilitate implementation of
this first generation of computerized reporting.
6.        The first generation of computerized reporting should enable MWREP,
as well as the power bureaux themselves, to process, compile, consolidate and
retain far more information more rapidly than before. However, the approaches
to systemization made to date have been designed almost exclusively to satisfy
MWREP's reporting requirements. The software thus far developed anticipates
neither a more active role for the power bureaux nor a broader use of data by
bureau management. Moreover, the systems under development would still
neither include rudimentary financial planning nor enable the necessary direct
linkages between realized performance and planning forecasts. Thus, while the
systems under development represent substantial progress over the reporting
systems currently in use, a second generation of reporting systems will
inevitably be needed to accommodate changes already in progress in the
managerial environment. In the context of appraisal of the Yantan Hydroelec-
tric Project (Loan 2707-CRA), the Bank retained a consultant to assess the
processes of data accumulation and compilation in several power bureaux, as
well as the manner in which data is used by )IMWP and those bureaux. His
findings confirm that the systems which are currently under development are



- 46 -
ANNEX 5
Page 3 of 3
adequate and appropriate to the existing environment but are not sufficiently
flexible to adapt to expected future trends. However, MWREP has doubts about
the extent and substance of these anticipated changes and prefers to be
cautious about making further adjustments to reporting procedures in the near
to intermediate term future.
7.        In considering modernization of financial and management practices,
the Government is taking the initiative in adapting modern methodology for use
in the Chinese environment. However, given the additional adjustments that
will most likely become necessary within a few years, the Government would
benefit from greater exposure to state of the art hard and soft technology and
greater understanding of the internal disruptions encountered by organizations
that have already modernized their management systems. Under the Yantan
Hydroelectric Project (Loan 2707-CHA), the Government will obtain training in
up-to-date financial management and planning and utility accounting prac-
tices. Study tours are included in that project, so that senior officials of
relevant governmental units can visit utilities and service organizations in
other countries which have been carefully selected because of their appro-
priate experiences in introducing modern managerial techniques. MWREP will
design the study tours, with the assistance of consultants where necessary and
appropriate.



-47 -
ANNEX 6
CHINA
WUJING THERMAL POWER PROJECT
Electricitz Tariffs of SMEPB /a
(As ot June 30, 19gb)
Tariff category                                             Rate       Unit
Lighting /b (residential/commercial/small industries)
Up to 1V                                                   20.0      fen/kWh
Over 1 kV                                                  19.5      fen/kWh
Average                                               19X9
Commercial and Small Industry
up to I kV                                                  8.5      fen/kWh
1-10 kV                                                     8.3      fen/kWh
Avove 35 kV                                                 8.0      fen/kWh
Average                                                8.4
Large Industry /c (above 320 kVA)
xnergy cnarge /d
1-10 kV                                                   5.8      fen/kWh
Above 35 kV                                               5.5      fen/kWh
Capacity (per month)
Based on peak demand                                      6.0      Yuan/kW
Based on installed capacity                               4.0      Yuan/kW
Average                                                7.35     fen/kWh
Agriculture /e
Up to i kV                                                  6.0      fen/kWh
1-10 kV                                                     5.8      fen/kWh
Above 35 kV                                                 5.5      fen/kWh
Average                                                5.96
Bulk Stipply /f
Average                                                 5.54     fen/kWh
Total Average                                           8.17     fen/kWh
/a  The indicated rates include a sales tax of about 15% of the electricity
bill.
/b  Lighting consumption by all categories of consumers is separately metered
and billed at the lighting rate.
/c  Industrial consumers with total transformer capacity of 320 kVA and above.
77  Aluminum refining and calcium carbide industries enjoy a 2 fen/kWh
discount; ferroalloy, synthetic ammonia, caustic soda, and phosphate
fertilizer industries enjoy a 1 fen/kWh discount.
/e  Applies only to activities related to agricultural production (e.g.,
threshing) and not to rural industries and rural residential consumption.
/f  Bulk supply sales to other distributors, except to the extent that the
electricity supplied is resold to agricultural users for which the speci-
fied special rates apply, are made at discounts from the average rate
charged to their consumers using the same tariffs as SMEPB's direct cus-
tomers, Discount rates vary according to the cost situation of the dis-
tributor.
Source: SMEPB.



-48 -                           ANNEX 7
Page I of 3
CHINA
WUJING THERMAL POWER PROJECT
Generating Facilities of SPG
Name plate    Year of          Dependable
Name of plant         Unit                  rating    commissioning    capability
(MW)                           (MW)
SMEPB
Yangshupu         No. 8                    18.00          1921           20.00
No. 9                    18.00          1921           22.00
No. 10                  20.00           1923           19.00
No. 11                  25.00           1948           22.50
Nos. 12 & 13             3.00           1923/29         0.00
Nos. 14 & 15 /a         20.00           1929           20.00
No. 16 la               22.50           1934           22.50
No. 17                  16.00           1956           15.30
No. 18                   17.65          1947           17.00
No. 19 /a                6.00           1958            6.00
No. 20                  25.00           1969           22.00
No. 21                  25.00           1980           20.00
No. 22                  25.00           1981           20.00
Subtotal               264.15                         246.30
Wujing            Nos. 1 & 2               25.00          1959           32.00
No. 3                   50.00           1961           60.00
No. 4                   100.00          1966           92.00
No. 5                  125.00           1969          118.00
No. 6                   25.00           1975            0.00
Subtotal               350.00                         334.00
Zha-Bei           Nos. 1 & 2               10.00          1930           11.50
No. 3 /a                 12.50          1937           12.50
NO, 5 7                 22.00           1956           22.00
No. 7 7T                25.00           1958           25.00
No, 8 7                 25.00           1959           25.00
No. 9                   50.00           1960           50.00
No. 10                  50.00           1966           50.00
No. 15 /a              125.00           1974          115.00
No. 16 l               125.00           1975          115.00
Subtotal               454.50                         437.50



- 49 _
ANNEX 7
Page 2 of 3
Name plate                     Dependable
rating      Year of          capability
Name of plant         Unit                   (MW)      commissioning         (MW)
Wu-Song           No. 4                     3.60          1935              3.00
No. 5                     6.50          1952             6e00
No. 6                     6.00          1985             6.00
Subtotal                 16.10                          15.00
Min-Hang          No. 1                    25.00          1961            24.00
No. 2                   25.00           1960            24.00
Nos. 3 & 4 /a             6*00          1959             5.50
Nos. 5 & 6 77            12.00          1959            12.00
No. 7 /a                 12.00          1958            12.00
No. 8                  125.00           1972           120.00
No. 9                  125.00           1973           120.00
No. 10                 125.00           1979           120*00
No. 11                 125.00           1980           115.00
No. 12                 125.00           1985           125*00
Subtotal               723.00                          695.00
Nan-Shi           No. 5 /a                 12.00          1958            14.00
No. 6  a                 12.00          1959            12.00
No. 7.7a                50.00           1959            40.00
No. 8                   50.00           1985            50.00
Subtotal               124000                          116.00
Total                1,931.75                        1,843.80
Industrial Plants
Bao-Shan          No. 1                   350.00          1982           350.00
No. 2                  350.00           1983           350.00
Subtotal               700.00                          700.00
Jing-Shan         Nos. 1 & 2 /a            25.00          1976
Nos. 3 & 4 7 r          50.00           1975
Nos. 5 & 6 7a:          50.00           1976
No. 7                     1*50          1980
Subtotal               251.50                          250.00



-50-                             ANNEX 7
Page 3 of 3
Name plate                     Dependable
rating      Year of         capability
Name of plant         Unit                   (MW)     commissioning         (MW)
Gao-Qiao          No. 7 /a                 50.00          1972
No. 2 Ta                25.00          1971
No. 3 7                 50.00          1972
No. O 7                  1.00          1984
Subtotal               126OO                         110.00
Hong-Wen paper                              2.00          1950
Shanghai cement                             2.75
Total                1 082.25                       1 060.00
GRAND TOTAL          3,014.00                       2,903.80
/a Oil-fired units.
Source: SMEPB.



_ 51 _
ANNEX 8
CHINA
WUJING THERMAL POWER PROJECT
System Demand and Energy Balance of SPG
Energy                Energy    Energy    Energy
Peak      require-  Installed       gen-      pur-    consump-
Demand       ment    capacity    eration   chased         tion
Year               (MW)        (GWh)       (MW)          ----- (GWh) ----
1976               1,831       12,062      1,834      12,622      (560)   10,314
1977               1,902       12,695     1,884       12,561       194    10,847
1978               1,976       14,075      1,884      13,651       424    12,248
1979               2,089       14,783     2,009       14,132       651    12,895
1980               2,273       15,087     2,159       14,090       997    13,397
1981               2,335       15,441     2,186       14,290    1,151    13,729
1982               2,461       16,081     2,524       15,601       417    14,219
1983               2,569       16,537     2,844       15,901       636    14,769
1984               2,670       17,500     2,833       18,014      (514)   15,608
1985               2,816       19,287     3,014       18,929       358    17,229
Average rate
of growth
(% p.a.)          4.9          5.4       5.7          4.6                  5.9
Source: SMEPB.



ANNEX 9
CHINA
WUJING THERMAL POWER PROJECT
Energy Consumption by Category of Customers (SMEPB)
1981             1982             1983             1984             1985
Consumers                         GWh       %      GWh       z      GWh       Z       GWh      %       GWh       X
Lighting
Urban                             320    2.3       350    2.5       393    2.7        459    3.0       585    3.4
Rural                             117    0.9       126    0.9       139    0.9        146    0.9       186    1.1
Subtotal                      437    3.2       476    3.4       532    3*6       605    3.9        771    4*5
Municipal
Water supply & drainage           346    2.5       347    2.4        354    2.4       350    2.2       382    2.2
Electrical traction               464    3.4       499    3.5       523    3.5        562    3.6       620    3.6
Subtotal                      810    5.9       846    5.9       877    5.9       912    5.8    1,002    5.8
Industrial
Urban                          11,381   82.9   11,669   82.1   11,997   81.2   12,567   80.5   13,653   79.2
Rural                             674    4.9       805    5.7       942    6.4    1,084    7.0    1,344    7.8
Subtotal                   12,055   87.8   12,474   87.8   12,939   87.6   13,651   87.5   14,997   87.0
Agricultural                        413    3.0       408    2.8        408    2.8       420    2.7       441    2.6
Communication &
transportation                     14    0.1        15    0.1        15    0.1         20    0.1        18    0.1
Total                       13,729  100.0   14,219  100.0   14,771  100.0   15,608  100.0   17,229  100.0
Source: SMEPB.



- 53 -                                 ANNEX 10
CHINA
WUJING THERMAIL. POWER PROJECT
Development Proram of ECPG
A. Generating Stations
Installed                    No.     Unit       Scheduled /a
capacity                    of       size      commissionrl-g
Name                           (MW)        Location      units    (MW)           date
Zhenhai Thermal (coal)           600   (800)   Zhejiang          3       200        1986,89,90
Louhe Thermal (coal)              300   (600)   Anhui            1       300               1986
Taizhou Thermal (coal)           250   (500)   Zhejiang          2       125            1987,88
Xuxhou Thermal No. 1 (coal)      400   (800)   Jiangsu           2       200            1986,87
Minghang Thermal (coal)           125   (250)   Shanghai         1       125               1986
Jianbi Thermal (coal)            600            Jiangsu          2       300            1986,87
Shihdongkou No.1
Thermal (coal)               1,200            Shanghai         4      300      1987,88,89,90
Hefei Thermal (coal)              125           Anhui            1       125               1986
Yangzhou Thermal (coal)          400            Jiangsu          2       200            1988,89
Pingwei Thermal (coal)         1,200            Anhui            2       600            1988,90
Tianshengang (coal)              700            Jiangsu          2       350            1988,89
Xinhai (coal)                    400            Jiangsu          2       200           1989,90
Sunan Thermal (coal)             900            Jiangsu          3      300         1990,91,92
Beilungang Thermal (coal)      2,400            Zhejiang         4      600      1990,91,92,93
Wujing Thermal (coal)            600            Shanghai         2       300            1991,92
Shihdongkou No. 2
Thermal (coal)               2,400            Shanghai         4      600      1990,91,94,95
Xuzhou No. 2 (coal)              600            Jiangsu          2      300             1991,92
Huaibei No. 2 Thermal (coal)    600             Anhui            2      300             1992,93
Waigaoqiao Thermal (coal)        600            Shanghai         1       600               1995
Jinshuitan Hydro                 300            Zhejiang         6        50     1986(2),89(2)
1988989
Shihtang Hydro                    78            Zhejiang         3       26         1988,89(2)
Shuikou Hydro                  1,400            Fujian           7      200      1993(2),94(3)
95(2)
B. Transmission Lines
Length                                              Scheduled
Name                      (km)                   Voltage level                completion
Louhe - Pingyao                 447                        500 kV                      1986
Xuxhou No.1 - Jiangdu           340                        500 kV                      1986
Jiangdu - Shanghai              280                        500 kV                      1988
Pingwei - Sunan                 590                        500 kV                      1989
Pingyao - Shanghai              220                        500 kV                      1988
Beilungang - Pingyao:
1st circuit                245                       500 kV                       1990
2nd circuit                245                       500 kV                       1991
Pingyao -Sunda                  180                        500 kV                      1989
Shihdongkou - Huangdu            70                        500 kV                      1990
Total                    2,617 km
/a Most of the generating units are scheduled for commissioning by the end of the year.
When two units of the same plant are scheduled for the same year, the commissioning
dates would be June and December, respectively.
Source: ECEPA.



- 54 -
ANNEX 11
Page 1 of 4
CHINA
WUJING THERMAL POWER PROJECT
Master Plan Study for Distribution Network in Shanghai
Terms of Reference
I. Background
1.         SMEPB proposes to engage the services of a consulting firm
(preferably in collaboration with a power utility) to undertake a study of its
distribution system. SMEPB is responsible for generation, transmission and
distrikution of electricity in Shanghai, which has an urban area of about
150 km' and rural districts exceeding 5,000 km2. The total population is
about 12 million of which about seven million is urban. The present demand is
of the order of 3,000 MW with annual energy consumption of about 20 billion
kWh. The network comprises (a) about 700 km of 220 kV lines, twelve 220 kV
substations aggregating 2,500 MVA, (b) about 410 km of 110 kV overhead/
underground circuits, (c) about 2,600 km of 25 kV, 9,400 km of 6-10 kV and
6,000 km of 380/220 V overhead/underground circuits. The existing distribu-
tion system is old, congested and beset with problems and is in need of
renovation.  Shanghai has been earmarked for rapid commercial, industrial and
residential development and its industrial and agricultural output is expected
to double by the turn of the century. To meet the planned rapid development,
a modern, reliable electricity distribution network for Shanghai is necessary.
II. Objectives
2.         The main objectives of the study are to:
(a) develop a Master Plan for the expansion of the electrical distribu-
tion system for Shanghai up to the year 2001;
(b) recommend short-, medium- and long-term improvements to the
existing distribution network;
(c) transfer modern technology in distribution system planning, design,
construction, operation and maintenance;
(d) develop in house capabilities in distribution system planning and
design, using modern techniques including computerization; and
(e) identify training needs, tools (hardware/software) and staffing
requirements for the growing distribution system up to the
year 2006, in the areas of planning, design, construction, opera-
tion and maintenance and management.



- 55 -
ANNEX 11
Page 2 of 4
III. Scope of Work
3.         General:  The study area shall cover the metropolitan center of
Shanghai with its many industrial sectors and shall extend to the existing and
planned satellite cities surrounding Shanghai. The study shall address the
distribution system starting at the level of 220 kV and shall extend up to the
distribution voltage of 380/220 V, encompassing urban, suburban and rural area
networks.
Phase I (Approximate duration six months)
Load Forecast
(a) Prepare a load forecast (demand and energy) up to the year 2001,
area and sector wise, taking into consideration inter alia (a) the
historical pattern of load growth in various sectors and the sup-
pressed demand; (b) ongoing, medium- and long-term sectoral deve-
lopment plans and policies; (c) zoning of areas (urban/suburan/
rural) for industrial, commercial and domestic development and the
corresponding norms for load densities. Modern techniques shall be
adopted in formulating the load forecast and alternative demand
scenarios shall be projected. Demand elasticities in relation to
GDP, income and tariff levels, shall be assessed.
Network Development Plans
(b) To meet the projected growth in load, prepare overall network deve-
lopment plans upto the year 2001 covering inter alia (a) optimum
choice of EHV, HV and MV voltages; (b) location and sizing of EHV
and HV substation feeding points; (c) network configurations for
specific reliability criteria; (d) major technical parameters like
maximum fault levels, type of earthing and phasing of supplies.
The network development plans shall take into consideration the
limitations of the existing network and the feasibility of its
conversion to the proposed system. Alternative network development
plans shall be presented with corresponding cost (capital,
operation and outage), reliability and maintainabilVty
implications.
Existing Network Problems and Limitations
(c) Study limitations and major problems of the existing network and
outline remedial measures, indicating phasing of implementation.
This may be done on a sampling basis.
(d) Undertake a critical review of the existing planning and design
capability of SMEPB's organization, identify training and develop-
ment needs and suggest planning and design methodology and associ-
ated tools (hardware and software) most appropriate for future
work.



- 56 -                       ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 4
(d) Prepare the Phase 1 report, including necessary drawings, charts
etc., detailing the findings of the above analysis and making
positive recommendations for discussion with SMEPB and the World
Bank, before embarking on Phase 2.
Phase 2 (Approximate duration nine months)
(a) Refine load forecasts prepared in Phase 1 and establish alterna-
tives for developing the master plan. Provide necessary software
and train SMEPB's personnel in the techniques of load forecast-
ing. Conduct very selective sample surveys to establish electri-
city usage patterns of domestic consumers in urban and rural
sectors.
(b) Firm up overall network development plan, building in adequate
flexibility for change. Provide necessary software and train
SMEPB's personnel in the planning and design techniques for
independent work in future. Network development at the MV and LV
levels may be done on a sample basis covering typical areas and
load densities. Prepare relevant cost estimates and implementation
phases, separately detailing improvements to the existing network
and its subsequent growth.
(c) Demonstrate actual improvement proposed to the existing network, by
actual implementation on a sample portion of the network.
(d) Lay down criteria for detailed design of feeders, substations etc.,
considering aspects such as voltage regulation, protection,
reactive compensation, grounding, harmonics etc. Prepare a design
manual.
(e) Review SMEPB's equipment and construction standards and practices
and provide models which would result in overall economy consistent
with reliability. Develop standard designs for substations
(overhead/underground) for future application. Provide construc-
tion manual.
(f) Introduce modern techniques for evaluating and measuring distribu-
tion system losses. Assess losses in the existing network through
desk studies and actual measurement. Particular attention shall be
given to rural systems where distribution is undertaken by rural
authorities. Suggest ways and means of reducing losses, bringing
out its economic implications. This study should cover typical
urban, suburban and rural areas, including distribution undertaken
by rural authorities.
(g) Review SMEPB's operation and maintenance (OEM) practices and
suggest improvements towards more cost effective practices.
Identify training and staffing needs for O&M personnel.
(h) Identify need for Regional Distribution Control Centers, and
provide guidelines for their implementation. Recommend communica-
tion systems for effective operation and control.



- 57 -
ANNEX 11
Page 4 of 4
(i) Review management practices for the distribution system and suggest
models for meeting the increasing volume of work. The review shall
cover management structure, responsibilities, management informa-
tion system, central and regional divisions and thair responsibili-
ties, stores and inventory control, classification and management
of consumers.
(j) Provide a draft report for review by SMEPB and the Bank and later
furnish a final report taking their comments into consideration.
IV. Work Methodology
(a) The major portion of the work is to be accomplished through the
deputation of consultant's experts to Shanghai from the point of
view of technology transfer and on the job training of SMEPB's
personnel.
(b) The consultant's experts shall provide necessary guidance to
SMEPB's personnel who will undertake collection of data and perform
detailed work necessary to accomplish the study.
(c) The consultant may suggest foreign training and exposure for a few
select SMEPB personnel, with particular emphasis on modern con-
structed distribution systems.
(d) Preparation of final reports may be done in the home office of the
consultant and some SMEPB staff may be deputed abroad for this
purpose. It is expected that during the course of the study the
consultants site personnel shall issue regular written material in
the form of field reports, which would provide useful documentation
for future reference.



- 58 -
ANNEX 12
Page 1 of 8
CHINA
WUJING THERMAL POWER PROJECT
Training Program
Existing Training System
1.        The prevailing training facilities include:
(a) a strong training scheme for apprentices, junior and middle level
craftsmen. The curricula are well prepared and teaching materials
are generally adequate, good and up-to-date;
(b) routine in-plant training for preappointment, upgrading, updating,
refresher and job transfer retraining courses with facilities, full-
and part-time staff, funds and organizational capabilities for their
operation. This is available for about 51 of the labor force and
appears to be adequate;
(c) pre-service training schools at various levels to meet about 30% of
the annual need for new recruits. While still inadequate, this has
greatly reduced the problem of poorly qualified new recruits.
2.        There are incentives for serving staff and new recruits to receive
training. These include grade and job adjustment after qualification or skill
acquisition, higher promotion opportunity and group bonus for good
performance.
Training of High Level, Teaching and Technical Staff
3.        The main issues are.
(a) While there is a reasonably strong in-service training system for
apprentice, junior and middle level staff, the high level manpower,
especially persons holding managerial responsibilities, need to
adapt to the changing situation with larger operational units,
larger grid system and more automation. There is no training
program for the above built into the existing training system.
(b) Specialized project related training for electrical and mechanical
engineers during plant construction and commissioning (including
some exposure to engineering and design) and for operation and
maintenance staff is necessary.
(c) The size of the existing schools of SMEPB for staff and accommoda-
tions for staff's family and outsiders are too small and therefore
uneconomical to operate.



- 59 -
ANNEX 12
Page 2 of 8
4.        Under the proposed project an action program of training (Table 1)
has been developed. A training program for high level and teaching staff is
shown in Table 2 and a project-related training plan for technical staff is
shown in Table 3.
Schools and Eguipment for Technician Training
5.        The main issues are:
(a) Equipment for training is inadequate.
(b) The durations of the technicians course and the craftsmen course are
the same (four years after completion of junior middle school) and
both emphasize skill training. Therefore the training for
technicians who require more know-why is inadequate. Moreover, the
technician's starting salary being at the same level as the
craftsman's is unattractive.
(c)  The numker of grade 7 and 8 (higher grade) craftsmen in SMEPB is
only about 0.2X of the total number of craftsmen, showing an acute
shortage of this level of manpower.
6.        The two issues, optimal duration of the technicians course together
with the starting salary scale of technicians and the training of the highest
grade craftsmen, are generic problems in China. These could not be addressed
within this project. State Education Commission, technical ministries,
Ministry of Labor and Personnel and Enterprises, all are interested parties.
They should plan for joint consultation and the issues' long-term solution,
7.        The proposed project includes an equipment upgrading plan (Table 4)
and a development plan for existing schools (Table 5).
8.        The total amount of investment required is summarized as followE:
Approximate
Total amount   foreign component
Purpose                               Yuan '000           $'000
Training program for high
level and teaching staff (Table 2)           2,735              739
Training program for technical
staff (Table 3)                                705             191
Training equipment (Table 4)                    7,475             966
Schools development (Table 5)                 36,100
Total                                   47,015           1,896



- 60 -
ANNEX 12
Page 3 of 8
9.        The civil works component for schools development in the above table
(about Y 30 million) would be part of SMEPS's annual budget over several
years. The net amount of financing needed for training is thus about Y 17
million. Excluding $0.2 million for project related training, the foreign
exchange financing required is about $1.7 million.
10.       The Personnel and Training Department of SNEPS agreed to send to
Washington for the lank's review a more detailed equipment list including
specifications. 9MBPB would bring to Washington for the Bank's review by time
of negotiations, training programs in their final form and the terms of
reference of specialists required for the proposed project. Selection of
candidates for overGseo training and study tour would be administered by SNEPS
as before without the Bank's prior review. Training activities at Shanghai
would be in accordance with the Action Program of Training (Table 1).



ANNEX 12
Page 4 of 8
Table 1: ACTION PROGRAM OF TRAINING
Objectives                              Proposed action                       Status of progress
To upgrade high-level and teaching       Provide ad hoc training, send senior   A training program is being prepared
staff with skills to meet the new        staff on study tours, revise exist-    by SMEPB.
circumstances in the nineties with       ing management and accounting sys-
modern and larger power plants,          tems and advise and recommend neces-
larger automated grids with automa-    sary reforms to senior management.
ted load dispatch system, higher
voltage transmission, modern
accounting/costing/pricing and a
self-sustained Investment planning
organization.
To ensure smooth Implementation of       Provide project related traiaing to:   Training schemes are being prepared
the proposed project on technical                                                 by SMEPB.
matters during and after implementa-   (a) engineering and design staff
tiok.                                        related to the project through
on-the-job tralning with the                                                    .
Consulting Engineers engaged for
this project,
(b) operation and maintenance staff,
using facilities available in
China similar to those facili-
ties of this project, and
(c) electrical and mechanical staff
wo- 4ng on the power plant con-
struction site by the vendors of
major equipment for this project
In their factory or on site.
To increase the output of existing       Develop appropriately at different       School development plans have been
schools of SMEPB and improve the         paces all five existing schools of       prepared by SMEPB.
quality of such output for raising       SMEPB and, if needed, establish one
the percentage of annual new            more new school.
recruits from own institutions and
for higher quality input to SMEPB.      Upgrade the equipment level of work-   An equipment list is being prepared
shops and laboratories and provide       by SMEPB.
modern facilities such as simula-
tors, computers and language labora-
tories.



- 62-                           ANNEX 12
Page 5 of 8
Table 2: TRAINING PROGRAM FOR HIGH-LEVEL AND TEACHING STAFF
A. Specialists Needed for Training in China
Estimated
Name of                    Expected no.  No. of specia-  Duration    cost
training program               of trainees    lists needed   (month)    ($000)
Planning management                   50              2            1.5       37.5
Financial management                  50              3            1.5       56.3
Personnel management                  50              3            1.0       37.5
Management information                50              2            0.5       12.5
systems
Load dispatch and                     50              2            1.5       37.5
automation
Subtotal A                                                            181.3
B. Overseas Training
No, of trainees to be                      Estimated
sent for overseas          Duration        cost
Organization                         training               (month)        ($'000)
SMEPB                                    30                      3         330.0
Power plant                               5                      3          5500
Distribution company                      5                      3          55.0
Teacher training base                     6                      4          88.0
Coordination of training                  -                      -          30.0
Subtotal B                                                            558.0
Total A+B                                                             739.3/a
/a Equivalent to Y 2,735,000.



- 63 -                               Annex 12
Page 6 of 8
Table 3: TRAINING PROGRAM FOR TECHNICAL STAFF
Estimated
Expected no.        Duration              cost
Category of staff               of trainees         (months)            (YOOOO)
A. Training for Engineering and Design Staff
Design staff                         15                 4                  60
Engineering staff                    10                 4                  40
Subtotal A                                                           100
B. Training for Electrical and Mechanical Staff
Erection staff                       12                 3                  54
Testing staff                         9                 3                  41
Thermotechnical staff                10                 4                  60
Subtotal B                                                           155
C. Training for Operation and Maintenance Staff
Operation staff                     30                 10                 300
Maintenance staff                   30                  5                 150
Subtotal C                                                           450
Total A+B+C                                                          705
Note: The costs for A, B and C will be included in the Vendor's Contract.



-64 -
ANNEX 12
Page 7 of 8
Table 4: TRAINING EQUIPMENT TO BE PROCURED
Unit price Total price
Description                                   Quantity    (US$)         (US$)
Metal Workshop
Microscopic hardness meter                       2       45,000       90,000
Material Mechanics Laboratory
Stress-deformation amplifier                    2        17,500       35,000
Programmable recorder                           2        14,000       28,000
General-purpose material testing machine         2       98,000      196,000
Vibration testing equipment                      1      117,000      117,000
Fluid Mechanics Laboratory
Laser flow velocity meter                        1       57,000       57,000
Electronics Laboratory
lOOM dual-trace storage oscilloscope            2         7,6!0       15,300
200M general-purpose oscilloscope               1        14,000       14,000
Frequency spectrum analyzer                      1       20,000       20,000
Scanning frequency oscillator                   1        12,400       12,400
Foreign LaLea Laboratories                        2        50,000      100,000
Audiovisual Teaching Equlpment                     1       82,000       82,000
Video Tapes of Training Courses
Power plant operation and maintenance            1      100,000      100,000
Simulated management training software          1       100,000      100,000
Total                                                             966,700



ANNEX 12
Page 8 of 8
Table 5: DEVELOPMENT PLAN FOR EXISTING SCHOOLS
Capacity
Present capacity          after development     Cost estimates (Y00)
Enroll-         Grad-    Enroll-           Grad-    Civil   Equip-
Name of school                      ment    Staff  uates      ment    Staff   uates    works    ment   Total
Shanghai Workers College              283     46      26        700    100       230    2,350   1,150    3,500
Shanghai Electrical School            366      6    248       1,500    140       370   24,400   3,000   27,400
(technicians school)
Shanghai Workers Middle School        105     24      66        300      40      100        -      160      160
(skilled workers and general
high school)
Shanghai Construction Bureau          648    108    263       1,000    100       330    2,840      960    3,800
(skilled workers)
SMEPB's Skilled Worker's              389     50       -        700     70       230      300      940    1,240
School (high school)
Total                          1,791    234    603       4,200    450    1,260   29,890   6,210   362100
Note:  The present output is only about 30% of the annual need.  After development, the output should nearly
double and then would meet about 50% of the annual need.



- 66 -                              ANNEX 13
Page 1 of 5
CHINA
WUJING THERMAL POWER PROJECT
Terms. of Reference for Consultancy Services for WujingPower Station
The Project
1.        The thermal power station is located along the Huangpu River on the
outskirts of the city of Shanghai. It is owned by the Shanghai Municipal
Electric Power Bureau (SMEPB). The present installed capacity is 350 MW. The
extension plan is to develop the site to its ultimate capacity of about 950 MW
by adding two units of 300 MW each.
2.        The proposed project would include:
(a) construction of civil works including a wharf for coal unloading, an
intake structure, inlet and outlet conduits for cooling water, a
chimney, and auxiliary structures;
(b) installation of boilers, turbo-generators and other auxiliary
electrical and mechanical equipment;
(c) construction of associated 220 kV transmission lines and substations
to feed into the power grid.
Local Consultant
3.        The local consultant, China International Engineering Consulting
Corporation (CIECC) joined with the China Power Engineering Consulting
Corporation (CPECC) in Beijing will act as the project consultant with the
assistance of the East China Electric Power Design Institute (ECEPDI) in
Shanghai to carry out the following assignments of the project under agree-
ments with the Shanghai Municipal Electric Power Bureau (SMEPB), the Owner.
CIECC will take the leading role of the consultancy services. A detailed
feasibility report for the Wujing Thermal Power Station has been prepared.
The local consultant's further responsibilities will be to:
(a) Prepare and finalize conceptual designs, including plot plan,
general arrangement drawings, line diagrams and basic plant
parameters;
(b) Finalize prequalification documents for qualifying potential
bidders;
(c) Prepare and finalize bid documents which would primarily specify
performance requirements and lay down codes and standards, design
criteria, material specificationst reliability, redundancy, quality
control, and maintenance requirements. Detailed design will be left
to the vendor;



67 -                              ANNEX 13
Page 2 of 5
(d) Evaluate bids and prepare report;
(e) Draft contract and assist SMEPB in negotiations;
(f) Approve vendor's drawings; and
(g) Provide necessary assistance to SMEPB in quality control during
erection.
Foreign Consultant
4.        SMEPB proposes to engage a foreign consultant to provide necessary
support to the local consultant under the following terms of reference:
(a) Review conceptual designs and drawings;
(b) Assist in the preparation of bid documents and review the final bid
documents to ensure that quality requirements are clearly spelled
out, the technical specifications are flexible enough so as not to
inhibit innovation, latest technology transfer and competition and
the commercial terms and conditions follow World Bank guidelines and
clearly define the scope and responsibilities of the contractor and
the owner;
(c) Assist throughout the bid evaluation stage including prequalifica-
tion and assist in preparing the bid evaluation report;
(d)  Assist in contract negotiations and drafting of final contract;
(e) Assist in review of critical vendor drawings and design calcula-
tions, such as turbine-generator pedestal design, major structure
design, main equipment layouts, etc.
(f) Provide any other consultancy assistance as may be called upon by
the local consultant (e.g. perform optimization study for the
Circulating Water-System).
The Inc and Scope of the Vendor's Contract for the Procurement of Plant
Equipment and Materials
5.        The contractor's scope will be a single responsibility type covering
the following plants and equipments:
(a) Boiler and auxiliaries;
(b) Turbine generator and auxiliaries;
(c)  Mechanical and electrical auxiliary systems;
(d) Instrumentation and control;
(e)  Coal and ash handling plants;



- 68 -                           ANNEX 13
Page 3 of 5
(f)  Structural steel and cladding and other steel items like reinforce-
ment;
6.        The services involved will be:
(a) Detailed design including designs for specified buildings, and
building and equipment foundationsl
(b) Supply of main plant, auxiliaries, materials including structural
steel, reinforcement steel etc. as specified in bid documents;
(c) Provision of necessary erection equipment and tools, supervisory and
skilled technical personnel for site coordination and management of
erection, testing, and commissioning of the plant, demonstration of
guarantees and training of owners' personnel;
(d) Optional operation and/or maintenance of plant for specified period;
(e) The contractor will be responsible for proper installation of the
plant, meeting the commissioning schedule and performance
guarantees. Suitable penalties shall be provided for these in the
contract.
Expenses for Consultancy
7,        Consultant's services will be financed under an IDA Technical
Cooperation Credit (1412-CHA). The contract will be made on a man-month
basis.
8.        The man-month rates are made up of salary, social costst overhead,
and fee or profit. During negotiations, SMEPB expects to be able to review
data backing up a consultants' man-month rates for different categories of
team members. Consultants should also be prepared to disclose such data and
should accept that their proposed rates and other financial matters are sub-
ject to scrutiny and possible negotiation. Consultants submitting proposals
should provide estimate of man-months for each item of services outlined in
para. 4.
9.        Other out-of-pocket expenses should be quoted separately and will be
made on a reimbursement basis.



-69 -                           AN=X  13
Page 4 of 5
Time Schedule
10       These services should be completed within the following time frame,
assuming that the services will be started in early February 1987:
Scope of services                       Schedule date of completion
Review conceptual desi8n and drawings                 February 1987
Assist in preparation of bidding documents            February 1987
Assist in bid evaluation                             September 1987
Assist in contract negotiations                       December 1987
Assist in review of vendor's dwgs.                    December 1988
Local Sup-. rt
I1.       The SMEPB will provide the following local support for the project
activities:
(a) Make available to the consultants all basic data, information and
documents needed to carry out the services;
(b) Provide all services required to carry out the work efficiently
while working in China including office space, facilities and
supplies, communication, local transportation, counterpart profes-
sionals and technicians and interpretation, translation and secre-
tarial services.
Information Required
12.       Proposals should include the following information:
(a) A brief description of the firm and an outline of the recent
experience on projects of a similar nature.
(b) Any comments or suggestions on the terms of reference and a descrip-
tion of the mnner in which the consultants would plan to execute
the work.
(c) The composition of the team of personnel which the consultants would
propose to provide in service of the project and the tasks which
would be assigned to each team member.
(d) Curricula vitae of the individual staff members to be assigned to
the work and of the senior officer in the home office who would be
responsible for supervision of the team.



- 70 -                         ANNEX 13
Page 5 of 5
(e) The main points of the firm's proposed contract for technical
services for the project.
13.       In preparing the proposal, the consultants should give particular
attention to the following:
(a) Members of the team should have the requisite experience outside
their own country, preferably under conditions similar to those
prevailing in this project.
(b) The majority of the personnel comprising the consultant's team
should be drawn from the permanent staff of the firm.
(c) The type of personnel selected and the schedule of their deployment
shall be consistent with the tight implementation schedule
(para. 10).



-71 -                         ANNEX 14
CHINA
WUJING THERMAL POWER PROJECT
Project Cost Estimate
(US$ millions)
Local cost        Foreign cost        Total
Power Station
Land acquisition and site
preparation                           15.7                 -              15.7
Piling and foundations                   2.4                1.7              4.1
Civil works and buildings               23.5               13.0             36.5
Wharf                                    0.8                0.7              1.5
Boiler                                   5.6               47.4             53.0
Turbo-generator                          2.6               51.6             54.,2
Coal handling system                     1.8               13.7             15.5
Oil system                               0.1                1.5              1.6
Ash disposal system                      0.5                5.1              5.6
Water supply system                      0.8                1.0              1.8
Electrical equipment                     2.0               10.7             12.7
Switchyard equipment                     0.7                6.2              6.9
Instrument and control                   3.2               12.8             16.0
Water treatment plant                    0.8                3.0              3.8
Construction equipment                    -                 3.5              3,5
Supervision and administration          16.7                 -              16.7
Base Cost                            77.2              171.9            249.1
Physical contingency                     9.3                8.7             18.0
Price contingency                        4.3               12.7             17.0
Total Station Cost                   90.8              193.3            284.1
220 kV Transmission Lines
and Substations
Base cost                               13.3               13.0             26.3
Physical contingency                     1.3                0.6              1.9
Price contingency                        1.0                0.9              1.9
Total Transmission                   15.6               14.5             30.1
Distribution Network Study                 0.5                1.5              2.0
Load Dispatching Equipment                  -                 3.0              3.0
Training                                   1.0                1.7              2.7
Total Project Cost                  107.9              214.0            321.9



-72-                                ANNEX 15
CHINA
WUJING THERMAL POWER PROJECT
Procurement Schedule
Latest date
Activities                          Parties responsible           of completion
Preparation and review of
conceptual design                    ECEPDI/CPECC                  Nov 1986
Preparation of bid documents       SMEPB/ECEPDI/ITC/CWE              Jan 1987
Apppointment of foreign
consultants                          CIECC/SMEPB                   Feb 1987
Review of conceptual
design and bid documents         Foreign consultants               Apr 1987
Prequalification                   CIECC/SMEPB/ITC/CWE               Jun 1987
Issue of bid documents                    ITC/CWE                    Jul 1987
Bid opening                               ITC/CWE                    Nov 1987
Bid evaluation                  ECEPDI/SMEPB/CIECC/ITC/CWE           Feb 1988
Approval of award                     Government/IBRD                Mar 1988
Letter of intent                       ITC/CWE/SMEPB                 May 1988
Contract signing                       ITC/CWE/SMEPB                 Jun 1988
Note:  ITC -  International Tendering Company of China National Technical
Import Corporation
CWE - China International Water and Electric Corporation of MWREP.



-73 -ANNEX 16
CHINA
WUJING THERMAL POWER PROJECT
Disbursement Schedule
Bank fiscal year      Semester      Cumulative       Project      Bank profile  a
and semester          -- (US$ million) --                           -----()
1988
First                 0e7              Oe7           0.4             1.0
Second               10.0             10.7           5.6             6.0
1989
First                11.4             22.1          11.6            12.0
Second               15.0             37.1          19.5            19.0
1990
First                22.0             59.1          31.1            27.0
Second               29.9            89.0          46.8             37.0
1991
First                31.8            120.8          63.6            46.0
Second               20.0           140.8          74o1             56.0
1992
First                19.0            159.8         84.1             65.0
Second               10.0           169.8          89.3             73o0
1993
First                 9.5            179.3         94.3             81.0
Second               10.7           190.0         100.0             86.0
/a Bankwide disbursement profile for thermal power plants issued on Octo-
ber 3, 1985.



- 74 -
ANNEX 17
CHINA
WUJING THERMAL POWER PROJECT
Chinese National Environmental Protection Standards
Chinese              Bank                Plant          Calculated
Pollutant                  standards /a         guidelines         design levels         level
Dust
One-year average              -                0.1 mg/m3
Daily average             0.15 mg/m3             -                0.15 mg/m3         0.09 mg/m3
Maximum 24-hour
concentration            0.5 mg/m3           0.5 mg/mr3
S02
One-year average          0.06 mg/m3          0.05 mg/m3
Daily average             0.15 mg/m3             -                0.15 mg/m3         0.08 mg/r3
Maximum 24-hour
concentration            0.5 mg/m3           0.5 mg/m3
NO'
One-year average              -                0.1 mg/m3
Daily average             0.10 mg/m3             -
Maximum 24-hour
concentration           0.15 mg/m3
Noise                          85 db(A)           90 db(A)            85 db(A)
Coal & ash pile runoff
pH value                   6-9                 6-9                 6-9
Total suspended solids     500 ppm              50 ppm
Biological oxygen
requirement               60 ppm
.a  Using Class II standards for site.
Source; Environmental Protection Steering Committee of the State Council.



- 75 -
ANNEX 18
Page 1 of 3
CHINA
WUJING THERMAL POWER PROJECT
SHANGHAI ELECTRIC POWER CORPORATION
Financial System Followed by Chinese Power Bureaux
1.        Power companies such as SMEPB may accumulate capital from three
separate and distinct sources. These include:
(a)  Funds for fixed assets, which are obtained from the State in amounts
permitting implementation of approved projects according to agreed
schedules. Until 1980, these funds were provided almost entirely as
grants; since then, the Government has decided to make these funds
available as loans obtained from the banking system or from official
aources. Funds under this category are used exclusively to finance
works classified as capital expenditures. These funds are released
monthly, in accordance with plan provisions, in amounts needed to
cover actually incurred expenditures. Most Chinese enterprises are
not expected to finance any portion of capital expenditure from
operations; rather, they are expected to remit all surplus income to
the Government through payment of taxes;
(b) Funds for working capital, which are also received from the State
based on a fixed amount established by regulation and subject to
review at intervals of about 10 years. These funds comprise only a
minor component of the power bureaux' capital; and, because most of
the power bureaux have drawn their entire allocations since the last
review, these funds have been used only as a minor source of capital
in recent power projects proposed for Bank finincing. Because
current obligations, both to and from the power bureaux, are settled
virtually as accrued, these working capital funds have been used
primarily to finance operating inventory; and
(c) A number of Special Funds, each of which is earmarked for distinct
purposes and funded from net operating revenues or cash receipts in
amounts established according to reguladions. The power bureaux'
accounts contain four separate categories of Special Funds,
including Special Funds for: (i) maintenance; (ii) employee bene-
fits; (iii) renovations; and (iv) distribution improvements. The
Special Funds for maIntenance are financed by allocations charged as
operating expenses in determining net operating income prior to
Income Tax. The Special Funds for renovations are financed oy
charges against Goverament Funds (the balance sheet account showing
the Government's equity investment in a power bureau) equal to the
portion of depreciation provisions not used for debt repayment. The
Special Funds for employee benefits are financed using distributions
from Net Income after Income Tax but prior to the Adjustment Ta.



-76-
ANNEX 18
Page 2 of 3
All allocations to the Special Funds (other than those earmarked to
account for revenues and expenses associated with distribution
improvements) appear or are reflected on the Income Statement as
though they are operating costs or distributions from earnings,
regardless of whether corresponding cash expenditures have been
incurred. Receipts and withdrawals from the Special Funds associa-
ted with distribution improvements are passed through the Flow of
Funds statement and are specifically excluded from the Income State-
ment. The moneys expended from the Special Funds would largely be
classified as operating costs or working capital under more familiar
systems. However, items charged to the Special Funds for both
renovations and distribution improvements would be capitalized as
fixed assets once the underlying work is completed; thus, when the
renovations or distribution improvements are completed, their value
is deducted from the Special Funds balance and added to the Govern-
ment Funds account. As all operating revenues must be expensed;
distributed, either to cover cash outflows, debt service or taxes;
invested in renovations or distribution improvements; or retained
for future expenditure chargeable to the Special Funds, the excess
of Special Fund Allocations over the sum of (a) Special Fund
Expenditures; (b) completed renovations and distribution improve-
ments; and (c) increases in Special Fund Assets, is the power
bureaus' only means of channeling tariff revenues into catsh. In
turn, cash generated through the Special Funds may be intermingled
with other operating cash; however, allocations to particular
Special Funds create for a power bureau an ultimate obligation to
use the accumulated cash only for certain categories of expendi-
tures.
2.        Until 1983, the power bureaus paid remittances to MWREP equal to
operating revenues less the sum of cash expenditures charged directly to
operations, all allocations to Special Funds, and debt service. Since 1983,
the pov r bureaux pay to KOF an Income Tax, assessed at 55X of operating
revenues less the sum of costs (including depreciation) charged directly to
operations, all allocation to Special Funds that are treated as expenses, and
debt service in excess of the portion of depreciation provisions specifically
allocated for debt repayment. From the residual after Income Tax, the power
bureaux must cover the Special Fund allocations that are treated as distribu-
tions from earnings and the amotrnt of debt repayment and capitalized interest
during construct-lon to be mV5 from net income, and remit the remainder to
MWREP as an Adjustment Tax.' MIWREP has some flexibility to control the power
bureaus' liquidity either by changing their allocations to the Special Funds,
making grants for allocation to the Special Funds, or relieving the power
bureaux of a portion of the Adjustment Tax. Thea power bureaux appear to have
adequate liquidity and IWREP has not indicated any inclination to adjust those
procedures which affect their liquidity.
1/   From an accounting point of view, the Adjustment Tax is treated in a
manner similar to a dividend.



- 77 -
ANNEX 18
Page 3 of 3
3.        Under the existing financial system, the Government does not intend
for the power bureaux to retain surpluses. However, tariff revenues must meet
debt service requirements; and repayment tt se does not represent a charge
against earnings. Regulations provide that certain stipulated amounts of
repayment shall be met from cash that has been generated by depreciation$
however, the remainder of the cash generated by depreciation must be added to
a bureau's operating cash and a corresponding allocation must be made to the
Special Funds for renovations.  As a result, the remainder of repayment, which
rust be met from an earmarked increment of tariff revenues, creates an
accumulation of equity in the form of a corresponding undistributed earnings.
4.        Host power bureauz have units which engage in construction manage-
ment and subsidiaries which function as contractors. As a rulep the accounts
of the construction management units are consolidated with those of the power
bureaux' operating units; however, the accounts of subsidiaries acting as
construction contractors are, as a rule, not consolidated with those of the
operating units. As a result, in the environment of grant financing of
investments, the power bureaux' consolidated accounts may routinely have
understated gross fixed assets and definitely had not adequately reflected
construction in progress. Also, in the past, an average of only about 85% of
the value of Government grants used to finance new fixed assets was trans-
ferred from the books of the construction subsidiaries functioning as contrac-
tors to the power bureaux' consolidated accounts. The residual was considered
to have been expended to purchase moving assets, which remained with those
construction subsidiaries upon the completion of construction. The change to
using loans rather than grants to finance power sector investments has caused
investment funds to be channelled from the Government through the power
bureauz for payment to construction units acting as contractors; thus, the
consolidated accounts of the power bureaux should in the future more
accurately reflect the value of gross fized assets and of construction in
progress.
5.        Given the existing financial !vstem, the power bureaux have limited
financial incentive for increasing the tariff at the present time; once a
power bureau has revenues sufficient to meet the aggregate of costs charged
directly to operations, all Special Fund allocations and debt service, any
additional revenues are remitted to the State through Income or Adjustment
Taxes. Thus, once expenses and required distributions have been met, a tariff
increase, even one of major proportion., would not increase a power bureau's
financial viability, except to the extent that debt service coverage would be
improved. Thus also, the familiar indicators of financial performance, such
as rate of return and self-financing ratio, have very limited applicability to
financial analysis of a Chinese power bureu.



- 78 -                      ANNEX 19
Page 1 of 23
CHINA
WUJING THERMAL POWER PROJECT
SHANGHAI MUNICIPAL ELECTRIC POWER BUREAU
ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Table of Contents
Page No.
Key Financial Indicators...................o....***...................       2
Income Stateentooooo ...oo....................oo...................          3
Funds Flow Statementoo. ..... ..oo.ooo ........oo0*00...........             4
Balance Shetoooooooooooeoeoooooootoooooo                                     S
Derivation of Average Tariffa.o............ ........000...000..0..0          6
Investment P r o graum.... o. o o.o. oo.o...   ooo..oooooo.  ooooooooo.o.o..  7
Loan Parametersoooooooooooo .oooo.. o.o.... o.......ooooooo ...oo.o          9
Fixed Asset Formatioro.Oooooooooo000000**O00                                12
Revaluation of Assets o.. .........o .ooooo.......o... ..* ..........       13
Wujing Expenditures and Financinga             n    c    i    ng....o....ooo...oooo. oo...  14
Fuel, Purchases and Operating Expenseso.o....ooooooooes...o...     oooo     16
Special Funds Calculations. ...........o............oo.........oooo         18
Breakeven Priccingo...    oo......o... o.... . .ooo. oo.. oooo..oo. o.      19
Self Financing Rati.. oo...... ..o.......e..... ... *..*. * ...... ..       20
Assumptions to Financial Projections....00 0o..*******O ............        21



- 79 -
Shaaia  ficipal Electric Par Breau - rinmncial Stat ts 1986-1994                                          1Hby-87
CHINA                                             ANNEX  19
UWIN6 THEIRl POUER PROJECT                                  Page 2
SIHRI HiJICIPRL ELECTRIC POUER tUREAI                                of 23
KEY FINANCIRL INDICRlORS 1986-199
(Yuan hillion)
Year Ended Oec&br 31                       1986    1987    1908    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994
rnergy Sales (SUh)                        15990   17202   18368   20384   23010   25460   28120   30382   33189
Average PriceAih (fen)                     8.61     8.95    9.12     9.64    9.91    10.60    11.0?   11.25    11.74
Operating Revenue                          137?    154O    1675    1966    2283    2699    3099    3t19    3898
Operating Incme                             271      296      316     37?      423    417       518      600      721
Renittancs to 6overent                      103      111      71       82      102       93      86      115       59
nual Capital Expenditure                    577      831    1089    1007    1104    1193    1161    1243    1225
Rate Base                                   877    1198    1954    2759    3652    4796    5361         5m       6783
Long-tern Debt                              656    1254    1970    2511    3162    3800    4373    5009    5371
Debt Service                                  9       19      139     199      216      311     42?      413      662 Projected
Cash in Wanks                               228      265      296     316      321      32?     377      433      482 Rverage
1987-1994
Rate of Return
Historically (laued Rssets (f)           30.9    24.?    16.2    13.7    11.6         9.8    10.2    10.4    10.6    13.1
tionally Realued Rssets (1)              13.2    11.8       0.0     6.9      5.7      4.8     5.0      4.9      5.1      6.5
Self financing Ratio (X)                   30.2    30.9    26.9    28.0    30.6    30.0    27.1    30.1    31.3    29.4
Operating Ratio (2)                        80.4    00.8    81.1    80.8    81.5    82.5    82.3    82.4    01.5    81.6
Debt/Total Capital (2)                     31.3    43.3    50.3    53.0    55.3    56.9    57.3    58.0    55.9    53.7
Debt Servict Cowage                        37.7    19.9       3.5     2.8      2.9      2.3     1.9      2.1      1.7     4.6
* -ann,so                                                                                           8%xVxs,U



- 80 -
Shugu !amlcipe Elcc  Pon  1w  - fiull Stamt 19861991                                                            1141Pw-B
QCE                          .ANNEX 19
WiJ11 t753 a Pon      ROJECT                                    Pap 3
a m10 IlaUiLIru. aDCtilc POI  mm0                                        of 23
iVm srariouT
Ywr nded 0ecber 31                           1986      198I     19       19 198 9 1910 199           19       1993     1991
Sales Incrae (1)                              2.?       7.6      6.6     11.0    13.0      10.5      10.       1.0      9.2
Enerw    Sles (P)                           1599S    17202    18366    2030      23010    250    28120    30382    33189
Rvag  Price/Idh (fen)                        6.61      6.95     9.12     9.64     9.91    IA.60    11.02    11.25    11.7
Opeating Revenue                             1377      1510     1675     1966     2283     2699      3099     3419     3698
Operating Coats
ful                                         302      n15       46?      601      725      971     114       1205     1421
Prchd ed Po                                 352       403      13       470      521      489      512       629      635
Opeton a binte c                             59        68       62      107      126      176      m         242      26?
6d*nittion                                   29        32       37       42       19       55       63        71       80
Sale    x                                   207       231      209      197      220      270       310      32       390
Dreciation                                   79        95      130      168      212      267      301       330      385
Total Operaing Costs                     1107     1245      1359     1508     1861     2226     2551     2810      317?
as%
Opnting Irncoe                                21        26       316      3        423      1        516       60       721
Interest Crged lpeatns                          3         7       15       41       58       99      1S?       143      163
IktIncie eforelncore tax                      267       286      301      333      365      372      391      15?       557
saBusaa        U     *    _                _    _    _    _         _      _ _  _  _
Ince Tax                                      145      155       107      122      116      137      130      16         90
kt Incme                                      122       133      191      211      216      235      262      291       459
Distribution of get Incme
Ritt s to 6worient                          103       111       71       02      102       93       86      115        59
Tr6aered to        . 6   ruds                 4        ?        85       93       89      111      156      156       322
Chargeble IDC                                 0         0       21       16       10       11        0        0        57
loyeenefits pec. runds                       16        16       1?       18       18       19       20       21        21
Ikt Imcen                                     122      133       19       211      218      235      262      291       159
h    bew                                      8?77    1190      1951    2759    3652       4796     5364     5772      6783
Rte ot Return (Z)                            30.9      21.7     16.2     13?     11.6      9.8     10.2      10.9     10.6



- 81 -
Ssgwei lunicipdl Electric Pow lBrma -iull St dtuats I81m                                               14*96
cm,                                             ANX  19
Wm  tiis uMc No          t s                                    1 
mmIRI imiczlCI t lECiuxt me  OWD                                   of 23
rum rum SIaNWU
(Yi Nillisn)
Yr ended  Oeber 31                        1986    117    1918    19B9    199        1991    1992    1593    195
Internal Socs of fund
Net Inclw                              I2.3   133.4   15.2   211.2   216Z    234.3   261.6   291.2   159.0
OWreciation                             79.0    95.4   130.1   161.3   211.6   266.9   3DI.0   329.9   5N.6
laintnnce Special rwd                   26.6    29.5    38.1    53.9    64.6    64.2   103.5   I3L.    123.8
Distribution lrv. Spec. ds.            12Q0    121.2   122.4   123.6        .9 4.    126.1    I.1   121.7   12.9
Total Inttrnl Sources                  347.9   379.5    6.7   557.0   619.4   711.9    73.5   85?.6  I99.1
Borrinop
Proposed II  Loan                        0.0      2.6    02.9   136.9   2246    111.3    70.?    41.1        0O
UuJing Project Related Loans             0.0    4.0    92.5   11i.6   215.0   134.7    57.9    17.9          0.0
Other Loans                            135.1   630.4   625.0   42.9  301.4   561.2   67.1   767.2   *10.1
IOC Dorroed                             12.9    27.?    22.6    16.0    24.5    23.0    35.3    59.S         4.
Total Borrovins                        451.9   6059.6    23.0   72q.1   795.5   663.2   642.    910S.?   80.5
60wrmnt rid                               41.2    74.1    71.2    66.6    72.3    ??.6    62.5    67.6    93.1
Total Sources of fEwds               841.0  1063.5  1362.0  1318.2  1487.2  1652.7  1?16.9  151.1  199".9
Capital Expenditures
Propoed Uujing Project                   0.0    S1.S   171.6   25.1   439.?   254.9   126.5    S9.0          0.0
Other Constrtion                       461.3   604.7   703.0   43.0   103.6   662.9   761.5   674.6   653.2
Interest During Cotruction              12.9    27.5    17.4       7.6    64.2    58.1    35.3    55.5    61.1
Conpleted Rentos                        53.9    62.5    69.9    665    5.6   117.4   137.7   117.8   167.6
Distribution leWooments                 30.0    64.0    96.6    97.7    98.7    95.7   10.?   101.7   102.?
Total capital Eediture                 577.0   80.6  1013.   107.0  1103.6  1193.3  1163.6  122.6  1224.8
Operational Requienn
Inc/dec in  "rking Capital             (22.0)    0.9    15.6    19.3    23.9    34.3    17.6    16.1    34.1
Inc/dec in Special FrnW  ssets          714    22.6    21.3    14.2    2.4    25.5    12.0    25.9    45.0
Loan Repant                              6.0    11.6   102.9   136.9   117.9   200.8   270.0   270.0   12.3
Rsdittes to 6*enmnt                    103.1   110.6    70.6    62.5   101.5    93.1    06.3   115.1    56.9
Specia r    Expedites                   39.1    12.5    51.6    67.9    79.4         3    119.3   124.4   10.8
Total Oerational  rqurents             199.5   1961    262.2   320.0   37.1   453.1   505.9   51.6   721.2
total  pplications f finds           776.6  1026.9  13S1.0  1327.1  1461.9  1646.7  1669.7  1799.5  1945.9
ammaa--msueems*" *
IncressOecrewas  in CW                    64.5    36.5    31.0    20.4      5.3      6.1     ".2    56.6    15.0
w  DOet Sicet Covew                       37.7    19.9      3.5     2.6      2.9     2.3      1.9     2.1      1.?
-- - - - -   _=-                                 - -- - - - --                                             n u s



- 82 -
S _l  l icipd  lectric   ar bu   - fimnclal Statmts 19Mi-t19                                             1 -
CNio                                              ANNEX 19
WJIS TIEiRL POOIE   POECT                                        5
SHm mh!CtP. amuc NIo mm                                            of 23
(Ywn ilion)
Yr Sed Dcowr 31                  1985    1986   1W        1918    1989    1990    1951    1992    1593    195
trrent Aset
Cash                         163.?   228.2   261.7   295.7   316.2   321.4   327.5   376.6   433.2   462.3
InvntttrIes                   76.8    54.5    63.3    78.9    98.2   122.1   156.4   174.0   190.,   224.5
luseFables                    65.?    66.0    66.0    67.0    67.0    66.0    680    68.0    68.0    68.0
TOtl Currnt Asts             306.2   346.6   394.0      1.?   48.1   511.5   551.9   618.7   691.6    774.7
rtxed Wst
Pnt in Service              2056.0  2266.6  2075.2  4003.7  4764.1  6166.1  7551.6  76721.4  697.2  10609.0
(lea) AcR. DePriation   1246.0  1325.0  1420.4  15505  1716.7  1930.3  2197.2  2498.2  26M6I.  3212.6
et Ploit In Seice            012.0   911.8  1454.8  2453.2  3065.7  42378  53N.3  5374.2  6169.1  7396.2
Contruction  IP              216.3   566.5  680.6   765.1       7.9   666.1   453.9  1296.6  1414.8  1027.8
Total rVxe Assets             1030.3  1528.3  2263.4  3213   403.6  4O0.9  58ll.2  6671.0  7513.9  6124.0
eCi      d Atnts              239.7   313.1   335.?  357.0   371.2   396.6   422.1   434.6   460.7   55.?
Total  sets               IS.2  2190.1  2953.1  4017.0  468.1  5614.0  6762.2  m25   8736.2  9704.4
iilitties
Current Lialities
CAc ts PaWyble                24.6    24.6    24.6    25.6    25.6    26.6    26.6    26.6    26.6    26.6
ue to Crwt                     2.4     2.4      2.4     2.4     2.1      2.4     2.4      2.4     2.4      2.1
Total Curent liatlities       27.0    27.0    27.0    28.0    28.0    29.0    29.0    29.0    29.0    29,0
Cnes  ep"it                    10.7    10.7    10.7    10.7    10.?    l0.?    10.7    10.7    10.7    lo.7
urtng Capital fWn               59.1    59.1    59.1    59.1    59.1    59.1    59.1    59.1    59.1    59.1
lu-ter  Dt                     209.7   655.7  1253.5  1989.9  254.0  3161.6  3759.9  4372.6  SL.S  5370.7
6oment Fwds                    620.6   672.7  1009.8  12U.5  1462.3  1697.1  1937.0  2226.9  250M.1  2182.0
SpedIl r                      41.1   564.9   633.0   704.7   m.0  8656.5   946.4  1026.0  1124.6  1252.9
kalutiew   esrve                0.0      0.0     0.0      0.      0,0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0
Tota Lialitin             1576.2  2190.1   293L1   4017.0  4898.1  5814.0  6762.2  77.s  8736.2  970.4
Iebt a I of kt 8a 4ty            14.2    311    433    503    53.0    55.3    56.9    57.3    S.0    55.9
Ctret btl                        11.3    12.9    14.6    15.8    17.2    1?.6    19.0    21.3    23.6    26.7
_mm                                     e       m         m ~         n      a         em                  s



- 83 -
51i_i  hilcoip  Electric Pwr lu          - rti       Statunts 1916-19"                                     1487
ANNEX 19
oEmIu01    or mUr  Tlmr                                                                                     PAP 6
s-m_g                                                                                                          of 23
KIIZED    P ICIu                           1986    197     1988    1909    1990    1991         9      13       1994
Energy Sdes (Bh)                15566   15990   17202   19368    2034    23040   22?69    22193   23160   25960
Oetic                           530      587     666      78M      9C      lO1      1208    1398    1622    1881
Inter grid tranters             1K       164     164      164      161      164      164     164      164      161
llodatic reil                   .--   15239   1637    174t    19320   21836    2139?   20631    21t3T        23915
verag Revn  (fom/)               8.04    8.61     8.95     9.12     9.33     9.46     9.65    9.9    9.98    10.2
Oe Rv           (ilUi)        80.37   81.30   02.29    93.52    84.36   65.00    87.37    90.43    93.14    95.9
Inter grid trsfers          4S.51    56.36   55.36    55.36   5S.36   5.36    55.36   55.36   56.36   55.36
Auth. Coal Aidustments
Trafers (Current Pr.)                11.31    12.4    12.44    13.69   13.69   14.37    14.3?    14.37    14.37
H1nds. Ret. (Coast. Prs.)             6.60    7.26     7.26    7.99      7.99     939     8.39    6.39    8.39
11nd_. et. (Cur. Prs.)                6.60     7.50    7.98    9.35      9.96    11.03   11.53    12.05    12.59
Operating Rev        (sin Y)   1251.0  1377.3  1640.3  1675.3  1902.5  2179.9  2227.8  2247.1  2417.0  27".0
Totl   ny                    1251.0  1300.0  1415.6   1534.2  1719.6  1960.2  1989.4  2007.0  2157.2  24190.6
Inter grid tranters           4.9      9.1     9.1      9.1      9.1      9.1      9.1     9.1      9.1      9.1
Cool perce ad.
--Inter grid tranfers                  1.9      2.0     2.0      2.2      2.2      2.4     2.4      2.4      2.4
-- bndostic retaIl                    75.4   122.7   139.1   190.7   217.5   236.0   237.8   257.5   301.0
IPC SALES RICE                             196       9?    198        199      1990    19         92    1993    1994
Eergw  Sals (Sib)                                                                    2691    5927    7222    7229
vrage Price   (YunMih)                                                               85.2N    85.27   95.27   85.27
9(99's Operating Re. Wn Y)                                                          229.5   505.4   615.8   616.4
Sales Tax 103                                                                        22.9    50.5    61.6    61.6
Operating Cost ("ln Y)                                                              182.9   402.7   490.6   491.2
Purchsed Poer from NIPDC                                                          166.7   367.1    "7.3   4M7.
NP's Operation 8 lsint.                                                             16.1    35.6    43.3    43.4
SlEP9's Opr. Income  nln Y)                                                          23.7    62.1    63.5    63.6
NECUCN  Cal liU. IlERWIT
Revenue- Ruth. Coal Pr. As.             75.43   122.72   139.08   190.69   217.49   236.01   237.80  257.46   301.02
CPR    u   Net of Sles Tax              64.12   104.32   119.22  153.58   14.87   200.61   202.13  218.84   255.07
cost of Ca Price Increaent              49.82    70.76   111.20  216.67   288.42  442.94   649.32  604.69   743.52
Col NJi. Surpluwifcit                 14.30    33.56    7.02  (63.08) (103.56) (2M2.23) (346.19) (395.85) (87.65)
Aitiondl Req. Req. (f/te h)              0.00    0.00      0.00     0.36    0.56     1.       1.97    2.12    2.40
Ajusted Oper. Rev. (Y "ln.)            1377.3  1540.3  1675.3  1965.6  22835   2699.5  3098.7  341.7  3898.0
Energy Sales (Si)                        15990   17202   19368   2034   230M0   25460   29120   3032    33189
NdJ. Avg. Sale Price (fenAt)             8.61     8.95    9.12      9.64     9.91    10.60    11.02   11.25    11.74
enel TariffRevsion                          01       Ot       Qs       of      01      aO        OS      0et      a
Revied Price (fMav )                     6.61     8.95     9.12     9.64    9.91   10.60   11.02    11.25    11.74
M    SlES PRICE (fm/ib)                    8.61     0.95    9.12      9.64    9.91    10.60    11.02    11.25   11.74



- 84 -
Shngi lwicipol Electric Por Oureu - finmial Sttmmnts 1916-1594                                      i-flt-7
ANNEX 19
INUESTlIENT Pi6RII                                                                              Page ?
musumant                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~of 23
CRPITRL EPENITURES                      1986    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    193    1991   TOTAL
............, .  .............. .                                                                 ........  ...    .. ....
LOANS
PCOC loans-R
Nmnshi therml Renou.                   34.0     2.6     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0    36.6
Shldonkou thml I                      200.0   309.8   139.8   23q.2    51.t    0.0       0.0     0.0     0.0  1278.2
Uujing The!rnal tII                     0.0     0.0     0.0     .7      7.5    21.0    46.7    57.5      0.0   137.4
UugpoqiaD Thernal                       0.0     0.0     0.0    23.1    ".9   431.1   536.1   574.6   600.4  2268.t
SOOku Xuhu line                        25.2    t7.3     ?.6     0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0    80.1
500 ku Nuihu line                      26.5    60.1    14.3    11.7    0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0   112.9
500 ku lfngshi line(SOK 1)              0.0     3.1    16.5    17.6     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0    37.2
500 k1 Other line                      0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0    20.7    45.0    73.8
220 ku transnission projects I         75.0    85.8     9.9     0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0   260.7
220 k1 tranisston projects II          0.0      0.0     0.0    61.5    33.6    78.9      0.0     0.0     0.0   171.0
220 ku trnsission projects III          0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0    96.2   126.4   151.6   377.2
Oujing Thenal Ul *                      0.0     5.1    24.8    52.3   102.2    1.l    36.1    17.9       0.0   312.6
PCBC loans-
f*nnng Therfal III                     61.0     1.1     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0    62.1
Lxal 1Iwo
tliniang Thll III                      0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0
220 k1 tramssion projects I            17.t    20.1    16.9     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0    84.?
220 ku tranuission projects II         0.0      0.0     0.0    49.8   66.1    27.2       0.0     0.0     0.0   143.0
Uujing Theral Ul *                     0.0    13.9   6V.7   116.3   142.8    60.6    21.7    0.0         0.0  4t3.1
I18D loan
Uujing Thenal UI *                      0.0     2.6    82.9   136.9   221.6   1".3    70.7    41.1       0.0   703.0
6RRITS  aU9'SFUNDO
Other Construction                     37.0    56.8    61.6    66.8    72.3    77.6    82.5    87.6    93.1   635.2
220 ku stations                        4.2    17.3    12.6      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0    34.2
Total                               t80.3   656.2   874.6   775.2   843.3   917.8   0.1   933.8   893.2  7261.4
xIA==*x ___W_N_     ____S _ _ 



- 85 -
Sm#ui &unicips Electric Pwr Burm - frimcial Statamts 1906-1991                                  1-ttby-07
ANNEX 19
Page 8
of 23
IKIJUStENtS (INClUOIU  IOC)    198S    1986    198?    1988 198    19          11    19        1993    1994   tOTRl
.__ ..................................         .     _. ....   . ...._ ..,_...,.
LOWNS
P>Cc loans-B
Wn*M rhnl Rak .                      34.6    3.9    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   38.5
Shl ou Therwml I              30.1   204.?   323.0   460.9   252.4   104.2    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0  1376.0
Uujing Thel El                       0.0     0.0    0.0      4.0    7.8    21.9   48.8   61.5    0.0   1".7
Iai   ao  tmal                       0.0    0.0    0.0    23.0   102.4   416.4   S66.4  625.9   656.2  2421.2
500    KNuhu line             3.3   25.8    49.2    10.5    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    8.8
500 kIv Ihaih line            6.3   27.2    62.?   18.0    16.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   130.2
500 k u ipi line(SOK I)               0.0    3.2    16.9   18.6    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   38.7
510 Iv Other line                     0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    29.2   46.0   75.2
220 k tramusin projects I   49.1      8.L1    91.9   109.6    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   328.?
23  iv trawnulon projects II          0.0    0.0    0.0    62.6   36.5   83.9    0.0          0.0    0.0   183.0
220 Iw trmsdsaon projects III         0.0     0.0     LO      0.0    0.0    0.0    99.2   10.0   159.0  368.2
Uujing Thrml Ul                       0.0    5.2    25.1    51.4  10?.1    78.2   36.1    17.9    0.0   324.1
PC8C liwn-I
id_Thermal III                23.1    63.?    1.1     0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   87.9
Lal lowas
fling Teril III               89.8    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   89.8
220 kI transtidon projeets I    1.5    17.8   21.6   49.3    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   93.2
220 kv tramotlAsim project II         0.0    0.0    0.0    50.7   69.1    32.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   151.7
!vils, Them   VI                      0.0    1.7    70.5  122.4   153.6   67.9    21.7    0.0    0.0  410.8
Vujing Theml UI                       0.0    2.6    82.9  136.9  224.6   144.3   70.7   41.1    0.0   703.0
VMllS 8 WIIE'S m
bOn  Thrml 11.               63.5                                                                            63.5
Shidwou thml  1              67.7                                                                            6?.?
Other Constructin                    37.0   56.8   61.6   66.0   72.3   77.6    82.5   87.6   93.1   635.2
220 Iv satIons                        4.2    17.3   12.6    0.0    0.0    0.0         0.0    0.0    0.0   34.2
Tufd                       337.1  153.1   683.9   918.3  809.3   677.6  952.1   925.1   553.3   951.3  754.7
_n                                   £_auaauanaiaaaahaaaaa=uuaa,asanua,aauln**uUuunaua



- 86 -
Shnghi tInicipal Electric Pouer Bureau - rinancial Statements 1986-199t                              1-y-87
ANNEX 19
LOAN PARRR ETRS                                                                                 Page 9
".= . *8=31M.                                                                                      of 23
INTEREST                                 1986    198?    1988    1989    1998    1991    1992    1993    1994   TOTRL
Hinhtng Therel III
PCBC loans-8                            2.7     4.4      3.9     3.6     3.3      3.0     2.?     2.5      2.2    28.4
Local loans                             3.2     2.8      2.6     2.4     2.2      1.9     1.7     1.5      1.3    19.6
Ibnhi Thernal Renou.
PCSC loans-R                            0.6      1.3     1.4     1.2     1.1      1.0     0.9     0.9      0.8     9.3
Shidongkou Thenal I
PC0C loans-A                            S.7    14.0    28.0    36.3    39.0    37.5    34.4    31.2    28.0   253.1
Uujing Thermal UlI
PC8C loans-A                            0.0     0.0      0.0     0.1     0.3      0.8     2.1     4.0      5.2    12.5
Uuipoqiao Thenial
PC0C lomns R                            0.0     0.0      0.0     0.4     2.7    12.4    30.3    51.3    74.3   171.4
500 ku Xuhu line
PStC loans-A                            0.6      1.9     3.0     3.2     2.8      2.6     2.4     2.1      1.9    20.4
500 ku Nhuahu line
PCU lon-A                               0.7     2.3      3.?     4.3     4.7      4.0     3.?     3.4      3.1    29.9
500 ku tulngshi line(SOK I)
PC8C loans-R                            0.0     0.1      0.4     1.0     1.4      1.2     1.2     1.1      1.0     7.3
500 kv Other line
PCEC loans-fl                           0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.5     1.9      2.4
220 ku transaission projects I
PC0C loans-fl                           3.1     6.1      9.7    11.8    10.4      9.6     8.8     8.0     7.2    74.?
Local loans                             0.5     1.2      2.4     3.4     3.0      2.0     2.5     2.3     2.1    20.1
220 k1 tranmission projects II
PC0C loansfR                            0.0     0.0      0.0     1.1     2.9      5.0     6.6     5.8     5.4    26.8
Local loans                             0.0     0.0      0.0     0.9     3.0      4.8     S.5     4.8     4.4    23.4
220 kv trarsission projects III
PC0C loans-R                            0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     3.0     3.6     8.8    15.4
Uujing Therral UI
15D lon                                0.0     0.1      3.8    13.4    29.9    48.1    61.4    54.0    51.8   262.5
PIIC loans-A                            0.0     0.1      0.6     2.0     4.9      8.3     9.2     9.4     8.9    43.5
Local loam                              0.0     0.8      2.8     6.1    10.8    14.4    15.9    16.3    16.3    83.5
Total                                 16.1    35.1    62.3    91.3   122.3   157.5   192.1   202.?   224.5  1104.0
U3SDUaS3n.U tUSUU8 w                   aaasaa wwsweaw#t-SltgXwaclgaauc



- 87 -
Shqghai &lWicipl Electric Pur Bureawu - rinncil Statnts 1906-199t                                        14u-?7
ANNEX 19
hpae 10
of 23
MIIEREST OWIIH6 CONSTRIUn:                 1996    199?    1969    1999    1990    191         im      1993    199    TOTAl
............ .......                      ....       ....    ....      ....    ...       ..   ..           ..  ..       ..
HhiJhng Theral III
PC0C lwoa-                                2.7                                                                          2.?
Local loans                                                                                                            0.0
Nshi 1hul aew.
PCU loans-0                               0.6      1,3                                                                 1.9
Shido*gu Therl I
PCIC loans-R                              V.?   li0      21.0    18.1      9.9                                       67.6
Uujing Tlnl Ull
PC1C loa-R                                0.0     0.0      0.0      0.1      0.3     0.8     2.1      1.0              7.3
Uigpoqiao Themul
PC6C loas-R                               0.0     0.0      0.0      0.4     2.7    12.4    30.3    51.3    55.8   152.9
500 ku  Wm line
PC0C loan-                                0.6     1.9      3,0                                                         5.4
500 kv *Aihu line
PC0C loans-R                              0.7     2.3      3.7      4.3                                               11.0
50 ku Iungohi line(SOI 1)
PC0C loaNs-                               0.0      0.1     0.4      1.0                                                1.5
500 ku Other line
PCtE low-f                                                                                            0.5      0.9     1.4
220 kv tramission projects I
PC0C loans-f                              3.1     6.1      9.7                                                        19.9
Local loans                               0.5     1.?      2.4                                                         4.1
220 ki trnission projects II
PStC lans-A                               0.0     0.0      0.0      1.1     2.9      5.0                               9.0
Lcalloa ns                                0.0     0.0      0.0      0.9    3L0       4.9                               8.7
220 kI tranuission projects III
PCEC lans-f                                                                                  3.0      3.6      4.4    11.0
Oujing thel 
Ing loan                                 0.0      0.1      3.8    13.4    29.9    24.1                                71,3
PCBC leons-                               0.0     0.1      0.6     2.0      4.9      4.1                              11.0
Local loans                               0.0     0.9      2.8      6.1    10.8      7.2                              2?.?
letal                                   12.9    27.9    47.4    47.6    64.2    58s,       35.3    59.5    61.1   414.2
ENAR8CRILE IOC                             1986    198?    1980    1989    1990    199i    1992   1"3           1994   TOTAl.
linng Thral III                                                                                                        0.0
Ibnshi thml Reono.                                                                                                     0C0
Shidonogku Thaalk4  I                                     21.0    19.1      9.8      0.0     0.0                      48.9
Uujing 1Thra Utl                                                                                                       0.0
uaipoqiao Tenwl                                                                                               55.8    55.8
500 kV N    line                                                                                                       0.0
500kv ku   ihu lire                                                                                                    0.0
500km Wahgsh  lina(SOI 1)                                                                                              0.0
500 k Other line                                                                                               0.9     0.9
220 ko trai si io       ts 1                                                                                           0.0
220 ku trtinmnissglo prects 11                                                                                         0.0
220 ku trManission projects III                                                                                        0.0
I4jing thernal Ul                                                                   11.3                              11.3
Total                                                   21.0    10.1      9.8    11.3      0.0      0.0    56.7   117.0
u_e.aueau         uUmSin#gtuflU,mSuuuI,a.uavumuuau                          3aauaRuuau----------h



- 88 -
Shonta  hIeipul Electric Pew irm  - finmid Stamo 1986-199                                       1lhp-0
ANNEX 19
@123
EII¶fWT                                198     1197    1900    19    1998   1991    199    1993    199    TOIl
...............                        .... ..... .. ....   ....... ..   _.
Nithngu Themal III
PCI 1m-f                              0.0    5.9    5.9    5.9    5.9    5.9    5.9           5.9    5.9   46.9
led In                                6.0    6.0    6.0    6.0    6.0    6.0          6.0    6.0    6.0   53.9
PIbrhi Thermal Remw.
PCIC l..m-                            0.0     0.0    2.6    2.6    2.6    2.6    2.6    2.6           2.6   10.0
shidoq0 kouTemal I
PMC luw-f                             0.0    0.0    0.5    0.5    0.5    0.5          .S    00.5 60.5   619.3
IUAjlng thema Vl
PCI ans4                              0.0    0.0    0.0       0.0    0.0    0.0   0L          0.0    9.6    9.6
Valpwiao Thrml
PER Imw-                              0.0     0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   16?.?  157.7
0 ke Wm line
PcI leoaRs                            0.0    0.0    0.0    5.9    S.9    5.9          i9    5.9    5.9   35.5
500 ke Iuoiho line
PEiO loam-f                           0.0     0.0    0.0    0.0    0.4         .4    8.4    0.1       04    12.0
0 b Ik auh_  line(S   1)
P.K loas"                             0.0     0.0    0.0    0.0    2.6    2.6    2.6    2.6    2.6   12.9
500 ke Other line
PCtC os0-.0 0.0                               0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0                 0.0     5.0    5.0
22 ky trawAsslin pojects I
PCC lo_f                              0.0    0.0    0.0    21.9   21.9   21.9   21.9   21.9   21.9   131.5
Lo  loaw                              0.0    Q0n      0.0    6.2    6.2    6.2    6.2    6.2    6.2   37.3
220 bw trwadsdm   ooets II
PCx                                   o.o    a.o 0.0  o0 0.0    0.0   0        .0    12.2    I.    12.2   36.6
Loul low                              0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0        .0    0.0   101    10.1    10.1   30.3
220 k traission projets III
uce loan-s                            0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
king Tmld UI
low lON                               0.0     0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    6.9   4L9    46.9  140.6
PCB l1a-R                             0.0     0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    21.4   21.4    21.4   21.4   65.1
Locd loon                             0.0     0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    31.6   31.6   31.6    31.6  126.3
total                                6.0    11.0   102.9   136.9   147.9   200.0   2700   m.o   42.3  159.7
Lm epan t fr  Deprecation   195    1916    19W        1911    199    1990    1991    1992   199    199   TOIL
1xied aet a1tim              75.2   07.9   302.5   854.7   512.9  1098.1  I0IL0.      0.0   70?.?  1219.2  6060
hpreclataf rate 42            3.0    3.5    15.3    34.2   20.5   13.9   13.6    0.0    31.5   49.9  242.4
Rep~ent Iafro dreclatin                                                                                      0.0
1915                2.1    2.4      2.4    1.5    1.5    1.5    1.5    1.5    1.S    16.2
-11069ii                           2.     2.0     2.0    1.0      1.8    1.0    1.9    1,0   17.2
1937                               12.2    12.2   12.2    7.6    7.6       7.6    7.6   67.3
-1911                                            27.4   27.4      7.    17.1   17.1    17.1  133.3
-1 919                                                   16.4   16.4   16.4   16.1   16.4   8t.1
-1990                                                            35.1    35.1   35.1    15.0   121.2
-1991                                                                    34.0    34.0    9.    104.5
---1992                                                                           0.8    0.0    0.0
_--   199                                                                                 S.2   25.2
Total                               2.4     5.2    17.5   43.9   59.3   89.0  114.1   114.4   120.t  567.1



-89-                                                      ANE 19
Shq,hd fm i t*lipl Clsctrlc Pa   Si     - frelmMa  Statmuts 1906199                                    14-IhQbr8
fiEo RaSS1I   i31                                                                                    Page 12
am,a,uaaaumaau,hua                                                                                      of 23
nEo  assT    TIOEs                        196    19?    19         1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994   TOTRL
LOU
hinbmng Thins! III            87.9                                                                        87.9
bus. therral llenw.                              38.5                                                               38.5
Shidongkov T      1                             344.0  3M.0   3M.0    34.0                                        1376.0
gouing t11m   III                                                                                  114.7            1N.7
alpoa    tins!l                                                                                    605.3  1210.6  1815.9
510 ku Up lire                                           11.1                                                       11.8
500 kv Nithu  1                                                 130.2                                              130.2
1 Ik   b         line(Si 1)                                      38.?                                               38.7
600 k Othlis,                                                                                      37.6    37.6    75.2
220 k tranuilue    projects 1                             2.0                                                      422.0
220 kv trmdud    proectsII                                                       334.7                             334.?
2201i   transmisuuon prujocts III                                                                                    0.0
Uging TI.,.! Ul                                                          754.1   754.1                            1W,2
Capitalized   rrminps                 07.9   382.5   054.?   512.9  1090.1  108l.8        0.0   78?.?  1248.2  6860.?
us a m'srum
bu-- Thi-                                    -     - km.                                                             0.0
Shiduogku Therml I                               1C.9    169    16.9    16.9                                        67.?
Ot.' Constructio                        37.0   56.8    61.6    66.        72.3    77.6    82.5    87.6    93.1   635.2
220 kv stions                                    5.7    295                                                         34.2
Ctletedli _tins                         53.9    62.5    69.9    86.S    97.6   117.4   137.?   147.8   167.8  9"1.1
Completed Nst.   tms                    38.0    94.0    96.      97.7    9?    99.7   100.7   101.7   102.?   812.0
Capitalized 6ruts                    120.9   225.9  m2         267.9   25.6   294.?   320.9   337.1   363.6  249.2
tolRL CWIleUAtIS                     280.8   608.4  1121.5   780.8  1383.7  1383.5   320.9  11N.?  1611.8  8561.0
CWIUERTIU! CAPILIZATIUS              20.8   017.2  1945.?  2726.4  410.1  5493.6  5814.4  6939.2  8551.0
CUSIJCUIU                                 1C ?  190619             19190199019    1990    199 1992    1993    19
MP at beginning  f VW                  210.3   596.5   0006    765.1   977.9   660.1   4S3.9  1296.8  1414.8
Cmnstructi  during w                   431     639   918.3   89.3    77.6   92.1   925.4   993.3   954.3
MU   cuwleted dorrng vor               124.9   461.9   961.7   596.5  1107.3  1166,4    82.5  805.3  1341.3
CIO at end of                            51 1C.5    0.6   765.1  9W.9   660.1   453.9  1296.8  1414.0  1027.8
No  IIEIC011                     1986       7 981 1        13      1989    19       1991    1992    1993    19
bS   aix ied    t k uilttim    187.0   300.L   601   112c.5   7808  O383.?  1303.6   328.9  1124.?  1611.0
Ca  Ilo etal fid Auts   107.11   35SI          1O.2  2132.   2913.4  427.1   S10.6  6001.4  7126.2  0738.0
crmuul Ikpreciat                        11.7    210        .?   110.9   11.2   199.6   233.6   262.6   317.3
0      kpIeltiln               67.4    ?9.0    X.4   1311.1   16I.3   211.6   26C.9   301.0   329.9   384.6
CWi. lhwtc bpreciatlu    IMI   13250  11.4   1.S   I7?  1931.3  219.2  2490.2  282I.1  3212.8



- 90 -                                                             ANNEX 19
Shan i llunicipal Electric Poer Bureau - rinmnciai Statements 1986-1994                                             14-fl-B?
PEURLUAtION Of RSSETS                                                                                             Page 13
of 23
1985     196       198?     198       1989     1990      1991     1992      1993     1994
GROSS fIm(O RSSEtS
Historical Cost:
Opening Balance                     1871     2058      226?     2875      4001     4?81      6168     7552      7872     8997
Additions                            187      209       608     1128       781     1384      1383      321      1125     1612
Closing 8.1. - Historical C'st        2058     2267      2876     4004      4784     6168      7652     7872      899?    10609
Revaluation
Opening Balance                     3742     3929      4138     5035      6527     77m8      9691    11541    12389    11096
Aidditions                           197      209       608     1128       781     1368      1383      321      1125     1612
Rlu tion rector                     1.00     1.00      1,07     1.07      1.07     1.07      1.05     1.05      1.05     1.05
Rvued Eross fixed Rssets              3929     1138      5035     652?      77M8     9691    11541    12389    14096    16379
____se  _sssuaauge*saausuuu,uuouuuuuIas nub@,gua,3au3,*aga.asut_a8n au8z2a3uuuauu3uuzaso
GR     fIED ASSETS                             2267      2876     1001      4781     6168      7552     7872      8997    10609
C3 ative ODreciation:
aning Balance                                1216      1325     1120     1550      1719     1930      2197     2498      2828
lepr. on Inherited Asets                       67       67        6?       67        6?       67        67       67        67
Depr. on Incrnbtal Rssets                      12        28       63      101       144      200       231      263       31?
RCCIIULTED OEPRECIRTION                        1325      1420     1550      1719     1930      2197     2498      2828     3213
NET rImED   SSETS                               942      1455     2t53      3066     4238      554      5374      6169     7396
REWiLURTION RESERUE                               0         0        0         0        0         0        0         0        0
_u _lsl S                  S Sltt -Stlt S Y IIJ                                        B     SSSuu StSnuwl Slll-awn



- 91 -                                               ANN   19
i Ndcis* uectric  ow lkr    - r ciul StwtU   198619              I7
luqjing 1horns! Ui                                                                                      age lt    190.0
of 23   ?03.0
IS  Loa n86 9 9l7    1908    1989    199                                         11    192               1999
plot I Dist. Stdwy
_Iu  disNurseent in IS                         0.7    21.0    34.3    56.4    36.3    16.6    11.1            176.4
RnWl disbursuent in 31                         2.6    77.7   126.9   201.7   134.3    61.1    41.1      0.0   652.7
CtL disb,rsat                                  2.6    10.3   20?.?   415.9   550.2   611.6   652.7   652.7
CuL diursent (,d-yev)                          1.3    41.4   113.7   311.5   4030   SI0.9   632.1   652.7
Undisurd (ubect to c/f)                      610.3   570.2   167.9   300.1   120.6    30.7    20.5      0.0
Co.tuent fee 0.751                             1.6     1.3     3.5     2.3      1.0     0.2     0.2     0.0
CuL cwditnnt fee                               1.6     8.9    12.4    14.6    15.6    15.8    16.0    16.0
nmal rqwjnt                                                                             3,S   143.5    VA.5
Cm repmnt                                                                               3.5      .0   130.5
Subject to interest                            1.3    41.6   147.4   327.7    527.1   669.7   58.6   565.7
Interest   8.5Y                                0.1     3.5    12.5    27.9      4.0    56.9    9.0    408.1
CMw interest                                   0.1     3.6    16.2    ".0      U.8
Transduin lie
It1 dburwent in 8S                                     1.4     2.?     4.3      2.7     2.5                    13.6
hal dibrsnet in FM                             0.0     5.2    10.0    15.9    10.0      9.3     0.0     0.0    56.3
CMw disbt"sent                                 0.0     5.2    15.2    31.1    41.1    50.3    S0.3    50.3
Cwm disburwsnt   d-wr)                         0.0     2.6    10.2    23.1    36.1    45.7    50.3    503
Undisursed (ubject to c/d)                    50.3    47.7    40.1    27.2    14.2      4.6     0.0     0.0
Cwdut  net   Q.eSX                             0.4     0.4     0.3     0.2    0Q1       0.0     0.0     0.0
Cw. c itiat fie                                0.4     0.7     1.0     1.2      1.3     1.4     1.4     1.4
Bus t@ijt                                                                               3.1     3.4     3.4
Cum repapient                                                                           3.4     6.7    10.1
Suect to interst                               0.0     2.6    10.4    21.2    39.2    52.2    47.0    43.6
interest I 8.5t                                0.0     0.2     0.9     2.1     3.3      4.4     4.0     3.7
LCm interest                                   0.0     0.2     1.1     3.2     6.5
ubtotal
nual disbiursAt in US                          0.7    22.4    37.0    60.7   39.0    19.1    11.1             190.0
hnl dibuwrnt tn 31                             2.6    82.9   136.9   221.6   14.3    70.7    41.1       0.0   703.0
CuL  dift-sent                                 2.6    05.5   222.4   47.0   591.3   661.9   703.0   703.0
CL  disbrnt (Aid-r)                            1.3    1.0   153.9   334.7   519.1  CL.6   682.5   703.0
Uisbwsed (ubject to ctf)                     660.6   617.9   503.0   327.3   142.8   35.3    20.5       0.0
C,itant ftee C.?t                              5.0     4.6     3.0     2.5     1.1      0.3     0.2     0.0
cmw cm.idtnt fet                               5.0     9.6    13.4    15.9    16.9    17.2    17.3    17.3
hou  repumnt                                   0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0    46.9    16.9    46.9
tw, rWnt                                       0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     6.9    93.7   140.6
Subject to interet                             1.3    4.1   157.8  351.9   566.3   721.9   63S.6   609.3
Interest  6.5                                  0.1     3.8    13.4    29.9   48.1    61.4    54.0    S1.8
Cu interest                                   0.1      3.9    1.3    47.2    95.3       0.0     0.0     0.0
aa ----aa.suaum-- aUauuu----------------UafhuSsuUS                                                        8
WING116 PROJECT COSTS (a8 mn.)          1996    197    1908    1999    1990    1991   I'92    1993    191
foreign   e Cost                                 0.?    24.4    39.7    63.8    39.7    21.0    11.1             200.4
Escalated Foreign Cost                           0.7    26.8    46.5    79.6    52.2    28.9    15.9             2S0.?
Local Base Cost                          0.0    11.5    16.6    26.6    30.9    12.5      4.3                    102.6
ltedLocal Cot                            0.0    11.9    18.3    31.4    3L6    16.4       5.9                    122.5



- 92 -                                               ANNEX 19
Shani Ibnicipel Qectric Power urau - finmcil Sttaents 19e6-19N                                     11I-87
Pap is
of 23
PC6C loansAR
IBR0 interest                                   0.1     3.8    13.4    29.9    24.1      0.0     0.0     0.0    71.3
1URD Com,itggent fee                            S.0     4.6     3.8     2.5     1.1     0.0      0.0     0.0    16.9
Umet Foreip Cost                                0.1    16.4    36.1    69.8    18.9    36.1    17.9      0.0   224.1
Rnnual disburmient                             S.1    24.0    52.3   102.2    74.1    36.1    17.9      0.0   312.6
Cum disbursement                               S.1    29.9    82.3   184.5   258.5   294.7   312.6   312.6
Rep yent                                                                       21.4    21.4    21.4    21.4
Cum rpawnt                                                                    21.4    42.7    64.1    85.4
Subject to interest                            2.6    1?.6    S6.8   136.1   229.2   255.2   260.9   248.5
Interest 8 3.62                                0.1     0.6     2.0     4.9     8.3      9.2     9.4     8.9
CiU interet                                    0.1     0.7     2.8     7.7
Local loan
Plant, lU. DeOp. 6 Oist. Studw         0.0    42.5    56.2    60.5    98.2    35.2      5.0                    325.6
nnIbl invunt                          0.0    43.9    61.8   103.6   122.5    16.3      6.9      0.0     0.0   385.0
cum inutet                            0.0    43.9   105.7   209.3   331.8   378.1   385.0   385.0   3865.0
ment                                                                          26.9    26.9    26.9    26.9
Cii reaiuwent                                                                 26.9    53.9    80.8   107.7
Subject to interest                   0.0    21.9    74.8 I17.5   270.5   35S.0   381.6   385.0   385.0
Intenst 1 3.61                        0.0      0.8     2.7     5.7     9.7    12.9    13.7    13.9    13.9
Cwulative interest                    0.0      0.0     3.5     9.2    18.9
Trinassim Line                         0.0      0.O     5.4    10.8    16.3    10.9    10.8                     SU.2
nnual ietnent                         L0       0.0     6.0    12.7    20.3    14.3    14.9      0.0     0.0    68.1
Cum ineimnt                           0.0      0.0     6.0    18.6    38.9    53.2    68.1    68.1    68.1
Rkpwent                                                                        4.6     4.6      4.6     4.6
c  repent                                                                      4.6     9.3    13.9    18.6
Sbject to interest                    0.0      0.0     LO    12.3    28.8    46.1    60.7    68.1    68.1
Interest 0 3.61                       0.I      0.0     01      0.4     1.0     1.7     2.2      2.5     2.5
Cuwlative interest                    0.0    0O.       0.1     0.6     1.6
Subtotal                               0.0      2.5    61.6    99.3   114.5    46.1    15.8      0.0     0.0   379.8
Anual investannt                      0O    43.9    67.?   116.3   142.9    60.6    21.?        0.0     0.0   453.1
Cum inenm t                           0.0    43.9   111.6   227.9   370.7   431.4   453.1   1S3.1   453.1
Repant                                0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     0O    31.6    31.6    31.6    31.6
Cut repant                            0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0    31.6    63.1    94.7   126.3
Subject to interest                    I.0   21.9    77.7   169.9   299.3   01.0   42.2   431    453.1
Interest 1 3.61                       0.0      0.8     2.0     6.1    10.8    14.4    15.9    16.3    16.3
Cmulative intenst                     0.0    0.9      3.6     9.7    20.5     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0
U412M-9                                                                                           a _   _  _



- 93 .                                                     AN- 19
S gi llunicipd Eectric POWer Ireu - fVincal Stateots 19199                                              1l4-fg9
ruaEL, uS       a oPE. cEws.                                                                              Pag 16
**=a=                  mom                                                                                   of 23
ruEL cosT coLcuIUoN               198     196         7    198    198)    190    191          192    199       19
Cost of Col a Oil (Etc. Uujiq)
Electricity  bnrtd  ()         11742   11020   11410   1224    1380?   1581?   1792?   1875?   163          21337
electricity gernted --oil    302    1610    1565         49
electricity generated -ca    I0    9380    9915   1175    1380?   13?   17827   19757   1833?   21337
Oil  Seneration             0.26    0.15    0.14    0.04    0.           10 0.00 0.   O          0.00    0.00
Coal / 6eation              0.74    0.o6     0.66    0.X      1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00
Conution  (ton oil eq0)   3735    371.0   31.0   374.0   36.0   361.0   360.0   356.0   357.0   354.0
Standard (000 ton oil eq.)      4366    4121    429       4561    5067    M        6418    6715    6546    7553
Oil (coo to oil e.)         1121      613       5      1N5       I        0       0        0        0       0
Coal (000 ton ol q.)        3261    3510     3780    4396    506?    50        6410    6715    6546    7553
Std oil price (Votee)         103.25  103.25   103.25 13 25   103.25  103.25  10325   103.25  103.25  103.25
Std col price (Ctarit V)       76.53    4.18    92.60   92.60  101.86  101.16   106.95  106.95  106.95   106.95
Std coal price (Current Y)     76.53   90.73  9f.61   101.83  119.29  127.01  118.69   147.02  153.64  160.55
Cost of Oil ("In Y)            115.8    63.3    60.4    19.1       0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0
Cst of col ("In Y)             29.8   318.3   3.5    47.6   604.5   725.4    92.9   987.2  1085.7  1212.7
Ubjing Ul
Electricity generated ()                                                           1514    332      4050    4050
Conswtion  (ten oil eq./Ih)                                                         320      320     320      320
Standard cod ('000 ton)                                                             14      1064    12%      1296
Cost of coal (nln Y)                                                               68.2   156.1   199.1   208.1
TOTAL VUEL MST
Cost of Oil (aln Y)            11S.8    63.3    60.4    19.1       0.0      L0O     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0
Cost of coal ("In Y)          2M9.    318.3   359.5   447.6   604.5  M7.    971.1  1143.6  1204.9  1420.6
Total                       365.6   301.6   415.0   466.7   604.5   725.4   971.1  1143.b  1204.9  1420.8
Col price a. (uan)                      1l.2i    19.08   25.30   42.76    0.51    64.16   70.19   77.11    84.0t
Coal cost adi. (ida Y)                 49.8    70.8   111.2   216.7   298.1   4O2.8   541.3   604.7   743.5
- - - - - - - - - - - - -   - - - - - - - - - - - - - -a



- 94 -                                                .ANSEX 19
Shnghi llunicipl Electric Power Bureau - iinncial Staeaets 1986-1994                                             14tfry-B?
Page 17
of 23
PWCR PURCHAS                         195      1986     1987      1988     1989     1990     1991      1992     1993     1991
...-  --. ------......  .. ......... .    . ....   ....  ....      ....   ....       .. . .  ---        ----   ....       .... ..
Purchaed power (PAb)               5116     6591     7465      7957     9555     9439     5924      293      3239     3324
fron Jinmn 11 Saoqiao           1344       973      853      67        624      524      475       425      425      125
Frar  ECtPA                      4072     5621     6612      7293     7931     8914     S349      2168     2811     2899
._.......... ..... ._...... ......... .............. ................... .............................. _.......... ............ ......
Purchse Price (Yua)
frrn Jingsan & Gacqimo         42.10    12.10    42.10    42.10    42.10    42.10    42.10    42.10    42.10    42.10
with escalation              42.10    42.10    43.I?    46.29    49.30    52.51    55.38    57.87    60.48    63.20
frm  ECEPA                      53.06    59.03    59.40    59.40    59.80    59.80    60.02    60.02    60.02    60.02
Ome Price                    53.06    55.36    55.36    55.36    55.36    55.36    55.36    55.36    55.36    55.36
Ruth. Coal Adjustnents                  3.67     4.01      4.04     4.4      4.44     4.66      4.66     4.66     4.66
. _.__....._. . __........_. _._. .... ..... _........ _. _. ..  ...... .................... .....
Cost of purchad (fn Y)
frro  Jingsn 6 Saoqiaa          56.6      41.0     37.1      31.2     30.8     27.5     26.3      24.6     257     26.9
fron ECEPA                     216.1    311.2    366.0    403.2    439.1    493.5    296.1    120.0    155.8    160.5
... .. ........ .................... ............. .................................. . _ ... - --  --- - ----  -- - - -------------------------------------................. 
Total                         272.6    352.1    403.1    434.4    469.0    521.0    322.4    14.6    181.5    187.3
*  Coal price adj. (Yuan)                     3.67     3.6?      3.67     3.67     3.6?     3.67      3.67     3.67     3.67
Cal cost MI. (anm  Y)                      12.0     24.3     26.7      29.1     32.7     19.6       8.0     10.3     10.6
HRINTEfC                             1985     1986     1987      1988     1999     1990     1991      1992     1993     1991
,.__............                                       ....     ....      ......   ---      ... .  . -         ...._ . ...
Inremntal laintene                           2.6      S.S     14.1      29.9     40.8     60.2     79.5      84.0     99.8
Amual lainterance   pnse          24.0      26.6     29.5     38.1      53.9     64.8    981.2    103.5    108.0    123.8
MRATION a tIAIHT(HAHCE               1985     1986     1987     1988      1989     1990     1991     1992      1993     1994
_. _..... ............ ._ . .        ----... -.        ....  .....        ----     ----     ---       ---      ----     ......
Uoter I Iterial                    11.3     13.0     14.9      17.2     19.8     23.7     28.5     31.3      34.4     37.9
vith escalation                 11.3      13.0     15.      18.9      23.1     29.6     37.4     43.0      49.5     56.9
tIter ot Eployes (000)            17.?      17.7     18.8     19.9      21.0     22.1     23.2     24.3      25.4     26.5
Rwrae VWge (YunYear)               931      1076     1237      1237     1423     1423     1636     1636      1636     1636
Uages                              16.5     19.0     23.3     24.6      29.9     31.4     38.0     39.8      41.6     43.4
flintenae                          24.0     26.6     29.5      38.1     53.9     64.8     84.2    103.5   109.0    123.8
_~~~~~~ .__ .... ........ .. . .. _._. ................. _._._...... _...................... . .... ......... .. ... ... ..._. _._
Total                          51.8      58.7     69.2     81.6    106.9   125.8   159.6    186.3    199M1    224.0
RAIHISTPtION                         1985     1986     1987      1990     1989     19       1991      1992     1993     199
But cost                          10.1      28.7     31.0     33.5      36.2     39.0     42.2     15.5      49.2     53.1
btinistration Exense               10.1    28.7      32.0     36.8      42.3   4N.7       SS.S     62.6      70.?     79.?
fl                      _          fhln       Snl.fkn.O* .tl.n                    nm.n. flflf_ _  * _-



- 95 -                                                 ANNEX 19
tenghai tunicipal Electric Power Bureau - financial Statmeents 1986-1994                                14ltay-O?
SPECIRL fUNOS CRLCULATIiNS                                                                              Page 18
of 23
1985    1986    190?    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1991
Reneal A Renouation Fund
Rnnual allocation                       76.6    90.1   112.6   121.4   152.3   177.1   186.6   215.5   264.4  1399.7
Rnnual expenditure                       61.3    72.1    90.1    99.5   121.8   111.7   149.3   172.1   211.5  1119.7
Balance at year end             94.0   116.?   141.4   187.0   224.9   279.6   339.3   380.2   456.0   552.6   552.6
Completed Renouations                   53.9    62.5    69.9    86.5    9?.6   117.4   137.7   147.8   167.8   911.1
tisntenance fund
Annual a ao6                                      9        8      69
Rnnual  l texeion                       26.6    29.5    38.1    53.9    64.8    84.2   103.5   108.0   123.8   632.3
Rnnuol expenditure                      26.6    29.5    38.1    53.9    64.8    84.2   103.5   100.0   123.8   632.3
Balance at year end             59.9    59,9    59.9    59.9    S9.9    59.9    59.9    59,9    59.9    59.9    59.9
. .. _............................................ ..__. . ......................................
Employee Benefits fund
fnnual allocation                       15.6    16.2    16.9    17.5    18.2    19.0    19.7    20.5    21.3   165.1
Annual expenditure                       12.5    13.0    13.5    14.0    14.6    15.2    15.8    16.4    17.1   132.1
Balance at year end             44.9    48.0    51.3    S4.6    58.1    61.8    65.6    69.5    73.6   7n.9    77.9
Distribution Extensions fund
Annual allocation                      120.0   121.2   122.4   123.6   124.9   126.1   127.4   128.?   129.9  1124.2
Annul expenditure               36.0    96.0    97.0    97.9    98.9    99.9   100.9   101.9   102.9   104.0   899.4
Balance at year end            250.3   340.3   377.5   103.1   129.0   455.2   481.6   508.3   535.3   562.5   562.5
Completed Oist. Extensions              30.0    84.0    96.8    97.7    98.7    99.7   100.7   101,7   102.7   812.0
Total Special funds
Rnnual allocation                0.0   238.8   257.1   290.0   319.4   360.2   406.4   437.2   472.7   539.5  3321.3
Annual expenditure              36.0   196.4   211.6   239.6   266.3   301.1   341.9   370.5   399.8   456.3  2783.5
Balance at year end            149.1   566.9   633.0   704.'   772.0   856.5   946.4  1026.0  1124.8  1252.9  1252.9
Special funds Outflows                 123.0   189.0   218.3   252.1   275.7   316.4   35?.?   373.9   411.4  251?.5



- 96 -                                                    ANNEX 19
Shanh    niia   lectric Pow  Wm  - rieci  S tt                1986-1994                                14*a7
0Ksm ma                                                                                            Php 19
of 23
Cmpmntaof 6    km                         1986    1W       1986    1989    1990    1991    192    1593    199
Opating    s116.?  124.?  13S9.0  158.3  160.6  22.2  2550.7  2.S  317.4
Interet                                    3.2     ?.2    35.9    61.9    67.9   110S   156.8   143.2   220.1
biorttion riet by Nt Iam                   3.6     6.6    5.4    93.0    I.    111.0   155.6   155.6   32.1
lIr  Tax                                  19.1    19.8    20.6    21.4    Z.3    23.2    24.1        2.1    2.1
EnPi e lSfi  Scal rMdf                    15.6    16.2    16.9    17.5    18.2    19.0    19.?   20.5    21.3
lt brking Capil Increwe                  (22.0)    89    15.6    19.3    23.9    31.3    17.6    16.4    34.1
Incread Cah 0alcs                         64.5    36.5    31.0    20.4      5.3      6.1    49.2    56.6      9.0
Inreased Speial   i  sts                   3.4    22.6    21.3    11.2    25.1    25.5    12.8    25.9    45.0
&Go  Oprting Aspirmmt                   1264.0  162.6  1515.8  1836.1  2112.5  255?.?  2986.5  3261.?  3895.2
Ses Uolw  (I)                            150   17202   1i868   2038    20          2540   28120   30382   33169
"lINII 6mmR  TRAff                        ?.91    7.92    8.63    9.01    9.1?   10.05   10.62   10.74   1174?



- 97 -                                            ANX 19
Shanhi lunicipal Electric Pser Om    - frinecial Stbatmt  96-19N                                     144by%-7
SElf fINRNCIN6 RTIlo                                                                              Page 20
4040040440                                                                                           Of 23
1966    198?    1968    1989    1990    199      1992    199M    1994
Onnual Capital Expenditures             5?7.0   630.6  10.8.  1007.0  1103.8  119.3  1163.8  1242.8  1224.8
3 YR. RUERACE INIJSIUENT 1              619.2   832.1   975.4  1066.5  1101.4  1153.6  11!9.9  1210.4  1232.5
Internally 6enerated Ch                 347.9   379.5   401.?   557.0   619.4   711.9    93.5   657.8  1097.4
(less) Opntioml Requirwets              19.5   156.4   262.2   320.6   373.1   453.4   905.9   551.8   721.2
(less) Increased Ch Balaces              64.5    36.5    31.0    20.1      6.3     6.1    49.2    56.6    4.0
Cash Aailable for Inmtrs t               63.9   16.6   191.5   21S.0         0   252.5   23.4   249.5   327.2
Retittances to 60Qet                    103.1   110.6    70.8    62.S   101.5    93.4    66.3   1l1.1    58.9
ERiNED CASH                             187.0   257.2   262.3   26.3   337.5   34.9   324.?   3S1.5   386.1
SELf fINRICI1s RRTIO (3)                 30.2    30.9    26.9    28.0    30.6    30.0    27.1    30.1    31.3
3 Yr. Average Investt Progra            619.2   832.1   975.4  1066.5  1101.4  1153.6  1199.9  1210.4  1232.5
Pct. to be Self finwcd                     25      253     253      253     252     25X 3            2       253
,,,,....  ,__._....                                                                                         ................  ___.w,
Inwesent funds Requirwent               154.9   208.0   243.9   266.6   275.3   260.4   3Wu.0   302.6   308.1
Cas Operating Eenses                   1027.7  1149.4  1228.9  1420.1  1M9.3  161.3  2249.7  2460.6  2792.8
Interest Charged to Opertions             3.2     7.2    14.9    43.8    51.1    99.1   156.8   143.2   163.5
Inco,e Tax                              145.1   155.0   107.2   122.3   146.1   137.4   129.5   165.?    98.1
Operationl Requirments                  199.5   196.4   26W.2   320.8   376.1   43.4  S50.9   551.8   721.2
Increses in Cash Blac                    64.5    36.5    31.0    20.4      5.3     6.1     4.2    56.6    19.0
Operating Cash Reqrwnt                 1140   15".4  164.3  1927.3  2237.1  267.3  30.2  3405.9  3824.5
TOTA CASH REQUIRINT                    1594.8  1752.5  1681.1  2193.9  2512.5  2915.?  3391.2  3708.5  4132.7
(les) bi3t. Iuprwuit Spec. fWd.         120.0   121.2   122.4   123.6   124.9   126.1   127.4   120.7   129.9
(less) faintennce Sp,ecia fund           26.6    29.5    36.1    5L9    64.8   86.2   103.5   108.0   123.0
(less) Rudttances to 6 r t              103.1   110.6    ?i.0    02.6   101.5    93.4   56.3   115.1    58.9
CLSH TO 8E ET ROil REUOJES             1345.1  1491.2  1656.6  1933.9  2221.3  262.0  3074.0  3356.7  3820.0
PME  So0D (Mh)                          15950   17202   18366   203      2300   259       26120   30302   33189
mImIfUI BUlGE tRmTff (fi/mli)            6.l1   L6.       9.02    9.49    9.61   10.3    1093   11.05   11.51



-98 -
ANNEX 19
Page 21 of 23
Assumptions to Financial Projlections
A.  Income Statmnt
(i)    vrage grie is derived in the attached table entitled
"Derivation of Average Tariff" (page 6 of this Annex).
(ii)   ODeratLng Revenue is the product of energy sales in GWh
multiplied by the average price.
(iii)   Fel Gats  are derived in the table entitled "Fuel, Purchases
and Operating Expenses" (page 16 of this Annex).
(iv)   Purchased Power is derived in the table entitled "Fuel,
Purchases and Operating Expenses" (page 16 of this Annex).
(v)   Q2eration J penses are derived in the table entitled "Fuel,
Purchases and Operating Expenses (page 16 of this Annex).
(vi)   Maintenance Costs represent the specific year's alloction to
the Maintenance Special Fund. The allocation represents 1.4%
of gross fixed assets in services. Activity of the
Maintenance Special Fund is derived in the table entitled
"Special Fund Calculations" (page 18 of this Annex).
(vii)   Sales Lm represents 15% of operating revenues.
(viii)   Dpgreciation is assumed at 3.6% of gross fixed assets for
inherited assets and 4% for assets capitalized after Dec. 31,
1985.
(ix)   Irest. SMEPB'S borrowings will be obtained from three
sources: (a) the onlent proceeds of World Bank loans, at 8.5%
interest; (b) direct loans from People's Construction Bank of
China, at 3.6%; and (c) local loans from the Shanghai
Municipal Administration, also at 3.6%. Interest is derived
on a project by project basis in the subtable entitled
"Interest" within the table entitled "Loan Parameters" (page 9
of this Annex). In turn, interest charged to oDerations is
derived by subtracting interest during construction and
Charg2able IDC, both derived in subtables carrying those very
titles, from total  nters.
(x)    mg; gin represents 55% of net income less debt repayments
which must be met from distributions of net income. (This
item is entitled "Transferred to Government Funds" on the
income statement).
(xi)   Reittsd to Government represents net income after income tax
and after authorized distributions. These funds are remitted
I.n cash partly to MWREP and partly to the Ministry of Finance.



- 99 -
ANNEX 19
Page 22 of 23
(xii)   Efipovee Benefit Soecial Fund represents the annual allocation
to this particular special fund; this allocation is met as a
distribution from net income. The operation of that special
fund is summarized in the table entitled "Special Fund
Calculations" (page 18 of this Annex). Allocations to this
special fund are assumed to increase by 4% each year.
(xiii)   Miamesable IDC represents interest during construction which,
according to regulations, must be met by distributions from
net income. Annual amounts are derived in the table entitled
"Loan Parameters" (page 9 of this Annex).
B. Funds Flow Statement
(i)   Distribution Improvements Special Funds represents the
receipts of this particular special fund. That fund's
operation is summarized in the table entitled "Special Fund
Calculations" (page 18 of this Annex). The allocation (or for
this fund, receipts) is expected to increase by 1% per year.
(ii)   All Borrowings are derived in the table entitled "Investment
Program" (page 7 of this Annex).
(iii) Capital Expenditures, other than interest during construction.
Renovations and Distributions Improvements are also derived
in the table entitled "Investment Program" (page 7 of this
Annex).
(iv)   Interest During Construction is derived in the subtable
carrying that name which is included in the main table "Loan
Parameters' (page 9 of this Annex).
(v)   Renovations represents 80% of the previous year's and 20% of
the expenditures from the Special Fund for Renovations, the
operation of which is summarized in the table entitled
"Special Fund Calculations" (page 18 of this Annex).
kvi)   Distribution Im2rovements represent 80% of the previous year's
and 20% of the year prior to the previous year's expenditures
from the Distribution Improvements Special Funds, the
operation of which is summarized in the table entitled
"Special Funds Calculation" (page 18 of this Annex).
(vii) Increase in Working Cagital represents the excess of the
current year's current assets (net of cash) over current
liabilities, less the excess of the previous year's current
assets (net of cash) over current liabilities.
(viii)   Spec$al Fund ExDenditures represents aggregate amounts
actually spent from the varlous special funds in a particular
year. In general, expenditures from the special fund are
assumed at 80% of the previous year's and 20% of the year
before the previous year's allocations (excluding those from
the Maintenance Special Funds, which are asumed at 100% of the
particular year's allocation). This relocationship is derived
in the table entitled "Special Fund Calculations (page 18 of
this Annex).



- 100 -
ANEX 19
Page 23 of 23
C. Balance-She-t
(i)  JQAg  represents the baldncing figure for these projections.
(ii)   IM"goie are derived at 1l Gross Fixed Assets and 1 month's
fuel.
(iii)   Accounts Receivable are expected to increase by 3% per year.
(iv)   Plant in Service is derived in the table "Fixed Asset
Formation" (page 12 of this Annex). Any revaluation of fixed
assets would be derived in the table entitled "Revaluation of
Assets" (page 13 of this Annex).
(v)   Construction Work in Progress is also derived in the table
entitled "Fixed Asset Formation (page 12 of this Annex).
(vi)   SRecial Fund Assets represents r3novations and distribution
improvements under construction. The renovations are financed
by expenditures from the Special Fund for Renovations. The
distribution improvements are financed from the Distribution
Improvements Special Funds. Operation of these funds is
derived in the table entitled "Special Fund Calculations"
(page 18 of this Annex).
(vii)   Accounts payable are projected to increase by Yuan 1 million
every 2 years until stabilizing at Yuan 26.6 million.
(viii) Due to Government is expected to stay steady at Yuan 2.4
million.
(ix)   Long Term Debt is expected to increase each given year by the
amount of the investment program being financed with loans
less repayments. The amount of the investment program is
derived in the table entitled "Investment Program" (page 7 of
this Annex). The amount of repayment is derived in the
subtable entitled "Repayments", included within the table
entitled "Loan Parameters" (page 9 of this Annex).
(x)   GoverMA=  Funds includes all paid in equity, plus transfers
to Government for loan repayment and chargeable IDC, less
depreciation.
(xi)   62eciAl Fun   represents the cumulative balance remaining in
the special funds at the end of the given year. This figure
is derived in the table entitled "Special Fund Calculations'
(page 18 of this Annex).



- 101 -                             ANE  20
Page 1 of 4
CHINA
UWIING THMAL POWER PROJECT
Economic Rate of Return Calculation
Costs
Cwital Costs
1.        Costs ware based on Decembr 1986 price levels.  Shadow pricing was
applied as followst (a) taxes and duties were excluded; (b) official exchange
rates were used to convert foreign currencies to Yuan (c) border prices were
used for imported equipmnt and materials such as cement, steel and timber;
(d) all labor costs were first adjusted to reflect the economic cost to the
country; a conversion factor of 0.5 was then applied to unskilled labor. No
adjustmet was made for skilled labor.
Annual disbursemnts of project cost after shadow-pricing are
sumarised below:
Generating
Yer              plant        Transmission         Total
- -        (Y million)    -
1987              42.5              -                42.5
1988             135.8            10.8              146.6
1989             222.0            20.7              242.7
1990             312.6            32.2              344.8
1991             168.5            20.7              189.2
1992              78.0            20.3               98.3
1993              39.9              -                39.9
Total       999.3           104.7            1,104.0
OAK Costs
2.        The 06W costs were based on a fixed percentage of the capital cost
as followst
06K cost
Generating plant                     32
Transmission system                  12
Distribution system                  21



- 102 -                             ANNEX 20
Page 2 of 4
Fuel Costs
3.        The long-run marginal cost of coal (of calorific value of 6,000
kcal/kg) was estimated as follows:
Cost item                                           Y per ton
Production cost at mines /a                                 53.0
Rail transportation from mines to Qinghuangdao              35.0
Coal handling charges at Qinghuangdao port                   2.5
Sea freight                                                  5.5
Coal handling charges at Wujing wharf                        3.0
Total                                                 99.0/a
/a Staff Appraisal Report of Coal II project.
lb  This is equivalent to be about Y 115 per ton on a standard
coal basis (7,000 kcal/kg).
Benefits
4.        Quantifying the benefits of power projects is difficult in all
countries and particularly wo in China, where tariffs and most other prices
are not subject to eonomic pressures and where most power is administratively
allocated. It is generally accepted, however, that shortages of electricity
are currently constraining China's industrial production (causing under
capacity utilization in industry) and will continue in the near future. This
suggests that the economic benefits of increased power supply will be substan-
tial--ECEPA estimates the net value of industrial output per kWh of electri-
city consumed to be about Y 1.0 in the Jiangsu/Shanghai area. This suggests
that the value of electricity not served is about Y 1.0/kWh, at least in the
short run.
5.        The second point of reference is provided by the China International
Power Development Corp., which is negotiating with international investors for
the construction of a series of 350 MW thermal power plants. The estimated
cost of electricity is 15 fen/kWh at the retail level. This provides an
indication of the benefits of electricity as estitated on tla basis of the
willingness to pay.
6.        A conservative estimate of the value of electricity is provided by
using the tariffs for SMEPB's system at end 1986 as the minimum proxy of
economic benefit.



- 103 -                              ANNEX 20
Page 3 of 4
Economic Rate of Return
7.        The IERR of the project, the discount rate which equalizes the
present value of economic costs and benefits, is evaluated at 11.7Z (see
Table 1 for details). The IERR figure corresponding to the valuation of the
entire consumption at Y 0.15/kWh is 22% and that corresponding to the
evaluation of loss of industrial consumption valued at Y 1.0/kwh for the first
two years of the project is 40Z.
Sensitivity
8.        The sensitivity of the IERR of the project with respect to a lOX
increase in investment cost or on a one-year delay in commissioning is as
follows (considered as the upper limit of possible cost overrun or delay for
this project).
IERR
T(X
Base case                              11.7
102 cost overrun                       10.6
One-year delay in commissioning        10.5



- 104 -                                     A"NNEX 20
Page 4 of 4
CHINA
WUJING THERMAL POWER PROJECT
Economic Rate of Return Calculation
Capital                                                                  Total
investment costs                  F          Energy               Power      benefits
Generation &  Dietri-   O&M   Fuel   Total  genera-  Energy   benefits           minus
Year      transmission  bution   costs  costs  costs  tion /b  sale4    revenue d  total costs
-  ----- (Yuan million)  ------ - - -        TGWh)           --- (Yuan million) ---
1987            42.5          -       -       -    42.5        -         -         -        -42.5
1988           146.6          -       -       -   146.6        -         -         -       -146.6
1989           242e7          -       -       -   242.7        -         -         -       -242.7
1990           344.8          -       -       -   344.8        -         -         -       -344.8
1991           189.2         4.7    20*0   30*0  243.9    825.0    734.2        73.4       -170*5
1992            98.3        12*2    31.2  100.8  242.5  2,775.0  2*469.7    247*0              4.5
1993            39*9        13.1    31.2  141.7  225.9  3,900.0  3,471.0    347.1            121*2
1994              -         13*1    31.2  141.7  186.0  3,900.0  3,471.0    347.1            161.1
1995              -         13.1    31.2  141.7  186.0  3,900.0  3,471.0    347.1           161.1
1996-2017         -         13.1    31.2  141.7  186.0  3*900.0  3,471.0    347.1            ld.11
Economic Rate of Return - 11.7%
/a  Fuel costs:  fuel cost is estimated at a unit consumption of 0.316 kg of standard coal per
kWh.
/b  Generation:  5,500 hoturs for the first year of operation; 6,500 hours for the remaining
years.
/c Sales: using a system loss factor of 11 for plant use and transmission and distribution
losses.
Id Benefit: evaluated at an average tariff of fen 8.61 per kWh in 1986 with 201 surcharge by
MGS on all consumers except agricultural users.



- 105 -
AIO1EX 21
CHINA
WUJING THERMAL PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A. Selected Reports and Studies Related to the Sector
A.1 China: Long-term Issues and Options, World Bank Report No. 5206-
CHA, May 1985 (not attached).
A.2 Electric Power Industry in China (1984-1985)
B. Selected Reports and Studies Related to the Project
B.1 Feasibility Study Report for Wujing Thermal Power Project (Revised
Edition, August 1986)
B.2 Environmental Impact Report, September 1984
B.3 Conceptual Design of Wujing Thermal Power Project
Vol. 1           General Description
Vol. 2-15        Appendice (in Chinese, not attached)
B.4 Coal Supply for Wujing Thermal Power Station - SMEPB
B.5 Information on Wujing Thermal Power Project, SMEPB, August 1986,
Vol. I & II
B.6 Supplemental Information prepared for the World Bank Appraisal
Mission, SMEPB, September, 1986
B.7 Highlights of History and Prospective of Distribution System in
Shanghai
B.8 Proposals for Founding the Shanghai Electric Power Dispatching
Control Center Energy Management System
C. Selected Work Sheets
C.1 Working sheets for Financial Forecasts (see Annex 19)



- 106 -                       Cbartl
CHINA
WUJING THERMAL POWR PROJECT
O09  ftChCiot Md to ldd br rWIIF
ft Mklhy d WOW Randu         M E*ft Pow ecOc 
o~4pmrmW
oapo*rwdat           Roobnoi                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~scisntfic &
Dspawimsnat    nwt       DopwWW*tTcneo
Cmouwucln         o
b~~~j &ofo
& ubam  I I'w ''I       tpo
&oio.c~in  ofEACoIw   8CC
_II.a~I   ______
,2  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Wwd B1-   2 a|  &5 



CHINA~
WUJING THERMAL POWER PROJECT
OrganzaftIon Chart of the Shanghai Mw*u pal Ebecdc Bureau
L b.REPCI
r  put D. rctot                                                 |     '    .     .     ..
PWoduct~~~~ P~~e             DePitv D~Io.                                      gr              Accourdont          Econonfat
ow ~ ~ ~ ~ ~       ~       ~       ~      ~       ~       ~      ~      ~      ~     ~      e  *-3r008 & m
carofoom  ~  p~vow  d Otptln                          **ICntuto
GrImnfson       SULooadt                   mmo Po~r           C
~~)e~~atmponnt               omce           Omcefmn
&POPOOrromt                 C-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
10 PIOOhICl  7                         7         osW2                   oteo
tK ILiI   



WWJNG THERMAL POWER PROJECT
Pro*.ct fIrKpieMaenflon Sotwdu$a
Cc9ndw Ycx                       wx c    yea  $0                     Ccaws-  .ea  M99                      c4awir YOMN  49                      Cdenrk Year 1992
b~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
1 Mcmn oww &AXI   I   I  
_      _      _     _     _      _   Iil-                                      -v F                    oL s iI                                     
2 Au.kcy ikig_
,3  ik otth~
(1) Bodes AAmiies adArc"   sy SYSeI
(2) ESP (CX3 41 cant9io com)                                                                                               -  - -: e       -c-
14) N-Ae 58V.ce System                                                            W        4      7Z0
(5) MAc.b ItcNllarnlt Und1 cErd Skabcrscry
4 (Ciswitt~y
S C0griemiu Walet helmeni Wrier Pro
ITeakne1 Systems                                                                                                                           I
6 WaSte W018 Tfwcjnent
(I) t)OM                                                                        P4e l6e-
9 Fuel Cl System                                                                                                                          E
0C C.xx t*x"ng
IJ1 oa (4Wlvjt &edge cEra 3k*xxdrs                                                               U
(21 Tfansste beert Gaiety COus  tie oma
(3) Cud YcNrd Sta-cke r dIgrCkwneirv(~
Coal Shea
II Ash Uitysa
13 Ashi W?lcN (Y)C Ve8 fq.%x4)m    Ih8eCettEeco
(2) Ftxashn dc Ash Wa Pto3~rfp House'
Ash Pteki
14  RASsteWocler8Foe FgrVSysteryi
15 1osed 9xjcrx1'x bIr(MIaCJe
wxsk1ji.j M1998



IBRD 20220
117'                118'                 119'                120-               121'                122'               I 3'
3.,'.S H A N D O N G r~CHN                                                                                                         5
-   r_ /                                                ~~~~~EAST CHINA POWER GRID
9   <  4                ~~~~~~Lionyungong°                         XS    O'RST    UTEfE  RE
; { ,4Jo,. UZHOU No I /500 MWi                                                                                    500 kV Tronsmnission 1. ine
@a3   9;! 4g'                                                          A          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~500kV Substotions
XuSh<q-  *-   * 5 1t -                //~~~~~~~XNHA.'                                                7  hermol Power Plants
HU/f/N3I0/O5 MWys                                                                                                      Hydro Powef PlOnts 34--
~34'OQ                                                      !* )-+^ ......  Nucleor Powor Plont
--~~   ~~<4: = 8rilonq ............ ~~~~~~~Rivers
!   \                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Province Boundaries
|   t     '\                       \&  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~J I A  N  G  SU                                                 330 x,ls
33,,> K4- /                     >VILOMETERS3
\ , |     ' s              *  M~~~ANG,ZHOUO
' .1        -          ......   } /3fS M~YO z2hov
o   t tA  N  H  U  I     r   Q  °1t85 ZY.             ,                     r/ANSHifNGAAGAN^3
32-    \\                         .Ndfttnfff    /125W                                                                                   32'- 
t2^   -     X    .                    X            tM~~~~~~~~~~~o ANGr-/VG    SANGHAI
vox   >  l    1                      1         °  /°     !  . ;,; e; - >,OAOSHA~~~looo4fwjN Sf ffl Mll /II 2 350.4 MW) 13'5"M  J 
sr;>^ ~       ~~~~~ oWTurS. .      H0  464 6 M WJ
>   /    /   -_rx  k        |           ~~~~~~~~ ~~~~Suzhou  (     A5/0SSW/
<,  f_s     /-\                                    w  IMUJ/NG t35f MWJ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~WUJING (2 X 300 MW)
.,  J,   .      7    \ \:                '>            t   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~     ~      ~     ~~MINHANs (5SW 4MW  31-
A   '                  l//9~~~I  CHf NCUN        <         ,
Anqingt_<                         t/SO 4W/           
8AN5HAq0 oHangzhoo
'    -                     }              {~~~~~~~~~~~112MW
;                       i                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ZHENHAI (260 MWJ     30--
}Ntt  fo                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~Ningbo
i9fSU9C/H41AWA NG
f     '     ~~~XIA'ANJ/ANG
/ {*!>,.',x662S MWI
g                      ~~~~Z H E J I A N G
29-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2 -\
t         ~~~~HVpA IV6tAAtKOU                                  O   TAI/7HOUt2SO50MIW/
J I A   N   G   XI                                                                                                T- Tr7tVtettf' lst
V HUNVAN,.HIfN . ....<..< .A
*     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~Wenzhou°off-7f<^~3  1'
\  v   F U  J I A   N . 9,,,..,,,,o
L    117'--   llB-               \~~~      ~      ~    ~~~~~119-  120-       121.                 1?22                 123-
FEBRUARY 1987



IBRD 20221
121 515-                                  121 30                Xuzhou                        o     ns
.Fenghuan                                          -a  Railroads
Phoince
NV (~                                                        0Qngliang          Boundaries
41~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
'2oC                                                                              8 2--t  J\/  {at  zo-.  ty   .  o langbu
h v  f                 z  ... .                      Bangbu      \ >. - Yang?hou
Nanjing) Zhenliang  Nan'ong
-                        BAOSHAN                                                 '   Changzhn<
BAOGANG CENTRAL                  Wuhu                  S hi    Fenghuan
BAOGANG                  Anqlng                                 SHAGHA
WE|IDONG                                       Hangzhou
Ningbo
tA     (464.4 t  GAOQIAO                    121 45'
AO  & t)t0t'7 t'           fi WUNZAOBANG
SL/-; ~~~~WANRONG ASUU 
31S5 /.40                r,AN_-SHUPU  3-1
LUDI(Z3  NANSHI
GUBEI ~~        (86 MW)
GUBEI  <-    CAOXI   0
ZHOUJIADU    PIJOONG
GANGKOL
WUJING (350 MW)
UJING (2 X 300 MW)
WUJING THERMAL
\ MINHANG                                          POWER PROJECT
31nos  X   (598 MW)t       K                SHANGHAI POWER  GRID                          31-00
UNDER
EXISTING  CONSTRUCTION  PROPOSED
Q                           * I     Thermal Power Plants
220 kV Transmission Lines
A                                   220 kV Substations
----                         ---   l220 kV Underground Linas
500 kV Transmission Lines
500 kV Substations
FM=:w > Urban Area
Province Boundaries
'0                                                                0 .              10       15      20
PHEJIA   NO  )JNSHAN                  >                                           KILOMETERS
-3.  _  _s  4  OC  * ~  S d rll   lgWa f                         a e Sn
/ ,--S  PETRO CHEMICAL                         Faser, Cals'_'a"l*ny7,,b^ at
ff.ttS 121,30   ty -121;    4a 50
12V15'                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~121,'30                         121V45



