Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 2852 CHA
Project Agreement
(Wujing Thermal Power Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
SHANGHAI MUNICIPAL ELECTRIC POWER BUREAU
Dated February 3, 1988
LOAN NUMBER 2852 CHA
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated February 3, 1988, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and SHANGHAI MUNICIPAL ELECTRIC POWER BUREAU (SMEPB).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the People's 
Republic of China (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available 
to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to ninety million dollars 
($190,000,000), on terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on 
condition that SMEPB agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are set 
forth in this Agreement;
(B)
by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower 
and SMEPB, the proceeds of the loan provided for under the Loan Agreement will be made 
available to SMEPB on the terms and conditions set forth in said Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement; and
WHEREAS SMEPB, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the Loan Agreement 
with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General Conditions (as 
so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
Page  2
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. SMEPB declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project as 
set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the 
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, engineering and power utilities practices, and shall 
provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services 
and other resources required for the Project.
Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 
and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.03. SMEPB shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 
9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use 
of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project.
Section 2.04. SMEPB shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary 
Loan Agreement. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, SMEPB shall not take or 
concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or 
waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) SMEPB shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange views with 
the Bank with regard to progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations 
under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other matters 
relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b)
SMEPB shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which interferes or 
threatens to interfere with the progress of Part A of the Project, the accomplishment 
of the purposes of the Loan, or the performance by SMEPB of its obligations under this 
Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 2.06. (a) SMEPB shall: (i) carry out the study under Part B (1) of the 
Project in accordance with terms of reference and timing agreed with the Bank; and 
(ii) take necessary steps to implement such recommendations of such studies as may be 
agreed between the Bank and SMEPB.
(b)
SMEPB shall carry out the training under Parts B (2) and B (3) of the 
Project in accordance with a program agreed with the Bank.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of SMEPB
Section 3.01. SMEPB shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial, engineering and power utility 
practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by 
competent staff in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. SMEPB shall at all times operate and maintain its plant, 
machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, 
make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound 
engineering, financial and power utility practices.
Section 3.03. SMEPB shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or 
make other provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in 
such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 3.04. SMEPB shall take all necessary steps to implement an environmental 
monitoring program satisfactory to the Bank.
ARTICLE IV
Page  3
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) SMEPB shall maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect 
in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
(b)
SMEPB shall:
 
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently 
applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of each such year, (A) certified 
copies of its financial 
statements for such year as so audited, and 
(B) the report of such audit by 
said auditors of such scope and in such 
detail as the Bank shall have 
reasonably requested; and
 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records, accounts 
and financial statements as well as the audit 
thereof, as the Bank shall from 
time to time reasonably request.
 
Section 4.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, SMEPB shall from 
time to time take, or cause to be taken, all such measures (including, without 
limitation, adjustments of the levels and structure of its electricity tariffs as 
determined by the Borrower) as shall be required to produce, for each of its fiscal 
years after its fiscal year ending on December 31, 1986 net operating income 
equivalent to not less than 25 percent of its average annual investment program.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
The term "operating income" means the sum of revenues from all 
sources related 
to electricity operations, including receipts for 
consumer connection charges.
(ii)
The term "net operating income" means operating income less the 
sum of: (A)
cash operating expenses; and (B) financial obligations to be met 
from operating 
income.
 
(iii)
The term "cash operating expenses" means the sum of all expenses 
related to 
electricity operations which are payable in cash, including 
administration, 
and sales tax chargeable as operating expense, but 
not including provision for 
maintenance special fund and for 
depreciation.
(iv)
The term "financial obligations to be met from operating income" 
means (A) 
interest and other charges on debt, excluding 
capitalized interest during 
construction; (B) repayment of 
loans (including sinking fund payments, if 
any); (C) income 
taxes; (D) net increases in assets which have been financed 
from 
the special funds; (E) expenditures from the special funds; and (F) any 
increase in working capital.
(v)
The term "average annual investment program" means the average of: 
(A) the
previous year's actual capital expenditure; (B) the current year's 
planned 
capital expenditure; and (C) the next year's 
projected capital expenditure.
Section 4.03. (a) Except as the Bank and SMEPB shall otherwise agree, SMEPB 
shall not incur any debt unless a reasonable forecast of the revenues and expenditures 
of SMEPB shows that the projected internal cash generation of SMEPB for each fiscal 
year during the term of the debt to be incurred shall be at least 1.3 times the 
estimated debt service requirements of SMEPB in such year on all its debt including 
Page  4
the debt to be incurred.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
The term "debt" means any indebtedness of SMEPB maturing by its 
terms more 
than one year after the date on which it is 
originally incurred.
(ii)
Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a loan contract or 
agreement or
other instrument providing for such debt or further modification 
of its terms 
of payment, on the date of such contract, agreement or 
instrument; and (B) 
under a guarantee agreement, on the date 
the agreement providing for such 
guarantee has been entered into.
 
(iii)
The term "internal cash generation of SMEPB" means the difference 
between:
(A)
the sum of revenues from all sources related to operations 
and net non-
operating income, excluding receipts for consumer connection 
charges; and
 
(B)
the sum of all expenses related to operations, including 
administration, provision for maintenance special 
fund, and sales and 
income taxes and payments in lieu of 
such taxes, but excluding 
provision for depreciation, and 
interest and other charges on debt.
(iv)
The term "net non-operating income" means the difference between:
 
(A)
revenues from all sources other than those related to 
operations; and
(B)
expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, 
incurred
in the generation of (A) above.
(v)
The term "debt service requirements" means the aggregate amount of 
repayments
(including sinking fund payments, if any) of, and interest and 
other charges 
on, debt excluding capitalized interest during 
construction.
(vi)
The term "reasonable forecast" means a forecast prepared by SMEPB 
not earlier
than twelve months prior to the incurrence of the debt in 
question, which both 
the Bank and SMEPB accept as reasonable and as 
to which the Bank has notified 
SMEPB of its acceptability, provided 
that no events has occurred since such 
notification which has, or may 
reasonably be expected in the future to have, a 
material adverse 
effect on the financial condition or future operating results 
of 
SMEPB.
(vii)
Whenever, for the purposes of this Section, it shall be necessary 
to value, in 
terms of currency of the Borrower, debt payable in another 
currency, such 
valuation shall be made on the basis of the 
prevailing lawful rate of exchange 
at which such other currency is, 
at the time of such valuation, obtainable for 
the purposes of servicing 
such debt, or, with absence of such rate, on the 
basis of a 
rate of exchange acceptable to the Bank.
Section 4.04. By December 31 of each year, commencing December 31, 1987, SMEPB 
shall prepare and furnish to the Bank for comment a financial plan containing, inter 
alia, forecast income statements, sources and uses of funds, and balance sheets for 
each of the next five fiscal years.
Page  5
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of SMEPB 
thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in 
accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify SMEPB thereof.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA) or
 64145 (WUI)
For SMEPB:
Shanghai Municipal Electric
Power Bureau
181 Nanjing Dong Road
Shanghai
People's Republic of China
Cable address:
Telex:
 
3419
33308 ECEPA CN
 
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of SMEPB, or by 
SMEPB on behalf of the Borrower under the Loan Agreement, may be taken or executed by 
SMEPB's Director or such other person or persons as SMEPB's Director shall designate 
in writing, and SMEPB shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority 
and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Page  6
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ A. Karosmanoglu
Regional Vice President
Asia
SHANGHAI MUNICIPAL ELECTRIC
   POWER BUREAU
By /s/ Han Xu
Authorized Representative
