Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Repot No. 7668-LSO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
LESOTHO
SECOND POPULATION, HEALTH AND NUTRITION PROJECT
JUNE 10, 1989
Southern Africa Department
Population and Human Resources Division
This document has a restricted distribution a nd may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank amthodhzaton.



CURR       v OrWIVALRt
(February 1989)
Currency Unit - maloti (M)
US$1.00 - ..37 Maloti
M1.00 - US$0.42
1 Meter (a) - 3.28 Feet
1 Square Meter (aq m) - 10.76 Square Feet
Government Fiscal Year: April 1 - March 31
ABBRUVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AIDS    -         Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome
CBD     -         Comunity-Based Distributor
CDR     -         Child Death Rate
CNHFS   -         Child Nutrition and Household Food Security
CRS     -         Catholic Relief Service
EEC     -         European Economic Community
FP      -         Family Planning
GOL     -         Government of Lesotho
HEU     -         Health Education Unit
HIV     -         Human Immunodeficiency Virus
HPSU    -         Health Planning and Statistics Unit
HSA     -         Health Service Area
ICB     -         International Competitive Bidding
IDA     -         International Development Association
IEC     -         Information Education and Communication
IMR     -         Infant Mortality Rate
IUD     -         Intrauterine Device
KAP     -         Knowledge, Attitudes and Practices
LCB     -         Local Competitive Bidding
LDTC    -         Lesotho Distant Teaching Center
LPPA    -         Lesotho Planned Parenthood Association
MCH     -         Maternal and Child HeL-th
MOA     -         Ministry of Agriculture
MOH     -         Ministry of Health
NDSO    -         National Drug Stockpiling Organization
NGO     -         Non-Governmental Organization
NHTC    -         National Health Training Center
OPD     -         Out Patient Dispensary
PMU     -         Project Management Unit
PHAL    -         Private Health Association of Lesotho
PHN     -         Population, Health and Nutrition
PPF     -         Project Preparation Facility
RCIP    -         Rural Clinics Improvement Project
RSA     -         Republic of South Africa
SACU    -         South African Customs Union
STD     -         Sexually Transmitted Diseases
TBA     -         Traditional Birth Attendants
UNFPA   -         United Nations Fund for Population Activities
UNICEF  -         United Nations Children's Fund
USAID   -         United States Agency for International Development
VHW     -         Village Health Workers
WAHU    -         Ministry of Works Architects Branch Health Unit



FOR OFmFCIAL USE ONLY
SIMON) POPMLATION. UALTH. AND NU1RITIOP PROJIC1
STAW  APPRAISAL 11101T
Table of Contents
Pate No.
Basic Data ....1
Credit and Project Su ary .... ...11
I. INTRODUCTION ..1
II. ECONOMIC AND SECTORAL BACKGROUND .1
A. The Economy   ..
B. Population .                                                          3
C. NLtreLion.                                                            5
D. Health .6
E. Financing of Health Care .11
F. Ro' of IDA .13
III. THE PROJECT .14
A. Objectives and Summary Description .14
B. Detailed Project Description .15
C. Sectoral Policy Reforms .29
IV. PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING, AND PROCUREMENT       .       .31
A. Project Costs .31
B. Financing .33
C. Procurement .34
D. Disbursements .37
E. Accounts and Audit .38
V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION .38
A. Organization and Management .38
B. Status of Project .39
C. Monitoring, Reporting, and Evaluation .42
VI. PROJECT BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION, AND RISKS        .      .42
A. Benefits and Justification.                                          4
B. Risks .44
VII. ASSURANCES AND RECOMMENDATIONS .45
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission that visited
Lesotho in January-February 1989. The mission was composed of Mr. R. Hecht
(mission leader), Dr. D. Sebina (public health specialist), Ms. Izumi Ohno
(economist), Mr. P. Langseth (management specialist), Mr. P. Smoor (architect,
consultant), and Mr. J. Levinson (nutrition specialist, consultant).
Ms. E. Fernz and Ms. G. Johnson provided clerical assistance.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ANNIUS
Annex 15 Project Costb ond Financing ....................................................... 47
Table 1.  Project Costs by Sumnary Accounts  .         .....#4 ..............  47
T-ble 2.  Summary Accounts by Year ..........   . . ....           ....... . .  48
Table 3.  Project Component* by Year .......... ..........                      49
Table 4.  Detailed Cost Tabl-a ............ ... ... .. ....** * ** ***    50
Table 5.  Financing Plan by Sumary Accounta            . 0 .     ...........  63
Table 6.  Disbursement Schedule.  .. . . ...... . ....... ........... . . .. .   64
Annex 2:  Sectoral Polic7 Reforms (Summary of Targets and Schedules)....  65
Annex 3:  Population and Health Status  .          ....................... of*.  68
Table 1.  Population Projections ............................      ..........  68
Table 2.  Population by HSA             .    ......           ...............  69
Table 3.  Ten Leading Causes of Outpatient Morbidity               .     .      70
Annex 4:  Institutional Aspects of PHN Sector ...........................  71
Chart 1.  MOH Organization ............................................  71
Table 1.  Health Facilities by District ...............................  72
Table 2.  Health Personnel by District ................................  73
Table 3.  MOH Staffing Situation (Established Posts) ..................  74
Table 4.  Hospital Utilization ........................................  75
Annex 5: Financial Aspects of PHN Sector                      ..                  76
Table 1.  Health Expenditure Indicators in Middle-Income Sub-Sahara
African Countries .........................................  76
Table 2.  Health Sector Recurrent Expenditure (MOH/PHAL/others) .......  77
Table 3.  MOH Recurrent and Capital Expenditure .......................  78
Table 4.  MOH Cost Recovery ...........................................  79
Table 5.  Patient Fees and Charges (MOH/PHAL) .........................  80
Annex 6: ProJect Implementation                          ..                       81
Part 1. Implementation Schedule                        ..                       81
Part 2. Rural Health Service                          ..                        89
2(a) Rural Clinics: Estimated Costs for Upgrading and
a Standard Plan ..........................................  89
2(b)  HSA Development Fund .......................................  91
Part 3. Urban Health Services                         ..                        92
3(a) Filter Clinics: Estimated Costs, Lay-Out,
a Staffing Plan .........................................   92
3(b)  QE II Hospital: Clinical Training Program ..................  94
3(c)  QE II Hospital:  Proposed New Organizational Structure .....  95
Part 4. Food and Nu.rition                           ..                         97
4(a)  Targeted Credit Scheme for Women's Groups ..................  97
4(b) 1erms of Reference for Proposed Two
Nutritionists in MOH .....................................  98



Part S.  Disease Control..... ...........             **so* .......... a*     100
5(a) STD/AIDS Control: 1'artner Notification and
Counselling Sch.me ...................................... 100
5(b)  STD/AIDS Controls Operational Researches .................. 101
Part 6.  Institutional Development                          .       ........ 104
6(a)  NMO Health Manpo         e rprtpmrt .nt. ............. 104
6(b)  MOH Op.rations Management Division .............. 106
6(c)  Project Management Unit .......... . 112
Annex 7:  Terms of Reference for Consultancy Services................... 114
Part 1.  Rural Health Services:  Drug System Consultant ............... 114
Part 2.  Urban Health Services ........ ........ .............    ........... 115
2(a)  QE II Management Technical Assistance Program ........... ... 115
2(b)  Senior Management Advisor ................................. .    117
2(c)  Maintenance Advisor ...........                      .    .      118
2(d)  Nursing Advisor        ....             . . .............. . 120
Part 3.  Family Planning .      .    .     ........................................... 121
3(a)  Surgical Contraception Training Consultant .................     121
3(b)  Pre-Service Training Advisog ............................... 122
3(c)  Community-Based Distribution Advisor ....................... 123
3(d)  Youth Counselling Advisor .................................. 124
Part 4.  Food and Nutrition:  Nutrition Training Advisor .............. 125
Part 5.  Disease Control .............................................. 127
5(a)  TB Advisor ................................................. 127
5(b) STD Specialist .                                                  129
Part 6. Institutional Development           ..130
6(a) Financial Management Advisor .130
6(b)  Organization and Management Advisor .131
6'c)  Health Information Systems Advisor .132
6(d) Health Manpower Advisor .133
6(e) IEC Management Specialist .135
6(f) Advisor to the Director of NHTC .136
Annex 8: Summary of Trainin Activities .137
Annex 9:  List of Documents and Data Available in the Prolect File .           140
MAP: IBRD No. 21353
Lesotho - Location of Rural Health Clinics, Urban Filter Clinics, and
Pilo't Projects
LIST OF TABLES IN TEXT
Table 4.1.  Project Costs by Project Components ..                           32
Table 4.2. Project Financing Plan ..                                         34
Table 4.3.  Procurement Arrangements                    .                    35
Table 4.4.  Allocation and Disbursement of IDA Credit ..                     37
Table 5.1.  Agency Responsible for Project Execution ..                      39



- i - 
LESTH
SECOND POPULATION. HEALTH, AND NUTRITION PROJECT
Basic Data
(All figures apply to 1986)
Area ............ .  ................. . ... 30,400 square Ikm
GNP per capita          ...... US$370
Population      .................. 1.58 million
Population density            .    .     52 per square km
Rural population as proportion of
total population ................ 83 percrs,t
Crude birth rate ...................... 41 per thousand
Crude death rate ...................... 13 per thousand
Total fertility rate .................. 5.8
Population growth rate ................ 2.6 percent per annum
Infant mortality rate ................. 102 per thousand
Life expectancy at birth (male) ....... 53 years
Life expectancy at birth (female) ..... 57 years
Population per physician .............. 12,640



- ii -
LESOTHO
SECOND POPULATION.  EALTR  AND NUTRITION PROJECT
Credit and Pro ect Summarv
Borrower:          Kingdom of Lesotho
Beneficiaries:    Ministry of Health (MOH)
Private Health Association of Lesotho (PHAL)
Lesotho Planned Parenthood Association (LPPA)
Amount:            SDR 9.4 million (US$12.1 million equivalent)
Terms:             Standard, with 40 years maturity
Prolect Obiectives:
The proposed project will introduce the necessary financial and
institutional policy reforms and inject needed investment resources,
while drawing upon NGOs and the private sector, to contribute to the
achievement of the following objectives: (a) slowing the pace of
population growth; (b) continuing to strengthen the health care system
in both rural and urban areas; (c) reducing the spread of tuberculosis
and sexually-transmitted diseases, including HIV-AIDS; (d) lowering the
rate of malnutrition in children and mothers; and (e) strengthening
support systems for sector planning, financial, personnel, and health
information management, and manpower development.
Proiect Description:
The project will support the following six components: (a) Family
PlanniLg -- development of a national population policy, staff training,
and provision of contraceptives; (b) Disease Control -- expansion of
ongoing TB control and launching of STD control activities,
institutional strengthening, supply of drugs and eq-ipment, and
operations research; (c) Rural Health Services -- upgrading of clinics,
strengthening of district-based primary health care teams, supply of
drugs to peripheral facilities, and creation of a decentralized health
development fund; (d) Urban Health Services -- development of a pilot
system of urban filter clinics and improvements to facilities,
equipment. and management of the central hospital; (e) Food and
Nutritio. -- technical and logistical support to a pilot household food
security -heme and to a food consumption monitoring system; and (f)
Instituti. al Development -- training, advisory services, and logistical
back-up for MOH financial and information management, health planning
and education, and manpower development, and for the National Health
Training Center.
Policy reforms will be pursued in two main areas: (a) health financing -
- incresses in cost recovery and improved efficiencies in major health
facilities and categories of expenditure (e.g., drugs); and (b) health
institutions -- development of a more mutually-supportive and
performance-based relationship between MOH and PHAL, compliance with
agreed manpower expansion targets, and intensification of public-private
sector cooperation in providing health and family planning services.



- ili -
Benefits and Risks:
Women and children and low-income households will be the primary direct
beneficiaries, obtaining more healthy days of work and study and general
improvemezt.L in quality of life as a result of the project's primary
care, family planning, and nutrition activities. The adult population
will benefit directly from disease control efforts focused on TB and
STD/AIDS. Indirectly, the country will benefit from increased
productivity of a healthier labor force and savings through the
substitution of lower-cost preventive services for higher-cost curative
care and improved cost-effectiveness of PHN progr ams. Benefits accruing
to the Government will be additional revenues trom cost recovery and
improvements in PHN technical and managerial capacity.
The main project risks are that: (a) shortages of Government manpower
and skills at headquarters level could adversely affect project
implementation; and (b) lack of coordination between Government and NGO
health providers could inhibit service delivery and effective policy
reform. The first risk will be minimized through delegation of
significant implementation responsibility to district level and to NGOO,
provision of intensive training programs and selective technical
assistance, and development of incentive programs for healthi workers in
the public sector. The second risk will be mitigated through the support
of more effective consultative arrangements (initiated during project
preparation) and promotion of an explicit performance-based relationship
between Government and NGO health facilities



- iv -
|  nT&ATID COMTS AND FINANCING PLAN
Estimated Oroiect Costs:
Local      Forttan      Total
--------(USS million)-------
Rural Health Services                         1.2.         18          3.0
Upgrading of Rural Clinics                  0.4          0.8         1.2
PHC System  Support                         0.6          0.7         1.3
HSA Development Fund                        0,2          0.3         0.5
Urban Health Services                         2.3          4.4         6.7
Filter Clinics                              0.6          0.9         1.5
Upgrading of QE II Hospital                 1.7          3.5         5.2
Family Planning                               0.6          0.5         1.1
Food and Nutrition                            0.2          0.2         0.4
Disease Control                               0.5          1.8         2.3
Tuberculosis Control                        0.3          1.1         1.4
STD/AIDS Control                            0.2         0.7          0.9
Institutional Development                     1.5          3.6         5.1
MOH Management Systems Support              0.7          1.7         2.4
National Health Training Center             0.6          1.7         2.3
Project Management                          0.2          0.2         0.4
Base Cost                        6.2         12.4         18.6
Physical Contingencies                        0.5          1.1         1.6
Price Contingencies                           1.4          0.5         1.9
Total Proiect Costs              8.1         14.0         22.1
Financing Plan :a/
Local      Foreign      Total
--------(US$ million)-------
Government                                    1.7          0.6         2.3
IDA                                           4.0          8.1        12.1
Co-financing
EEC                                         1.4          1.8         3.2
Govt. of Ireland                            0.2          2.4         2.6
ODA                                         0.2          1.1         1.3
Total                            7.5         14.0         21.5
a/ Excludes taxes and duties of US$ 0.6 million.
Estimated IDA Disbursements:                      IDA Fiscal Year
90    91    92    93    94    95    96
-------------(US$ million)------------
Annual                              0.4   1.2   2.7   2.8   2.4   2.0   0.6
Cumulative                          0.4   1.6   4.3   7.1   9.5  11.5  12.1



LESOTHO
SECOND POPULATION, HEALTH, AND NUTRITION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01        In view of the country's severely limited physical resource
base -- aside from water, which is to be exploited through the Lesotho
Highlands Development Scheme (LHDS) -- the Government of Lesotho (GOL) has
opted for a development strategy which emphasizes human resources. Such a
strategy calls for the reform and revitalization of the national education and
training system, and also stresses improvements in the population, health, and
nutrition (PHN) sectors: reducing the rate of population growth and
ameliorating the health of mothers and children; making the labor force mnre
productive and students more efficient learners by lowering the existing
burden of illness; and enhancing the educational and emplo7ment opportunities
of future Basotho adults by protecting their nutritional status as infants.
1.02        The proposed Second Population, Health, and Nutrition Project
(PHN II) would make a major co.itribution to the rea'ization of this human
resource development strategy adopted by the GOL. As one of the largest single
planned investments in Lesotho's PHN sectors over the coming decade, it would
aim to expand family planning services significantly; reduce the incidence of
major infectious diseases including tuberculosis, sexually-transmitted
diseases, and AIDS; lower substantially the rate of infant malnutrition,
particularly amo.g low-income households; extend and rationalize both rural
and urban PHN infrastructure; and strengthen the capacity of both Government
and NGO institutions to plan and manage PHN activities. The proposed project
would also be the first donor-assisted operation in Lesotho to address a
number of fundamental policy issues in the health sector, by setting specific
objectives for cost recovery, increased efficiency, institutional reform, and
enhanced cooperation between public and private service providers. The project
would thus be consistent with the broader GOL economic reform program launched
in 1988, which stresses increased effic;.ency of public expenditures and
enhanced resource mobilization. By targeting health and nutrition benefits on
the poor, and by providing mechanisms for exempting low-income households from
health fees, the project would also help to protect these vulnerable groups
from any adverse impacts of the economic reform program.
II. ECONOMIC AND SECTORAL BACKGROUND
A. The Economy
2.01        The Kingdom of Lesotho is a small ccuntry with a population of
about 1.6 million and a land area of only 30,400 sq. km, and is entirely
surrounded by the Republic of South Africa (RSA). Its economic structure is
essentially agrarian and labor-exporting. An estimated 84Z of the population
live in the rural areas and about 70Z of laboi force receive some income from
agricu.ture. However, because of its mountainous terrain, only 13Z of
Lesotho's total area is suitable for crop farming, and agriculture
consequ-zntly accounts for just 201 of the country's GDP, with many of the
country's farmers operating on a part-time basis.



2.02        Because of Lesotho's limited physical resource base and small
industrial sector, most Basotho obtain employment either in tertiary sector
activities in the domestic market (especially in the civil service) or in a
range of farming and industrial jobs in the RSA. It is eatimated that nearly
200,000 Basotho are currently employed in the RSA, including about 120,000
(nearly half the adult male labor force) in mining, with smaller numbers
working as teachers, health professionals, agricultural laborers, and domestic
servants. The remittances and deferred paymerts of these migrant workers
constitute almost 502 of Lesotho's GNP.
2.03        Lesotho's comercial and fiscal activities are also closely
intertwined with those of its neighbors, especially the RSA. More than 601 of
GOL revenues are derived from receipts collected by the Southern African
Customs Union, formed by Botswana, Lesotho, Swaziland and the RSA. Over 951
of the country's imports originate in the RSA, while its exports either are
destined for the RSA or are transferred to the rest of the world through RSA
ports.
2.04        During the Third Five-Year Development Plan period (1981/82-
1985/86), Lesotho's economic performance was disappointing. Real GDP rose by
an average of only 0.5Z a year, largely as a result of closure of the national
diamond mine and stagnation in agriculture, partly dute to a sustained drought.
The Government budget deficit also widened seriously, from 4Z of GDP in
1984/85 to 172 in 1986/87.
2.05        Over the longer-term, the country's economic prospects are
somewhat brighter, though still uncertain. Royalties from the sale of water to
the RSA through the LHDS are expected to reach about US$60 million a year in
2020 (1983 prices). Even though tariff revenues will be adversely affected by
RSA moves to adjust the formula for compensatory payments to other country
members, Lesotho's total customs receipts should rise significantly as a
result of importation of plant, machinery, and materials for LHDS.
2.06        In addition to efficient utilization of these 'windfall, revenues
by the GOL, sustained economic growth over the coming decade will depend on
Lesotho's ability to secure employment for its people in the RSA and encourage
the flow of remittances. Sustained growth will also depend on a series of
domestic factors which the GOL can strongly influence through its policies and
practices. These include: incentives for investment in private industry;
legislation and programs to promote land conservation and higher agricultural
productivity; and more effective procedures for prioritizing and controlling
public expenditures.
2.07        Although Lesotho's flexibility in adjusting its fiscal and
monetary policies is limited by its economic interlinkages with RSA, the GOL
announced in 1988 its commitment to undertake a number of structural
adjustment measures in areas where it has significant room for manoeuvre.
These measures, which are enunciated in the GOL's Policy Framework Paper
(1988), Lnciude the strengthening of GOL planning and budgeting capacity,
rationalization of public expenditures, and reform of the civil service.



-3-
2.08        At the same time, the Government has stresamd that long-term
growth will dopend on cost-effective human resource development. This means
making the country's education and training system more responsive to emerging
patterns of labor demand; slowing the rats of population growth so that it
does not outpace employment generation; and reducing the burden of illness on
adults and children, thus making thie more productive workers and students. An
*ffective human resources strategy also requires that CO. increase the
efficiency of public expenditures for h'alth and education, especially since
i         these two sectors absorb more than 251 of the Governaent budget.
B. Po1pulati
2.09        General.  The de facto population of Lesotho, based on the 1986
census, was 1.45 million, while the de Sure population (which includes migrant
labor) was estimated at 1.58 million. The estimated crude birth rate was 41
per 1000, the crude death rate 13 per 1000, and the total fertility rate 5.8.
These figures result in an annual intercensal (1976-86) population growth rate
of 2.62, as compared with a corresponding rate of 2.3Z during 1966-1976.
While Lesotho's crude birth and total fertility rates are relatively low by
Sub-Saharan African standards, they are significantly higher than those of
developing countries in other regions which have already moved to limit
fertility.
2.10        Given the current age structure, rapid population growth in
Lesotho is all but inevitable over the coming decade, but effective programs
to limit fertility now can have important consequences during the first half
of the next century. Three population projections have been made under
alternative assumptions about future trends in fertility (Annex 3-Table 1).
If fertility remains constant, the population would grow to 2.28 million in
the year 2000 and 5.97 million in 2050. With a standard decline in fertility,
the population in 2050 would be smaller by more than a million people (i.e.,
4.94 million). If Lesotho is successful in promoting an accelerated decline in
feitility, the population could be limited to just 2.03 r,llion in 2000 and
3.47 million by the middle of the next century. While it will not be easy for
Lesotho to pursue this latter scenario, the experience of other developing
regions suggests that it is achievable.
2.11        Relative to Lesotho's physical and financial resources, the
country's population growth rate of 2.62 a year is high, putting significant
strains on the country's ability to provide employment, education, and other
social services to its people. At current growth rates, for example, the
primary school age cohort can be expected to increase from 275,000 in 1987 to
about 405,000 by the year 2000, implying that an additional 10,000 pupils each
year will need to be provided with classrooms, teachers, instructional
materials, etc.
2.12 Population Policy. Following its National Population Management
Conference in 1979, the GOL resolved to seek a reduction in population growth
through the promotion of family planning. While no formal policy has been
adopted since that time, senior officials have become more openly supportive



-4-
of efforts to limit fertility, and have made positive public pronouncements on
the subject. In November 1988, the Ministry of Health (MOH) sponsored the
first of a series of seminars to discuss the development of a national
population policy. In the Fourth Plan (1986/87-1990/91), a target has been
established to increase the level of acceptance of birth control/child spacing
methods from less than 101 at present to 252 of women of child-bearing age.
Given the rapid growth in contraceptive use in recent years in several
neighboring countries (Botswana, Zimbabwe, Swaziland), this target is probably
achievable if Lesotho mounts an effective population program.
2.13  Family Plannint Programs  The Maternal and Child Health/Family Planning
Unit (MCH/FP) of MOH has primary responsibility for the design and
implementation of FP activities. Family plaining services are provided through
most hospitals and some clinics, including Government and NGO facilities, with
the exception of some church mission-run institutions. Prominent among NGOs in
the FP area is the Lesotho Planned Parenthood Association (LPPA) which offers
FP services through its network of clinics, and also manages programs for
information, education, and communication (IEC), family life education, and
women's development. LPPA has a specialized staff of 13 nurses, 20 field
educators, and 12 community-based distributors (CBD), and serves a clientele
of about 16,000 women.
2.14 Constraints and Issues. While GOL has indicated its desire to reduce
population growth and has initiated some important program activities, these
moves have had only limited impact thus far. Contraceptive prevalence rates
remain low, with only 7-10 of women using modern methods. A number of factors
account for this situation. On the supply side: (a) contraceptive availability
has not been reliable, with stock-outs of certain key commodities; (b) some
mission-operated facilities have not been willing to provide FP services (but
they are currently participating in a program to teach natural family
planning); (c) many health counseling workers have not received adequate
training and motivation in FP counseling and clinical procedures; (d) while
LPPA has launched a pilot effort to use community-based distributors of
contraceptives, village-level outreach activities have generally been weak;
and (e) coordination of planning and implementation among agencies in the FP
field has been inadequate. On the demand side: (a) socio-cultural and
religious attitudes favoring large families and opposing family planning
remain well-entrenched among many groupsz (b) efforts to generate additional
demand for FP services, through media campaigns and direct contact by health
professionals and community outreach workers, have been inadequate; and (c)
public support for FP from senior politicians and traditional leaders has been
limited.
2.15 To reduce Lesotho's population growth rate over the coming decades, an
active and well-integrated population program will need to be implemented by
the full range of Government and NGO institutions. More health professionals,
teachers, and extension personnel will have to be trained. Effective IEC
campaigns must be mounted, and a variety of community-level workers (village
health workers, traditional birth attendants, women's group leaders, etc.)
mobilized. A more reliable contraceptives supply system will have to be



-5-
established. And all of these efforts must be underpinned by expressions of
strong backing from respected senior officials and other leaders. The proposed
project would aim to carry out many of these above-mentioned activities.
C. Nutrition
2.16 Nutritional Status. The main nutrition problem in Lesotho remains
chronic protein-calorie malnutrition, resulting in visible stunting and
wastage of the children under five years of age. Recent data from clinics
active in the Catholic Relief Services' (CRS) mother and child feeding program
confirm results from the earlier National Health and Nutrition Survey (1976):
nearly a quarter of children under five suffer from stunting (height for age
below 90Z of the internationally-accepted reference), over 202 are moderately
to severely malnourished (weight for age be17-4 qOZ) and 3-42 are wasted and at
risk for acute, life-threatening malnutrition (weight for height below 85Z).
The data show an increase in malnutrition during the droughc period of the
mid-1980s, with 35Z of children aged 6-24 months below 80Z weight for height.
The data also suggest that even in years of normal agricultural production,
the number of malnourished children rises during the "hungry' period (January-
March) prior to the harvest, when household grain supplies are low and mothers
are heavily engaged in agricultural tasks and have less time to care for their
children.
2.17 Nutrition Programs. Because of their multi-sectoral nature, nutrition
programs in Lesotho have involved a number of Government and NGO agencies. The
clinic-based feeding program (para. 2.16) has been run by CRS through church
mission facilities, under the general auspices of MOH. Mothers who visit these
designated clinics with children aged 0-5 years have been enrolled in the
program, under which the children are weighed, the mothers receive some
nutrition education, and the family is given a ration of food donated by the
United States Agency for International Development (USAID). At its peak in the
mid-1980s, the program was operating in 79 of the country's 135 clinics,
reaching 262 of Lesotho's 280,000 households, and providing 8,600 tons of
food. Tn 1986, on the basis of studies which showed that the food supplements
were having no measurable effect on the nutritional status of children
enrolled, CRS decided to phase out the program over a three-year period.
2.18 While MOH has no trained nutrition specialists at present, the Ministry
of Agriculture (MOA) has a Nutrition Division consisting of four persons at
headquarters, a nutrition supervisor in each of the 10 districts, and 114
nutrition assistants at field level. However, the Division's activities are
constrained by lack of transport and insufficient nutrition training of staff,
most of whom have only home economics backgrounds. MOA also houses the Food
and Nutrition Coordinating Office (FNCO), created in 1978 as the executive
secretariat of the Lesotho Food and Nutrition Council and currently composed
of six persons in Maseru and three regional officers. While FNCO is
responsible for coordinating nutrition-related activities in a wide range of
ministries, organizing research and evaluation activities, and evolving a
coherent national nutrition strategy, internal organizational problems have
prevented FNCO from producing major achievements in this field.



-6-
2.19  With assistance from UNICEF and in cooperation with MOA, M0H has
recently developed an integrated, community-based nutrition initiative.
Entitled the Child Nutrition and Housahole. Food Security (CNHFS) Project, the
initiative is to support growth monitoring, nutrition education, and income-
generating activities managed by VHWs, nutrition assistants from 90A, and
other extension personnel. The project would focus on Qacha's Mok and Quthing,
two pilot districts with the highest rates of malnutrition in the country. If
successful, the project would be extended to the rest of Lesotho.
2.20 Constraints and Issues. Past efforts to reduce infant malnutrition have
been thwarted by three main weaknesses in these earlier programs: lack of
targeting, limited outreach, and poor inter-agency coordination. Lack of
targeting has been an especially serious problem. The CRS-managed program has
provided a uniform ration throughout the year to all families with children 0-
5 years of age, rather than focusing on the most vulnerable age group (6-24
months) during the lean period of the year. Lacking effective outreach into
the community from beyond the clinic, previous programs have failed to provide
meaningful surveillance data on the overall nutritional status of children or
to engage communities in nutrition activities. Weak inter-agency coordination
has hitherto prevented GOL from formulating an integrated package of measures
that would include: (a) support to increased agricultural production and
processing; (b) targeting of food aid and other concessional programs; (c)
promotion of non-farm income-producing activities; and (d) nutritional
surveillance and education. The CNHFS (para. 2.19) appears to be a step in
this direction, but needs complementary support in areas such as training of
field workers, development of an effective weaning food, and analysis of the
food consumption/nutrition effects of project interventions.
D. Health
2.21 Health Status. Life expectancy at birth in Lesotho is about
55 years, the infant mortality rate 102 per 1000 live births, the child
death rate about 14 per 1000. These figures are typical of Sub-Saharan
African countries, but somewhat higher than in Lesotho's middle-income
neighbors, Zimbabwe (IMR: 69/1000, CDR: 7/1000) and Botswana (IMR: 74/1000,
CDR: 13/1000). In 1987, the leading causes of death (inpatient data) in
children 0-4 years were intestinal and respiratory infections (20Z each) and
malnutrition (172). For the adult population, tuberculosis (TB) was the
commonest cause of inpatient deaths (18Z), followed by heart and circulatory
system diseases (11Z) and respiratory infections other
than TB (8Z).
2.22  While Lesotho remains free from many endemic diseases common in tropical
countries such as malaria and schistosomiasis, diseases associated with
poverty, poor sanitation, lack of safe water and ignorance are widespread.



According to data obtained from outpatient faa lities, the leading causes of
morbidity in 1987 were: respiratory ailments (20X); infections of the genito-
urinary system, including gonorrhea and syphilis (141); digestive system
disorders, including diarrhea and gastroenteritis (11X); and skin diseaser
(102) (Annex 3-Table 3).
2.23 Health Policy. The first two national development plans (1971/72-
1980/81) focused on expanding the curative health system, training doctors and
nurses, establishing rural clinics, and launching an imunization program. In
1979, the GOL formally adopted a policy of emphasizing primary health care
(PHC), and during the Third Plan period, the GOL concentrated on
institutionalizing a nationwide PHC system by putting into place the required
physical assets (i.e. facilities, equipment, drugs and other materials) and by
developing manpower. The current Fourth Plan aims at further improving PHC
services in order to achieve the following targets: (a) lowering the infant
mortality rate from 102 to less than 80/1000; (b) reducing child mortality by
half; (c) cutting the diarrheal disease hospital case fatality rate in the
under-five age group from 12% to 3% and outpatient cases from 37% to 20% of
total reports; (d) training and mobilizing a total of 5000 VHWs; and (e)
increasing the number of clinics from 135 to 150, and assigning a nurse
clinician to each facility.
2.24  Organization and Management. MOH has primary responsibility for the
development of policies, strategies and programs for health care in Lesotho,
and for the operation of about half of the country's health care facilities.
The Principal Secretary (PS) is the senior manager in the MOH, in charge of
both technical and administrative aspects (Annex 4-Chart 1). The Chief of the
Health Planning and Statistics Unit reports directly to the PS. The PS is
assisted by a Deputy Principal Secretary on administra- tive matters including
finance, persornel, manpower planning and development, training, and
maintenance, and by the Director General of Health Services (DGHS) on
coordination of all MOH health activities. At the central level, the DGHS is
supported by directors for PHC, hospital services and health centers,
pharmaceutic and technical services, and health research and laboratory
services. At the regional level, Lesotho is divided into ten administrative
health districts and the ten District Medical Officers of Health report
directly to the DGHS.
2.25 Health Services. The MOH in 1980 introduced an integrated system for
delivering health services in Lesotho, with three basic layers of institutions
and personnel: (a) at village level, a network of 4000 volunteer VHWs,
supported by the Village Development Councils; (b) above the village, a series
of clinics or health centers, each with a catchment population of 6,000 to
10,000 persons; and (c) above the clinic, by the 18 Health Service Areas (HSA)
which cover the entire country, each with its general hospital as the first
line of referral and its own health team liaising with the District
Development Committee. The MOH operates nine general hospitals with a total of
1137 beds, including Queen Elizabeth II Hospital (QE II) in Maseru, which also
serves as the national referral hospital. The MOH also runs two specialized
hoLpitals for mental health and leprosy.



-8 -
2.26 The other nine HSA hospitals, accounting for another 851 beds, are owned
and operated by church missions, which together belong to the Private Health
Association of Lesotho (PEAL). PEAL facilities account for about 452 of all
health services. About S0 of the 135 clinics in Lesotho belong to PHAL admber
churches; of the remainder, 45 are owned by MOR and the balance by others
including the Red Cross, municipalities, and private individuals. Another
missionary organization, the Lesotho Flying Doctor Service, delivers drugs and
mdical staff to 10 largely inaccessible mountain clinics, and operates an air
ambulance service.
2.27 Traninng. Most of the formal training of mid-level and auxiliary
personnel is done in Lesotho, while senior professional personnel (physicians,
dentists, specialist nurses) receive training outside the country. Nurses
undergo three years of training after 11 years of primary and secondary
schooling. A fourth year of training in midwifery may be added, after which
nurses can apply for specialist overseas training in public health, maternal
and child health, and clinical nursing. Nurse assistants receive one-year
training following nine years of basic schooling. Laboratory assistants,
health assistants, and pharmacy technicians receive in-country training for a
two-year period. The MOH runs one nurse assistant training college, provides
general nurse training at QE II, plus post-graduate courses at the National
Health Training Center (NHTC). PHAL hospitals also operate two schools for
general nurse training and two nurse assistant training colleges. VHWs receive
two weeks of training on communicable diseases, diarrhea and rehydration,
clean water and sanitation, and FP at health center or HSA level.
2.28 In an attempt to enhance coordination of MOH and PHAL training,
standardize some curricula, and improve the quality of instruction, the NHTC
was built in 1986-88 with support from the Government of Ireland and IDA. Five
courses (for laboratory technicians, pharmacy technicians, health assistants,
nurse clinicians, and psychiatric nurses) started in mid-1988, and another
five courses are to be phased in over the coming years. NHTC also houses the
MOH Continuing Education Unit, which has been assigned the role of
coordinating all short in-service courses for health professionals.
2.29 Tuberculosis (TB) Control. The national TB control program, which
started in 1967, is managed by the MOP Disease Control and Environmental
Health Division. The program has been given a major boost by the ongoing First
Population and Health Project, with Irish Government and IDA funding for TB
drug manufacture, technical assistance, and training. Significant achievements
have been recorded in expanding immunization coverage, improving local
manufacture and distribution of TB drugs, developing new treatment protocols,
and setting up an effective surveillance and case-finding system.
Nevertheless, TB remains the leading cause of hospital mortality in adults,
and the program's community-level outreach and follow-up capabilities are
still weak. The proposed second project would attempt to reinforce the
achievements of the first project, and also address these existing weaknesses.
2.30  STDIAIDS Control.  While MOH does not sporn,or a national STD control
program, a range of activities to reduce the spread of STD through secondary
prevention are under way in health facilities around the country. Women
attending ante-natal care clinics are typicallv screened for syphilis, and



-9-
infants born in hospitals are treated with tetracycline to prevent gonocchocal
opthalmia. About 10X of outpatient attendances are also for genito-urinary
conditions, including syphilis, gonorrhea, chancroid, and other STDs, which
are treated with the appropriate antibiotics. Drug supply and laboratory
capability are also good. Nevertheless, STDs remain widely prevalent in
Lesotho, with the attendant increased risk of adverse pregnancy outcoe, loss
of productivity associated with morbidity, and infection with Human
Inmnodeficiency Virus (HIV). Clinics have limited ability to diagnose STDs,
and disease surveillance is inadequate. Follow-up treatment of partners of STD
patients is not pursued, and high-risk groups (e.g., prostitutes and migrant
mine workers) have not been targeted. The proposed project would aim to tackle
some of these problems, while building on the strengths of ongoing STD control
efforts.
2.31 Informatrjn, Education, and Coamonication. The HOH Health Education
Unit (HEU) has lead responsibility, in collaboration with technical units of
the Ministry, for developing IEC programs in priority program areas, including
immunization, sanitation, oral rehydration therapy, FP, breast-feeding and
weaning practices, TB and STD/AIDS control. Health education is mainly
delivered by HOH and PHAL service providers during clinic sessions and through
community meetings and household visits. In addition, HEU produces limited
numbers of pamphlets, posters, and radio spots for distribution. HEU has posts
for eight health educators and a graphics supervisor, but has generally been
unable to retain qualified staff. The Unit has also lacked an overall IEC
management plan that defines in operational detail its specialized role in
assisting PHN program managers in the design, implementation, and evaluation
of communications activities.
2.32 Constraints and Issues. While the basic structure of Lesotho's health
delivery system has already been determined during the Third Plan period
(para. 2.23). additional efforts are required to ensure that the system is
fully integrated and functioning, that resources and services are equitably
distributed, and that expenditures for major institutions and programs are
made more efficient. To do so, Lesotho must address the following issues and
constraints over the coming decade:
(a) Access to Services: While HOH has made major strides in providing
adequate services to the entire population, some parts of the country
are still underserved by hospitals!clinics and health personnel. To
ensure complete coverage of Lesotho, the Ministry intends to upgrade
about 40 existing clinics and to construct another 15 new facilities.
MOH will also have to train and deploy more staff in the rural areas,
especially nurse clinicians, nurse assistants, and health assistants,
and/or redeploy existing urban-based personnel. In 1986, 47? of the
1,226 nurses in Lesotho and about half of the 95 medical practitioners
employed by MOH and PHAL were working within Maseru District (Annex
4-Table 2).
(b) Utilization of Facilities: Current patterns of facility use are uneven,
with some PHAL facilities operating at well below capacity, while QE II
and some district hospitals are severely crowded (Annex 4-Table 4). The



- 10 -
hospitals are especially overburdened by outpatients seeking treatment
for relatively minor ailments and by routine maternity cases that could
be treated more cost-effectively in clinics. This is caused by lack of
coordination between MOH and PHAL in planning and fee-setting,
inadequate incentives and procedures for patient referral, and
insufficient staffing of peripheral facilities. To improve this
situation, filter clinics vere established under the first IDA-assisted
project in Maseru, Leribe and Hafeteng, and a fee differential between
hospitals and clinics was introduced in July 1988 (Annex 5-Table 5).
Although it is too early to assess the impact of these measures,
shortages of doctors to staff these filter clinics and the absence of
24-hour service may limit their attractiveness vis-a-vis the existing
hospitals.
(c) Qs II Hospital: While QE II faces the same overcrowding and quality-of-
service issues as other facilities (see (b) above), its difficulties
are magnified by the hospital's size (450 beds), budget (402 of MOH
recurrent expenditure), and multiple function (neighborhood clinic for
Maseru, district hospital for Maseru HSA, and national referral
hospital for Lesotho). A recent EEC-financed study of the facility
(1988) identified the following key weaknesses: extreme overcrowding of
wards; poor physical condition of buildings; shortages of basic
equipment; lack of maintenance capability; uneven distribution of
workload; weak planning, staff development and supervision, and
financial management. A major program to upgrade the hospital's
physical plant and improve its organization and management has been
formulated in the study, and would be implemented under the present
project.
(d) MOH-PHAL Relations: While MOH and PHAL institutions belong to a common
system of Health Service Areas, their integration is not complete and
the quality of services provided is variable and occasionally sub-
standard. Some facilities are not adequately staffed or are unwilling
to participate in PHC programs. A framework agreement under which MOH
pays half of PHAL nurses' salaries was signed in 1984, but this has not
effectively promoted MOH-PHAL integration or a more consistent quality
of services across institutions. PHAL facilities offer an essential
service, and their relative autonomy in administrative matters probably
enhances their efficiency. However, it would seem desirable for PHAL
facilities to coordinate their capital expansion and hiring plans more
closely with MOH, and for the Ministry to set norms (in consultation
with PHAL) for staffing, service provision, financial reporting, etc.
Furthermore, it would be logical for MOH grants to PHAL institutions to
be linked to their performance, especially compliance with the agreed
norms and practices.
(e) Shortage of Doctors: MOH and PHAL hospitals remain chronically short of
doctors, despite a concerted effort to train more local physicians. Of
the total of 97 established posts for doctors in Government facilities
in 1988, there were about 30 vacancies, and more than 80Z of the
remaining positions were filled by expatriate volunteer doctors, mostly



- 11 -
on two-year contracts. This is because many Basotho doctors trained
abroad either do not return or immediately go into private practice. A
combination of measures is needed to solve this problem, including: a
more effective system of bonding doctors trained on Government
scholarship; salary and other incentives (e.g., low-interest housing
loans) to attract and retain local doctors; and mutually-beneficial
arrangements for private doctors to practice part-time in MOH and PHAL
hospitals.
2.33        In addition to the above-mentioned points, a number of important
MOH support services face serious constraints:
(a) Health Plannin: At present, the functional demarcation between HPSU
and other operational units is ambiguous. As a result, HPSU is often
assigned the task of managing project and program implementation, which
limits the Unit's ability to formulate national health policies and
plans, monitor their performance, and support local-level planning.
HPSU's terms of reference, staffing, and work program need to be
clarified and redefined.
(b) Health Information: While MOH has made important advances in developing
an effective health information system, the system still suffers from
incomplete and inaccurate reporting and slow analysis and feedback.
There is also a need to integrate financial and personnel information
with the epidemiological and service statistics that are routinely
collected at present.
(c) Personnel Management and Manpower Planning: While MOH has started to
develop a personnel information system, more work needs to be done to
generate reliable information on staff numbers, locations, vacant
positions, etc. In addition, although NHTC in 1987 carried out a
manpower survey and planning exercise for categories cf staff to be
trained at the Center, no overall manpower planning capability has been
established in MOH, that could make manpower projections and assess
their feasibility in the light of likely available recurrent budget
resources and the output of local training institutions.
E. Fiaancing of Health Care
2.34        Expenditures. Total recurrent expenditures for health (public,
NGOs, and private) in 1986/87 came to about M 61.7 million, or 5.5% of
GNP: in addition to MOH, the other major health providers were mine hospitals
(M 22 million), private practitioners (M 9.6 million), PHAL institutions (M
3.9 million) and other NGOs (M 1 million) (Annex 5-Table 2). Public
expenditures for health, including capital and recurrent, amounted to about M
23 million in 1986/87, or about 7% of total Government outlays and 1.7% of
GNP. These levels are comparable to those of other low-income African
countries (Annex 5-Table 1).



-12-
2.35        During the Third Plan period, MOH capital expenditures wore
modest, averaging about M 1.5 million annually. The bulk of these funds were
concentrated on PHC and preventive health activities, including clinic
upgrading, immiunizations, and rural sanitation. During the current Fourth Plan
Period, the Ministry's planned capital program is significantly larger, and
includes not only a continuation of past investments in PHC, but also covers a
wide range of proposed expenditures for training facilities (NHTC) and
district and central hospitals. About 801 of planned investments would be
earmarked for major upgrading of district hospitals and for construction of a
new national referral hospital. While soe district hospitals do require
renovation, the level of proposed expenditure seems questionable and MOR's
ability to absorb the implied recurrent costs is unclear. Under the prevailing
conditions of budgetary stringency, MOH has also recognized that a new
referral hospital would not be affordable at this time: instead, MOH is opting
for a program of modest physical improvements to QE II and a major
strengthening of hospital organization and management.
2.36        Financing. MOH recurrent expenditures are primarily financed by
Government budgetary allocations from general revenues. In addition, MOH
collects user charges including out-and in-patient fees, private and dental
fees, vaccination fees and herbalist licenses. Until recently, the level of
cost recovery through such user charges was low and declining, because of
MOH'j policy of freezing fees in nominal terms. User charges amounted to
M 1.2 million in 1986/87, or just under 61 of total recurrent expenditure,
down from 16% a decade earlier. In July 1988, following a major study of
health financing sponsored by the European Community (EEC) which indicated
that the vast majority of households were willing and able to pay more for
Government health services, a new fee structure became effective, and
administrative personnel were trained in improved collection methods. The
impact of these measures appears to be significant, with the level of cost
recovery expected to rise to at least 10% during the 1988/89 fiscal year
(Annex 5-Table 4).
2.37        The PHAL institutions derive their income from Government
allocations, user charges, and donations from local and overseas sources. The
MOH grant to PHAL in 1986/87 was about M 0.5 million, or 13% of PHAL recurrent
expenditure, and covered half of the salaries of nursing personnel. On
average, PHAL facilities recover more than 501 of their recurrent outlays
through user charges, with fees set at levels considerably higher than in MOH
institutions.
2.38        External Assistance. MOH capital expenditure is largely financed
by foreign aid, which amounted to about 701 of outlays in 1985-87. The main
sources of assistance for ongoirg or planned activities include: the African
Development Bank (renovation of district hospitals and construction of rural
clinics); USAID (control of childhood diseases, family planning services, and
strengthening of district health management); the United Kingdom (construction
of outpatient units in district hospitals, rural sanitation); the United
Nations Funds for Population Activities (family planning). A group of donor
agencies are co-financing a major program of assistance under the First Health
and Population Project: the Government of Ireland (TB control, NHTC), the EEC



-13-
(supply of contraceptives, studies), and IDA. In addition, a wide range of
international Non-Governmental Organizations are active in Lesotho, including
Catholic Relief Services, the Red Cross, International Planned Parenthood
Federation, and CARR (Cooperative for American Relief Zverywhere).
2.39        Constraints and Issues. With assistance from tho first IDA-funded
project, progress has been made in strengthening NMR financial management,
especially overall budget preparation and decentralization of may budget and
expenditure functions to district level. To reinforce this proiess, MOH now
wishes to introduce a facility-based financial management system capable of
preparing budgets and monitoring expenditures. However, most hospital and
clinic staff in the country lack the required financial management skills. The
current financial management system, which is largely manual, also needs to be
computerized for more accurate and timely data processing.
2.40     The EEC-sponsored health financing study emphasized that substantial
efficiency gains in health expenditures could be obtained, especially in major
hospitals. While the development of facility-based financial management system
(para. 2.39) would help to realize these gains, MOH also needs to elaborate a
set of unit-cost norms and limits for each level of health institution
(clinics, district hospitals, QE II) that can guide financial planning and
expenditure decisions. Furthermore, the health financing study stressed the
need to mobilize additional resources for the PHN system, especially through
increased user fees and improved collectioni. While MOH has already taken
positive steps in this direction (para. 2.36), continued efforts are required
to monitor cost recovery performance, assess the impact of higher fees on low-
income households, and develop incentives for individual health facilities to
improve their collection performance.
F. Role of IDA
2.41        Past Sector and Project Work. IDA involvement in Lesotho's PHN
sectors in Lesotho began with a sector mission in 1980 and a PHN sector report
in 1981. The first IDA-assisted Health and Population Project (Cr. 1585-LSO)
was prepared in 1983-85 and became effective in 1986. Its main objectives were
to: (a) reinforce the organization and management of HOH through training and
technical assistance; (b) improve effectiveness and coverage of health care
and FP services through clinic upgrading, provision of communications,
training of outreach workers, and supply of contraceptives; and (c) develop
health manpower tht.ugh the establisburnet of MUTC. To date, overall
implementation of the first project has been satisfactory, with clinic
upgrading, creation of NHTC, TB control, and improved financial management
activities quite successful. On the other hand, FP training and strengthening
of IEC have lagged behind, and project coordination has not been adequate. A
January 1988 mid-term evaluation of the first project provides some lessons
for appropriate design of the prcsent project: (a) project preparation should
elicit proposals from the HSA health workers and client beneficiaries, as well
as from the central level; (b) the project should maximize local
participation, including involvement of PHAL, NGOs, and the private sector;
and (c) project management arrangements should be well-defined, and the



- 14 -
overall coordination unit adequately staffed to perform its critical
functions. The mid-term evaluation also found that technical assistance to the
PHN sectors can only be effectively used when local managers are fully
involved in drafting terms of reference and recruiting consultants, and when
these consultants complement, rather than overwhelm, their counterparts.
2.42        Prentratioa of PP II. The main elements of second project were
identified in January 1983, when a bank review mission for the first project
visited Lesotho. Based on the achievement. and lessons obtained from the
first project, the second project was Largely prepared by a team of MOB
officials and local consultants, in order to maximize local participation.
Under the first project, the GOL has upgraded clinics, trained health
personnel in FP, and developed a new TB control program. The second project
would reinforce many of activities already under way, and also initiate
efforts to limit the spread of STDs/AIDS, reduce the incidence of
malnutrition, strengthen 140H organizatior/manpower planning, and improve the
financial condition of the sector by adjusting the fee schedule for health
services. These points are fully consistent with IDA lending strategy for
Lesotho, which emphasizes human resource development and increased discipline
in management of public expenoitures as two ways of addressing the country's
macro-constraints. As a leading donor in the health and population sectors in
Lesotho, the IDA is well-placed to play a major role in resolving outstanding
sectoral issues, and in mobilizing support from other donors within a common
framework of objectives and strategies for health/population development.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Objectives and Summary DescriDtion
3.01        The project, proposed for IDA financing and cofinancing by several
bilateral donors, has the following six main objectives:
(a) to continue strengthening the decentralized health service
infrastructure and logistical support system, both in rural and urban
areas, and improve the efficiency if service delivery;
(b) to reduce the rate of population growth throughout the country and
enhance the delivery of family planning services to those seeking them;
(c) to reduce morbidity/mortality through programs targeted at critical
health problems including infant malnutrition and infectious diseases
(TB, STD/AIDS);
(d) to enhance the economic efficiency and financial sustainability of the
country's health care system;
(e) to strengthen support systems for health planning, information and
manpower development; and



- 15 -
(f) to introduce the necessary institutional and policy reforms, and draw
upon NGO and private sector resources, to realixe the other above
objectives.
3.02        In order to achieve these objectives, the project would support
the following compononts and sub-components, which are complementary to other
ongoing and planned PHN activities in Losotho:
(a) Rural 8ealth Services: expansion and quality improvements in rural
health care through clinic upgrading (including housing); strengthening
of PHC program management, maintenance, and drug sunply at the
periphery- and establishment of a decentralized HSA Dovelor.aent Fund to
ba used for priority activities determined by each HSA.
(b) Urban Health Services: the expansion of urban health services through
upgrading of QE II Hospital (civil works, equipment, training, and
technical assistance) and development of urban filter clinics;
(c) Family Plannint: the promotion of family planning delivery through
training and technical assistance to the MOH and LPPA and provision of
contraceptives;
(d) Food and Nutrition: the improvement of child nutritional status through
elected inputs -- training of community workers aad nutrition
officers, provision of transport, extension of credit to women's groups
for grain mills) complementary to the UNICEF-sponsored pilct autrition
and food security project;
(e) Disease Control: the enhancement of disease control efforts through
continued support to TB control, new program support for STD control,
and overall strengthening of related institutions; and
(f) Institutional Develorment: the strengthening of Ministry of Health and
NGO systems through (i) training, equipment, and advisory services for
financial management, health planning, information management, health
manpower development, district/HSA management, and IEC; (ii) minor
extensions and pedagogical support to NHTC; and (iii) project
management.
B. Detailed Proiect Description
Rural Health Services  (US$3.0 million)
3.03        Upgrading of Rural Clinics (US$1.2 million).  In order to make
basic PHN services accessible to rural households, 14 existing clinics would
be upgraded and one new facility built in remote areas of the country. The
work would be carried out under the ongoing -- and highly successful -- Rural
Clinics Implementation Project (RCIP). Upgrading would entail enlargement of
existing clinic buildings and the addition of staff accommodation and waiting
mothers' lodges, in compliance with MOH standards for rural clinics. New
clinics would also be constructed to a standard plan (Annex 6.2(a)).



- 16 -
3.04        In accordance with existing procedures, the HPSU would be
responsible for the selection of sites for new and upgraded clinics, on the
basis of applications submitted by chiefs, church groups, USA staff, community
leaders, etc. If a site meets the basic criteria (catchment population,
proximity to nearest health facility, accessibility, community support,
availability of basic servicea and logistical support), the RCIP would carry
out a detailed survey and prepare plans and estimates for review and final
approval by the 8PSU. Clinic construction would be done by the RCIP using its
own construction brigades, which have proven highly satisfactory under the
first IDA project. VABU would provide modifications to the standard clinic and
house plans and other architectural back-up services. To facilitate the work
of the RCIP brigades, the project would finance the purchase of a truck and
two all-terrain vehiclks. The project would also cover the cost of 16 months
of technical assistance for the RCIP coordinator, whose DANIDA-funded contract
expires at the end of 1990.
3.05        PHC SunPort Services (US$1.3 million). To strengthen the delivery
of primary health care at HSA level, the project would provide assistance in
the following areas:
(a) PHC Management and Supervision: PHC teams would be formed in each HSA,
by redeploying health assistants to HSA-level (especially those headed
by PHAL hospitals, which are insufficiently staffed) and training
additional public health nurses. To ensure better integration of health
assistants and public health nurses in PHC activities, their respective
job descriptions have been redefined, and these new roles will be
discussed in a series of workshops in the first two years of the
project. The project will also support the development of a course for
public health nurses at NHTC, by training two tutors abroad and then
financing instructional costs for the first intake of 10-12 public
health nurses in years 3-4 of the project. Facilities attached to the
two clinics where thr..e-month practical training will be given to the
nurses (Tsakholo and Maseru South) will be remodeled or built, as
required. To facilitate supervision of public health activities by the
PHC team, vehicles will be provided for six mountain HSAs.
(b) Upgrading of Maintenance Capacity: A preventive maintenance program for
HSA facilities would be developed, to ensure correct handling and
regular servicing of equipment, with effective management at HSA level
and adequate technical back-up from the central QE II-based maintenance
department. HSA staff, together with the QE II maintenance advisor
(para 3.12(c)) and officers of the USAID-funded District Management
Improvement Project, would design the maintenance program following an
in-depth evaluation of HSA-level maintenance, whichL have already been
identified as a priority problem area. The project would finance the
HSA-wide evaluation, training courses for HSA technical officers and
handymen, and essential maintenance equipment and tools.
(c) Drug Supply to Clinics: To ensure an adequate supply of drugs to
peripheral MOH facilities during a transitional period of reform of the
pharmaceutical subsector (see below), the project would finance for two



- 17 -
years the import costs of raw materials for drugs to be manufactured by
LPC (estimated at &bout US$200,000 annually), plus limited additional
transport for NDSO to permit more frequent direct deliveries to the MOH
clinics. To improve the accuracy of drug ordering by the clinics and
avoid both stock-outs and expiries, NDSO is developing facility-based
inventory and budget systems, which should be in place by April 1,
1989. In addition to the enhanced logistics and monitoring of drug use
being promoted under the project, MOH would undertake other reforms of
its pharmaceutical sub-sector over the two year period, to ensure that
the Ministry will be able to finance adequate drug supplies by the end
of the period. These reforms would include further increases in user
fees (direct charges for drugs were raised on July 1, 1988) and efforts
to improve the efficiency of expenditures in several parts of the drug
system, including procurement and administration by NDSO and
prescribing/dispensing by Government hospitals and clinics. The project
would support a study of options for increased efficiency and self-
financing of the drug system, that would also cover the feasibility of
establishing drug revolving funds (see Annex 7.1 for terms of reference
for the drug system consultant). GOL coimmitment to carrying out the
study, implementing a reform program for pharmaceuticals, and assuming
full financial responsibility for drug supplies in the third year of
the project, would be an important part of the sectoral reform package
being promoted under the project (para. 3.40;d)).
3.06        HSA Development Fund (US$0.5 million). The project would provide
financial resources to each HSA that could be used by HSA officials to carry
out locally-defined priority activities. These activities would be incremental
to those specifically supported by the Second PHN Project (e.g., clinic
upgrading, FP training, TB control) and by other national programs (e.g.,
immunizations, diarrheal disease control, rural water and sanitation, etc.).
During the project planning period, many HSAs proposed special activities that
are either not covered by existing programs or which would supplement ongoing
national efforts (e.g., school latrines). The HSA Development Fund would
provide a pool of resources for the HSAs to implement these activities, while
at the same time developing their skills in planning, management, and
monitoring.
3.07        The procedures for implementing the fund are outlined in
Annex 6.2(b). Broadly speaking, each HSA would be allocated about
US$20,000 in HSA Development Fund resources. Prior to the start of the
financia; year, HSA teams would be required to submit to an MOH review
committee, through the HPSU, a simple but comprehensive proposal for
each m'cro-project, following a standard format covering inter alia
micro-project objectives, actions, budget, and an intplementation plan.
The committee reviewing the HSA proposals would be composed of the
Project Manager, MOH headquarters staff, and a representative from the
PHAL Secretariat. Once micro-projects are approved, expenditures would be
incurred and funds released according to normal MOH procedures. In cases where
community labor is provided freely, this would be reflected in the micro-
project budget even though donor funds would not be used to pay for this



- 18 -
labor. HSAs would submit to the committee periodic progress reports on their
micro-projects, including accounting for funds expended. The GOL has prepared
a draft of the micro-project format acceptable to IDA, and has provided
details on the composition and working procedures of the review committee.
Urban Health Services  (US$6.7 million)
3.08        Filter Clinics (US$1.5 million). While the recent introduction of
a fee differential between hospitals and clinics (para. 2.32(b)) and
improvements in clinic-based services will help to shift some of the existing
patient load away from the hompitals, MOH has decided that further changes in
the hierarchy of urban health facilities are required. In particular, the
Ministry has proposed to establish in a phased manner a series of urban
"filter" clinics (FC) that would be distinguished from community clinics by
their larger size and nursing staff, around-the-clock service, on-site staff
accommodation, and assignment of a doctor on a full or half-time basis. Five
ordinary community clinics would be linked to one FC, with referrals from
clinic to FC and ultimately to a hospital. An FC would thus have a catchment
population of 25,000-50,000. To perform its assigned function, the FC would
concentrate on providing out-patient care and routine emergency and maternity
services.
3.09        To help initiate this MOH program to improve the quality and
accessibility of urban PHN services and promote decongestior, of QE II
Hospital, the project would support the creation of three FC in Maseru and one
in Maputsoe, a rapidly-growing industrial township in the Leribe HSA. Each FC
would be staffed by a total of 12-14 persons, including a doctor, nurse
clinician, and two double-qualified nurses (Annex 6.3(a)). In Maseru, this
personnel would be redeployed from the existing out-patient departments at
QE II, which would be phased down and eventually closed. In Maputsoe, staff
would be transferred from the existing Likhetlane Fealth Centre which is due
for demolition. At each FC, on-site accommodation would be built for five
staff members, and a multi-purpose vehicle and ambulances supplied for
emergency transport and supervision of satellite clinics.
3.10        While the filter clinic concept is being incorporated into tLe
draft Master Plan for the Greater Maseru Urban Area and future sites for
FC are being identified on the basis of anticipated urban growth, the
three FC to be financed under the project would be located in already
established growth areas of the capital. In Maseru West (Likotse) and
East (Mapeleng), two recently-built community clinics would be enlarged,
and a new FC would be constructed in Maseru South, where a site has been
tentatively selected. Funds available for clinics under the IDA-supported
Urban Sector Reorientation Project (Cr.1898-LSO) would be utilized for FC
construction. In Maputsoe, the MOH has identified a suitable si.e in a
residential area adjacent to the industrial zone, but final confirmation from
the relevant authorities still needs to be obtained. Assurances were obtained
from GOL at negotiations that the above-mentioned sites for FC'have been



- 19 _
secured, and that Ministry of Interior would make available for FC
construction the funds earmarked for clinics under the Urban Sector
Reorientation Project. MOH has also agreed to develop a set of specific, time-
bound targets acceptable to IDA for reducing the out-patient and maternity
patient loads at QS II and Leribe Hospitals.
3.11        btaradina of QO  11 hosmital (US$5.2 million). To raise
substantially the quality of service and increase the efficiency of
expenditures at QZ II, an integrated package (including infrastructure
upgrading, equipment, training, technical assistance, and organizational
changes) would be implemented under the project. This sub-component would be
closely related to the establishment of urban filter clinics (para. 3.08),
which would help to reduce the outpatient and maternity patient load at the
central hospital. Physical and management improvements of the existing
hospital would also be a significantly more affordable and cost-effective
alternative to the construction of a new national referral hospital, which the
GOL had earlier considered. A gradual phased approach to a new referral
hospital would be studied further under the project (para. 3.12(e)).
3.12        The QE II upgrading program, based largely on the recommendations
of the 1987 feasibility study by Llewelyn Davies Weeks (U.K.), would include
the following key elements:
(a) Physical Infrastructure Improvement: New boiler house, hot water
reticulation, heating and electrical systems; wards, operating
theaters, and OPD upgrading; and new kitchen and laundry.
(b) Equipment: Purchase and installation of basic medical equipment, spare
parts, and equipment and materials for the strengthened hospital-based
maintenance department. The department's capacity to handle equipment
procurement/maintenance would also be substantially increased through
technical assistance and training; establishment of new policies and
procedures, to be formalized in a manual; design and implementation of
a planned preventive maintenance program; and review and revision of
existing service contracts.
(c) Manag_ nt: To improve overall performance in the hospital, a new
organizational structure (with revised terms of reference for the main
units and their chiefs) and a formal management committee system would
be adopted (see Annex 6.3(c) for the proposed organizational
structure). A Management Board, consisting of department heads, MOH
representatives, and the local community would be created to assist the
Hospital Superintendent with coordination, policy-making, planning,
monitoring and evaluation, and hospital finances (budgeting and
expenditures). Programming of staff workload in the key inpatient
andoutpatient areas would be revised to make it more manageable and
equitable, and a small hospital-based personnel unit would be set up to
handle issues of staffing, personnel management information, promotion,
discipline, career development, etc. Two personnel officers would be
redeployed from MOH headquarters, and the new post of management
analyst would be created and supported through donor funding for the
first two years of the project.



- 20 -
To assist senior hospital officials in the implementation of these
organizational and management reforms, a technical assistance team
would be engaged, headed by a team leader (who would also be senior
Ldvisor to the Medical Superintendent) and including advisors for
maintenance and nursing services (draft terms of reference are given in
Annexes 7.2(a)-(d)). A total of 72 person-months of long-tera technical
assistance would be provided, plus another 12 person-months of short-
term technical assistance in selected areas such as personnel and
financial management and training. Options for recruiting the technical
assistance teem include  twinning  QL II with an appropriate foreign
health institution which could arrange short-term staff ezchanges and
longer-term placement of advisors, or hiring an international hospital
management firm with suitable expertise.
(d) Manpower/ rainin  To enhance the skills of hospital medical,
technical, end administrative staff, a training program would be
undertaken, utilizing both the National Health Training Center and
training institutions outside of Lesotho (Annex 6.3(b)). Top and
middle-level hospital managers would receive in-service training within
Lesotho, mainly utilizing facilities at NHTC, while maintenance staff
would be seconded to equipment manufacturing firms for short, on-the-
job training. Nurses and other medical staff would be given formal or
in-service training, as identified in a detailed clinical training plan
to be developed during the first year of the project.
A hospital-based training officer would be employed on a pilot basis
for 12 months to manage all training activities for QE II staff and to
develop the clinical training plan, with guidance from the Hospital
Superintendent and technical assistance team. The annual training plan
for clinical staff would be sent to IDA for prior review.
Because of existing financial constraints upon hiring of additional
civil service personnel, productivity gains at QE II would be achieved
largely through staff redeployment and skill upgrading. In addition to
the management analyst (see (c) above), the only other new position
would be for an HOH-based training officer, primarily responsible for
the QE II training program, who would be donor-funded for an initial 24
month period. At the end of this period, MOH would evaluate the
experience and decide whether to establish a permanent post.
(e) Studies: While creation of a new national referral hospital would not
be feasible at this time (shortage of capital resources, unsustainable
recurrent costs), the GOL and many donors recognize that over the
long-run, Lesotho will probably need to convert QE II to a simple
secondarycare facility and establish a small national referral
facility. Starting in the fourth year of the project, a study would be
carried out, examining options for the size, functions, and phased
establishment of such a referral hospital.



- 21 -
Family Plannina (US$1.1 Killion)
3.13        In order to slow the rate of population growth and thereby enhance
family welfare and protect the environment, the COL has decided to embark on a
multi-sectoral program of population awareness creation and service delivery.
Such a program is to comprise: (a) de mand creation activities, including media
campaigns, promotional efforts by health and family planning -workers, seminars
for national leaders, and family life education in the schools; and
(b) strengthening of the supply of family planning services, through commnity
outreach, training, improved availability of contraceptives, and support of
NGOs and the private sector. Within this national program, which is also
receiving support from other donors (notably USAID and UIIPA), the proposed
project would expand the relatively modest actions initiated under the first
IDA-assisted Population and Health Project, with special emphasis on:
(a) FP Training: Basic training of key personnel in family planning, mainly
at NHTC, would be accelerated under the project, to meet the urgent
needs of MOH, PHAL, and LPPA. Short in-service courses would be offered
to nurse tutors (8 during project life) and HSA-based nurse trainers
(69), nurse clinicians and midwives (60), nurse assistants (60), and
village health workers (3040). In addition, two doctors would receive
overseas training in surgical contraception, and a further 20 doctor
would be trained locally in minilaparotomy. Terms of reference for
training advisors are given in Annexes 7.2(a)-(b).
(b) Population Policy and Program Developent: The project would support
workshops for national leaders to develop consensus around a population
policy for Lesotho, as well as seminars for MOH, PHAL, and NGO
officials in mansgement of population/family planning programs. One
issue for Basotho to debate during the policy-making process is whether
the policy will advocate increased use of family planning for
child-spacir.g purposes or explicitly to limit family size. GOL has set
a target date of December 1990 for finalizing its population policy,
and has agreed that IDA and the other key donors (including UNFPA and
USAID) should be consulted periodically during the policy formulation
process.
(c) Co unity Outreach: LPPA's recent pilot effort to train and deploy
Community-Based Distributors (CBD) would be expanded, with support from
a short-term CBD advisor (see Annex 7.3(c) for terms of reference). MOH
would also experiment with community-based services by training and
equipping a group of VHWs in two or three pilot areas.
(d) Youth Counselling: To reduce the rate of teenage pregnancy among
Basotho youth, USAID is assisting LPPA to establish a youth counselling
center in Maseru. Under the proposed project, a second youth center
would be built in Maputsoe, and short-term consultancy services wouldbe
provided to develop curricula for the youth counselling program (terms
of reference are shown in Annex 7.3(d)). The project would also finance
the salaries of the LPPA counsellors in the two centers.



- 22 -
(e) Contrwceptive Supoliess To ensure adequate and stable supplies of
family planning commodities, contraceptives for NOh and LPPA would be
provided, and gets of ICH equipment, IUD insertion kits, and
hemoglobinometers would be supplied to each health facility. The
eisiting logistic reporting formt wou'd be simplified to keep national
inventory data accurate and timely.
(f) IDC: To stimulate demand for FP services, the MOH Health Education Unit
and LPPA would mount campaigns using print, radio, and folk drama as
the principal media.
Food and Nutrition (US$0.4 million)
3.14        The proposed nutrition component would complement the inputs
already programmed under the UNICEF-financed Child Nutrition and Household
Food Security Project, which consists of community-based child growth
monitoring, nutrition education, and related income-generating activities
(e.g., home gardens). Activitie. under the proposed project designed to
complement UNICEF iniputs and aimed at reducing the rate of malnutrition among
weaning-age children (6-24 months) would include the following:
(a) Training: Two staff (one of whom would take up a newly-created
nutritionist post in the Maternal and Child Health Division, with the
other assigned to help manage the project in the field) would receive
fellowships for masters-level training in applied human nutrition. In
addition, a total of 18 nutrition assistants and two supervisors
belonging to MOA would be retrained in a three-month course at NHTC, to
equip them to carry out project activities in the two pilot districts
(see Annex 7.3 for terms of reference for the training advisor).
(b) Transport and Accommodation: The project would provide two vehicles to
enhance the mobility of supervisory personnel in Qacha's Nek and
Quthing and in HOH headquarters. It would finance rental of adequate
office space in Qachas Nek for project personnel and support staff for
the targeted credit scheme (see (c) below), and of living accommodation
for the two GOL managers in the pilot districts.
(c) Targeted Credit: To promote village-based grain processing, stimulate
domestic grain production, and generate additional income for food-
deficit households in the two mountain districts, the project would
make available credit for the purchase of diesel-powered mills by
active women's groups. The Lesotho Agricultural Development Bank has
agreed to administer the targeted credit scheme, for which detailed
lending procedures satisfactory to IDA would been established. Since
diesel-powered mills have already become widely utilized in Lesotho,
adequate after-sales services would be available to the participating
women's groups. Support to these women's groups in developing the
necessary managerial, technical, and motivational skills will
beundertaken by the Local Initiatives Support Project in Southern
Quthing, and may also be carried out by Project CARE in the remaining
areas of the two pilot districts.



- 23 -
(d) MaspemntIlnstitutional DeeloDent: A very modest nutrition
capability would be established in HOH through the creation of the two
above-mentioned posts, one in headquarters and one in the field (see
Annex 6.4(b) for terms of reference). During the first two years of the
project, while the nutritionists are in training abroad, MOA would
second to HOB one of its senior staff members to fill the newly-created
head office position. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that MOH
would create one new nutritionist post by April 1, 1990 and the second
by April 1, 1991, and would strive to reach a timely agreement with MOA
under which MOA would second a senior nutritionist to MHO for the first
two years of the project.
3.15        Consistent with the management arrangements for the UNICEF-funded
items, MOH would also have the lead responsibility for the above complementary
activities under the proposed project. The head of the Family Health Division
in MOH and the head of the nutrition unit in MOA would meet periodically to
resolve implementation issues. UNICEF and IDA have agreed to joint reviews of
implementation of the entire food and nutrition program. Related to the
proposed project, USAID has expressed interest in providing technical
assistance to the MOA nutrition unit to carry out food consumption studies
that would help to evaluate the impact of various policies and programs
(including the two district pilot schemes) on household nutritional status and
overall welfare. A national nutritional surveillance system would also be
established, utilizing growth monitoring data which is currently being
collected at clinic level and will ultimately be available at village level.
This data, submitted to the MOH Statistics Unit for tabulation and analysis,
would be incorporated in the monthly Food Security Bulletin published by MOA.
Disease Control (US$2.3 million)
3.16        Tuberculosis Control (US$1.4 million). Project activities in this
area would help to consolidate the important achievements of the first
project, by: (a) ensuring a steady and reliable supply of TB drugs and
materials; (b) strengthening the crucial follow-up of TB patients and
promotion of TB awareness at HSA and community levels; and (c) improving
management of the program at central level, including monitoring and
evaluation of TB control activities and their impact.
3.17        The project would provide funds for TB drugs, which would be
procured in raw material form and manufactured by 'esotho Pharmaceutical
Corporation, as is done at present. An improved system for monitoring drug
supply and consumption would be established, and additional transport would be
provided for drug distribution to MOH and PHAL facilities. To strengthen TB
surveillarce and control efforts at peripheral level, MOH would designate at
least one public health assistant in each HSA who would be responsible for the
TE activities. These 18 field workers would receive appropriate training and
be provided with housing and motorcycles, to enable them to carry out
community-level work.



- 24 _
3.18        To support the TB control program at MOH headquarters, the
project uould continue to finance a technical advisor to the Disease Control
and Environmental Health Division, plus related transport and production of
related IEC materials (the advisor's term of reference are shown in
Annex 7.4(a)). MOH would assign a medical officer to work with the advisor,
and would also provide clerical back-up to the TB progrm within the Unit. The
medical officer would receive a fellowship for advanced training in chest
diseases. To monitor program implementation and its impact, the project would
support an independent annual evaluation carried out by the International
Union Against Tuberculosis and Lung Diseases, plus a number of studies
including a tuberculin survey, drug sensitivity survey, and pilot six-month
trial on multi-drug supervised ambulatory chemotherapy. The results of these
studies and of routine implementation reporting would be combined in a set of
process (e.g., proportion of cases held until cure), cost (e.g., drug
consumption per patient), and impact (e.g., age-specific incidence of new
cases) indicators.
3.19        To ensure that Td patients are diagnosed and treated as near to
their homes as possible, and to correct the current imbalance in TB patient
loads between MOH and PHAL hospitals, GOL has agreed to provide funds to PHAL
facilities for each in-patient treated, to cover costs of drugs, nursing and
clinical care. Since the variable costs of in-patient treatment in MOH
hospitals are estimated to be equal to or greater than the PHAL costs to be
reimbursed, MOH expects to achieve a net savings. However, to ensure that this
measure is swiftly implemented and incorporated in MOH's future budgets, donor
funds would be used for the first year of the program. Assurances were
cStained at negotiations that GOL would take over funding of the payments to
PHAL for TB patients, starting April 1, 1991.
3.20        STD/AIDS Control (US$0.9 million). Under this sub-component, the
MOH would strive to reduce the incidence of STDs in the population, by
expanding current control efforts and providing more timely and accurate
diagnosis and more effective treatment and prevantion, with a special emphasis
on women of childbearing age (for whom STDs significantly increase the risk of
adverse pregnancy outcomes). At the same time, STD control would contribute
importantly to preventing the spread of AIDS, since transmission of the AIDS
virus occurs mainly through the same high-risk sexual behaviors, and certain
STD infections (especially chancroid) now appear to increase a person's
chances of being infected with AIDS upon exposure to the virus.
3.21        The sub-component would consist of the following main elements:
(a) Service Delivery: In a first phase (Years 1-2), a pilot scheme for
treating and counselling STD patients and notifying their partners
would be launched in three HSAs (Maseru, Butha Buthe, and Mohale's
Hoek), to test the effectiveness of this approach to STD control among
infected hospital and clinic outpatients. In each HSA, a medical
officer, nurse clinicians at two selected health centers, and two
nurses/health assistants responsible for counselling/partner
notification would be given short term training and supplied with
transport, drugs, and equipment. Examination and counselling rooms



- 25 -
would be provided by remodelling existing hospital and clinic
facilities. Improved treatment regimes developed through STD patient
management studies (see (c) below) would be piloted at these
facilities. Based on the results of this first phase, the service
delivery activities would be xpanded to another five HSAs in a second
phase (Years 3-5), and eventually to the entire country (see Annex
6.5(a) for details of the pilot scheme).
In addition, to improve the timeliness of diagnosis aid follow-up of
syphilis testing in pregnant women, nurses managing ante-natal programs
at clinic level throughout the country would be trained and equipped to
carry out simple card tests for the disease.
(b) Laboratory Strensthenins: To enhance the capacity of MOH laboratories
to provide timely and accurate diagnostic services, limited amounts of
equipment would be purchased for the central lab at QE II and for labs
in the Butha Buthe and Mohale's Hoek hospitals. On-going technical
assistance to the QE II laboratory (under the Irish-funded MedLab
Project) would be extended for an additional two months, in part to
strengthen STD/AIDS diagnostic work.
(c) Monitoring and Operational Research: To assess baseline prevalence of
STDs for evaluating project impact, the existing MOH disease reporting
system would be modified to capture better STD cases. Sentinel
surveillance would also be carried out at selected representative
locations in Lesotho, for example, to measure the prevalence of
gonorrhea, chlamydia, and chancroid infection among ante-natal
patients. To determine better the appropriate mix of laboratory-
based and syndromic approaches to diagnosis and treatment of STDs, a
series of epidemiologic and operational research activities would be
carried out by teams of local and foreign specialists (these
operational research activities are outlined in Annex 6.5(b)).
Finally, in order to design and test various approaches to STD
diagnosis, treatment, and prevention in high-risk groups, operational
research would be carried out by working closely with prostitutes and
their clients. The pilot program developed through this research would
be based on the perceptions and needs of the high-risk individuals
themselves. A clinic serving prostitutes and their clients would be
established on one of the at border-crossings. The clinic, to be
staffed by a nurse clinician, nurse, and laboratory technician, would
assess STD prevalence among these groups, and would offer treatment and
counselling to walk-in clients.
3.22        The STD control program would be managed by a full-time medical
officer, who has recently been assigned to the Disease Control and
Environmental Health Div 3ion. This person would receive additional training
abroad in public health and STD control. To implement the above-mentioned
activities, the STD manager in MOH would be assisted by a technical advisor
(24 person-months; see Annex 7.4(b) for terms of reference) plus sev,'ral
short-term specialists in training of STD counsellors (4 person-montns),



- 26 -
operational research on high-risk groups (5 person-months), and other areas.
To provide this level of technical assistance, as well as in-country and
overseas training, MOH would enter into an agreement with one or several
internationally-recognized zadical institutions with wide experience in
STD/AIDS control.
Institutional Develoent (US$5.1 million)
3.23        MM8 Managment Systems Sumort (US$2.4 million).  Under the
project, a wide range of MOH management activities covering health financing,
planning, information, couzmications, and manpower, would continue to receive
arsistance.
3.24        Financial Management.  Ongoing efforts to decentralize and
strengthen MOH financial management vould be reinforced through the
development of a system for facility-based budgeting, cost cortrol, and
expenditure/revenue monitoring. Such monitoring would include analysis of
input/output relationships as expressed principally through a series of unit
costs that could be compared with norms established by MOH. To develop this
system, the project would support overseas and local training for MOH
financial officers, plus consultant services (6 person-months) for a study of
hospital costs and financial management. Overall system development would be
managed by the MOH financial advisor, whose post would be extended for another
12 months (see Annex 7.5(a) for terms of reference). This advisor, along with
MOH counterparts, would organize local workshops for (a) about 10 senior MOH
managers in the use of financial data for policy and program decision-making,
and (b) about 40 district staff in collection and analysis of financial data
from health facilities.
3.25        To automate the MOH financial information system, which functions
largely on a manual basis at present, the project would finance the purchase
of computer equipment. The head of the statistics branch of HPSU and the
computer programmer attached to the Unit would design and establish an
upgraded system and train local staff in its operation. The financial
information system would be integrated with the health service data which is
already being collected and analyzed by the statistics branch of the HPSU.
3.26        Health Planning.  To help define better the scope of work of the
HPSU (which would exclude responsibility for project implementation), a
short-term consultant would be engaged for about 2 person-months (terms of
reference are shown in Annex 7.5(b)). He/she would assist the HPSU in drafting
a new statement of vocation and developing job descriptions and work plans for
the Unit's staff. To increase the effectiveness of financial planning and
monitoring, a local/regional consultant would provide 4 weeks of on-the-job
training for HPSU officers. The proj:'.- would finance related computer
equipment, local training in computer skills, and overseas training in health
finance analysis and manpower planning.
3.27        In addition, the HPSU would support development of local-level
planning by coordinating further institutionalization of HSA planning. As an
integral part of the preparation of the present project, HSA teams composed of



_ 27 -
health professionals at hospital and clinic levels and coumunity
representatives drew up plans for their respective service areas. This was
thefirst time that the HSAs had been formally engaged in a planning exercise
of this magnitude. To continue these efforts to broaden participation in PHN
planning, sharpen central government's perceptions of local priorities, and
improve coordination of national programs at HS% level, the project would
provide funds for further training of NSA planning teams and for workshops to
elaborate future local plans, especially in relation to the Fifth Five-Year
Plan (1991192-96/97). Training and workshops for USA planning would be
closely coordinated with District/HSA management strengthening under the
proposed prcject and the complementary USAID-financed District Management
Improvement Project (para. 3.30).
3.28        Health Information. While the health information system
operated by the Statistics Unit has made major strides in the last few
years, additional measures are required to ensure that: (a) the system can
cope with demands for expanding coverage in a number of areas (service
delivery, manpower, and expenditure, etc.); (b) the quality of data collected
at facility level is improved; and (c) data reporting and processing and
feedback to the field are achieved in a more timely manner. To achieve these
objectives, the project would finance a short-term consultant (3 person-
months) to conduct a needs assessment and develop a phased plan for expanding
system coverage while enhancing quality and timeliness (see Annex 7.5(c) for
terms of reference). It is anticipated that long-term technical assistance in
conmputer programming, which is currently being provided to the statistics
branch of HPSU, would be continued for another four years. The statistics
branch would be responsible for training about 200 nurses in data collection
and interpretation, and its own staff would receive appropriate local and
overseas training. The project would also finance computer and office
equipment and associated operating costs.
3.29        Manpower Planning and Development.  Project resources would be
utilized to help establish and make functional the vitally important Manpower
Department as proposed in the new MOH organization, which was adopted by the
Ministry in mid-1988. To create a computerized personnel information system
(PMIS) and develop MOH capacity to make manpower projections, about 4 man-
months of technical assistance would be provided to the senior officers of the
Manpower Planning and Development Units in the new department. To expedite the
PMIS system design and the collection of relevant personnel data, and to
ensure compatibility with the Ministry of Public Service's system, two
experienced local PMIS operators would be funded through the UNDP Civil
Service Improvement Project. A long-term advisor (36 person-months; terms of
reference are given in Annex 7.5(4)) would assist the Director of the Manpower
Department in designing and implementing an overall work program for the
department, and in elaborating relevant manpower policies for MOH. The project
would also support overseas internships with firms/institutions that can offer
practical experience in human resource management, plus workshops for HSA
hospital staff in personnel practices and poliLies. Assurances were obtained
from GOL at negotiations that the posts of Director of the Manpower Department
and of manpower planning and manpower development officers would be
established, and qualified persons acceptable to the World Bank would be
appointed to those posts by December 31, 1989 (see para 3.39).



- 28 -
3.30        District/ISA Management Strenatbenig. The USAID-funded District
Management Improvement Project has clearly identified the need for
institutionalizing broad-gauge district management skills and processes, with
appropriate support from MOB headquarters. In order to reinforce ongoing
efforts to decentralize significant sectoral planning and implementation, the
proposed project would help to establish and train a new cadre of District
Health Service Administrators (DHSA, see Annex 6.6(b) for terms of reference).
A total of eight DUSA would attend a specially-designed course at NETC during
1989/90. Once deployed to the field, the DHSA would be responsible for
coordinating HSA-level training in various management fields (financial,
personnel, health information). A small unit for District Operations
Management, consisting of a head, management analyst (Annex 6.6(b)), and a
computer operator, would be set up in MOH headquarters to coordinate the DHSA
and generally support district management strengthening. In view of prevailing
GOL budget constraints, donor funds would be utilized to cover salary costs
for the management analyst for the first two years of the project, and for the
unit head and DHSA on a declining basis over three years, beginning
April 1, 1992. Assurances were provided by GOL at negotiations that these
posts would be filled as and when qualified candidates were identified, and
that GOL would progressively assume funding for the posts starting
April 1, 1992, with 10OZ GOL funding reached on April 1, 1994.
3.31        Information, Education, and Comunication.  To increase public
awareness and understanding of PHN-related issues and to change practices in
the sector, the project would aim to: (a) strengthen Health Education Unit
(HEU) in its specialist function for PHN-related IEC activities, within the
MOH and in relation to other health providers and ministries; (b) support and
strengthen existing low-cost channels of communication in the country; and
(c) support the designing and implementation of well-targeted IEC programs in
the areas of FP, TB/STD control, food and nutrition, and related Knowledge,
Attitudes, and Practices (KAP) studies.
3.32        To enhance the Unit's radio drama production capacity together
with existing facilities, HEU would be provided with a small recording studio.
Short-term local and external consultants would assist the Unit in setting up
and operating the studio. The project would also provide funds for the design
production, and dissemination of printed IEC materials by the HEU. The Unit
would continue to contract with other Government and private agencies
(e.g., the Lesotho Distance Teaching Center, the National University of
Lesotho, the Agricultural Information Service, and printing companies etc.)
for mach of its production and KAP studies. In addition, to broaden media
availability for conveying PHN-related information, based on the recent
experience made in the private sector, the project would support the
development of a radio drama serial and the use of traditional folk drama on
an experimental basis. The project would finance training of HEU staff in
these specialist fields, which would be conducted through study tours and
short-term technical specialists, both foreign (24 person-months) and local
(24 person-months).
3.33        To expand and improve the teaching of health, population, and
nutrition subject in formal and non-formal education programs in the country,
the HEU would work more intenLively vith the Ministry of Education and its



- 29 -
curriculum development units. Teaching modules for NHTC on the role of health
workers as communicators would also be designed, tested, *nd implemented. The
project would provide funds for short-term local and external consultancies to
the HEU in these areas of curriculum development.
3.34        To strengthen HLZ, the project would support on-the-job training
of staff by a consultant in selected areas of IEC management (see Annex 7.6(e)
for terms of reference). Phased external training of EC: staff would also be
carried out on the basis of a detailed traininS plan developed under the first
IDA-assisted project.
3.35        National Health Training Center (hMTC) (US$2.3 million).  The
NHTC has prepared a detailed five-year plan (1989-93) costing about
US$2.6 million, covering some infrastructure improvements, recruitment of
foreign instructors, and training of Basotho abroad to assume most of the
teaching posts at the Center by the end of period. MOH is canvassing a wide
range of donors (especially bilatersl sources suitable for funding instructors
and fellowships) to support the NHTC plan. The proposed PHN II project would
finance a major portion of the NHTC plan, including:
(a) Infrastructure: Extension to the existing library/bookstore (200
sq.m.), construction of eight staff houses for NHTC faculty members,
and improvements to the access road to the Center;
(b) Equipment and Supplies: Limited teaching equipment, textbooks, and
library materials;
(c) Instructors: For a four-year period, two general science teachers, and
for the first year, an advisor to the NHTC Director (Annex 7.5(f));
(d) Fellowships: Two-year fellowships for four Basotho, who would be
trained in general sciences and medical lab sciences, and would replace
their foreign counterparts upon completion of their studies; and
(e) Continuing Education: A small training support fund, a computer and
office furniture, and a vehicle.
3.36        Project Managesent (US$0.4 million). The experience of the first
IDA project has demonstrated the need for a strong Project Management Unit
(PHU) in planning, budgeting, implementation problem-solving, progress
monitoring, procurement, and accounting (see Annex 6.6(d)). The proposed
project would strengthen the management set-up under the first project, by
financing the staff salaries of the PMU (Project Manager, administrative
assistant, assistant accountant, and secretary, all engaged on a contract
basis), plus the purchase of a vehicle and the Unit's operating expenses. In
addition, the PMU would utilize an experienced project manager as a technical
advisor in the first year of implementation (8 person-months), plus short-term
consultants (4 person-months) to assist in specific areas of project
management (e.g., financial reporting, monitoring, and evaluation).



- so-
C. Sectoral Policy Reforms
3.37        The GOL and major donors are increasingly recognizing the
importance of a sound policy environment for PHN activities in the country.
The position shared by GOL and the donors is that the effectiveness of
investment- in health will be greatly enhanced, If the proper policy framework
is in place, especially in the areas of sector fionacing, institutional
relationships (MOH/PHAL/private), and manpower development.
3.38        Consistent with this concern for appropriate sectoral policies,
the MOH and interested donors (especially the EEC and IDA) embarked on a
number of policy-related analyses, including the Health Financing Study
(February 1988) and the Review of Public Zxpenditures (September 1988). In the
course of preparation of the present project, the recommendations of these and
other analyses were discussed with MOH, and a series of key policy reforms
emerged. The GOL has agreed to undertake these reforms, according to the
schedules and targets set out below and shown in summary form in the related
matrix (Annex 2). As the timetable for a number of the key policy reforms
cluster around three two dates (June 1990 and March 1991), implementation of
these policy changes would be tied to disbursements for two expenditure
categories - urban health civil works and the HSA Development Fund
(para. 7.01). The other policy reforms would take the form of dated
covenants, to be monitored accordingly by MOH and IDA.
3.39        The key policy changes would include the following:
Health Financing
(a) MOH would take the necessary steps (including fee adjustments and
efficiency measures) to achieve recoveries equivalent to at least 12Z
of the recurrent budget by June 30, 1990 (i.e., monthly revenues for
June 1990 times 12 should be equal to or exceed 15Z of the fiscal year
1990/91 budget). Recoveries would rise to 15Z of recurrent expenditures
by June 30, 1992. Increased fees would be accompanied by measures to
exempt the poor, based on the existing system of written exemptions
signed by the local chief and district authority. A system to monitor
the impact of higher fees on access to health care, facility
utilization, and revenue yield, would also be established before the
end of 1989.
(b) To give health facilities additional incentives to collect fees, MOH
would by March 31, 1990, implement a program acceptable to IDA, giving
target revenue collection levels for hospitals and clinics and
providing incremental resources to institutions which reach or exceed
their targets. The impact of this program on cost recovery performance
would be discussed with IDA within twelve months of this date.
(c) MOH would complete a hospital financing study by June 30, 1990,
including recommendations for improving efficiency and enhancing
quality of services in Government hospitals, through a combination of
management solutions and adherence to targets for unit costs (feeding;



- 31 -
drug costs per patient-day; average length of in-patient stay;
etc.).GOL has already prepared terms of reference for the study
acceptable to IDA. Following completion of the study, a phased plan to
strengthen management and achieve unit-cost targets would be
implemented no later than April 1, 1991.
(d) MOH would complete a study of efficiency and financing of drug
expenditures by Docembor 31, 1990, covering procurement, distribution,
stock management, and prescribing practices, and examining resource
mobilization options including increased fees and creation of revolving
funds. Following discussion with IDA, a reform program would be
implemented by April 1, 1991 at the latest. GOL would also provide
assurances that, consistent with the reform program, MOH would develop
and implement a plan to phase out donor support for drug supplies for
its clinics by April 1, 199?.
Institutions
(e) MOH brought to negotiations the draft framework for a new memorandum of
understanding for MOH-PHAL cooperation, acceptable to IDA, covering
subvention levels and other benefits guaranteed to PHAL institutions
(e.g., tax exemption status) as well as list of PHAL obligations for
service delivery, financial and other reporting, minimum staffing
levels, etc. It was understood that levels of MOH support to PHAL
institutions would be related to their performance in these service
delivery and management areas. The new MOH-PHAL memorandum of
understanding, which would replace the 1984 agreement (para. 2.32 (d)),
would be finalized by March 31, 1990.
(f) MOH would by March 31, 1990 implement an effective bonding arrangement,
acceptable to IDA, for health personnel trained on government
scholarship, as well as a plan for increasing utilization of private
doctors and nurses in government hospitals.
Manpower
(g) Key posts of Department head and manpower planning and manpower
development officer would be established and staffed by December 31,
1989 and an optimal staffing pattern and alternative scenarios for MOH
manpower expansion, redeployment, and retention would be developed by
December 31, 1990.
IV. PROJECT COSTS. FINANCING. AND PROCUREMENT
A. Prolect Costs
4.01        The total cost of the proposed five-year project, inclusive of
taxes and duties, is estimated to be M 52.5 million, or US$22.1 million



- 32 -
equivalent. No import duties or taxes would be payable on goods and services
imported into or purchased within the Southern Africa Customs Union, of which
Lesotho is a member. The tax content of the project would therefore be limited
to the 10-202 import surcharges levied on materials, equipment, and vehicles
imported outside the Unions this in estimated to amount to about US$0.6
million, or less than 3S of total project cost. The foreign exchange
content of the project is estimated at US$14.0 million or 63Z of the total.
All costs are based on prices prevailing in February 1989. Detailed costs are
presented in Annex 1, Tables 1-4. Project costs by component are sumarized
in Table 4-1 below:
Table 4-1
Proiect Cost Summarv
2 Total
Base
Local     ForeiRn    Total      2 F.E.      Costs
-------(US$ million)------
Rural Health Services          1.2         1.8        3.0         60         16
Rural Clinics Upgrading      0.4         0.8        1.2         66         7
PHC Systems Support          0.6         0.7        1.3         56         7
HSA Development Fund         0.2         0.3        0.5         53         2
Urban Health Services          2.3         4.4        6.7         66        36
Filter Clinics               0.6         0.9        1.5         61         8
QE II Hospital Upgrading    1.7          3.5        5.2         68        28
Family Planning                0.6         0.5        1.1         47         6
Food and Nutrition             0.2         0.2        0.4         52         2
Disease Control                0.5         1.8        2.3         80         12
Tuberculosis Control         0.3         1.1        1.4         78         8
STD/AIDS Control             0.2         0.7        0.9         83         5
Institutional Development      1.5         3.6        5.1         71        27
MOH Mgt. Systems Support    0.7          1.7        2.4         70         13
NHTC                         0.6         1.7        2.3         74         12
Project Management           0.2         0.2        0.4         59         2
Base Cost                6.2       12.4        18 6        66        100
?hysical Contingencies         0.5         1.1        1.6         66         9
Price Contingencies            1.4         0.5        1.9         29         11
Total Prolect Costs      8.1       14.0        22.1         63       119
4.02        Investment Costs. Civil works costs (for both buildings and
engineering works) are based on estimates prepared by WAHU, the MOH-based
architectural unit of the Ministry of Works, and by various consulting firms.
Unit costs for vehicles are derived from Maseru c.i.f. prices. Costs for



- 33 -
furniture, equipment, and supplies are based on contracts for similar items
recently awarded by the MOH and WAHU, and were checked against price
quotations given in international catalogs (including the UNIPAC catalog,
produced by UNICEF's procurement wing). Technical assistance costs for
foreign consultants include salaries, allowances and airfares.  Average unit
costs are US$10,000 per man-month for long-term consultants and US$12,000 per
man-month for short-term consultants of less than one year. Average unit
costs for local consultants are estimated at US$4,000 per mn-month. Costs
for overseas fellowships are estimated at an average costs of US$28,000
equivalent per year. Other investment costs including local training,
workshop, materials production were based on prevailing local rates.
4.03        The foreign exchange component of US$14.0 million was calculated
on the following basis: (a) civil works - 602; (b) furniture and equipment
- 802; (c) supplies and materials - 502; (d) vehicles - 952; (e) technical
assistance - 100?; and (f) training and workshops - individually assessed and
varying between 02 and 1002.
4.04        Physical contingencies of 152 have been added to civil works and
10? to equipment, vehicles, and supplies. Price contingencies were calculated
based on Bank estimates of international and domestic inflation and assume the
following expected annual rates of increase:
1989/90      1990/91     1)91/92     1992/93      1993/94
PYl           Y2        PY3          PY4          PY5
Local        10.5         10.0        10.0        10.0         10.0
Foreign       3.0          2.0         2.0         2.0          2.0
4.05        Recurrent Costs. Mindful of the serious budgetary difficulties
facing the GOL, every effort has been made to minimize the incremental
recurrent costs implied by the project. This annual increment would amount
to about US$0.3 million in the first year, and would rise gradually to about
US$0.6 million by the last year of the project. These incremental outlays,
which would cover salaries and allowances for a limited number of essential
senior technical and managerial personnel, plus operation and maintenance
(O&M) of vehicles, equipment, and buildings, are equivalent to only about
3? of total projected MOH recurrent expenditures for FY89/90. MOH should thus
have no difficulty in absorbing these recurrent costs. Furthermore, a number
of project activities would contribute directly to reducing recurrent
expenditures, including the establishmert of urban filter clinics, which would
provide lower-cost alternatives to the outpatient facilities at QE II, and
rationalization of treatment regimes for TB and STD, which would result in
smaller prescribed dosages and a shift to lower-cost drugs. Financial policy
reforms supported by the project - including increased cost recovery through
user fees, improved decentralized budgeting, and enhanced efficiency in
hospitals - would also help to reduce the strain on the MOH budget.



- 34 -
S. Financing
4.06        The total project cost of US$21.5 million equivalent, minus taxes
and duties, would be financed by the GOL, IDA, and a number of multilateral
and bilateral sources (the financing plan is shown in Table 4-2 below). The
IDA credit of US$12.1 million (SDR 9.4 million) would cover about 56Z of total
project cost and the equivalent of 861 of the foreign exchange cost. .Ahe GOL
contribution of M 5.5 million (US$2.2 million) or about 102 of the total,
would finance incremental costs of salaries and allowances and of vehicles,
equipment, and buildings OM.
4.07        Co-financing from other external sources would includes
(a) US$3.2 million equivalent from the European Community, for civil works
upgradin; at QE II Hospital; (b) US$2.6 million equivalent from the Government
of Ireland, for TB control program, STD laboratory equipment, and for teachers
and fellowships at NHTC; and (c) US$1.3 equivalent from the British Overseas
Development Agency for technical assistance and training related to health
manpower development, district health management, and QE II management. The
detailed financing plan is shown in Annex 1, Table 5. The effectiveness of
co-financing from these donors would be a condition of effectiveness of the
IDA credit.
Table 4-2
Financing Plan a/
Local       Foreign        Total
---------(US$ million)--------
Government                1.7          0.6           2.3
IDA                       4.0          8.1          12.1
Co-financing
EEC                     1.4          1.8           3.2
Govt. of Ireland        0.2          2.4           2.6
ODA                     0.2          1.1           1.3
Total               7.5         14.0          21.5
Note: a/ Excludes taxes and duties of US$0.6 million.
C. Procurement
4.08        Project-related procurement arrangements are summarized in Table
4-3.  Items financed by IDA would be procured according to IDA guidelines as
elaborated in paras. 4.09-4.12 below. Where procurement of similar items is
involved, the Project Management Unit will ensure reasonable standardization
of such items, irrespective of the source of finance.
4.09        The major civil works contract for renovations at QE II Hospital,
to be financed by the EEC, would be awarded on the basis of international
competition according to EEC procedures. Civil works contracts for the four



- 35 -
filter clinics, with an average value of about US$0.3 million, would be
awarded on an LCB basis, given that international firms ^re not expected to
show an interest in these relatively small works. Civil works to be financed
by IDA at NHTC (access road, library extensions, housing, etc.), plus other
item including repairs to nurse training facilities and construction of youth
counselling centers (aggregate value of US$0.7 million) would also be awarded
according to LCB. Such LCB procurement will be advertised locally; bids will
be opened in public; evaluation criteria will be clearly spelled out in the
Table 4-3
Procurement Arranaments a/
(US$ million)
Procurement Method
Total
Project Element                      ICB          LCB          Other b/       Cost
1. Civil Works                        -           2.1           3.9            6.0
(1.9)         (1.0)          (2.9)
2. Vehicles, Furniture,
Equipment, and Supplies          3.6          0.5            0.6            4.7
(3 6)       (0.4)                         (4.0)
3. Consultant Services               -                          5.0            5 0
(2.3)          (2.3)
4. Training/Workshops                             -             2.2            2.2
(1.7)          (1.7)
5. Loans for Nutrition               -            -             0.2            0.2
(0.2)          (0.2)
6. HSA Development and PHAL          -            0.2           0.4            0.6
Support Funds                                (0.2)          (0.4)          (0.6)
7. PPF                                            -             0.2            0.2
(0.2)          (0.2)
8. Operating Costs                   -            -             2.6            2.6
(0.2)          (0.2)
TOTAL                         3.6          2.8          15.1            21.5
(3.6)       (2.5)          (6.0)         (12.1)
Note: a/     Figures in parentheses Indicato the amounts to be financed by IDA credit.
b/     Includoe other donor agoncies' procuremnt practices for items to be co-financed,
standard Government procedures, and purchases by private individuals using credit
funds.



- 36 -
bidding documents; and award will be made to the lowest evaluated bidder.
Foreign bidders will not be excluded. Since sites for rural clinic upgrading
are located in remote mountain areas where private contractors are unlikely to
venture, civil works related to this subco.ponent (with an aggregate value of
US$1.0 million) would be undertaken by the RCIP construction brigades. These
brigades have built and renovated more than 40 clinics over the past five
years, and their performance has been found very satisfactory.
4.10        Contracts for equipment, supplies, and vehicles worth more than
US$50,000 would be awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding
(ICB) procedures according to IDA guidelines. For goods tenders, local
manufacturers would be elirible for a margin of preference of 15Z as compared
to the c.i.f. price of competing imports, or the prevailing customs duty,
whichever is lower. Equipment and supplies items and vehicles which cannot be
grouped into bid packages of US$50,000 or more may be procured through local
competitive bidding (LCB) procedures, according to the same principles for LCB
of civil works (para. 4.09). Small off-the-shelf items costing less than
US$20,000 per contract that cannot be bulked into LCB or ICB packages or which
are required urgently may be procured though 'prudent shopping" by comparing
prices obtained from three independent suppliers. Items procured in this
manner would be subject to an aggregate limit of US$0.5 million.
4.11        Consultants' services would be procured in accordance with IDA
guidelines.
4.12        Contract Review. Bidding packages for civil works valued at more
than US$100,000 eouivalent (basically, for filter clinics) and for goods
valued at more than US$50,000 would be subject to IDA's prior review of
procurement documentation, including tender documents, evaluation reports, and
draft contracts. Smaller packages would be subject to random post-award review
by IDA. The PMU would therefore be required to keep full procurement
documentation on file for easy access. For technical assistance, invitations
for proposals, firms' submissions, evaluation reports, and draft contracts for
large consultancy assignments would be reviewed by IDA prior to award;
similarly, for individual consultancies, IDA would review terms of reference,
curriculum vitae, and draft letters of appointment before such appointments
are made.
D. Disbursements
4.13        Disbursements from the IDA credit would cover the percentage of
total expenditures as indicated in Table 4-4.
4.14        The IDA credit would be disbursed over a period of six years, from
1990-1995, with disbursements completed by December 31, 1995. The proposed
allocation of the credit and an estimated semi-annual schedule are shown in
Annex 1, Table 6. All applications to withdraw proceeds from the IDA credit
would be fully documented, except for training/workshops, civil works and



- 37 _
goods valued at less than US$40,000, sub-loans for nutrition activities,
salaries, PEAL Support Fund, and HSA Development Fund, for which disbursements
would be made against certified stateoents of expenditure (SOZ).
Supporting documentation wou'd be retained by project executing agencies and
would be available for review as requested by IDA supervision missions and
project auditors.
Table 4-4
Allocation and Disburemet of ID  Credit
CuSS million)
Disbursement Category            IDA                Z of Expenditure to be
Allocation         Financed
1. Civil Works
(a) Urban Health              0.8               lOOZ of all expenditures
(b) Other Components         1.7                 1002 of all expenditures
2. Vehicles, Furniture,          3.4                100Z of foreign and 90? of
Equipment, and Supplies                          local expenditures
3. Consultant Services           1.9                1003 of all expenditures
4. Training/Workshops            1.4                100? of all expenditures
5. Fund for Nutrition            0.1                502 of LADB loans
Activities
6. (a) HSA Development Fund    0.3                  1002 of all expenditures
(b) PHAL Support Funds
for TB Treatment         0.2                 lOOZ of all expenditures
7. Salaries
(a) PMU Staff                0.1                 100Z of salaries
(b) Key MOH Posts             0.1                10OZ up to March 31, 1992;
70Z  up to March 31, 1993;
30?  up to March 31, 1994;
and 0? thereafter
8. PPF                           0.2                100? of all expenditures
Unallocated                   1.9
TOTAL                    12.1



- 38 -
3. Accounts and Audit
4.15        Special Account. In order to ensure that funds for the project
would be available as needed, a Special Account operated by the Project
Management Unit would be established by GOL in the Central Bank of Lesotho.
This account would receive deposits from the project credit for financing
eligible projoct expenditures (for item described in the above section D).
An initial amount of (US$0.6 million) equivalent would be deposited by IDA
after receipt and approval of a withdrawal application. This amount is
estimated to cover abcut (the maximum four-month average) of expenditures to
be financed from the account. Replenishment applications would be submitted
monthly and would be accompanied by the full documentation except for items
eligible for disbursement on the basis of certified statements of expenditure
(SOE).
4.16        Imprest Account. GOL would also continue to operate an imprest
account for rural clinics upgrading and would at all times maintain in such
account a minimum balance of M 250,000. This account would be under the
control of the Director of the Rural Clinics Improvement Project.
4.17        Audit. The MOH would maintain separate detailed accounts of all
project expenditures incurred by MOH and other agencies. The GOL has provided
assurances at negotiations that all project accounts would be audited by the
Auditor General and that all audited accounts, together with the aiditors'
report, would be submitted to IDA not later than nine months after the end of
each GCL fiscal year. During the audit of these annual accounts, the auditors
would apply special attention to verifying the reliability of SOEs supporting
applications for reimbursement from the credit, and to the internal controls
and procedures involved in the preparation of SOEs.
V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Organization and Management
5.01        General. The lead agency for project implementation would be MOH.
Within MOH, consistent with the spirit of decentralization embraced by the
Ministry, direct responsibility for execution of specific components and
subcomponents would be delegated to various headquarters departments/divisions
and to the HSAs. In addition, a number of other Government and NGO agencies
would play an important role in project implementation: these would include
the Ministries of Agriculture, Interior, Education, and Works; Lesotho
Agricultural Development Bank; Private Health Association of Lesotho and its
many church mission institutions; Lesotho Planned Parenthood Association; and
Lesotho Distance Teaching Center. The project has been designed to be
implemented through the regtllar organizational structure of MOH and the other
agencies involved. Lead and secondary responsibility for execution of project
activities is shown in Table 5-1.



- 39 -
5.02        Prolect Man meent  Overall responsibility for project
coordination would rest with the PMU, composed of a Project Manager,
administrative assistant, assistant accountant, and secretary (par& 3.36).
The Project ManaSer would report directly to the Principal Secretary for
Health. A Project Advisory Comittee, composed of sanagers of all the
compinents/sub-components, would be established prior to project effectiveness
and would meet on a quarterly basis to review implementation performance and
discuss future work plans.
Table 5-1
Agene-v Ree-onsibility for Pro ect  zoecution
Componant/Sub-component            Lead/Secondary Agency
Rural Health Services:
Clinic Upgrading                RCIP (Min. Interior)/WAHU
PHC Systems Support             MOH Environmental Health & Disease Control
Div., MOH Finance Management Div., NDSO,
QE II Maintenance Dept.
HSA Development Fund            Health Service Areas
Urban Health Services:
Filter Clinics                  Relevant HSA/WAHU
QE II Upgrading                 QEII Management/WAHU
Family Planning                    MOH Family Health Div./PHAL, LPPA, Red
Cross, MOH Health Education Unit
Food and Nutrition                 MOH Family Health Piv./Min. Agriculture,
Les. Ag. Dev. Bank
Disease Control                    MOH Disease Control Div. /MOH Health
Education Unit
Institutional Development:
Financial Management            MOH Finance Management Div.
Health Planning                 MOH Health Planning & Statistics Unit
Health Information              MOH Health Statistics Branch of HPSU
Manpower Development            MOH Manpower Department
District/HSA Management         MOH Operations Management Div.
IEC                             MOH Health Education Unit/LDTC, Nat. Univ.
of Les., Min. Education
NHTC                            MOH National Health Training Center
Project Management              MOH Project Management Unit



- 40 -
5.03        The main functions of the PHU would include: (a) organizing and
supervising the drafting of annual work plans and progress reports for various
project components; (b) consolidating these work plans and progress reportsfor
review by the Advisory Caomittee and PS; (c) organizing quarterly meetings of
the Advisory Committee; (d) monitoring overall implementation and helping
remove bottlenecks as they arise; (e) maintaining overall project accounts and
preparing reimbursement applications; and (f) assisting in the recruitment of
consultants financed under the project. The appointment of persons acceptable
to IDA to the posts of Project Manager and administrative assistant would be a
condition of credit effectiveness.
5.04        In addition to the Project Advisory Committee, a number of
additional coordinating mechanisms would be created or reinforced under the
project, in order to improve collaboration in the implementation of specific
components. These would include: (a) HSA Development Fund Review Committee, to
assess HSA micro-project proposals and monitor their progress (para. 3.07);
(b) QE II Management Committee, to oversee the entire hospital upgrading
program (para. 3.12(c)); and (c) Family Planning Coordination Committee,
composed of representatives of MOH, PHAL, LPPA, Red Cross, and key donor
agencies, to improve overall planning and implementation of family planning
activities.
5.05        Responsibility for supervision of designs and estimates and
construction of civil works under the project would rest with the Minist-y of
Works (MOW), mainly through its architectural unit, WAHU (Works Architects,
Health Unit), which has an office on MOH premises. Designs and estimates for
QE II upgrading and filter clinics would be prepared by private architects
reporting to WAHU. The renovation of rural clinics would be carried out by the
Rural Clinics Implementation Program of the Ministry of Interior, with
technical oversight from WAHU. The effectiveness of this arrangement has been
confirmed under the first project.
B. Status of Project
5.06        Status of Project Preparation.  The identification and design of
the project was strongly based upon the principle and practice of
participation by the implementers and beneficiaries of the project activities
in order to reflect: (a) the perceptions, needs, and ideas of PHN staff,
including those in MOH, NGO, and private service, at the periphery as well as
the center of the country; and (b) the views and suggestions of the people of
Lesotho who would benefit from improved PHN services. Given such an
orientation, the project was formulated on the basis of plans submitted by
HSA teams, plus proposals developed by HOH and NGO program managers, with
assistance from local and foreign consultants, as required. These plans and
proposals were then synthesized by a specially-appointed MOH team, under the
guidance of an advisory committee composed of MOH headquarters, HSA, and PHAL



- 41 -
re;resentatives. In addition, several sociologically-oriented studies of
knowledge, attitudes, and practices (KAP) of the beneficiaries were carried
out and their findings and reconendations were integrated into the design of
the project.
5.07        A Project Preparation Facility (PPF, in the amount of US$210,000)
was approved by IDA to finalize the above preparatory activities in the
following areas:
(a) BSA Development Fund: preparation of BSA plans;
(b) Urban Filter Clinics: feasibility study;
(c) QE II Upgrading: detailed lists and tender documents for equipment;
(d) Family Planning: component proposals and LPPA management assessment;
(e) STD/AIDS Control: epidemiological assessment and program development;
(f) Food and Nutrition: preparation of component; and
(g) Health Manpower: action plan for new MOH manpower department.
5.08        Following negotiations, a second PPF in the amount of US$295,000
was approved to ensure prompt project start-up in the following areas:
(a) QE II Upgrading: recruitment of long-term technical assistance;
(b) Urban Filter Clinics: detailed designs and quantity surveys, and
preliminary works;
(c) STDIAIDS Control: remodelling of STD facilities and specialized
training for p ogram head;
(d) Health Manpower: staff housing a.; NHTC and repairs to QE II Nursing
School; and
(e) MOH Management Support: training DHSA and construction of health
education studio.
5.09        implementation Schedule. Project implementation is expected to
take five years beginning in October 1989. The project would be completed by
December 31, 1994 and would close on December 31, 1995. The implementation
schedule is given in Annexes 6.l(a)-(f). All project components would get
under way during the first year of the project, except for activities to be
pre-financed under the PPF which would begin earlier. Major civil works at
QE II Hospital and for urban filter clinics would start in October 1989 and
would be completed by the end of the third year (December 1991). Construction
of rural clinics, housing, etc. would be phased over the life of the project.
C. Monitoring, Reporting, and Evaluation
5.10        Project monitoring would be the responsibility of the Project
Manager and his Unit. For use in a launch workshop at the outset of the
project, the PMU would prepare draft formats for monitoring project
implementation, in close consultation with implementing agencies/departments,
and would forward these formats to IDA for review. Implementation monitoring



- 42 -
would assess financial and physical progress of the various components, with
the most meaningful and practical indicators selected for each component. A
project management advisor and short-term consultants would assist the PHU in
designing these progress reports, selection of indicators, and the methodology
for data collection and analysis. Implementing agenclea/dep.mrtments would
provide data to the PMU for inclusion in the consolidated quarterly and annual
progress reports. Assurances were obtained from GOL that quarterly reports
would be consolidated by the PHU within two weeks of the and of each quarter,
and reviewed by the Project Advisory Committee within four weeks and forwarded
to IDA within eight weeks of the quarter end. Quarterly reports would be used
in preparing a comprehensive annual progress report and an annual work plan
for the following year. Assurances were also provided at negotiations that MOH
would submit to IDA by February 1S of each year the annual work plan for the
following year, and by June 30 the annual progress report for the previous
year. The GOL would also prepare a project completion report within six months
of the completion date, based upon a format to be agreed with IDA at
negotiations.
5.11        Project evaluation studies would be carried out by independer't
local and :oreign consultants, who would assess project impact on PHN
attitudes, practices, and outcomes. Three evaiuntion studies would focus on
the project's family planning, food and nutrition, and disease control
components. While some baseline information for these studies may be available
from recent KAP studies and the 1988 National Health and Nutrition Survey,
consultants would supplement this data with additional baseline information.
Follow-up studies in the later years of the project would then permit an
evaluation of project impact. Assurances were obtained from GOL that draft
terms of reference for the three above-mentioned evaluation studies would be
sent to IDA for review not more than twelve months after project
effectiveness.
VI. PROJECT BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
A. Benefits and Justification
6.01        The proposed project would contribute significantly to the
realization of Lesotho's human resource development strategy as enunciated in
the Fourth Five Year Plan, as well as the attainment of the key adjustment
measures (improved public expenditure budgeting, increased cost-effectiveness
and cost recovery, promotion of NGO and private sector participation) stressed
in the GOL's Policy Framework Paper. The project would underwrite a major
expansion of population and family planning activities; upgrade and
consolidate the country's health care infrastructuxe; support priority
programs to reduce the incidence of tuberculosis and STD/HIV; develop
innovative approaches to improving maternal and child nutrition at community
level; and continue important institution-building activities initiated
through the first IDA project, especially by strengthening management of the
health care system at headquarters, central hospital, and peripheral levels,
and by promoting the development of health manpower. Furthermore, by pursuing



- 43 -
specific policy objectives for cost recovery, increased efficiency,
institutional reform, and enhanced cooperation between public and NGO-private
sector health care providers, the project would encourage improved utilization
of existing resources in the PHN sectors, and ensure the financial and
institutional sustainability of such PHN activities. Through various policy
(e.g., fee exemptions for the indigent) and program (e.g., nutrition
interventions in low-income communities) design measures, the project would
also target its benefits toward economically disadvantaged groups and
individuals.
6.02        Benefits to Households and Individuals. The benefits of the
project would accrue to virtually all segments of the Basotho population,
including those living in both rural and urban areas, but with a special
emphasis on women and children and low-income households. Women would benefit
from improved ante-natal care, STD control activities, and expanded family
planning services provided by various categories of trained health
workers.Children would benefit from reduced morbidity/mortality as a result of
more effective nutrition interventions. Low-income households would gain
greater access to PHN services through expansion/upgrading of health
infrastructure in underserved rural and urban commutiities, and through
targeted nutrition actions.
6.03        Concerning specific project activities, clinic upgrading under the
Rural Health Services component would directly benefit about 30,000 households
living in remote areas of the country. Development of filter clinics under the
Urban Health Services Component would benefit another 30,000 households
residing in Maseru and Leribe/Maputsoe. Population and Family Planning
component activities would have a nationwide impact, but would concentraLe
especially on households with wome;- of childbearing age, providing improved
family planning information to all and contraceptive methods in particular to
about 60,000 women by the end of the project period. The Food and Nutrition
component would focus on about 25,000 children in Qachas Nek and Quthing
districts, aiming to reduce the prevalence of malnutrition among children
under 24 months of age from 302 to 152 by 1994. Continued effo-ts to reduce
the prevalence of TB through the Disease Control component would provide
enhanced treatment to about 3,000 persons annually, as well as preventing
infection that would otherwise occur in several thousand others. STD control
&:tivities under the same component would offer improved treatment and
counselling services to about 20,000 persons a year, and would also focus on
interrupting the spread of STD and HIV by high-risk groups and individuals.
6.04        Benefits to the GOL. The GOL would benefit significantly from the
wide range of institution-building activities under the proposed project.
Through a combination of organizational changes, training, and technical
assistance, MOH (and, to a lesser extent, MOA) staff would acquire important
technical and managerial skills which they would employ in providing more
effective PHN services to the country's population. These skills, while too
numerous to enunciate in this chapter, would cover everything from public
health nursing and family planning counselling to hospital administration and
health planning. In addition, the GOL would benefit from greatly strengthened



- 44 -
institutions and systems for population, health, and nutrition development,
both at the center and the periphery. A few examples of these institutions/
systems would includes HSA-level planning and program implementation;
financial management at facility and ministry levels; health mmnpower planning
by the newly-created NOR Manpower Department; and nutrition program management
by the MOB Family Health Division. Both the timeliness and quaiity of GOL
decision-making in the PEN sectors would be enhanced by this institution-
building process.
6.05        The GOL would also benefit from increased efficiencies and some
tangible savings in selected parts of the PHN service delivery system, as well
as from higher cost recovery. Efficiency gains would emerge at facility level
through management changes and adherence to unit-cost targets, as well as from
reforms of the drug system and redeployment of MOH staff as a part of improved
manpower management. Savings would be realized through the utilization of
lower-cost peripheral health facilities and a reduction in referrals to
QE II,and from decreased expenditures for drugs as a result of new patient
management protocols for TB and STD. Increases in the cost recovery index
from 52 to a minimum of 152 of recurrent expenditures would generate
US$1.0-1.5 million in additional revenues annually.
6.06        Benefits Nationally. For the country as a whole, project benefits
would include increased productivity by a healthier labor force, enhanced
learnirg (and future worlr' capacity for children, and an easing of strains
upcn the country's natural resource base and social infrastructure through a
reduction in the rate of population growth. The inproved health status of
large segments of the population through various project activities (disease
control, expansion of facilities and manpower, etc.) would result in more
healthy days of work for the labor force. Better nutrition among children
would lead to improvements in school attendance and performance, as well as
higher mental capacity to utilize school and workplace inputs. A slower rate
of population growth would generate savings public and private expenditures
for social services (health, education and training, social welfare), and
would also mitigate the negative effects of population nn the environment
caused by overgrazing, excessivt cultivation, and pollution.
B. Risks
6.07        The proposed project would build on the achievements of the first
IDA-assisted Population and Health Project (e.g., rural health infrastructure,
family planning, manpower development, and TB control) and benefit from the
lessons, positive and negative, of the first project. In this sense, the risks
associated with the second project can be fairly well estimated and kept the a
minimum at the outset, and then effectively managed during the implementation
stage. The main risks are twofold. The first is a shortage of senior technical
and managerial manpower, which could be exacerbated by overall civil service
policies and employment conditions in neighboring countries. This risk would
be minimized by delegation significant planning and implementation
responsibility to district level and to kvGOs, so as to reduce reliance on



- 45 -
central institutions. Provision of intensive training programs and selective
technical assistance, plus the development of effective manpower policies
under the project, would also help to mitigate this risk. The second risk is
that a lack of coordination betveen GOL institutions and NGO-private providers
of PHN services could inhibit program implementation and policy changes. This
risk would be mitigated by the development of effective consultative
arrangements among the various parties (initiated during project preparation),
the enactment of an explicit performance-based relationship between MOh and
PHAL institutions, and the promotion of more flexible arrangements for private
practitioners (modern and traditional) to participate in GOL-sponsored health
activities.
VII. ASSURANCES AND RICOHINDkTIONS
7.01        During negotiations, the following actions which had been agreed
to by GOL during appraisal, were reconfirmed:
Sectoral Reforms
(a) that, as a condition of disbursement for Civil Works for urban health
services, MOH would by March 31, 1990:
-    implement the pilot scheme to give hospitals greater incentives to
collect fees (para. 3.39(b));
-    finalize its new memorandum of understanding with PHAL, by which
MOH subventions for fiscal year 1990/91 and successive years would
be provided to PHAL institutions on a performance-oriented basis
(para. 3.39(e)); and
-    implement its plan for increasing utilization of private doctors
and nurses in Government hospitals (para. 3.39(f)).
(b) that, as a condition of disbursement for the HSA Development Fund, MOH
would by June 30, 1990 achieve recoveries equivalent to at least 12% of
the recurrent budget (para. 3.39(a));
(c) that the hospital efficiency study would be completed by June 30, 1990,
and a phased plan, acceptable to IDA, to strengthen management and
achieve unit-cost targets in MOH hospitals and clinics would be
implemented by April 1, 1991 (para 3.39(c));
(d) that MOH would by December 31, 1990 complete the study of efficiency of
drug expenditure; the results of the study would be discussed with IDA
and a reform program would be implemented by April 1, 1991; and
beginning April 1, 1992 MOH would finance from its own budget adequate
drug supplies for its rural clinics (para. 3.39(d));
(e) that MOH would achieve recoveries equivalent to 15% of the recurrent
budget by June 30, 1992 (para. 3.39(a);



- 46 -
(f) that MOH would by December 31, 1989 establish the posts of Manpower
Department head and manpower planning and manpower development officer,
and would appoint to these posts staff acceptable to IDA (para.
3.39(g)); and would by December 31, 1990 develop an optimal staffing
pattern and alternative scenarios for MOH manpower expansion,
redeployment, and retention (para. 3.39(g)).
General
(g) that the sites for filter clinics have been secured; and that Ministry
of Interior vould make available for FC construction the funds
earmarked for clinics under the Urban Sector Reorientation Project
(para. 3.10);
(h) that MOH would create posts for the DHSA and head of the Operations
Management Unit and assume responsibility for payment of their salaries
on a declining basis according to the given schedule (para. 3.30);
(i) that MOH would by April 1, 1990 create one new nutritionist post, and
create the second post by April 1, 1991 (para. 3.14(d));
(j) that starting April 1, 1991 GOL would take over funding of the payments
to PHAL for TB patients (para 3.19);
(k) that all project accounts would be audited by the Auditor General and
that all audited accounts, together with the auditor's report, would be
submitted to IDA not later than nine months after the end of each GOL
fiscal year (para. 4.17);
(1) that within eight weeks of the end of each quarter, the PMU would
forward to IDA copies of progress reports for all project components;
and by February 15 of each year, the PMU would forward to IDA for
review the draft work programs for each project component for the
coming financial year (para. 5.10); and
(m) that draft terms of reference for the three project evaluation studies
would be sent to IDA for review not later than twelve months after
project effectiveness (para. 5.11).
7.02        The following would be conditions of project effectiveness:
(a) that co-financing from the European Community, the Government of
Ireland, and the United Kingdom Overseas Development Administration
would be effective (pAra. 4.07); and
(b) that the posts of Project Manager and administrative assistant in the
PMU would be filled with persons acceptable to TDA (para. 5.03).
7.03        Subject to the above assurances and conditions, the proposed
project would constitute a suitable basis for an IDA credit in the amount of
US$12.1 million equivalent on standard terms to the Government of Lesotho.



- 47 -
AN?EX 1
Table 1
KtINGDON Of LESOIHO
POPULATION HEALIN AND NUTRITION PROJEcr 11
SUNARY ACCOUNIS COST SUNNARY
itALOII '0001                      tUSS  0001                           I Total
,,,,.,,,,. ..... I.........    .........................  I Foroign    Bass
LOcal    Foreign    total         Local   Foreign    Total       Excharnge      Costs
.  .$  :                              :,:                                    -
1. INVESTMENT  COSTS
....... .. ....
A  CIVIL WORKS                             4.560 8  6.84t  1 11.401 9   1.924 4  2.886 6  4.810 9                     60         26
8.  FURMITURE 3 EOUIPMENT                   1.342 8  3,705 S  5.048.3    566.6   1.563.5  2.130 1                     73         11
C. SUPPLIES 8 MATERIALS                     t 095.6  2.717 9  3813.5           462. 3   1. 146.8   1.609 1            71          9
0  VEHICLES                                   420 7  1.642 9  2.063.6          177 S      693 2      870 7            80          5
E.  TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                      227.5  10.686.6 10.914 1          96.0  4,509.1   4,505.1               98         25
F, TRAINING                                2.707 1  1.660.0  4.367.1   1. 142 2           700.4   1.842 7             38         to
G. CREOIT                                     ISO.0      100.0      250.0       63. 3      42.2      105.5            40          1
I. FUND                                       565. 3     565.3   I,130.6       238.5      238.5      477.0            SO          3
1. PROJECT PREPARATION FACILITY               131.5      306.9     438.5        55.5      129.5      185.0            70          1
........ ........ ........ ....... ..... .. ........  ........ .......
Total INVESTMENT COStS                        11.201 3 28.226.1 39.427 4  4.726.3  11.909.8  16.636.0                    72         90
II. RECURRENT COSTS
...............
A. SALARIES A ALLOWxSHCES                 2.174,4            -  2,174.4       917.5                 917.5                        5
S. VEHICLES O&N                              109 3      619.2      728 5       46.1      261.3      307.4            85          2
C. EQUIPMENT 08H                             135.5      316 2     451.7        57 2      133.4      190.6            70          I
0  *.ILDING O&M                              962.5      240.6   1,203.1       406 1      101 5      507.6            20          3
. ....... ........ ........ ........ ........ ........ ......... .......
Total RECURRENT COSIS                          3.381.7   1.176 0  4.557 7   1.426 9          496.2   1.923 1             26          10
Total BASELINE COSIS                           14,583 0 29.402 2 43.985  1  6.153.1 12.406.0 18.559 1                      67        100
Physical Contingencies                       1.321.6  2.542 2  3.863.8          557 6   1 072.7   . 630 3              66          9
Price Contingencies                          3.278 8   1.354.5  4.633 3   1.383.5          571 5   1.955 0             29         11
........ ........ ........  ....... ........ ........  .........  -------
lotal PROJECT COSTS                            19.183.4 33.298.9 52.482 2  8.094 2 14.050 1 22.144 4                       63        119
.....    :::::::: :::::: :                             .... ........ .........



-48 -                                    AM= 
Table 2
MINGOON OF LESOTiHO
POPULAtION HEALTH ANO wUIraIrOIa  PROJECT 11
Simaey Accounts by fear
INALOTI 000\
Base Costs                              Fortign Exchange
89/90     90/91      91/92      92/93    93/94    Total           I         nt
I   NmvESTMENT COSTS
. ..... ....  ...
A  CIVIL iHORNS                            4,225 3  4.692 3  2.484 4              -           II.401.9       60.0    6.i41. 1
8  fURNITURE 8 EOUIPME1T                      988 1  3.041  6    922  1    62 S         34.0  5.048.3        73.4    3.705.5
C. SUPPLIES II MATERIALS                   1.075 9  1.289 9        472 6   *88 6   486.6  3.613.5            71.3   2.717 9
0  VEHICLES                                   867 4      639 0     281 2      34 0   242. 0  2.063.6         79.6    1.642.9
E  TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                    3. '68 4  3. 570 8  2.011 7 1. 329.7   833.5 10, 914. 1    97.9   10. 686.6
f  TRAINING                                1.084 8   I. 67 4       993.4    729 9   291.6  4.367. 1    38.0    1, 660.0
G  CREDIT                                      25 0       37 5       10 0     62.5      75.0      250.0      40 0       100 0
H  FUND                                       230 0      225 2      225 2   225.2    225.2  1. 130.6         50.0       565.3
I  PROJECT PREPARATION FACIUrY               438. 5                                               438.1     70 0        3069
total INVESTMENT COSTS                        12. 103. 4 14, 763 6  7.440 5 2.932 3 2. 187 8 39. 427.4          71. 6  26. 226 1
11  RECURRENT COSTS
I..... .. .... .
A  SALARIES A ALLOWANCES                    280 0      322 6      536 6   536.6    498.6  2. 174 4           0 0         0 0
B  VEHICLES OAR                              103 5      149 5      Is   5    '58.5    '158.5     728.5      85 0       619 2
C  EOUIPMENT OGA                            tO'i 8      toe 8      138 8     48 7      48 7     451 7      70.0       316 2
0. BUILDING OAM                             218 0      268.8      340.8    187.8    i87 8   1.203. 1    20 0          240 6
..............  ....... ..    ...  ......    .......     .    .....   ....   ...............  ......    ......... ....
Total RECURRENT COSTS                            708 3    849 6  t. 174. 6   931 6   893.6  4.557 7             25 8    1. 176. 0
Total BASELINE COSIS                           12. 811 615. 6613 2  8.615 1 3. 863.8 3.081 3 43.985. 1    66 8  29.402. 2
Physicai Contingencies                       1 .187 8  1 498 4       763 0   222 4    192 2  3. 663 8         65.8   2 542.2
Pr ice Cont Ingencles                          342  I  1.24? 1  1.261.5    876.3   906.2  4.633. 3            29.2    1. 3S4.5
.....  ....     .... ...... . . ......     ........ . ......... ............  ......     ...... ......
lotal PROJECT COSIS                            14, 341 5 18. 358 8 10. 639 6 4.962 6 4. 179 8 52. 482 2    63.4  33. 298.9
::::::::::::z  ::       ::::::  ::::::: ::::::::    ::::::::   :::::: :::=:z: :z:z::
Taxes                                          453 0      572 6      283 6    SS 0    105 S   1.469 7          0 0         0 0
foreign Exchange                           10. 121 3 12.312.5  6.237 5 2.142 6 2.084 9 33.298 9                0 0         0 0
l~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~~~~....                                ...........                     .    .....    ................



- 49 -
AM=WIX1
Table 3
KINGDOM OF LESOTHO
POPULATION  HEALTH  AND NUTRITION  PROJECT  II
Project Coneits by  r,
NALOTI '0001
ease Costs                                     Tota
................. .. ... ....... ....... .......... ........ ..............   ...................
89/90       90/91        91/92       92/93    93/94          MALOTI   (USS   000)
A. RURAL HEALTH SERVICES
......................
1. RURAL CLINICS                                          650.4   2.019 6           79. 1      79. 1      79. 1    2.907.3          1.226.7
2.  PHC  SUPPORT SERVICES                                 994  4       675,t       649.;    345.9    454 0    3. 119.6              1.316.3
3   NSA DEVELOP1ENT  FUND                                 142. 2       22S 2       225.2    225.2    225.2    1,042. 8                 440 0
........      ........... ....... . ...... ........ .......  -------.    . ----------........... .................... 
Sqb-Total RURAL HEALTH  SERVICES                            '.787  0   2.920  3        954  1    650  i    758.2         7.069.?        2.983.0
B. URSAN HEALTH SERVICES
......... ....................
I. URBAN  FILTER  CLINICS                              1.008.8   2.159 5           136.5      1365     136.5        3.578.0         I.S09 7
2    QEII HOSPITAL                                      3.404  6   4,517  1  3,944  4    191  6    141  6   12, 199. 4              S.147 4
.. ...........  ........ . ...... .. .. ... ..... ..... .. .............. ..........
Sub-lotal URBAN HEALTH  SERVICES                            4.413.4   6. 676.7   4.080.9    328. 1    278. 1   IS. 777  3               6. 657. 1
c.  FAMILY  PLANINHG                                          775.4   1, 066. 2        437 4    357  9         61  I    2. 697. 9       1. 138. 4
0.  FOOD ANO  NUIRITION                                       491.1        224  3       100 7    113  2    :25.7         1055.0            445.2
E. DISEASE CONTROL
I   TB C0itlRCtt                                          814.3        644 5       673  2    650  1    612.5    3.394  8            1,432.4
2.  SID / AIDS CONTROL                                    934 S        541.1       314  7    126.2        110 2    2.0265              855  1
... ..... ... ........ ...........    . ...........    .... ......... .........   .... ..........
Sub-TotaI DISEASE  CONTROL                                  1.748. 8   1. 85 6         987.9    776. 3    722. 7    5.421  3            2.287  5
F   INSTITUTIONAL  DEVELOPMENT
, ..    .  ..  .   ....  .  . .  .
I  MOM  MANAGEENT  SYSTEMS                             1. 556.3   1. 616.2   1. 075.6         745. 1    624  1    5.617  3          2.370 2
2.  NATIONAL  HEALtH  TRAINING  CENTER                  1.591.2   1.t06.5          804.0    804.0    422. 3    5.427.9              2.290.2
3.  PROJECT  MANAGEMENT                                   448.5        1175         174.4       89.1       89  I       916.7           387  6
, ... ..............   ...........    ........    ...... ...... .    .......  ..........    .................  ...
Sub-total INSTITUTIONAL  DEVELOPt4ENT                       3,596.0   3,540.2   2.054 0  1.638.2  1. 135 5   11.963  8                  5.048 0
........ .... .... ..........  .......... .......  ..........   ........ ..................
total  BASELINE  COSIS                                       12.811  6  15.613. 2   8.615 I   3.863  8 3.081  3   43.985  1    18.559  1
Physical Conttlngolcos                                     1, 187.8   1,498.4         763.0    222  4        192.2    3.863. 8         1.630. 3
Price  Cont Inwencos                                         342.1   1.247  1   1. 261  5    876.3    906  2    4. 633. 3              1. 955. 0
................... ........ ........... ............. .......   --------  ......----.......
Total  PROJECT  COSTS                                        14,341.5  18.358.8  10.639.6 4.962  6 4,79 8   52,482  2    22.144 4
Taxes                                                        453.0       572.6        263  6       SS.0      105.5      1.469  7          620  1
Foreign  Exchango                                        10, 121  3  12,312 5   6,237 5 2.542.6  2.084  9   33.298  9                 14,050  1
............................................................................................



- 50 -
IANNE  1
Table 4 (a)
NIWAt         Of tESOtIO
1tt6111011 N111kAl I 1N 111  milmuit   m  ""CT If
laIat  101.  Ittt  taintI   SERVICES mast   CiLINCS
atat, Id Cost fable
tkl(t I I Om4tt
tmntity                                                           Sass Costs                          Phi.
...................................                             .................................--..-------              - Cont.  fo
Unit   Uno/1O    0 I SIMSt St/Si3 53/94  lotal   Unit Cost   nn/e   N/S                    SI 91/S2    /S 93/59  4  lotal       Sate   EaCh
..... .          .... .. h   ,  ,a .. ...                    ,                             at';:  Bills  55B.3..... .....   .....s ia    Bs s
1.  INVESIMIEt  COSIS
. ..... .. ...
A. Civil t MOS
.. _... .....
RURAL  CLINICS   /a                                           -                       -                  521.0  1,042.0                  -          1,563.0    0. IS    0 6
....  .... . .. .. .. ..... ...... ..... ...... .
Sub-total CIVIt tORtS                                                                                       S21 0  1.042.0               -           - 1.563.0
8   fURtNIURE  A EOUIIP4ENI
fURItIURf                                         -           -       -       -       -                       -      86.0        -       -       -      86.0      0  1   0 3
EQUIPPIENT                                    -       -       -       -       -       -                       -    275.0         -       -       -    275.0       0  1   0 8
.....    .... . ..    ... ..    .. ...    .. .    .... .
Sub-lotal FURNI TUBIE A EOUIPMENt                                                                                 -    361.0             -           -    361 0
C   VEnICltS
ALL  IERRAINI                    NO           -       2       -       -       -       2            80         -    160.0         -        -            160 0       0  1   0 8
SPARE PARIS                                       -       -       -           -       -                       -       3 2    3.2    3 2    3 2          12 8       0  1    0 8
7 ION  IRUCK                     No                   I       -       -       -       I           ISO         -    ISO 0         -                     ISO 0      0  I    0 8
SPARE  PARIS                                  -                       * -                                             3 0    3 0    3 0    3 0          12 0       0. I    0 8
.....       ...... .  ..  . ..     .. . ..     ....   .....
Sub-lotal VEHICLES                                                                                                -    316 2    6 2    6 2    6 2    334.8
0   IECHNICAL ASSISIANCE
PROJECI CtORDINAIOR              NH          6       12                       -       8         98 96   113.8    227.5           -       -       -    341.3    0 05 O
, ...     .......     ......     .....    .. ...     ..  ......
Sub-lotal  IECHNICAt ASSISIANCE                                                                              113 8    227.5                               341 3
lotal  INVESlttENI  COSTS                                                                                       634 8  1.946 7    6 2    6.2    6.2 2.600  1
11   RECURRENT  COSTS
. . ....    ....     .
A. VEHICLES OAK
AL IEtlAIN OU'                                      - T R RA I                                                              t6 16.0 IS  16.0   16 0   64.0    0.0     0 85
TRUCK GIN                                           -       -       -       -                                       t-lOa   10, 0   10. 0   10        40. 0    0.05   0 85
Su-Tlolal VEHICLES  0tI                                                                                          -     26 0   26 0   26.0   26 0    104 0
B UILDING  GAR
CLINICS  OGI                                -       -       -       -        -      -                    IS 6      46 9   46.9   46.9   46.9    203.2    0 05    0.2
.... .. ....... ..... ..... .. .. . .. ....
Sit -oatl  tullDlNG OAKt                                                                                     IS.6      46.9   46.9   46 9   46.9    203.2
, .. ....... ..... ..... . .... .. ....
bolal RECURRENT COSIS                                                                                             15 6   - 72 9   72 9   72 9   72 9    307 2
:::;  :z:.z :::    :       .:   :::::: :::::z
1lola                                                                                                             650 4  2.019.6   79  1  79  I  7S  I 2.907  3
14.... .. S  U                :  .
/a    14 ClIttlCS UPGRADINtG  A  I tMWt  CLINIttC



- 51 -
11"1 o"00K   Of    slSOIO
PONILAIIO   14111till 0le44i111111011 NROJECT  1ANN EX     I
l.bi.  402   PlC  SUPP00I  %ilivict                                        Table   4(b)
0 sIa.l o   Cost table
INAL011 '0001
.........                                                          .......  ...  .~ ~~~~~~~~~ CO..4   for
uno    90,9   g9lo  91/92 12/93 93/94  total  u..t cost   al9/"   go/Si 91/92 92/93 93/94  loIal                                Rate   Inch1
....... ... . ~ ~ ~ ~      ~       ~        ~       ~      ~       ~       ~      ~      I          II,3**.....3                     
INAIN Ilmh. I Al: II Ill   VI:M AllII NG   /a       0no                                                                 60    60. 0                                        60 0    0  lb    0 6
4Q1U1P146t4   111140  /b                                          .30 0                                                                                                     30 0      0  I    0 a
',.b  loLl'; lu"Wi  01 IUE'1 IQUIppiEII                                                                                             30 0                                        300a
DRUG  SUPPORI 40U40   /c                                                                                                      474 04740                                   9440        0 7     08a
S.b  Total SUPPilE A6   8   AIEPIAF'.                                                                                             4740 4740             -94800
ANSU:ANCE /d                                         No0          I                                        I           ISO   I00                                           50It0      01    08a
$PAIIIPARTS                                                       .       .                                                      3 0    3 0      3 0      3 0     30        isO0      04      06a
lOUt WHE4EL   /.                                     140                          3               3        6            68                    204 0            204  0    400  0       0  I    0 S
SF801  PARIS                                                      -.4 1    4 1    82                                                                                        l63 I     0        08a
7 10*  TRUCK.  if                                    140          I                                        I           Ito   IS0 0-ISO 0                                              0  I    0 a
SPARE  PAlkll.                                                                                                                   3 0    3 0    3 0    3 0    3 0            is 0      0  I    0 8
Sl0   atll, 041411:45                                                                                                             306 0      6 0 214  I   10  I 211  2    754  3
6 IjC414ICAI11 ASSISANCE
DRUG SISTER 800:5V      4                            141               7 I,                             2  I        28 44               i1 I                               11  I    0 09          I
S.C  told,  llUp414:CL A5S%I',1014                                                                                                          3:                                  71  I
Oyfi1'tM   IWAI14IM6   ,g                          "TR0          2        2                                4         35 55    71 I7?I1                                    1422    00s             I
VHNIII  1011411.   /h                                                                                                                         200 0:00 0                  3000    005            0
Pl,C M00tKIIOp   ,,                                                                                                              I0      7 0                                140      009         0
14A1141:MANlI, IOIIMI14G   /I                                                                                                    00    aO                                    6 b0    005i         0
MAi114114AN41   WO6tSIMOP         /                                                                                              3 5     3 5                                 7 0     005         0
S,.b  lala  166A4k1MG                                                                                                             8ig6   096b200 0  :00 0                     4792
I0ta1  144v1011441l COS75                                                                                                             95986 640  7 414  I 110It 216  2 2 3 42  6
AI    S   ARII,0   A VLI WA,Il    S
11M11   j uI ONS                                  116                           2        2       2       6             19                     38 0   30 0   38 0    114 0    0 05               0
PHI    1106: IC HIM0:11  1400,1.                  141                           12      12      12      36             14                    168 0   68 0  :680    5040    0oQ05                0
680:,L EXPENSES   /l                                                                                                          5 0    5 0                          -      10 0    005,          0
5,,  loala  SA,AW115  A 0,,0..014,.s                                                                                               SO      5 0206 02060 2060                 6280
   04H1C,LS  0CAN
OVH,l1OtCI   014                                                                                                              0o 0   10 0   10 0   40 0   100             50 0    0 05   0 89
.1.11f,"  is ao                                                                                                           t        ao      6a0    8 0    80          40 0    00',   0 as
H1L   Ca1                                                                                                                  10 0   to 0   :0 0   :0 0   10 0            50 0    0 0',  0 8s
1.61l,b      0l'II(ls 0414                                                                                                        28 0   28 0   28 0   21 0   280            1400
ts,Ii0 10141. On1
IlI4 AC 11IMS 0014                                                                                                             II        8     Ia       I8 a    I          4 0    0 05    0 2
S.b o 01.   11011011413 0814                                                                                                        iS      I       '         8                   0
l01a1  RILukOWIMI  L0,1S                                                                                                               34 8   34 8 235, 8 23lY8 235,              777  0
a:. I                                                                                               8~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~94 4 6795 649  H  145 9 454 0    114b 
'0   140A14,11A0L4  UP,,iPA0II#G  1014P1
c   DOIJG SU4P'Oe      MP
,I  PHI MCI COVPPt
f DRUG  SUPP, 7 /OMP!   00R DOUG  DiIviR146
'Ig  fl14I?W 1.141  16    i OlIL MGI LOR PI
h   blOW 121. 0H1I  IlC   G[COP
4.  1, 16 MSA0 14,,1  .IN MAlIlItNANO       IWAI '.001,. COPIP I
PA4I0114I1E4*A4:I bII'GWAOO 101411UMP
H00 V0Sl S 0 VA0,,,111111 87 Q:1 14AIN4 At)V:50R A CR141 TIC 0441C0R



2~~~~~~~~                                                         -~~~52       -
ANNEX 1
Table 4 (c)
alma. Of LEIScN
M A Il JILltIlN m     ilt501110           I
UhWh*IIU EStSUS ShlI USd61?11 _tII1
lab   16.  _U llt StRACfIN 5AV5S NUA UWIIOPN   FM
ktein led C.ut lable
omtity                                         an*msts  *
...................................                 ------------ -------------------------  Cat. fee.
Unit    n/5   fl/t $1/02  n25   33/1114 letal  Cos    U/f  90/St 91S    52/13 13/114 leatel                 l*e  tLck
:81288               ..... .. 22 .... 1   31    32282...    2821.322.. .....s.s 21a22   222 amog: 2 2 1381222   3.33  12...
1. I[VESINENI COSTS
......... .....
8. fume
A. . .O
ISA OfEViOPNEiT tUND  /a                           -       -      -       -                                225.2 225.2 225.2 225 2    500.6    0.ff   0.s
Snb-lotal FUND                                                                                              - 225.2 m. 2 m. 2 22 n2    "G. 6
S. PROJECI PREPARIAION FAClilS
"A PlaulM.                                          -      -      -       -                         142.2              -       -      -    142. 2       0    0.?
Sub-Total P0OJECI PREPARATION FACILItY                                                                 142.2               -                   142.2
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                                                                     142.2 225 2 225.2 225 2 225.2 1.042.8
Total                                                                                                       142.2  229.2 2252 2252 229 2  .042.
.; M.......t.A 5.0...          ..    ...
.............        .  .....................
/a 19 NSA VS 20000 - OTAl S 380000
.... ... .. ... ... .. .. ........................ ............................................ .... ..... ................. ........................... .......



- 53 -
ANNEX 1
Table 4(d)
4IWiN   Of LESOINO
Polo A1Il  MtEfAl   _  siluimis  fEet 11
abe 394.    r   IEMIM SIIVICES tMM  lSileI CLINICS
gala.led Cost Tabe
fL@Y I   064
Iuent v ty                                            am  Costs                         p1y.
...................................  Ujnlt  -------w-------------- --------------------  Cont. r"o.
Unit     /"N  N/IM 21/12  923 93/94 Total  Cost               /A      NSI  91/9  92/93 93/9n   Total           %to  ELib
I.  III5(1SNIEUM   COSis
................
A. CIVIL MM
. .. ... .
HEM CLiNICS  /a                                                  -       -             -            471.0    471.0        -      -           94.0    0. S   0.6
UPGMOING CLINICS   rb                                 -       -         -              -            419.0    419.0                           o 3  e   e. is    0.6
Sub-fatal ctvlL  MSN                                                                                     N.0    SN.           *      -      *170. 
B. fURNIIURE A EUIPNIEI
........     ... . . .
fURIUILUR   Ic                                     -         -       -      -c                           -   3e.0         -      -      *   390.0       0 I   0 3
EeIPNLtMi                                                   *           -                                        . *  * -    5sas                O      0.o    0. 
RA010 HEIMORII  /d                                               -              -      -             24.0 o                                   24.0      0. I   0.
Sub-lotal fURNITURE A EQUIPINIOC                                                                         24.0    935.0        -      -      -   959.0
C. VEHICLES
PICK-UP /I                              No         I         -       -      -          I    27       27.0          -                          27.0      0 I   0.6
SPARE PARIS                                           -          -      -       -      -              0. s      0. S 0         O. 5   0.5       2.17    0 I   0. a
6M4U6LCE                               NO                 2      -      -       -      2    150          * 300.0          -             -   300 0       0 1   0. a
SPARf PARIS                                               -      -                     -                        6.    6. 0    6.0    6. 0     240       0.o        0.
Su-lolaIl WVHIIES                                                                                        279    306.5    6.5    69    6.5   3n3 7
D PROjLtCI IMIP*RAilOm FACIIIIV
of IArito UfIS                                                                                       5 *  -  -   99.3  -  -          -        59.3        0   0.7
Sub-Total PROJECT PREPARATION IACILITY                                                                   5993                                         3 . 593
Total INVESTNENT COSIS                                                                                   10 00.e   2. 131    6 9   6.5 s           f   3. 152.0
II. RECURRENT COSTS
A, VEHNICES 084
............
PICK-UP OUN                           MO          I      I      I      I       I     5       6       6.0       6.0   6.0   a 0        .0     40.0    0.05  0.69
ASULANClE 04                         NO         -      2       2      2      2       6     to          *    20.0  20.0  20 0  20.0          60.0    0.05  0.69
Sut-Total VEHICLES 084                                                                                   6.0     20.0  28.0  28.0  26.0    120.0
6. EQUJIPMENT 064
..... ..... .....
EQUIPMEINT ou  /f                                -              -      -              -                              30.0  30.0  30.0        90.0    0.09    0.7
Stb-Iotal EQUIPNENI OGN                                                                                              -  30.0  30.0  30.0         90.0
C. BUILDING 084
BUILDING OUN /9                                  '       '             '      '       '                              72.0  72.0  72 0   216.0   0.09    0.2
Sub-Total BUILOING 08&                                                                                     -         -  72.0  72.0  72.0   216.0
total RECURRENT COSTS                                                                                        6.0      20.0 130.0 1300 130.0    426.0
1233. 333.. .      3.2........ ... .
Totl                                                                                                      1,00.6 2e.   . 199.   136J.9 5136.9  1 36.9 3. 976. 0
------.    -.......--   -. ...... . -. .... ...... .  ....... .......... .. ..... .... ....  .... ...............
/a  MASERU SOUTH 1654 A  PIAPUISOT I826 - NAPUTSOE fC INCLUDES YOUTH COUNSELLING CENIER
MS36 10 BE fINANCED FROM URBAN SECIOR RtORIEHTAIION PROJECT
/b  LIKOISE  6424 4 HAPELENG N414
/c   191 Of COASINUCIIOM COSTS
/d  FOR AMSULANCE
/0  2200 CC PEIRUI
/r  si Of EOuIPL NJ COSIS
/g  31 Of INVlESIENI COSIS
...............................  .........................................................................................................



Z . - t        ~-  -                         -        &o - .                    &                  -  b c .  
= "&, ,  t  O-    s-  O O        S  __- O !    - , ,- D                                        a.. "_E   
O~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~ O -                                                            - _ _ _.-O 
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~    St                                                              0tf _a _ 
O~~~~ S0                         *             a   aa  a- ' a3             --  a   a Dft Zw *E  
a                                                            __          Sao*    -
:~ ~~-                       _ a     -                                                                           .: Saga-  00,'    -* ~ ~ ~
.                                                                                                               ,-~  '- aa  .
.0 ~ ~ ~ ~   ~      ~       ~      ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  - '         
v         -      -- a O             -                      -  aX;
o, Z _ _ , ~.              V -        -             u   -.   :Z.S: a        
@~~~~~~~~~~~ ~                              - _                                  I     O _ _ |,& _ *O k'g * s; 
. , O O O * .0                                    0000                                           i        'I;a
O       0 al o .r o  o*.r  _-    voa. .                 ooooo-o-o   a  aoo---o    a
5~~~~~~~~~~~~ 0                         -   o o0              o 0  00  OS oo 0.ooa- o  e
0.~~~~~~~~~~~~ O.o a o                                   O     o o o:~8 o  oO      hO  oo  oI 
-~~~~~~~~~ 0     o  0o _  _ _   00    _   0b 0 0 O0@S  OS    0-e.o    - **



-   55                                                                                                                   I
ANNEX 1
Table 4(f)
silC4 of itsooule
POlOftillob OK&iMI   me UilhIEI          "MCI II
Table 301. eilwt  *itamiC
ft.s led COM Table
WALOTI 'NOI
a 0imalUst A tWiP'Am;
wmIt ISELIN  CLUE    /.                                                                                         23. 7                                       23. 7     0        . .  3
lI  EQUIPwh,                                                   -       -                                          $115     35b                             154 I      05    S0 
Sbf ootl                   IMPRINT   *                                                                            142.2       35 6                            17 t7 a
. SUPP lltS A tIOESlSaS
CONIIACEPIIVES SUPPIILS                                         -       ..254 4    320 0                                               -604. 4                         0 I   0.59
............. ~ ~ ~ ~  ~      ~      ~      ~      ~      ~      ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ..   ...          .     .......
Sub-total SUPPkitS A MAItRIALS                                                                                      2544    320.0                              604
C IIL4IiLAL ASSISIARCI,
60 6uvl~uOw                                I*         3                                     3        24 44    55. 3                                        asI65   005         I
SOl ADVISOR  /                              mml                2 tlE4                                 28.44                56   2 4 *224                     73       0 005     I
PSI    siMvic T AM  0        1    /C        "PI                -               * 5         3S         2  44                9g t5                           154  t   0 05        I
YOUI" lo 0 li   VWISOl                    NM               0. a                           05         28 44          7         3                  -         213   001            I
IP MANAWRIINI ADVISOR                       MN         -                                              25 44         -     25 4                              26 4    0, 05       I
IvAluAIll S  SUPPERIS                       NM2- -*                                                             7e4244  -264                                264    00s          I
ST o l SUPPt It2                                                     2       2                       25 44 E569565   9569 4                               170b v0 
......~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.. .. ..    ........ 
Sub-Iotal IICIINICAL ASSISIANCI                                                                                     65 3    263 1    53113&                   541S
0 TRAINING0
CVtltO AS  IRAINIG   /d                                3        -                            3          4 74    14 2                                        142      0 05        I
VCB   ISAIING  /                                                                                                32 0       60 0  802  0400  28 0    260 0    0 0O               0
4110/166 [RAININ6G-                                                                                             65 0    125. 0125 065 0    50    38550   0 05                   0
DOCIORS  RAIR 4VOIi                                                                                               5 0       5 0   10 0    5 0         -     250 0S     0        0
aubsks [RAIUING 4     *                                 .      -                                                85 0    200-  0   0 0 0 20                445 0    0 0S         0
IP U1  COllIeS  RAVININeG                               -                                                                   35                               3 5   0 05         0
CEMIRAL MG01S   tAt                                     -      -               I              I                             3 - *                            3 0   0 05         0
P0111.1 bIOmiISNOI   /I                                                                                           3 0       3 0     3 0                      9 0    0 05        0
Sub-iota, 101*114101                                                                                               204 2    41952980190  0  33 01.144 7
6  PMO.JECl P01(P50151O 1    ACHiIly
COSPONIN    COttSUtl8l                                      . L O2U6I84 59 3                                                   9                             9 93       0    0 7
Sub  lotal P90.lCI  P15P 181t     1  FACILItY                                                                       59 3                                       59 3
lotl  INOESIMLWI COSTS                                                                                               775 4  1035.1 363 3303 6   33 02.5335
II RLCU99ENI costs
A   5 1415ttit   a  LOMANCIS
CHO0 196AIN6W                            MIS          -                                     4            1I              l6 0   lb 0   l0   16 0          64 0   0 OS          0
PORS 1IkM   /9         /                   1           3                                 -                                 7 6    7 6  7         76       304    0 05          0
YC8D1  L(JJSEtI     S                    M             -                      -32 2  2      4            13                      26     2b0 02 0   0  O0                      0
Sub/ Toal  AIR41iS A AL-55W0A1C2S 236   46  496    23b    14 04
6 1:1.l1IDIlG UISM
YOUtH LOUNS  LIItER    I                                                                                                  4 5    4 S    4 5    4S          18 0    0 OS   0 2
Sub luIal 01Ilt114G                                        -                                                           .      4 5    45      4           5 45  is 
Total WiRtlltCI 204  2OS9S                                                                                                        28  0 St    19   0   263        F i4 
775 4  t.03i 2    4S 4 303 9   33 0 2.697 9
Ia CIV REOtRREK   INeIUWO  IN URBAN 111111  IIINICS COPP!
/b  4011 NINIIAP DOCOaSs
4c         S O  bIW E S 4    t
/d   DOCIORS 10R MINII6PAIl*lMY
PIR 110111        /41 70105   6001                                                                                                      7 615  716  6    76U0 4 O  S
Yo I      ORl  LOURSEt tOiOR  S   "SA  -ISF   NURSES                                                                                  2       2                5        0O 
Bf 409 POLICY MiiGOti
/g   C80 Y1A101R                                                                                                                  Obb 21610  4    3OR11
.     . .             .. .



- 56 -
ANNEX 1
Table 4(g)
"'_M  O  ttsoltO
P0IPtAIIS 81*61W A   BWBRII( l   PROJtCI 11
Iabl *401 1000 AND WttOIttOU
("to.l l ostt.Ibl
(@IRAOI I OKtl
Owfntity                                             Bad,. Costs                  P9ly
..:. . .  ,:,,,tt.X  - . .......................  : .....  ...... ..,.. ... ....... ... ...       Can      fo .
it~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ct tREDl
Unit  8290g 20/91 91/92 92/93 93/94 total  Unit Cost  69/90 90191 21/92 92/92 93/24 folal    Rote  Each,t
...... ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~.......
uismIwIut CoiSF
ton   10 ttOtMNES GROUPS  /a                                                                              25 0  31. 5  SO 0   62 5  75 0   20 0   005   0 4
Sib-etoal CR1D0t                                                                                             25.0  3t.5 90 0  62.9  75 0   250 0
tt lUOlItUi  8 ENtIPfENt
.. .... ... ... .. .
F111Ct EWIPU1tl  /b                                                                                       20.0         -         -      -    20 0    0     0. 3
Sitl-total fURNIIURO I 0UIP1ftI                                                                             20 0                                20 0
C VIIUCUES
IOUR  Will                                   It        2             -                   2           8  IJ60                            -   136 0    0 1   0 8
SPRftf PARtS                                                                                               2 1   2 1   2. 7   2. 7   21    13 6    0 1   0 6
Su-eloatl VHICLtS                                                                                          138.    2. 7   2 7   2       2.7   149 6
t. IlCttlC*t ASSISIANC'
. .... .... ... ......
_UIRIIIOt IR*INING Ot                        IS         I                   -     -      I       26. 44   2. 4                                28 4   0 OS       I
OPEIt*lOllt*  RtSttUII                                                                                    S.9.3                               59 3   009
Sub total IlCHNICAI ASSIStANCE                                                                               8; I                                81 
I IR ltIttG
OERSEAS IRAISING                            ttR         2     2                          4       35 S5   Il I 711          -                 142 2   0 0O       I
LOCAtl IRAI8 ING /c 2                                                                                     65 0  65 0                         130 0   0 09      0
Stb total TRAINING                                                                                          U6. I 136. I                        272.2
I  PROJECt PRIPARAIIOU FACitit?
cOtI OESIGN COUSUtIANCY                                                                                 35 6                                35 6       0   0 7
Sb-tlotal PROJECT PRPARA?IIO  FACILtYl                                                                      35 6                                39 6
lotal ItVESItEUI COSTS                                                                                         443 I 176.3  952;7  i52  771   ;8S 0
it RFCURtENI COSIS
A SAARIES 4 ALLONAtU'S
.... ......   ...........   ...
DRIVER SAtAREIS                                                                                           I 0   t 0   1 0   7 0   7 0    3S 0   005           0
Sub lotal SALtRI(S S AttUO CES                                                                               70     t0   70   10   10    38 0
tt VEHICLtS 044
tOttR ttHLlt OIN                            NO        ?      2      2     2      2      0o          a   16 0  16 0  16 0  leO  6 0    80 0   0 09  0 89
Stt-total VEHICtES OSN                                                                                      16 0  16 0  16 0  16 0  16 0    80 0
C  BUItOlNG Os"
OFFICE Rttl81   /d                                    -      -0 -                                                90  Is  0  i90        0    7  0   009 OS   0 2
HWOUSING RENIAlt  /                                                                                      '0.0         to   10.0  10 0    s0 0   00      0 2
Sil-betel 8UltOlNG 0AN                                                                                     25 0  25 0  25 0  29    290    125 0
tolol RECURRENI COSIS                                                                                           48.0  48 0  48.0  48.0  48.0   240. 0
total                                                                                                           491. 1 224 3 10.7 113 2 '25.7 t1.0  0
/a  HAMER  ttItS   0   2. . 4. S 6 S UC    6 4
ItS8aiatiOl a OttlVER67 UC . 8
OPER61A10148tIR IAINING   IIC    2
SPARf PARIS - 103 IOFHMtR N1ttS COSIS
IOA FINANCfS SOX Of ION IHROUGH ta808
lb  PROJECI SIIFS
Ic fOR 20 ttUIRIIION ASSISIANIS A SUPERVISORS
/d PROJtCI Sl ItS
/I FOR PltOI PROJECI NAlAGS Atl PROtEC SIS
................................................ ...............................................................................



-57 -
ANNEX 1
Table 4(h)
popw&iam N64111 Mm m,il!igs NOjICI I
labig WI  1111,MA    c0906  10 cutS%
S4esl SI I6119
.......... ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~      ~      ~      ~      ~      ~      ~      ~     ~      ~     ~     ~    ~    C.,.
A. CIVIL mOm
IsemeU/                  no         2             3                    to           1224 9 to0030 0                            on.0    90 Is      . 6
S%6-1oI.i Civil MO"N                                                                                 24 0  U ..   3  00       -20
a S,nPPIILS EL wfimalSi
is AIIJS                                    .121.5 244.06 I6  2696 21112  1,112 0                                                                01    0,9
PUOKISSIMG COlSTS                                                                                29 1  1.2  64 2  67 4  70.0E   292 7    0 I              0
PUOGILCIIV   CLOIIIIS  lb                                 -                                       I  1             -                    I  I    52 I    .6
tie NtiILIAIS                                      -                                               3 0   6, 0   6 0   6 0          0   23 0      0I 1      3
Sub* total sitptIPit~s a MAI(OtAiS                                                                  176 0 311.0 32kG 0342 0 369 0 16514 6
C  VEWICLtS
NOIDACYCLIS /c                   No        to                                 tO          7 2   72 0a                                   72 0     0 I   0 0
SPORSIPARIS                                        -      --1 4    14    14    1 4    14                                                 7 2     01    c a
OPERIIIONAL  IAAIMING                                                                             10 0                                  10 t  0  0 I       0
Sub-fatal VIIIICt1S                                                                                 6IJ4    1 4    14    1 4    14         69 2
0. ricHrNtCAL ASSISTANCE
IS ADVISOR                     AYR                 I      I             I      6        213 3  213 3 213 3 213 3 213 3 213 3 1.01 6   00OS
IUAiLO OUIIORIIIG                                  -      -6    56    66    66    66a    200    006 
SAC SIuOiLS  /0                                                                                                 3?77  12 6             s0 3   0 06 
Ts 609913                                                                                                       to  -- 10               tOO0   006S
DRUG S~LMSISIttIY SURVEY                                                                           6 0   6.0    6 0   13 0   b 0        37 0   0 06        I
Sub-t0161 ILCIINICAI ASSISTANCE                                                                     224.9 224. 9 272 6 244 6 224 9 1. 191 6
I I RAININGC
si ovLiSIAS  [RAININIG                             ..                                                              -26 0               26 0   0 06         I
IUAIID COUJRSE  I..                                                                              200   toO   to0  0    0O               60 0    006        I
LOCAL  tRAIllIlG  /f                               -      -      -      .230   tO 0                                                    33 0   0O0S         0
NSA IURILSIOP  /9.                                                                                 60    6.0    60    6 0    60         30 0    006        0
isBAIgIUAL MEETING                                               -                                 .?    I?7    12    I?7    17         a56    006        0
NDIIONAL WSORKSHIOP                                -                                                  0                                  6 0   0O06        0
S.belotal IRAINING                                                                                   665.?  21. 7   177  42 7   1 7    6161
FIOlND
Pull D(FLH I (0AMt  /h.                                                                         230 0                                 230 0   0 06   0 6
ISsbrlOtI  lull!                                                                                    230 0                            - 2300
lotal IMMEIMNEN  COSTS                                                                                 794.0 625 0 653 7 630b b 93 0 3.29? 3
A VINIIIILS OS"
MIROIDCctCYC  OS"O              No        t0    to      t0     10    tO    60            16    16lj0   16 0   lb0   16 0   16i0       76 0    0 06   0065
Sub lI"a   ttINiCILsS"O                                                                             1630   16.0   160   is60   Is0        76 0
B 1101101G US"K
Ill/Ill III 1111  IISM                                                  ~~~ ~~~ ~~~ ~~~ ~~~                  ~~~~46S   4%-    45,   4 %  4%  22 %    00%l   0 2
Ssbo.   UIIDINI. us"                                                                           4 5   465   4.       4 5    46       2265
Iotal RLCURI6NI LUSIS                                                                                    I9 6   19 6   151 5  1t s  It        47 6
l,,IeI                                                                        0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~14 3 644 6 673 2 6501  ,12    3 194.8
/a  lOWl 4 AtIH A%,-ISIANIS
/b  IDR 11OIORCYCIt OlPlR6I06S
Ic  1011 M4111111  A%SISI*NI. A CANe slI ,961ANl)  4l 511) C0OMPI
/d  1NlttIl   DllItL SUPINVISlO AKltULIOlll L1MIIUI&IIAI'T FOR IMPROVI!) IlRAIMtiMI
/a  6 6iLilID litA!ifl*6s"ST66IS
/I  FOlR 19 mAIMIti    A~SSSIAN15  1 WII  I55  A 0111fliS, 2 wICISI
/g  26 SA*11   19 IH SA - 101*  4/6  ?A1ll
/6  0O* sU1ullui IS timiLD lu PYI A no"I 6ICuOfiON  BUDGET WILL  COVIR IRON P02



mii&       smlam    u WIn
0PIIof BEIT# ine    allows NdeOl II
wso. SIAM~s  eMiak  SOIa I 85KS C8uhU0t
i%t s        W W U S IAM091    WIN  WM   ltool  qvis  Cool   WLIN M N        t 081   WIom  U3OI 1.101          Pt    ow~
...*.....sS..   ..           .......4....s. .. ..                 s    n:sit             ;:    i:
I  5UWISINRMI coOSi
StmID I oaiIIlGin 0       /ao                      s                                               0   3e              w le                   a.    o,is   0 6
0*-los4l Civil MUM                                                                                          300      0       0-                   800
8. lUiNIlUw a EWmipmmI
0111 IN 50   /b-.                                                                                       33.0                                   33 0     091   0.6a
$10  86(B EO-                                                           .                               tO    29 0  25 0  20 0   98 0         990       0 9   0. 6
.50 CilIICS 50                                                                                           G       . 0    6 0    0 0   90 0   90.0  42 0  0 I   0.8a
Sub-total 911899111*8t A 10U9P54N1                                                                          49.0  27 0  360  35 0  28 0           174 0
C S4PPt9E S A MATIEIAIS
StO LAS DUGS                                              .                                              4.0  70 0  40 0  4S 0  36 0    25000           09    005
SID I"   ISPOSA8LES                                                                                       1 4    1 4    2. 0    2 0    2 0     68I    0I   0.8
Syblokal SUPPLIES 8MATERIALS                                                                                50.4  71 4  47 0  47 0   38 0    2588a
0 VtNIC&Ls
FOUR WH4EEL  Ic                         No         9                                              B8   680                               -    80        09    06a
SPARE PARIS                                                             .       .      .                   4    9 4    9 4    94    1 4         688     01    08a
MOIORECYCL(S                            990        3      -      6       -9                      7 2    2196       -  43 2        -      -    64 8      01    08a
SPASIL PARIS                                              -      -0 4   0 4    1 3    I 3    I 3                                                46&     0 I   0.8
Sub-IotaI  VEHICLES                                                                                         91 4    1 8  40.9    2 7   2 7    144.4
I fiCIIMICAL ASSISTANCE
STO SPECIALISI                          1N         2     92      -24                            23 7  284 4 264 4                        - 06 8        0 005      I
COUNSELLING ADVISOR                     no         4      -- -                        4        28 44   113 a                                  113 8   0 05        I
OPERAIIOMAi RESEARCH4 ADVISORS          MN         2      2                           5        28 44   06 9  06 9  28 4                       142 2   0O I5 
ST V09951J1lA89S                        "M         2      2      2             -      6        28 44   SI6 9  S6 9  06 9                      170 6   0 05        I
Sub-ToIa1  IFCNNICAL ASSIST MCE                                                                            099 9 398 2  Si 3                     995 4
V 18A1818G
OVERSEAS TRAINING  /d                  818         I      -                            I       66 38    68.4                                  6 6.4   005         I
OVERSEAS TRAI9N1NG  I.                  MN         2      -      -2                            8 210    186        -                            6.8   0 005       I
R0GIO8Ai AITAC9MINT                     MN                -                           5         4 74           23 7                      -    23 7   005          I
DOCIOMS 199818186  /I                                                                                    2 0   2 0   4 0   4 0   4 0           96.0   0 05       0
[R/AINING18  /o                                                                                       I         0    I 0   4 0   4 0   4 0  Is 0   0 05       0
NC 188199180  /11.                                                                                        3 0   3.0  20 0   90 0  90 0        46 0   0 05        0
510 WIORKSHIOP                                            -.2 0    2 0    2 0                                                                   6 0    00        0
Sub-totalIR1881186G                                                                                         89 5   30.2  30 0  20 0  20 0    989 7
0  PROJECTI-R8EPARTIEON VAChITIY
CONPONENI DESIGN CONSUl IANCY                             .                                               48a                                 948A        0   0?7
Sub-lots[ PROJECT PRIP8R8 IONI FhdcItiI                                                                     948 a                                 948a
lotal  18V159ME89  COSIS                                                                                      922 0528.68293.2  904 7  88l 719.937 0
II RECURRENT costs
A  VIofI IIIIIS (S"
901111 111111  0s"                     mu         I      I      I      I      I                   a     a 0   8 0   a 0   a 0   A 0          40 0   0 0 0 080
M(INIlHI1 If", 068N                    Mn         3      3      .9     9      9     19          I 0    4 S   4 0  13 0    35  1 3 0          4905   0 05  0 8s
Sub-1o9a1  VIHICLIE  08N                                                                                   92 5   92 S  29 S  29 53  29  0             59
total RLCUIIRLI Cosis                                                                                          12 5   1205  2190   2905  291 5         9g
,lot.                                                                                                          934 5 541 1 314 7 126 2 190 22.026 5
/a  REMODEL 18G
/b  C02 199CU88AIU1S S MOICROSCOPES
/c  CAN9 BE S11AR10 wIlm 98 COMPI
Id  MPH FOR M9O1CAI 00CT0R
/f  S I0 MNAII Mt 9I
/g  S90 COUMII INC.M
/h,  SID MANUAl



I
-                                                    '4                                      -        3          --   - -
S   S     &          &     &                &
ma                       L IX.    A.          !:3{'
-          I                       -  a-.
aL-a.         *               A                              -    !;,.;                         * -- -   -
na-ta-a           I aatta                                                                                    -
31                                         3      -     10
acorn-a                       I,          - a a 0;              I
!!I                           I''
go                  5            C'0     C                     A1             -         ,j !:              a-
3                                                    5                                          7.            -  C
Ba            If
        Pt                      I                   1                      U     -
I   F                                 0                 S    S  -
S                    I                               I       J      I
I                                   a                I                 ma    ma    ma            a    11515
I            *    3       II              II         11411
S
a
a-                           *a    -a           --           a
S       j
C                                                          -                 - - - -                   
r      II
.3 '0
a -       -    -              -          -    -                          51112
ifs
-    a      - - a            -.                    a            - -    -                 "    C
a     -           --       -       -    05    -
0-00  00- a.,ao aaaac.ao.   a a- a 7 C -  -    -- 000-0                                              --                    S  II
-s s.c 0  0   000           - a                                     a --  a      *0OWc              cOO  5 Co 50  5 *
- - a . a    -    - -               a                  s.Caa                                            5         2 e
a   flt-fl                  a -
00  0  - 0000 a               saa                                                   0                -  noes  a          -e
:0                 a--toe-  -  -                            --a.                          CI
0'0-0   C 0-COO          -   -   0-   5              0 - O .aJ.,                             5 5'a                           3
- a                0 - 0500         '0                      0 --    -    - a
a                  - a .0           - a                      Sc    .    5 ,
a .00   CajO a                    a                  -a   - -                                0-
-               - - - a                      0 *a55  -..-c  -    s   *  :LP
Oaaaa a *COa55aa    aaaa0C055.sasOc                                                                                           -
o  a 0O.,Oa  C    0 a-C5   acao,                                                                                              U
a . 0     000000  0    a Ca,, a  ao-,aoa             0Ja-S0O'Oa   0 0.0  0 -a                - 5000  C OflOap  S S
0    000000      C    0000    00CC    000            0000    aa             00    00                540*00              fl-I   It)
-J    qq    cc
3    $00000      0    33                            0000     c a    00                     -- - -              -       C
ace.    .e..c      a       11
-    OoOOOa    -    00        00-    00             o--    -a    -a    -a    --                  fl55       7



-   o-  ? - M -~~~~- &
ARMIZ 1
Table 4 (_)
Page 2 of 2
11  M42J0i2i  CluI~
USa~INK11 a 0i2in a          ` C                                                                             'l         11                     31     3L      G 
l2Ioitl  .K              v    2i                                     I                          0          22       220      A2.       .0 2.. IN             .4 IN
CO1 MPOTitOEUOwe.i                                           I      I      &                                2       2213       .00   1       120Il .    *    0>6 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~......                                                    .   .....   .... .   ..I..   ....   ......
MI|"dfl                      uXl                            t i tMO  I  *         *                   *     2       22   4       30       a       i        ta        0*         0al*   
iinIi&oRk UliS  I                                                  .              .             -                   100 M.   101      10 1110 *0    00                          0 t  
0.*IOIBI saoai.os 0 0e.mes                                                                      204.0 IH* 2000 201,2020 1020~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-     i|  *  - +1+ "   s
Cml-i   600                                                                                                          2          00      1.01      0 0        23.1    &68 I-
Sub-fetal 04ui9INI go0                                                                                                  20       S06      S0    00    0.0 4      211 .2
c uwltomm an
.. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~  ~   ~   ~  ~   ~  ~   ~  ~  ~   ~  ~  ~  ~  .  . .     .........          . .    . . . .. . .
ltt sotalI caM                                                                   - -  -                             2 5       S a      10    S.      0*    22.4        6    02
.......      .......   .......     ....... ...... ........ .. .. .. .. ...
loIl ffCUiflll CUeIS                                                                                                    -     4    204-    IIII -     - 40  940      S"  S
@202                                                                                      I 000~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 3 2.20   2.01!0a 740.2 024 2 0.621 i
/a  fii  MGI (II  P200020G III  10NfORIlMOI0 lb)  RMiPONtO  122
/b   Ii INMGI 122        "U MOPMI   122
Oc I0i00lI:0l2  CWWIFM* a   2iOl 0I0II2JU
/b         A 11   ON 121   i Pul  2
/.MOPON( CiIOIPI
if   f   MG[CI  202   iiUOMMI 2201  121
/g    l II CI COUPI
/2.  M"FPO*,O  LUMPI
/h  llP Copp  tow .i.....0R  a ""I.:
/j  cooI1`.110  o.l P*2   I 4ODtSOOl CuNIINI.LS U2iI 11 Al qft U0  Pyl
/2.  00121 021A00/100 itDIA A CURRICUtJM02Il 01V0102tN
/1   2220 102  12  0 MUll    t      IADe.
/a  CIUMPulJ o IUi OI*lkf
In   ON0002 Ih .i 020
I0 o" 102  20  001 C4 202C10
/D  CiIM.'1J212I 21Zl0002
OR 22  DISIIRICI 22*1222 00M201SIR10*2II
1.  I'M DI kIOIcI   .2 IIAM'1  2.URR22.22Ui/3Uo'  I2L02.         tl20A0ciAL/PikISO0iLtl      A 02 CSi'iCIS 10 01t AORES011) IN1 FIN  GI A 0POlltR  COMPIS
s   101 f.11t4A1.Cf       WI ll  t PA     I 111Y1  l
2   DISfOI HSS t11M11 IUR 20RtlIH0002:2 S          00tUktAIlUN  0U 00I



-61-                                             AJU
Ta~ble 4(k)
-aft im  1Mg   as    0  30   Odl3
1*010060 *000log
amest ~ ~ ~      ~      ~     ~     ~     ~     CeI3
on..  LOifi "Al 63162 02/6  63114 Total  soil Cost   flit"    16P63  63160 6A163  36)1              total    Set.  too
"iAll mostuo   /                                                                                   143 I   343%                           626           i @3%  6
1.6061 00P0%U                                                                                        6.      26                            16      0is   a6
1@ciuiIlts   01036                                                                                  w*       "                            .i       . oo Is
32*3 lCivil M 61                                                                                6l56    all% S0
tMNS    0sMI1gM   /b                                                                                        Ito. 0326                               @ II
3306*60 333W10WK- 1064,0    03    @
ct  u inosiwi                                                                                        S 0                                    S,*    *      031
At030COP3L0                         no         I                                 3          3        1                                      1        3    0
t6oWOW   A tcoO&01                 so         I                                 3           %      3*36                                             3     0
,o 3it* IC                          n         3                                 3           %        6S0    03   a0a
oIO 4OCOINO 0                                 2                                 2                                                           I% 3  6  03    0a
030C00500A                       so        3                                              3       3                                     I6      03    064
1 3040inlam                         so         I                                             4        A40                                   40      03    @6a
332                                 no        2                                 2            S%      30                                     30     03    064
COOSmiO                             No        4                                 4          2%       t06                                    360    0I   @6
IEACNIIIG 323032                    NO       20    70                          t0          0 2       4 0     140la60    0 3   0151
'I00/0                                                                                                       to00 t30 to300        00    406        03    0%
tools                                                                                               210    210  210  260210    3210    @                   0%
EEO Point03                                                                                          23,       20 2o   0    20       a     303      aI   032
1.111o38  *33003li at 32 0010303                                                                     431    00 0  %2a0   2 0  42 0   2% 31
30in. 304333                        00                          I                3          04      0  0                                  (A00      0 I   06
*0001 PARIS                                                                                          I4          4    34    34     34       6a    031   0
S,.) otal Vi4ilcLL*                                                                                    094        I      34    34     I34     140a
1,4013 LA 3 043'tOtNOILAL /0                                                                                 32 032 032 032 0   36a 0 0%                     3
(00 0310   000*300                                                                                         220  220  220  220             O00%s            I
ell 3003  *CI INSO*2@3310          "VW        I             I                            2133 2    2132     426 042660426 0213231.2015,4   0 0               I
AT0VISc0 30 OIEIOICG@3                                                                  233 3    233 3                                    2133    aS0 0      I
I 3.dL 33330A3  ASShl "Lk                                                                       42060   40 0460004600 0203J2 135 2
04I3s*lk$ 33030306  /3             "VW         I     2      I      2      I      0       00 30      00 4   33   321I2   12 33  204   130 9 0OS               I 
03.At033,1103*03H'  /32           030         I      4     4      4          32 a          20       360 3     00s000s0o033               210 a a20%         a
S..0 3...1 340303031.                                                                                 .32 4   2127212323212 7b04 43230
3~~0P7I7P3*3              030~~~~my                I      3             3          12               120 1 0        20     20     263 400%           0
0  4L03Ctt* 004~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7772                                                                               #
3oli0 UWI3 Ft~                                                                                       00   0          00a 0a0 a00          400   00    320%
1.h 3i1 32393CIf* Go                                                                                  0         0      3 0a0  0 a00        430
I 33U30I 0o40I a
CNIoolIt O 0                                                                                         20       24    20      29    29       34     00%    027
COOIIOa 004                                                                                          23       22    23      232 22         33     00%S   02
I. ola' 343.3300(0  000                                                                               S2       322   %2        2 S%2        2329
S3033 "Oust 004                                                                                     343    206220620327206    4227 00                     027
1100007 080                                                                                          23       4S   @S          4     S %  2322   00~  0 2
.0313                                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I 3293 2 3.006%S80401004 0422 2 S422 4
lb   g  I0 70306/0033I 
/403330003330
0320 0330 3335cp All3 3663
GINNIE30*   %C3303Ct
/3  330 Si



- 62 -
ANM  1
Table 4(1)
lob4    8  1l  mimtU it3 . Of IESOlO"tI t         1 1
4010101 AlIN wtIttga In me WAU1I I" "MCI I 
beladed C.st la0l
=toll11  "  1"0"
zFLe0I OWl
fimmintity                                             saw  Cats                     My.
Unit  90/0  90/l  91/97 92/93 93/14 Total  Unit Cost  AS/"  go/It 91/"  92/113 13/91 leiol   laet  E.cI
I 111"51ZZo c osts
a  StppiltS  a NAIlEIAtS
OFFICE 5UPPItES                                -                                             12 0   12 0   12 0  12    120  60 0    0 1   0 5
Sub-loto l S4JPPtl(S A MATERIALS                                                                12 0  12 0   12 0  120   12 0  m0 0
O VEHICLES
FOUR WHEEL  /a               NO         I                                  I           68   fig 0                               U0        O 1   09 
SPAC ( PARTS                                                                                  1 4   ; 4          4      4    1 4   4a     0      0
S.hr0ota  VEINCLES                                                                              69 4          4    1 4    :4       4  ?4 a
C IECHNICAL ASSIS999CF
P904ECt NGt A0VIS0           A                 2        a                  0       28 44  22?       2 8     6 9 524 4     
ST COusiIAN9                 Na        2       9      74                           29 44   S6 929 429  4                         :329    0 00      I
we. total tECHNICAt ASSISTANCE                                                                 2944  28 4  85 3                    398 2
o :mA:m:Oc
I1U4CH WORKSHOP                                                                               7 0                                2 0    0          0
SAf  IR4IaIInG                                                                               12 0  12 0   2       120   12 0   000   0 OS          0
S.b loal ITRt INN1G                                                                              190   20   92 0  ;20   12 0  67 0
lotal IIEIIIIStNN1  COSTS                                                                         384 8  S3 a 110 7  25 4  25 4 600 0
1I  RtC ROFtR  COSTS
A S414RItS A AiiO*tAlC(S
P OJEZ   MANURC            P m         I                    1       I                 22   2  0  22 022 0220  22 0Ito0    000S                    0
40zi 4551514*l           "707         I      I      t                    5           i SI 22 2      2    15 0is50 I 15j7; 0   0 05               0
ACCOUWIS Cilsk            NOR          I      I      I                                99       0  99 0   IT 0i:t 0        0  Ss 0   0 00          0
S.b folai SAIARIFS A AILANCFS                                                                         48 Ol48 O  48 O  48 0 240 0
a VEHIclEs 099
I0OUR HHEt at  O1                                                                            8 0   90        0    980    8 O40 0   0 05  0 85
5S4 lolaw  VIHICIES 09A 90                                                                               0    980    9a0   90  40 0
C EQUIIPMENT (3
COIICA41o0s                                                                                  4 7    47   4 7   47   4 723 ?            005   0 7
S'4 Ilotl lOlIPMEWI us"                                                                         47     4 7       7   47   4   23 17
0   jliING01   lOs"
OFFICE  081                                                                                  1 0   3 0   3 0   3 0   3 0  15 0   0 05   0 2
Sb lo t6I SIJtOING Olin                                                                          3 0    30    3       30    3      9 00
lot,l RECUROEN1 COSTS                                                                               63 7  63 7  63 7  63 763 7 399 7
ota                                                                                                 448 ;   It? 5   174 4  89 I  ;g  I gig 7
t     A 5H4RED HltH  fiN N14   s nAPo14R CoNoPI



A I I.0uu of t Iso I tu
financiLng PIg. by S..ary ALcones,
lUSS *o0l0
IUW.J..M~~3    2  ~~WlI  2   AmuWnl         4111.nl   Z    Mount    I       Amount    I    our  tach   *gdes        '4aRe
A  CIWii UMOS                          2,224 0  4% b                           62 7  1  1J.1352 1 53l1         00   0 0   J. 10O4  22 0        J. 44S 1 2. %k% 2
a  luluhluNI 8 liQiPiuui               2. IO0% I  a~ S       IS I    0 b        12 4  0 5                    344B  1 3 0   2 41? 4  11 2       Ila?7 I    41% 1      213 a
c  $III'9111s a NAIIIIALs              1. 045 1 %4 0          051    0 0      54? 1 28 3                     34A  I II 13.03 3i  I  8    1   . 3390        4102       141 0
0  0641113                               163 2  lb 6                           JJ   13 4                     .09 3  20 0     906 3   4 0         103 I       39 U     9W 3
I  11(11411*  ISSISISICI               2-35'i 1  46 4     I 208 4   23A   3.50371 29 6                       140   0 3   508 "SA  23 0        4.9s0 3    33%I
I  IUaimiIG                            3.13  0 a  lb         463I    2 3      47% 0 21 3                      00   0 0   2. I06I  10 2           118  3 , I41                                       0
. 1101                                 313   30                                    1 O                                      23   I0a          41 4      a& 
H   UND                                 58?   :000                                                                          %A) %   21         28HA4    3222
I  P40J&1. I P'63PA8AI  (13 I3ACI3II I v I   393 a300gA0 388 0                                                                                   333 4     so4
lIumj  liWVISINi  LU 1053                33.b4b5  59 %%      1. 210 2    6%t   2.6W? 0 13 4  3.182 1 16 2    90038   4 b39.638A2  Al             3 3. 43A4  S. Ili      62o I
A  SAIARMI  8 ALiOMINLIS                464%  J164                                                         8302  636b   3.214 2   A8                   3.214?7
B  VINIUCIISN 0183,0 3000                                                                                                   3WS 0   3 6         293 1     63 3
I  IoIIIpWMI  UAW                                                                                          223683000        22386   I8          34   14      3   d
a  WmitBIUG DIN                                                                                             04 0IGO 0       8014 0   3 0        112 1    4142 2
lIa3l micueimmI (O535                       464%  13%                                                        2 043 1  Al 0   2. 0" 2  II1        I      I0  1. 3%4 S
loial Disbursemnt                         32.3lo30  So 1    32102    07   2b63010339  I 352 1 14 4  2.S43%   1 33  22.144 4 S" O                  14. Of3   1.4143       8GIG3



-64 -                       AM1l
Table 6
LESOTIO
SECOND POPUIATION, HEALTH. AND NUTRITION PROJkCT
ESTDIATD SCHEDULE Or DISBURSUNTS
(US$ akillica)
I C   lative
IDA Fiscal Year/S _ ster   Seui-Annual            CuM4lative          Disbursed
FY 90
December 31, 1989                0.1                 0.1                  1
June 30, 1990                    0.3                 0.4                  3
FY 91
December 31, 1990                0.6                 1.0                  8
June 30, 1991                    0.6                 1.6                 13
nY 92
December 31, 1991                1.3                 2.9                 24
June 30, 1992                    1.4                 4.3                 36
FY 93
December 31, 1992                1.5                 5.8                 48
June 30, 1993                    1.3                 7.1                 59
FY 94
December 31, 1993                1.3                 8.4                 69
June 30, 1994                    1.1                 9.5                 79
FT 95
December 31, 1994 1/             1.1                 10.6                88
June 30, 1995                    0.9                 11.5                95
FY 96
December 31, 1995 2/             0.6                 12.1               100
Notes: 1/ Expected date of project completion.
2/ Expected date of closing.



- 65 -
SECU  PfULATUI. HEN. mD WIITIU
ECTOAUL POLICY NE111
blmti                             Actione                             Related Flmaci
l. Em
To  increase cot reovery           MON to achieve recoveries           Oloburesm_   for NSA
throuO fee; als doetr             of 12X of recurret budget           Development Fund.
unnecesssry use of helth           by June U, 1996 (i.e.,
Care r       of *fr                  onthly revenues for June
srvice.                            199 tino  12 should be
equal or exceed 12X of
recurrent budget for
FY9/91). Recoveries
woulId rise to 16  of
recurrent expenditures by
June 30, 1992.
2. Use of Fees
To give facilitios                 MOH to Implement a program          Disbursements for Urban
Incentives to collect              with target rovenuo                 Civil Works.
foes.                              collection levels for
hospitals and clinics,
that would allow for
incroemntal funding of
Institutions which roech
or exceed their targets;
implementation to be
started by March 81, 1990,
and results of evaluation
to be discussed with World
Bank within 12 months of
this date.
S. HosOital Efficlehcy
To reduce wastage and               (a) MOM to bring to
Inefficiency In GOL                negotiations term  of
hospitals.                         reforence for Improving
hospital efficiency and
enhancing quality of
service through management
solutions as well as
adheronco to targets for
roesonable unit costa
(feeding; drug coste per
patlnt-day; drug cost per
out-petlent attendance;
average length of In-
patient stay); (b) MON to
complete the hospital
efficiency study by June
86, 1990; and (c) MOH to
Implement a phosed plan to
strengthen management and
achieve unit-cost targets
by April 1, 1991.



- 66 -
AMe 2
Po 2 et I
Obj ctives                         Actions                             Related Financins
4. Drug System Refdorm
To Improve efficiency and           (a) MON to complete study
oquity of MON drug supply          of efficiency and
syste.                             financing by Deceober 81,
1990; (b) MOH to discuss
th resulte of the abovo
study with IDA and
lmplement a reform program
by April 1, 1991; and (e)
MON to assume full
responslbility for drug
financing by April 1,
1M.
S. MOH-PHAL Relations
To give PHAL institutions          MOH to bring negotiations           Disburoements for Urban
adequate governmnt grant           draft ogreee"nt for MOH-            Civil Works.
support and allow them             PHAL cooperation, covering
reasonable autonomy, while         subvention levels and
ensuring that they provide         other benf fits guaranteed
reasonable standard of             to PHAL Institution (e.g.,
care, participate in               tad exemption status), as
national health programs,          well as list of PHAL
and carry out other normal         obligations for morvice
responsibilities,                  delivory, financial and
other reporting, minimum
staffing levels, etc.
Level of MOH support would
be related to performance
of PHAL institutions undor
such an ogrement. MOH-
PHAL memorandum of under-
standing to be finalized
by March 31, 1990.
6. MOH Manpower
To develop and implement            (a) MOM to bring to
an efficient, affordable           negotiations terms of
program for expanding,             reference and a timetable
enhancing, and retaining           for establishing Manpower
the skills of health               Department within the
personnel in Lesotho.              Ministry; (b) MOM to
establish and staff key
poest  of Deartment head
and manpower planning and
development officers by
December 31, 1989; and (c)
MOH to develop an optimal
staffing pattern and
alternative scenarios for
manpower expansion/
redeployment and retention
by December 31, 1990.



- 67 -
ActIonn                           Related Financing
Ob eti vs
7. Governmnt-Private Health Provider Cooperation
To  _eere that Baotho              (a) MMt to propo..  at            Disbursements for Urban
detors, nuros  are fully          negotiations an effective          Civil Works.
utilized for bese it of           bonding arrangement for
Leeotho health system, by        bhelth personnel trained
ldentifying  odalities for        on govt. scholarship and a
rotaining the" h.Ith              plan for Inerea ing
personnel In Governmet            utilization of privet.
service and bringing              doctors/nurses in govt.
private oractitioners Into        hospitals; and (b) MON to
Government Institutions,           implement plan for private
(e.g. a progrm for                doctors/nurses by March
private doctors to work           31, 1990.
part-tim In public health
facilities.)



- 68 -
AM= 3
Table 1
SZCOND POPMLATION.    ITH. AND  T        OTIN PROJCT
POPULATION PROJ      9OSs
NIDDLE  ICOU ns-SARARAN Co NTsI
Standard          Rapid fertility        Slow fertility
Population        Projection             decline               decline
(millions)
Country         mid-1985       2000      2050        2000      2050        2000      2050
Lesotho            1.5          2.2       4.9         2.0       3.5         2.3       6.0
Senegal            6.6         10.1      23.3         9.2      16.3        10.3      28.8
Mauritania          1.7         2.6       6.3         2.4       4.5         2.6       7.8
Liberia            2.2          3.5       8.5         3.1       5.8         3.6      10.7
Zambia             6.7         11.0      26.8         9.8      18.0        11.4      33.7
Cote d'Ivoire    10.3          17.3      3's.4       16.0      28.5        17.3      45.6
Zimbabwe           8.5         14.3      33.1        12.8      23.6        15.1      42.7
Botswana           1.1          1.8       3.8         1.5       2.7         1.8       4.8
Swaziland          0.8          1.2       2.9         1.1       2.1         1.3       3.7
Mauritius           1.0          1.3      1.8         1.3       1.7         1.3       1.9
Nigeria           99.7        162.7    411.5        146.6    279.7        167.3    519.1
Cameroon          10.2         16.7      41.7        15.7      30.4        17.2      53.2
Congo PR           1.9          3.4       7.8         3.0       5.3         3.4      10.0
Source: World Bank Policy Study: Population Growth and Policies in Sub-Saharan Africa
(1986)



-69 -
Table 2
SUCOD POPMATION. HELT  AM NUTIMN               CT
POPULATIO BY RSA C 19864
HSA                   Total
Population       Males     Females
BERE.A                    111484        53813       57671
BUTHA BUTHE                78079        37688       40391
LERIBE                    169594        81862       87732
MAFETENG                  136991        66125       70866
MALUTI                     66804        32246       34558
MAMOHAU                    38009        18347       19662
MOHALE'S HOEK             123463        59595       63868
MOKHOTLONG                 89146        43030       46116
QE II                    205352         99122      106230
QACHA'S NEK               68641         33133       35508
QUTHING                   112570        54337       58233
SCOTT                    142867         68961       73906
SEBOCHE                   78712         37994       40718
SEMONGKONG                40020         19317       20703
ST. JAMES                 56736         27386       29350
ST. JOSEPHS               75273         36334       38939
TEBELLONG                 40178         19394       20784
THABA TSEKA               35847         17303       18544
-----------------------------------------------------------
TOTAL                1669766        805987      863779
Note: The official total population is given as 1577600.
The figure excludes persons counted as "elesewhere"
during the census. It is felt that for HSA populations,
these figures need to be included to show the exact
population to be served.
Source: Population Census (1986), Bureau of Statistics.



- 70 -
Table 3
SEC=  POtUL&TION.  EATH. MM NUTRITION PROJECT
TO LEADI  CAD=tS 0f OUTPATIENT NSIDITTa
MM=  COUNTRY  (1987)
Diseases                                 Number of              Pereentage
Reported Patients              (X)
1. Respiratory diseases                     122405                  19.7
2. Genitourinary diseases                    84371                  13.6
3. Digestive diseases                        70189                  11.3
4. Skin, subcutaneous tissue diseases        61158                   9.8
5. Maternal conditions                       50577                   8.1
6. Injuries, accidents                       28393                   4.6
7. Musculoskeletal disease                   26376                   4.2
8. Cardiovascular disease                    22416                   3.6
9. Nervous system diseases                   22050                   3.5
10.Dental                                    12076                   1.9
Others                                      122316                  19.7
-----------------------------------------------------------------__----------__----
Total                                       622327                 100.0
Source: Health Statistics Unit, Ministry of Health



LESOTHO
SECOND POPULATION, HEALTH AND NUTRITION PROJECT
MnIbsty of Halth Organization (Adopted by MOH In 19")
- - - - - - -            - - -         ~e
I                 _ 
W4OkUNIEF     ",LM  V          afs
II m          Lad 
Lmc4ho                                                                                        #f
. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IIiCsu                                         TdaiU*.               L'S
| | | ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~d wom I rA
F-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
_ _ _ ~~~~~~~~~~~I FCIQ- 
q~~~~~ I tI  Pl     
Ouggr    o m of                                                     atIm~    id* *
Hkzlqh II  I4oA  H   DEds  I  Bu l
M=         l      |                                                               6 c Dl@_ Ckl  m w T 
Soui~  MON 8. P               l                     n            P     CAM
|~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~lkm *af _49 a 
S,,,,: M O.H.                                                                                                         r 
,>
tlX
41t



LESOTHO
SECOND POPULATION, HFALTH, AND NUTRITION PROJECT
HEALTH FACILITIES BY DrSTRICT - LESOTHO (19CUM
District           Population          Hospitals                 Hoeath Centers                               hId
Rural         Urban        Total        Hoop.   H/c .oe           Tot i
Ptutha  uthon        1991                    2              7            1             I           19t          is           *
Leribo               256000                  2             17            8            21           171          e            141
Boese                19480                   2             18            1            14           2U            S           274
maseru               8112U                   6             23            S            28           t0           24           ON
Mafeteng             1956U                   1             1C            9            1C           122          55           18
Mobaleohoek          16449                   1             12            1            11            64          82            *
Quthing              1194U                   1              7            0             7             U          U            154
Qachasnoxk             64                    2              S            *             9           182          2t           157
Moihotlong           747                     1                          1             9            *5                        7
Thaba Tooke          1t4104                  2             13            *            18          1d           27           18
Lesotho             1677600                 21            123            12          186          192l         82           2242
Note:   The figures for health centers excludes thoso *nned by non-professionals (.p. nurse-slds and dispescfc).
Source: Health Statistics Unit, Ministry of Health



LESnTHO
SECOMN POPULATION, HEALTH, AND NUTRITION PROJECT
HEALTH PERSONNEL BY DISTRICT - LESOTHO (I9OU1
District       Population          Medical Doctors                     Nursing Personnel             Envlreaeter l
Govt. PHAL Private  Total        N/C   P/H/N   R/N   N/A    Total       H/I  H/A
Buth- 8uthe    loo               8    2        1     6         6      1      23       47     77        9      J
Lbribe         26800C            8    2        8     S         9      2      54       46    111        1      4
Bores         1946811            4    S        2    14         8      1      65       e6    154       1       1
Maseru         31126             2   18       16    76        19      7    885       212   657         a     14
MIfteng        19S6              8    S       6      9         a      1      26              ':        1      4
Mohaleshoek    16441             8    t        2     6         6      1      24       21     51        1      6
Quthing        11641             8    a        1     4         6      1      12       1      88        1      a 
w
Qachasnek       64 1             2    1       t      8         2      1      84       12     49        *      1
Mokhotlong      74711            8    t        a     8         4      1      81       21     57        1      a
Thab  Tsoka    15411             1    2       *      8         I      1      28      42      79        5      1
Lesotho       167761            67   28       35   126        76    17    682    6U7   1226           12     45
Notes:  (1) A total for nurse-assistnt. Include nnrolled nurse.
(2) Distribution of nurses and nurs.-ssistants by district In derived from the 1968 proporti.on.
(3) N/C (nurse clinicians); P/H/N (public health nurs); R/N (registered nurse);
N/A (nurse assistant.); H/I (health inspectors); and H/A (health assistant.).
Source: Health Statistics Unit, Ministry of Health.



- 74 -
ANNEX 4
Table 3
LISODTh
SECOND POPULATION. HEALTH. AND NUTRITION PROJECT
MOB STAFFING SITUATION (1988)
A.  Distribution of Established Posts by Categor-
= ==s======m=====  == ====s=zs=====
Category                Number of    Percentage
Fosts           (Z)
--------------------------------------------------
Nursing                      1129          48.3
Ancillary                     545          23.3
Paramedical & Technical       364          15.6
Clerical                      114           4.9
Medical                        97           4.1
Management/Executive           90           3.8
(Subtotal)                2339         100.0
Students                      242
------.-------------------------------------------
TOTAL                        2581
Notes: 1/ Includes ward attendants.
2/ Includes all administrative staff grade
and below.
B. Distribution of Established Posts by Service Level
555s= S==============S=====5===_==,-=S= =====mSSa=m
Level of Service        Number of    Percentage
Posts           (%)
Districts                    1220          52.2
QE II Hospital                626          26.8
MOH Headquarters              306           13.1
Special Hospitals             187           8.0
(Subtotal)                2339         100.0
Students                      242
--------------------------------------------------
TOTAL                        2581
======5=5=5===.==================
Source: Manpower Management Report (Ministry of Health),
November 1988.



- 75 -
ANNEM 4
Table 4
LESOTHO
SECOND POPULATION. HEALTY AND NUTRITION PROJECT
HOSPITAL UTILIZATION (1985)
Average
Name of Hospital       Population    Beds   Occupancy   Length of          Outpatient
(HSA)         Served               Rate (Z)   Stay (days)    Per Year
BEREA                      111484        77       130          9             38648
BUTHA BUTHE                 78079        78        94          7             52516
LERIBE                     169594       120       200         10             76254
MAFETENG                   136991       106        110         7             34144
MALUTI*                     f.' 804     120         70        10             24359
MAMOHAU*                    3  J9        84         37        12               5240
MOHALE'S HOEK              1=.463        61        130         8             48974
MOKHOTLONG                  89146        91        120         9             44918
PARAY*                      35847        83        30         15             10986
QE II (MASERU)             206352       450       125          9            137861
QACHA'S NEK                 68641        92        95          9             37540
QUTHING                    112570       n.a.       110         8             53413
SCOTT (MORIJA)*            142867       129        75         10             47705
SEBOCHE*                    78712       108        60         12             14123
SEMONGKONG*                 40020        20        51          6             10016
ST. JAMES (MANTSONYANE)*  56736          58        60          8              7899
ST. JOSEPH (ROMA)*          75273       139        45         12             21744
TEBELLONG*                  40178        39        75         15             20529
TOTAL                     1670766                                           686869
Notes: 1/ Population data (1986) is obtained from MOH Health Statistics Unit and
allows some underreporting.
21 * indicates PHAL hospitals.
Source: "Manpower Training Plan for Specified Manpower Cadres", prepared by NHTC,
Ministry of Health (May, 1988).



- 76 -
Table 1
LESOTHO
SECOIID POPMATIOK. IALTH. MAD NUTRITION PROJZ=
HEALTH IENITURZ IMDICATORS:
MIDDLE rNCOSE MM-SAHARAN COUNTRIES (1986)
Country                       Public Health Expenditure
____________________________
(Z of Gov't)   (Z cf GNP)
Lesotho                                6.9             1.7
Senegal   (1981)                       4.3            1.3
Liberia                                5.7             1.5
Zambia                                 7.2            2.8
Nigeria   (1981)                       6.1            2 4
Zimbabwe                               6.2            2.2
Cameroon                               5.1             1.1
Cote d'Ivoire                          4.0             1.2
Botswana                               5.0            2.5
Sub-Saharan Africa                     5.2            1.1
Middle-income oil importers            4.7             1.3
(Sub-Saharan Africa)
Source: World Development Report, 1988



LESOTHO
SECOND POPULATION. HEALTH, AND NUTRITION PROJECT
HEALTH SECTOR EXPENDITURES (1986)
('000 maloti)
Program/Organization       MOH        Other         PHAL       NGO    Foreign   Others   Total
Ministries                    (Aid/Private)
HQ Administration                   1530                                83       70                 1683
National Referral Hospital          8880                                                            8880
Services Abroad                      402                                                  22024    22426
General Hospitals                   6316          1          3131       125      10                 9583
Long-stay Hospitals                                                    567                           567
Mental Hospital                      519                                                              519
Leprosy                              282                                                             282
PHC General                         1168                       22                                   1190
HC with Nursing Staff                512         69           247                73                  901
Health Post with VHWs only                                                                              0
Communicable Disease Control                                             12      17                    29
Sanitation Programs                                             5                                      5
Health Education Programs            107        712             2                 4                  825
Occupational Health Programs                                            126      15                   141
Immunization                          73                                         50                  123
Family Planning                                                                 585                  585
VHW Training                                                            38                            38
Specialist Programs                                           314                18                  332
Training Other Health Staff          584                      140                                    724
Medical Research                      24                                                               24
Other Services                                                                                         0
Transfers                            541                                58      155                  754
Private Practitioners                                                    15                9594     9609
Urban Water Supplies                            251                             177                 1420
Rural Water Supplies                           1089                                                  1089
Health Sector Total                20938       3122          3861      1024    1174       31618    61737
Note:   Recurrent expenditure in all the health sectors.                                                        Z
Source: Health Financing Study (EEC/World Bank), February 1988                                               " >



- 78 -
Tabl- 3
LESOTHO
SECOND POPULATION, HEALTH. AND NUTRITION PROJECT
MINISTRY OF HEALTH RECURRENT AND CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (1981182-1987188)
(in current Maloti milliona)
A. MOB R-current BudzetftI-enditure
GOL         MOH Planned            MOH Actual
Budget      Budget                 Expenditure
Year              (1)           (2)     (2)/(1)        (3)       (3)/(1)
1981/82          125.8          7.8       6.2%         9.2        7.3%
1982/83          146.8         8.4        5.7%        10.1        6.9%
1983/84          158.6         8.7        5.5%        14.5        9.1%
1984/85          193.0         9.4        4.9%        12.8        6.6%
1985/86         204.3          9.9        4.8%        17.9        8.8%
1986/87         271.1         14.1        5.2%        2J.3        7.9%
1987/88         274.9         21.0        7.6%        20.0        7.3Z
1988/89          n.a.         25.4
Average 81-88   196.4          11.3       5.7%        15.1        7.7%
B. MOH Captial Budftet/Expenditure
GOL         MOH Planned             MOH Actual
Year            Budget      Budget                  Expenditure
(4)          (5)       (5)/(4)        (6)       (6)/(4)
J981/82          167.5         5.0        3.0%          1.5        0.9%
1982/83          142.2         3.3        2.3%          1.5        1.1%
1983/84          179.2          3.5       2.0%          1.1        0.6%
1984/85          157.1          1.3       0.8%          1.2        0.8%
1985/86          197.4          3.8       1.9%          2.3        1.2;
1986/87          197.9         5.2        2.6%          i.6        0.8%
1987/88          291.9         5.8        7.0%          5.6        1.9%
1988/89          160.5          8.6       5.4%
Average 81-88       190.0          4.0        2.8%          2.1       1.0%
Sources: 1/ MOH Planned Recurrent Budgets are based on the data from the
Ministry of Finance.
2/ MOH Actual Recurrent Expenditures are based on the data from
the Ministry of Health.
3/ The data on Capital Budget/Expenditure are derived from GOL
capital account statements.



- 79 -
AMNE 5
Table 4
LESOTNO
SECOND POPULATION, HELTH. AND NUTRMTION PROJECT
NMN COST    R
(9000 Maloti)
Actual       Actual       Percentage
Year               Revenue    Expenditure           (X)
Old Fees
1980/81             499           7909          6.3
1981/82              336          9156          3.7
1982/83              702         10078          7.0
1983/84              775         12620          6.1
1984/85             874          13250          6.6
1985/86             969          17717          5.5
1986/87             1209         20941          5.8
Revised Fees
1988/89  1/        3119          25379         12.3
Note: 1/ Estimated.
Source: Health Financing Study (EEC/World Bank), February 1988.



- 80 -
Table 5
LE,O
SICOND POPULATION. MUTH. AND NUTRITION FED!u&&
PATIDET FES AND CHAICES
(La Maloti)
ministry of Health Facilitiesa
Facilities                Outpatient     Inp-tient    Maternity
Consultation    Day-fee      Delivery
(Adult)  (Child)   (Basic)    (Daily Rate)
----------------------------------------------------------------__
Old Fee Schedule 1/      1.0     0.5        0.5          3.0
Revised Fee Schedule 2/
(Effective July 1, 1988)
Health Center          2.0      1.0      2.0/1.0 *      6.0
District Hospital      3.0       1.5     2.0/1.0        6.0
QEII Hospital          3.0      1.5      2.0/1.0        6.0
Referrals from HC       1.0     0.5
Referrals to RSA       M50.0 deposit
for initial
visit.
Note:   M 2.0 is charged for first 7 days and M 1.0 afterwards.
Sources: 1, Health Financing Study (EEC/World Bank), February 1988.
2/ Lesotho Government Gazette Vol. XXXIII No. 39, June 1988.
PHAL Hospitales
Name of Hospital /1       Outpatient     Inpatient    Maternity
Consultation    Day-fee      Delivery
(Adult)  (Child)   (Basic)    (Daily Rate)
----------------------------------------------------------------__
Maluti                   5.0     S v     4.0/12.0 **    47.0
Scott                   3.5      3.5        1.1          30.0
Roma                    4.0      4.0        3.5          35.0
Paray                   3.0      2.5        2.6          15.0
Semongkong              3.0      n.a.       2.5          15.0
Mantsonyane              2.5      1.8       1.2          10.0
Sebouche                3.0      2.5    0.8/3.0 **       10.0
Notes: 1/ Data on Tebellong and Ma Mohau hospitals not available.
2/ The two figures of Maluti and Seboche hospitals (**)
indicate that these fees were raised during 1980-85.
Fee history data on other PHAL hospitals not available.
Source: Health Financing Study (EEC/World Bank), February 1988.



- 81 -
Part 1(a)
SECOND POPLATION. ="?H. AND NUTRITIONR
PDENTATIONS
RURA HEALTH SMRVCES
PtOJECT    M-        PYn       PY2       PYS       PY4       PYS
YEAR       PROJECT
Activitl.s(  uarter)                                   1 2 8 4  1 2 3 4  1 2 8 4  1 2 5 4  1 2 3 4  1 2 8  4
A. RURAL CLINICS
- Clinics upgrading                                                xxrx xxxxxxxx
- Technical assistance                                             xxxx xxxxxxxx
B. PHC SUPPORT SERVICES
1. PHC Mgt, and Supervision
- Upgrading of training                                       xxxxxxxx xx
facilities
- OversOa3 training (PlN tutors)                              xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx
- Local training (PHN)                                                             xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx
2. Upgrading of Maintenanco COpDcity
- Local training (technical)                                     x         x
- Local training (basic)                                          x         x
- Supervision by mint, advisor                                xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx
3. Drug Supply to Clinic.
- Financial support for drugs                                 xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx
- Drug delivery to clinics                                    xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx
- Implementation of drug mgt.                                    xxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx
program
- Drug system consultant                                                     xx
C. HSA DEVELOPMENT FUND
- Establishment of Reviow                                        xx
Coittee
- Submission of micro-project                                      xxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx
proposals (HSA)/Approval &
fund allocation (MOH)
- Implementation of micro-projects                                      xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx



- 82 -
ANN= 6
Part 1(b)
LDETATION SCHEDULE
GUAM HEALTH SERVCES
PROJECT   PRE-      PY1       PY2       PYs       PY4      PYS
YEAR      PROJECT
Activities (Quarter)                                 1 2 * 4  1 2 5 4  1 2 3 4  1 2 5 4  1 2 3 4  1 2 3 4
A. FILTER CLINICS
- Clinics D-eign                                       xxxx
- Tender                                                     xx
- Construction                                                 xxxxxx xxxxxx
B. UPGRADING OF QE II HOSPITAL
1. Physical Infrastructure
- Design                                                xx
- Tonder                                                  x x
- Construction                                                xxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx
2. Equipment
- SpecificatVons                                       xxxx
- Tender                                                     xx
- Delivery (staged)                                            xxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx
3. Management
- Senior advisor                                            xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx
- Maintenance advisor                                        xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx
- Nursing advisor                                                xxxx xxxxxxxx xxxx
- ST consultants (staged)                                        xxxx xxWixxxx  xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx
4. Training
- Local training (top/middle ogre.)                              xxxx xx
- In-service training                                            xxxx xxxxxxxx
(maintenance staff: staged)
- Overrnse  training                                             x
- Other clinical training                                             xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx
5. Studies
- Referral hospital study                                                                 xxxx



- 83-
ARME 6
Part l(c)
INPLDII ATIO         C
FAMILY P
PROJECT   PRE-      PY1       PY2       PYs       PY4      PYS
YEAR      PROJECT
Activitios (Quarter)                                 1 2 3 4  1 2 3 4  1 2 3 4  1 2 3 4  1 2 3 4  1 2 3 4
A. FAMILY PLANNING
1. FP Training
a) Surgical Skills:
- Oversoas training (MD minilap)                                    x
- VSC advisor                                                            x
- Local training (MD minilap)                                             xxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx
b) FP General:
- Nurse pro-service trn. advisor                                          x
- Local training (nurse tutors)                                           x
- Local training                                                 x         x
(HSA-basod nurse trainers)
- Local training (nurses)                                                   x         x        x
2. Co.munity Outreach
- CBDo advisor                                                   x
- Local training (CBDs)                                           xxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx
- Local training (VHWo/TBAa)                                 xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx
S. Population Policy Dov-lopiont
- FP mgt advi;or                                                      x
- Local training (central ogre.)                                      x
- Workshop (policy makors)                                          x        x          x
4. Youth Counselling (YC)
- Construction of YC centers                                 xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx
- YC advisor                                                             x
- Local training                                                         xx
- Youth counselling                                                        xxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx
E. Contraceptive SupplI ie                                     xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx
S. Evaluation
- Base survey                                                xx
- Mid-term ovaluation                                                                 xx
- Final *valustion                                                                                         xx
(by evaluation experts)



- 84 -
AM= 6
Part 1 (d)
IHPLDI3ATION
FM AND NTRma
PROJECT   PIE-      PYl       PYn      PRY        PW4      PYb
YEAlR     PROJECT
Activitiee (Quarter)                                 1 2 t 4  1 2 * 4  1 ? *    4  1 2 5 4  1 2 5 4  1 2 3 4
A. FOOD AiD NUTRITION
1. Training
- Nutrition troining advisor                                       x
- Overseas training                                         xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx
- Local training                                                   xx        xx
(nutrition seats.)
2. CredIt for Womn's Groups
- Loan arrang ment with LADB                                x
- Purchase of hammer mills                                  x         x         x         x         x
- Hammer mills operation                                    xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx
- Operational training                                           xxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx
3. Institutional Development
- Creation of nutritionists                              x
"osto (HOH)
- MOA nutritionist secondment                               xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx
- Staff on-the-job training                                 xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx
(by MOA nutritionist)
4. Evaluation
- Mid-term evaluation                                                                  xx
- Final evaluation                                                                                        xx



- 85 -
A1U 6
Part I ()
DEPLDEK3IATION   SCIIDULZ
DISAS 
PROJECT   PRE-      PY1       PY2       PY5       PY4       PY6
YEA       PROJECT
Activities (Querter)                                 12 * 4  12 8 4  1 2 5 4  1 2 8 4  12 8 4  12 S 4
A. TUIERCULOSIS CONTROL
1. Druas Supply                                                xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx
2. TB Control et HSA Level
- Health osots. redeployment                                   x
- Housing construction                                           xxxx xxxxxxxx xxxx
- Overseas training                                                 x         x         x         x
(health aeate.)
- Local training (health seats.)                                  x         x
- Local traininj (HSA-boooda)                                    KKKK xxxxxxx xKKKKKKK Kxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx
- IEC Activities                                             xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx
3. TB Prograr Manageent
- TO advisor                                                   xxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx
- Overosea  training                                                                   xx
- IUATLD eonitoring                                          xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx
- Annual meeting                                                          x         x         x        x
- National workshop                                                    x
4. Studies
- Multi-drug SAC                                                                       xx xxxxxxxx xxxxxx
- TB survey                                                                          xx
- Drug sensitivity survey                                                                    xx
S. Financial Support for PHAL                                  xxxxxxxx
B. STD/AIAS CONTROL
1. Service Delivery
- STD clinics remodeling                                     xxxx
- STD advisor                                                xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx
- ST consultants                                             xxx
- Overseas training (doctors)                                xxxxxxxx
- Partner notification A                                     xxxxxxxx           xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx KKKKKKKK xxxxxxxx
counselling:                                                ---- phase         ---------phase 2--------
* regional attachment
* local training
- Workshop                                                                        x        x          x
2. Laoratry nth n
- Overseas training                                          x
- Lob. equipment (stagod)                                    xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx  xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx
3. Monitoring A Operational Research
- ST consultants (staged)                                        xxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx
- Operational research (staged):                                 xxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxKxxxx xxxxxxxx
a STD patient mgt.
* High-risk groups



- 86 -
AM=EX 6
Part I(f)
Page 1 of 3
DIlPlDKN&TIOON SCRDULII
INSTITOIAL DEVELOPiET
PROJECT   PRE-      PY1       PY2       PYJ       PY4       PYS
YEAR      PROJECT
Activities (Quarter)                                  1 2 8 4  1 2 8 4  1 2 8 4  1 2 3 4  1 2 3 4  1 2 3 4
A. MOH MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS SUPPORT
1. Financial MUnagnoent
a) Decentralization:
- Financial advisor                                ---------------xx XXXXXx
- Workshop (MON ugra.)                                             x
b) Skilla Upgrading:
- Overseas training                                             x
- Local training                                                  x
- Staff on-the-job training                                             xxxx
(by computer expert)
2. Health Planning
a) HPSU Rationalization:
- Organization A Mgt. advisor                                    x   x
b) Skills Upgrading:
-Staff on-the-job training                                           x
(by fin, planning *dvisor)
- Overseas training                                                    xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx
- Local training                                                    xx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx
c) Decentralized Planning:
- HSA planning workshop                                            x         x         x       x        x
- Annual NSA visits                                               x      x         x         x        x
3. Health Information
a) HSU Rationalization:
- Information system. advisor                                x
b) Skills Upgrading:
- Staff on-the-job training                                  xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx
(by computer prograw"r)
- Overseas trsining                                          xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx
- Local training                                              x
c) Improving Quality of Raw Data:
- Local training (NCn)                                       xx
- Annual HSA visits                                              x         x        x         x         x
Note: 1/  The contract of Financial Advisor supported by the first project (---) continuoe  until
June, 1999.



- 87 -
AJU   6
Part 1 (f
Pae. 2 of 3
nmDEETA10O SCf3DUL3
InITUTIOLh
PROJECT   PRE-      PY1       PY2      PYS       PY4       PYS
YEAR      PROJECT
Activitios (Quarter)                                1 2 8 4  1 2 8 4  1 2 8 4  1 2 8 4  1 2 3 4  1 2 3 4
4. Manpower Planning & Development
a) Manpowor Development:
- Staff recrultment                                   xxxx
- Manpower advisor                                          xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx
- Mid/long-term manpower                                    xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx
planning
b) Personnel MIS:
- ST consultant                                             xxxx
- Personnel database dovt.                                  xxxx
- Personnel manual devt.                                        Xxxx xxxx
- District visits                                                                            xx        xx
c) Skills Upgrading:
- Internship                                                xxxx
5. District/HSA Mgt. Str-ngth-nins
- Recruitment of DHSA                                    xx
- Local training (DHSA)                                     xx       x         x         x        x
- Local/ovorseas training                                   x        x
(computer operator)
- District mgt. workshop                                              x         x         x        x
- Organization dev. workshop (staged)                                 xxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx
S. IEC
a) Materials Production A Distribution:                      xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx
b) Devt. of Now Communication Channels:
- Constrs5ctlon of audio prod. studio                             xx xx
- Radio drama/folk media advisors                                    xxxx      xxxx      xxxx     xxx
c) Dovt. of Health Education:
- IEC Curriculum advisor                                                  xx       xx        xx        xx
d) Training:
- Staff on-the-job training                                 xx  x    x  x      x   x    x   x    x   x
(by IEC mgt. edvisor)
- Overseas training (staged)                                         xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx
- Local training (stagod)                                       xxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xrxxxxxx



- 88 -
ANNEX 6
Part 1(f)
Pae. 3 of 3
IPLIMATIO
INISTITUXTIONALD LO
PROJECT   PRE-      PY1       PY2       PYJ       PY4      PYC
YEAR      PROJECT
Activitie  (Quarter)                                 1 2 5 4  1 2 8 4  1 2 8 4  1 2 S 4  1 2 * 4  1 2 3 4
B. NATIONAL HEALTH TRAIN;NC CENTER
1. Infres,ructure
- Construction of staff house                               xxxxxxxx xxxx
- Accoss road improv m nt                                   xxx
- Library expansion                                              xxxx xxxx
2. Equipment A Supplie-
- Housing furniture                                                        xxxx
- Library furniture                                                        xxxx
- Teaching equipment/books (staged)                         xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx
3. Instructors
- Advisor to NHTC Director                                  xxxxxxxx
- General scionce instructor                                xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx
- Course aecreditation                                           x         x        x         x
4. Foliowships
- Overseas training (gen.sci.)                              xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx
- Local training (MLS)                                             xx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx
6. Continuing Education
- Staff recruitmnt                                          xx
- Financial support                                         xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx
C. PROJECT MANAGEMENT
1. Appraisal                                             x
2. Negotiation                                            x
3. Board Presentation                                      x
4. Project Impl*mntation
- PMU staff recruitment                                  xx
- Project mgt. advisor                                    x xxxxx                  x
- Launch workshop                                           x
- Implemntation                                             xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx
- Mid-term evaluation                                                              x
- Final evaluation                                                                                         x



- 89 -                    ANNEX 6
Part 2(a)
Page 1 of 2
LESOTHO
SECOND POPULATION. HELTH. AND NUTRITION PROJECT
RUL   HATH SUVICES
Rural Health ClUnicas Estioated Costs for UpgradLns
Clinic        Civil Work   Furniture    Equipment           Total
1.   THABA TSOE'J       70,600       2,700        28,000         101,300
2.   PHAMONG           105,790       6,000        11,000         122,790
3.   HA SENG            82,580       3,500        28,000         114,080
4.   SEKAMENG          160,830      11,400        11,000         183,230
5.   LIPHIRING          72,840       3,500        11,000          87,340
6.   TSATSANE           42,170         800        11,000          53,970
7.   LINAKENG          115,600       7,900        11,000         134,500
8.   HA MOKOTO          43,960          800       11,000          55,760
9.   REBANENG 1/       200,050      11,400        28,000         239,450
10.  TLANYAKU          107,690       3,500        11,000         122,190
11. MAPHOLANENG        110,910       8,700        11,000         130,610
12.  BOIKETSISO         67,350       2,700        11,000          81,050
13.  HA SEETSA*         74,640       3,500        11,000          89,140
14.  HA PALAMA*        486,000       6,000        28,000         120,000
15.  MATEBENG           80,000       6,000        28,000         114,000
TOTAL          1,421,010       78,400       250,000       1,749,410
+ 1OZ          1,563,000       86,000       275,000       1,924,000
Notes:  1/  New construction
2/ * Survey Reports not available.
Source:     June 1988 Survey Reports, RCIP



- 90 -
ANNEX 6
Part 2(a)
RLral Health Clinics: Standard Plan For Facilities                                              Page 2 of 2
STANDARD PLAN FOR FACIUTIES:
:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
_    _       t                1~~~~~~~~~~~~ ENRMOE~  GATE  S PIT LATRINES
I   l  '                      ~~~~~        ~      ~      ~~~~2 CUNIC  6 GADE
3 FOOO STORE              7 STF HE
4 WAJTIG MOT ERS LOOGE  8 WArEQ TAW
RJQNISHED PLAN FOR CLINiC BUILDING:
i WAMNG        C4ci Stow        2
.. D3AMN              7 S=ORE                                  Notoo BCK)       I0 rn
2 OBSERVATION  HoWpo beci       2 ros
Chan             2 nos
;13  DELN9ERY   0    4 W                                                                      0\ 3 DELIVE17  DoNw BO         ",o
Efto" Coc
DISK~~~~~~                  St~~ool            noo
.  >   ,      \~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                   _       i    z ~~~~~~~~~~~~~4 WARD  4OW    Beds      2 nos
Coo, sto        I ro
/<\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4rr  Bav  =                                              _ I  I   rk z- 
Cho,rs          3 -Cs
Co Sloveu        *se
Scale  S.                                      sA'Ois-17                                                       ;".M             2st
JnciS  & orAd42 I



- 91 -
ANNU 6
Part 2(b)
LESOTHO
SECOND POPUIATION, HEALTH. AND NUTRITION PROJECT
RURAL HEALTH SERVICES
HSA Dyevloumet Fund
Backaround
Lesotho is divided into 19 Health Service Areas (HSA), with each
HSA having a hospital and a number (typically 5-10) of health centers
providing basic health care. To promote local-level planning for effective
health care delivery and identify needs of respective service areas, an HSA
planning exercise was undertaken by MOH in July - November 1988. Out of
the exercise emerged needs that were common (district management, primary
health care, etc.) and those that were unique (mortuaries, food bridges,
localized in-service training, etc.).
Some of the common needs are being addressed separately thtough
national programs of the Second Population, Health, and Nutrition Project.
The unique ones are to be addressed through establishment of HSA
Development Fund. It is estimated that an average of US$20,000 would be
allocated to each HSA over the project life, thas requiring US$380,000 for
19 HSAs.
Implementation Mechanism
1.    Every HSA will be allocated US$10,000 irrespective of the
population it serves. Thus US$190,000 will be allocated using
this formula. The remaining US$190,000 will be disbursed on a per
capita basis.
2.    HSAs will submit micro-project proposals to the MOH Planning Unit
for review, using a standard format covering project objectives,
actions, budget, and an implementation plan. Proposals will be
submitted by July for th. next budget year.
3.    An MOH committee made up of the Principal Secretary, Project
Manager, Heads of Department, and the PHAL Secretariat will review
the proposals and incorporate those acceptable on financial/
policy grounds into the annual MOH capital estimate, to be
approved by the Central Planning and Development Office.
4.    After approval, HSAs will be informed as to the amount available
to them.
5.    Expenditures for micro-projects will be incurred in the same
manner as other MOH capital items.



92 -
sacm. PWnWATI. IO      LTH . A A   NTITRC
WU  HEL1N IWCE
Fllts  COlmic:  Eatliostd Costs. Lav-".amd St.tI .
Eotimetd Cost. of Construction (Unit u Malotli)
(OW)         (unit cost/sP)            (tot,l)
Clinic Luldcilng
Uaearu South (now)                               S99                99                 499,99S
Vaputeoo (now)                                   t69                S4                 482,09
Likotoo (u       g) p grPi,2
Mnpoloong (upgrciinq)                            299                US                 169Dm
* Modifications to existing buildings                                                     29,4d
Accomaodation
Waiting mothors lodge (WML)                       *5                SJf                 66,dS
3-bedroom houso                                  109                m                   se,9O
2-bedroom houso                                   76                am                  e4,000
3-roomed fIat                                                      m0m                  64,9MO
Summary of Civil Works:
aseoru South        Likotso      Maosl-ng       lsputsoe       Total
Clinic Building                    4"                179            170           482           462
WML                                                                               6s             6s
3-bedroom house                                                                    09            39
2-bedroom house                   19                180           180            1SO          10
3-roomed flat                       64                64            64             64            64
Borohole                            10                10             --            10            10
TOTAL                              864               424           414            094         2,296
Note:    /  Includeo funds to be reallocated from Urban Sector Reorientation
Projoet (M 638,0016).
Accommodation:
A. Basic Clinic
(sqm)
1.  Primary waiting area                                          SO
2.  Pationts toilets                                                S
3. Recreation                                                       6
4. Records room                                                     6
5. Secondary waiting area                                          20
6.  Examination room  (5 off min.)                                 as
7.  Common nursos working aroe                                     26
S.  Store to serve 7                                               29
9.  Injection room                                                 10
10. Dressing room                                                  10
11. Dispensary                                                     20
12. General store                                                   8
13. Cleaner store                                                   2
14. Urine tosting, cubicles + wc                                  20
16. Doctor's office                                                16
16. Staff room                                                     15
17. Staff toilet                                                    2
18. Office for Public H alth Nurso                                 15
19. Night watchman                                                  2
Subtotal A                                                        284



- 93 -
B. Midwlfo-Obet.trlc Unit
(4)
2. Fle I   tag                                                   16
21. Dlivery roo                                                  1
22. Poet natal ward
28. Slulee room                                                   4
24.  C and shower                                                 4
26. Kitroom                                                       2
26. Kitche  and stor.                                             5
27. Linen room                                                    S
26. Office                                                       15
Subtotal B                                                      192
Total A + O                                                     us
Add for circulation, 18X                                         67
Gross area for clinic building                                  456
C. Other.
Add for Maputosos:
4-bed malo ward                                           26
4-bed fomal, ward                                         26
Add for Maseru South and Maputsoo Youth Counselling Center:
Counselling                                               1S
Service delivery                                          19
Waiting                                                   26
Staffing Plan for each clinic:
(number)
Primry care doctor                                                1
Nurse clinician                                                   2
Double qualified nurse                                            2
Nurso assistant                                                   1
Pharmacy tVchnlclan
Health assistant                                                  1
Clerk                                                             1
Ciesner                                                           1
Driver                                                            1
Nightwatchaan                                                     1
TOTAL                                                            12



- 94 -
ANUE 6
part 3(b)
LESOTHO
SECOND POPULATION. HLTH. AND NUTRITION   OJT
UREN HItALTI SEVICES
CE It lHialt Trelulna Proarin
1. Top Line and Middle Mana*ers
A series of evening classes, three times per week over thirty
weeks, will be organized by NHTC and will address such areas as: management
principles, accounting procedures, financial regulations, Public Service
regulations, inventory and stock control, performance monitoring. Classes
will include much self-learning and project assignments. A formal
certificate will be provided to successful candidates.
2. General ManaRement Training
Two-month management course will be provided for the Chief
Technical Officer of a suitable institution in Southern or Eastern Africa.
3. Technical Trainint for Maintenance
Four staff from the Maintenance Department will be seconded for 4
months each to different equipment manufacturing and assembly firms, in
order to become more proficient in monitoring the following equipment:
X-ray, operating and anaesthetic, laundry, autoclaves.
4. Other TraininR Programs
Formal and in-service training courses for nursing specialities,
radiography, pharmacy and other disciplines will be provided on the basis
of a Training Plan prepared by the hospital-based Training Officer in
conjunction with the Continuing Education Committee of NHTC and the
Manpower Development Division of MOH. The Training Plan would be submitted
to the IDA for approval prior to commencement of training.



OUEEN ELIZABETH 11 HOSPITAL                                        O           1
Proposed Orgenizatlon Chart
Secretary
~.emeet         uunmerot supportl                                           Matwdmof
Rectres                                iete
ahns  d  = X RUsr
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
|Heanth I    1  & Treyrd               Med
ChrticsMrtar
Notee.                                                                                            Switchboard'|lPhwltacy  9k   run  +
1 Proposed by the  orld Bank TemI
i February 1989.
2 To be reviewed by OEM Managemnt Team                 OTedic               Tranport |         Structu_ 
3.* The anv  ient  aso District Medical Officer
for Masru and Health Srvice Are Moager 
4. * The Technical Asatance Team wI consiet of                                 
-Management Advisor
-Maintenance Advisor
-P*awy. Advisor.                                                                                                                            o 



QUEEN ELIZABETH li HOSPITAL                                               OPTION 2
Proposed Organization Chart
| istry of Health ]
QUEEN EJLZASETH I HOSTAL
CI
medical                        Ewusewu
SWrenbtst                            -|                |
7achrwca       P A   yVc
TAc   A La M   |       TPdea Atr r                                           A               T_ 
_ . .t  a           _         et o __S
_AP" -                     S Ccs " b t k.. -   statistics 
Salrie                                              A *   lial       _        1               s      G               }      Y
Receivable                       wnications ~~~~~~~Prmewtard&
 Stores  L....~~~~~~~~~~~~..Jj ~~~PTteatde                                    owt
(Cos                                                                     CSSO/3 TSSU
Co| ntr onltf)r
ANcts lI
t Prposd =n  PEr vatet Stdy
br LI.eln-Osve Weslb|u|
2 *eat". StoIris 0,1&
n y1



- 97 -
Part 4 (a)
L119Th2 ~  ~      A11= 
S MD !POLASTl1lW. HiETh AD NUTUtION PROJECT
ID AnD NUTRITIO
Tarmeted Credit Schm  - Wamen'a Grouvg
Gentral
The Lesotho Agricultural Development Bank (LADB) has indicated its
willingness to participate in the Child Nutrition and Household Food
Security (CNHFS) Project in Qachas Nek and Quthing Districts by providing
credit to village women's organizations in these districts, which would be
interested in the purchase and operation of hammer mills for corn and
sorghum grinding. Assuming adequate technical and managerial support from
the Local Initiative Support Project (LISP) and CARE, the PHN II would
support activities of these women's groups by financing: (a) 501 of LADB
loan, i'hich would be used for the purchase of 20 mills over the five-year
period; and (b) logistical support (office space and other managerial,
technical and organizational support).
The consultant report on hammer mills (financed under PPF funds)
includes detailed information on proposed mill location, location of
women's groups in these areas, training needs, detailed equipment/
maintenance, mill house design specifications, estimated costs and profit
projections for selected sites, and sensitivity analysis tables using a
range of percentage capacity utilization figures. The summary of financial
viability below provides estimated figures for 1990, which might be
expected to increase by 10 per year.
Financial Viability of Hammer Hill Purchase and Operation
1. Capital and Start up Costs:
Approx. M 20,000 for Hippo 1/2 mill and Lister HR2 diesel engine
plus transport, installation, spare parts supply and service contract. The
women's groups will be responsible for construction of mill house
facilities.
2. Annual Fixed Costs:
H 13,000-14,000 including maintenance and repairs, staff,
licensing, finance charges (approx. 12% annual interest with repayment
period of 36-60 months and 3-6 month initial grace period) and
miscellaneous costs.
3. Daily Variable Costs:
H 38-41 including diesel fuel, oil, and transport costs.
4. Annual Profitability:
Estimates vary from M 4,000-12,000, depending on the area, women's
group, percentage of utilization capacity (50-80%), and price per kilo of
grain milled.



- 98 -
AMUEX 6
Part 4(b)
Pago 1 of 2
LESOTHO
SECOD POPMATIOI HEALTH. AND I        TIOJI PROJCT
FD AND NUTRITION
Senior MOM Nutritiond t - Draft Ter of Rference
General Description
The Senior Nutritionist in the Ministry of Health will assume
primary direct responsibility for all nutrition activities being undertaken by
the Ministry of Health, will liaise closely with other governmental and NGO
nutrition activities in the country, will represent nutrition concerns in the
MOH as a whole, and will devote particular attention to the CNHFS project in
Qachas Nek and Quthing Districts and the retraining of nutrition assistants to
work in the project.
Reportinl
The Senior Nutritionist will report to the Director, Family Health
Division, MOH and work in conjunction with the MCH staff of that division.
She also will work closely with MOA nutrition personnel and other government
officials whose work relates to nutrition. Finally, she will supervise and
interact closely with the nutrition project manager of the CNHFS Project in
Qachas Nek and Quthing.
Specific Responsibilities
1.    To assume direct responsibility of all MOH nutrition activities.
2.    To assume primary direct MOH responsibility for nutrition aspects
of the CNHFS Project. This will require frequent visits and
substantial time in Qachas Nek and Quthing Districts for the
duration of the project.
3.    To assume primary responsibility for the training of nutrition
assistants at NHTC.
4.    To receive growth monitoring and eveatually food consumption data
from the districts, orgarnize this data for s.urveillance purposes
arA for immediate incorporation into the qua&;erly Foot Security
Bulletin.
5.    To maintain close working relationships with nutrition-related
activity in the MOA and other ministries.
6.    To represent nutrition concerns in deliberations of the MOH, and
to represent the Ministry in nutrition-related discussions with
other ministries, NGOs and donors.



- 99 -
Part 4(b)
Page 2 of 2
Swnor WE01 tild Nutritio"St AClEFS Co-Project Manager)
Draft Term of Reference
General Descrlotiotn
The Senior Field Nutritionist would serve as senior nutrition
field officer and co-project manager of the CNIFS Project in Qachas Nek and
Quthing Districts.
Reportint
The Senior Field Nutritionist will report to the District Medical
officers in Qachas Nek and Quthing and to the Senior Nutritionist, Ministry of
Health. She and the other project managers (appointed from the staff of FNCO)
will assume responsibility for field operations of the CNFHS Project. The
Senior Field Nutritionist also will work closely with the expatriate Child
Nutrition Specialist assigned to the project by UNICEF, and with the staff of
the various ministries concerned with the project in the two districts.
Specific Responsibilities
1.    To assume managerial re:ponsibility for field operations of the
CNHFS project pertaining to child nutrition, primarily growth
monitoring and as,ociated nutrition education activities.
2.    To assume primary placement and proper utilization of weighing
scales, growth charts, and nutrition education materials.
3.    Working with the other project manager and the District Nutrition
Committees, to develop and revise as appropriate a phased schedule
to introduce villagers to the project.
4.    Working with the Child Nutrition Specialist, nutrition supervisors
and MCH personnel, to assure proper functioning of the growth
monitoring process with full and active participation o:$ mothers
and the communities involved.
5.    To assure smooth operation of a decision table of actions to be
undertaken in cases of growth faltering.
6.    To connect the growth monitoring of individual children with a
specific program of nutrition education follow-up and home visits,
and to help organize the broader dissemination of priority
nutrition messages.
7.    To work with other project personnel in survey work, determination
of suggested weaning food preparations, and other nutrition-
related activity connected w th the project.
8.    Working with the other project manager and the District Nutrition
Committees, to assure the linkage of nutritionally "at risk"
families with income generation opportunities.



- 100 -
ANNEX 6
Part 5(a)
LESOTHO
SECOND POPULATION. NEALTd. AND NUTRITION PROJECT
DISEASE CONTROL
STDIAIDS Control
Partner Notification and Counseling Schem
Backaround
Treatment of the sexual partner(s) of STD infected individuals is
central to STD prevention and control. Treatment of only the infected
tends to be inconsequential if they merely are to be reinfected by their
regular sexual partner(s). Moreover, treatment of the partners reduces the
likelihood of further transmission throughout the population.
Just as importantly, health information and counseling can be
provided to those individuals who present with STD and subsequently to
their partners. This is a self-selected, screened group at high risk for
STD and, by self-identification of high risk for HIV by virtue of their
sexual behavior. This self-identification of high risk individuals is an
ideal opportunity in which acquisition and transmission of STD, including
HIV in a one-on-one, non-judgmental, confidential setting. This may also
be a useful opportunity to provide other information on relevant topics,
such as family planning, to a sexually active group.
Description
STD patients would be counseled and information obtained on their
sexual partners. The partner would then be asked to present, if they did
not present, they would be lecated, and then treated and counseled. A
health or nurse assistant would do the counseling and locating of partners.
As more people are identified, located and treated, drug costs would rise
until the effect of the program lowers STD prevaler.ce in the country.
Methodology
1.    To conduct a study to determine the most effective approach or
approaches to partner notification, counseling, and health
education.
2.   To initiate pilot projects to evaluate effectiveness and
feasibility of a partner notification scheme in three health area
hospitals (Maseru QE II, Butha Buthe, and Mohales Hoek) plus two
health centers in each of the HSAs catchment. (Phase 1: two
years)
3.   To extend the scheme to additional 5 HSAs (Phase 2: three years)
and eventually to the remaining HSAs (Phase 3).



- 101 -
AN=SX 6
Part 5(b)
Page 1 of a
LISOISO
S&COND POPMLATION, UEALTR, AND NUTITIOI PROJCtS
DIS3AS CONT1L
STDIAIDS Control
Overational Research - Optimal STD Patient Mana_ement
BackRround
For therapeutic and surveillance purposes, disease should
diagnosed as precisely as possible. This allows for administration of
appropriate therapy -- not more and not less than needed -- and compilation
of accurate statistics with which to judge disease magnitude and the impact
of control measures.  Precise diagnosis, however, often entails laboratory
testing which, unfortunately, is sometimes too costly and impractical.
Syndromic approaches are frequently more cost-effective and more practical.
Epidemiologic and operational research projects are needed to delineate the
optimal mix of laboratory-based and syndromic approaches.
Currently, no STDs with the exception of syphilis are diagnosed by
laboratory tests and, with some exceptions. clinical diagnoses of STDs are
insufficiently precise to allow accurate diagnosis for secure treatment or
surveillance purposes. In addition, the lack of laboratory testing
precludes screening of asymptomatic or winimally symptomatic individluals
for STDs (with notable exception of an extensive antenatal clinic screening
program for syphilis).
Descriptior.
This scheme would be an ongoing epidemiologic and operatio,-al
research effort. Because of lack of diagnostic facilities, the resulting
treatment of individuals by the syndromic approach, i.e. treatment on the
basis of symptoms, as is currently practiced, is quite appropriate.
Studies of representative patients can, however, lead to estimates of
specific etiologies of disease syndromes which can be useful in guiding
subsequent therapeutic decisions and for surveillance purposes. These
studies do not necessarily involve sophisticated technology. In addition,
use of new technology or adaptation of old technology to unique situations
in Lesotho may prove uniquely useful, and moreover, may have implications
for programs elsewhere in the developing world.
The following are several examples of research topics and short-
term consultants would be engaged to develop appropriate protocols, manuals
and guidelines based on the research results.
1.    Secure definition of the contribution of gonorrhea vs.
nongonococcal urethritis to the clinical diagnosis of
gonorrhea in the male;



- 102 -
ABMKI 6
Part 5(b)
Page 2 of 3
2.    Secure definition of the contribution of Chlamydia
trachomatis to the etiology of nongonococcal urethritis, and
the prevalence of Chlamydia trachomatis in men with
gonorrhea;
3.    Prevalence of gonorrhea among women with the presenting
complaint of discharge or abdominal pain;
4.    Comparison of cervical vs. urethral cultures for the
diagnosis of gonorrhea;
5.    Contribution of trichomoniasis, bacterial vaginosis, and
candidiasis to the present complaint among women with
discharge;
6.    Assessment of the addition of routine third trimester or
peripartum testing for syphilis to diagnose syphilis
acquired during pregnancy, with the goal of
preventing/promptly treating cases of congenital syphilis;
7.    Assessment of the prevalence of hepatitis B and whether it
is transmitted primarily sexually vs. perimpartum vs. other;
8.    Potentially, randomized trials of treatments of selected
STDs to determine which regimens are most effective in
Lesotho, under the diagnostic conditions available; and
9.    Determination of rates of cervical cancer and PAP smear
abnormalities.



- 103 -
ANNEX 6
Part 5(b?
Page 3 of 3
Operational Research - Nigh Risk Client Stud,
Background
It is clear that a prevention and control program for STDs in
Lesotho would require that STDs among prostitutes and the clients be
diagnosed and treated. Not only are STD levels high in these groups, but
prostitutes and the clients are the most likely source of HIV.
Approaches to identify and treat them will be critical to STD
control. The most successful approach would be one based upon their needs.
Most prostitutes have little money and need to be free of STD to work
effectively. A program that capitalizes upon these two inclinations may
mot'.ate prostitutes to present for diagnosis and treatment, i.e., the
provision of easily accessible care at li.le or no cost.
Description
The scheme would provide fast, easy, non-judgmental and
confidential detection and treatment of STDs to prostitutes and the clients
on a voluntary basis. A pilot project would evaluate the feasibility of a
clinical team operating a model STD clinic in Maseru and other pilot areas
which would be open at convenient times to clients.
MethodoloU
1. To conduct a study to identify prostitutes and assess STD levels.
2. To initiate the pilot program.
3. Tc extend to other border areas, including at least Maseru, Maputosoe,
and Msfeterg.



- 104 -
ANNEX 6
Part 6(a)
Page 1 of 2
LESOTHO
SECOND POPULATION, HEALTH, AND NUTRITION PROJECT
INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPHINT
Director of MDE Health Manpower Department - Draft Termn of Reference
General Descriptioa
The Director of the Health Manpower Department would assume primary
responsibilities for accomplishing the following objectives in the areas of
health manpower planning and development as well as personnel management.
Overall Objectives:
1.   To develop and provide manpower at all levels of the national
health system.
Specific Objectives:
1.   To develop health manpower policies and ensure their
implementation.
2.   To ensure proper distribution and optimal utilization of
manpower.
3.   To maintain and update an inventory of health manpower and
ensure its development.
4.   To supervise and implement training programs and evaluate their
relevance and effectiveness.
5.   In conjunction with Management Teams at the District and Central
levels, and in close collaboration with the Health Planning and
statistics Unit, to develop and monitor the implementation of
systematic and realistic manpower plans covering staffing,
training and deployment needs of the MOH; and
6.   To support the implementation of these plans through the
development of appropriate policies and procedures for personnel
management.
Reporting
Reports directly to the Deputy Principal Secretary for
Management.
Specific Responsibilities
1.   To plan, budget and implement budget for the department on an
annual basis.



- 105 -
ANNZI 6
Part 6(al
Page 2 of 2
2.   To provide guidance and direction to the staff of the Divisions
with the Department in:
(a) the development, subsequent updating, and monitoring of the
implementation of health manpower plans and associated
training plans;
(b) the implementation and maintenance of a personnel
management information system and associated manpower
planning and training information systems;
(c) the development and maintenance of effective personnel
procedures; and
(d) the development and implementation of appropriate policies
and procedures for the management of MOH's manpower
development programs.
3.   To ensure that appropriate policies and procedures for human
resource management within MOH are developed and documented, and
staff are trained in their implementation.
4.   To develop induction programs for all new MOH staff.
5.   To provide regular manpower reports for presentation to the
Heads of Department including manpower distributions, workload
analyses, skill mixes, career structures, wastage, and progress
towards established manpower targets.
6.   To ensure that all manpower decisions are made within the
context of the established priorities and policies as reflected
in the manpower plan.
7.   To maintain close contact with PHAL, the MOH Nurse Training
schools, the Public Service Personnel and National Manpower
Development Secretariat in relation to manpower issues.
8.   To supervise the work of the staff of the Divisions with the
Health Manpower Department, requiring them to work together and
assist each other in the overall development of the human
resource management systems. Develop regular work plans with
each member of staff, monitor and evaluate progress, and provide
on-the-job training.
9.   To organize regular meetings of the Division Heads, ensuring
that relevant information is shared for .he effective
ins;egration of the manpower planning, training, and personnel
functions.



- 106 -
ANNJ 6
Part 6 (b)
Page 1 of 6
SECOND POPULATION.    LTHI. AND NUTRITION PROJCT
INSTITUTIONAL DKKLOT
MOB Operations Nanasment Division (OND) - Draft Term of Reference
The Ministry of Health (MOH) is a large and complex organization
which is in the process of implementing new objectives that require
strengthening of general management, improved and more problem-oriented
manpower development and strengthening of staff in the field. Because of
the great importance of health care to the Government of Lesotho, it is
critical that MOH is successful in implementing a variety of new efforts as
well as redirecting its current efforts.
The objectives of the new Operations Management Division would be
to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of MOH by helping the MOH top
management to identify and describe management-related problems and
facilitate their solution. As an MOH internal operations management group,
OMD would pay special attention to such factors as: a) strategy setting; b)
formulation and communication of objectives; c) staffing composition; d)
skills mix; e) management syacems and procedures; f) management style; and
g) organizational structure.
Several examples of tasks which would be performed by OMD are as
follows:
1.    To review organization and staffing of the Personnel Division and
recommend improvements in: a) processing personnel actions; b)
defining responsibilities within the division; and c) availability
of and access to personnel data.
2.    To define the need for personnel data and come up with a systems
design and an approach for implementation of a personnel
information system.
3.    To facilitate the implementation of a computerized personnel
information system.
4.    To facilitate the definition of a, specific process to be used in
annual work plan preparation and provide an effective tool for
implementation of the Fourth Five-Year Plan.
5.    To review and make recommendations for improvement of
administrative processes. This could include analysis of the
funotioning of the Registry, implementation of the existing stores
policy, proper functioning of the vehicle pool and other similar
administrative issues.



- 107 -
A=6
Part 6(b)
Page 2 of 6
6.    To undertake organizational analyses of various divisions and/or
sections to assist the managers in strengthening the functioning
of their unit to achieve current objectives.
7.    As a process facilitator, to design and monitor a process to
achieve decentralization of important functions to the districts.
8.    Through the District Ilealth Administrators, to facilitate the
general strengthening of the district organization, staffing, and
their general capability to implement MOH objectives in the
districts (e.g. strengthening of management, administrative,
planning and technical capabilities).
9.    To facilitate reorganizations when necessary and assist the
management in updating Schemes of Services and Establishment
Register, when necessary.
10.   To facilitate the streamlining of the financial system in the
ministry by:
(a)   Helping the MOH Financial Controller in the development of
District annual plans/budgets.
(b)   Developing/implementing a management control system to
monitor/evaluate/provide feedback, with respect to the
expenditure/revenue and staff performance positions of
operating units.
(c)   Integrating financial/personnel, epidemiological, and socio-
economic information.
(d)   Monitoring the capital and recurrent budget directly to
ensure consistency with the MOH objectives as stated in the
4th 5-year plan.
(e)   Streamlining the monthly submission of budgets and
developing a format that makes it easier for the managers to
monitor planned vs actual spending.
(f)   Developing and implementing a monthly department meeting
where the PS conducts a review of actual vs planned
expenditures.



- 108 -
AMU 6
Part 6(b)
Page 3 of 6
Read of NOR Operations lNlae"nt DLVIsion - Draft Tern of Feferece
General Descrlition
The Head of the Operations Management Division would plan, direct,
organize, and lead management studies and projects to improve efficiency
and effectiveness of MOH operations. (OMD is expected to conduct 4-6
management consulting projects a year, based on requests from MOH
managers.)
Reportin 
Reports to the Director of Hospital Services and Health Centers.
Specific Responsibilities
1.    As a project manager, to assume responsibility for the planning
and successful execution of the management development project.
He/she would lay out the approach, supervise, and participate
heavily in the fact finding, analysis, definition of problems,
formulation of alternatives, evaluation of solutions and their
implications, development of recommendations, preparation and
presentation of the findings, and the rendering of advice and
assistance to clients in implementation.
2.    To assume responsibility for training in management development
projects. He/she is expected to assist the divisions of the
Health Manpower Department, particularly in the conduct of
training in management, staff development, and personnel
administration.
3.    To establish close working relationships with NHTC, MOH and PHAL
Nurse Training Schools, and with the National Manpower Development
Secretariat, in order to ensure that all studies and reports
concerning training be disseminated and discussed.
4.    To participate in regular meetings with other division heads
within the Health Manpower Department, in order to ensure that
relevant information is shared for the effective integration of
manpower planning, staff development, and personnel functions.
5.    To assume responsibility for evaluation of development projects.
He/she would prepare all reports for project development and
evaluation as well as quarterly and annual reports for submission
to the Deputy Principal Secretary



- 109 -
tart 6 (b)
Page 4 of 6
MM Kama nmt Analyst - Draft Trm  of Xferfene
General Desctltiot
The Management Analyst would plan, direct, organize, and lead
management studies and projects which are conducted to improve HOH
efficiency and effectiveness.
Reportint
Reports to the Head of the Operations Management Division.
Specific Responsibilities
1.    Principal duties would include:
(a)   Managing 2-4 simple management consulting projects per year;
(b)   Working as team member under the Head of OMD on 2-4 complex
projects per year;
(c)   Assisting in project identification and implementation;
(d)   Assuming responsibilities for planning and conducting
management development projects;
(e)   Preparing status reports on projects;
(f)   Preparing quarterly and annual reports for submission to the
Head of OfD.
2.    Project responsibilities and assignments would fall into the
following two areas:
(a)   As a project manager (60X of time spent), the incumbent
would be responsible for the planning and successful
execution of the project. He/she would lay out the approach
and/or supervise and participate heavily in the fact
finding, analysis, definition of the problems, the
formulation of alternatives, the evaluation of these
solutions and their implications, the presentation of the
findings, and the rendering of advice and assistance to
clients in their implementation.
(b)   As a team member (40X of time spent), the incumbent would
participate in the project identification, fact gathering,
development of recomendations, report preparation and
implementation assistance as required.



- 110 -
AI=6
Part 6(b)
Page 5 of 6
NOE District Health Administrator - Draft Terms of   feref
General Description
As a member of the HSA Management Tea-, the District Health
Administrator would assist in planning the work of the Health Service Area
(HSA). Under supervision of the HSA Medical Officer, he/she would be
responsible for the non-professional staff, fiscal and personnel records,
building maintenance, and transportation, and other tasks as appropriate.
Reportina
Reports to the Head of Operations Management Division and the HSA
Medical Officer. She/he will work with the Senior Nursing Officer on
patient care support needs, and collaborate closely with all HSA Management
Team members. She/he will supervise non-professional staff, including
cleaners, night-watchman and cooks, gardeners, drivers, messengers,
laundresses and clerks.
Specific Responsibilities
1    With the other members of the HSA Management Team, to assist in
the development of an annual work plan for the Health Service
Area.
2.    To attend Management Team meetings for joint problem solving and
scheduling weekly and monthly work activities.
3.    To establish and maintain hospital office management activities,
including filing systems, establishment lists, District Operations
Manuals, etc.
4.    To process personnel records for approval of the Medical Director,
(e.g. leave applications and reports, performance evaluations,
housing applications).
5.    To ensure revenue collection from hospital and health centers,
provide for security of monies, and make regular deposits with
sub-accountants; prepare payment vouchers, maintain program book-
keeping system and prepare expenditure status reports; advise
hospital and health center personnel on collection and security of
monies.
6.    With other team members, to develop annual budget requests.



- 111 -
A=6
Part 6(b)
Page 6 of 6
7.    In collaboration with the Senior Nursing Officer, t.o supervise the
ordering, purchasing, and distribution of food stuffs, the cooking
and control of the kitchen, and the arrangements for regular stock
checks.
8.    In consultation with the Senior Nursing Officer, to provide for
the purchaee, storage, and distribution of linen, equipment and
housekeeping items, and the maintenance of related records and
ledgers.
9.    To assist the Medical Director in the scheduling and optimum use
of official transport; arrange for travel requisitions for petrol
and transport supplies, servicing and maintenance of vehicles; and
scrutinize monthly log returns.
10.    To assist the Medical Officer in the preparation of relevant
records and reports, the recording and interpretation of
statisti:al data, and the submission of reports to higher
officials.
11.    To assist the Medical Officer in coordination of referrals of
patients to other levels of care.
12.    To supervise all non-professional personnel, including their
recruitment, training, scheduling, and performance evaluation.
13.    To carry responsibility for the upkeep, maintenance, and
cleanliness of buildings and grounds and make regular inspections.
14.    To assist with the management support services for elinics and
health centers.
15.    Based on a maintenance check list developed by the Maintenance
Adviser, to supervise the maintenance staff.
16.    To undertake any other relevant duties which may be assigned from
time to time.



- 112 -
AJU6
Part 6Cc)
Page 1 of 2
LISOTSO
SECOND OPOLATION. BTALTS. AND NUTRITION PROJECT
INSTIIUTIOIAL DEVILOPNST
Proiect Manaxement Unit - Draft Terms of Reference
Ceneral
The Project Management Unit (PMU) would be established and staffed
with a Project Manager. administrative assistant, and accounts clerk.
The PKU would be responsible for the following activities of the project:
(a) planning;
(b) budgeting;
(c) implementation problem-solving;
(d) progress monitoring;
(e) procurement;
(f) accounting;
(g) in general, providing support to implementing units/managers.
Reporting
The Project Manager (PHM would consult with the Project Advisory
Coimmttee and report directly to the Principal Secretary, Minictry of
Health.
Specific Responsibilities
1.   For the smcoth and effective implementation of the project, the
PMU would establish a project monitoring system in the initial
stages of the project.
2.   PMU would compile quarterly progress reports and circulate them
to the PS and all component managers. The quarterly progress
report would contain: tables showing physical and financial
progress overall and for each component/sub-component , as well
as a discussion of implementation achievements and problems.
3.   The PM would serve as a secretary to the Advisory Commovttee,
which meet at least quarterly to discuss progress, plans, and
major outstanding issues. The Committee would be chaired by the
Principal Secretary and would be composed of component managers.
4.   The PMU would assist component managers in preparing annual work
plans.



- 113 -
MM"C 6
Part 6tcI
Page 2 of 2
5.   The PMU would prepare annual project accounts, on the basis of
information provided by component managers, and would forward
audit reports to IDA.
6.   The PMU would prepare and submit reimbursement applications for
expenditures eligible for donor financing, and would maintain a
central register of reimbursement claims covering amounts
claimed and reimbursed and remaining donor fund balances.
7.   The PffU would oversee and advise on all project-related
procurement, including procurement following international and
local procedures.
S.   To facilitate smooth implementation of various training
activities, PM would participate as a member of the MOH Training
Committee and the NHTC Continuing Education Committee.



- 114 -                         1
Part I
SICOND POPULATION. HEALTH. AND NUTRITION PROJECT
Drug Satme Consultant - Draft T-nns of Reference
General Description
As a part of reforms of t!h* pharmaceutical subsector, HOH plans to improve
the efficiency of expenditure in the drug system, including procurement and
administration by NDSO, prescribing/ dispensing by GOL facilities, and
establishment of a Community Revolving Drug Fund. The Drug System Consultant
would be engaged for about ten weeks during the second year of the project, to
review the feasibility for setting up the Community Revolving Drug Fund in
Lesotho.
Reporting
Reports to the Chief Accountant/Controller of Accounts of the Financial
Management Division and the Financial Advisor. Broad policy issups will be
determined by an MOH committee composed of departmental heads.
Specific Responsibilities
1.    Based on the recommendations of the Health Financing Study (conducted by
EEC/World Bank, 1988) and guidance from MOH on existing/future drug
policies, the consultant would review the socio-economic situation in
selected health center/hospital catchment areas, and any other relevant
information, and
(a)   recommend several alternative mechanisms for setting up a Community
Revolving Fund, drawing on the findings of the proposed UNICEF/WHO
Bamako Initiative Consultancy.
(b)   develop a conceptual framework for evaluating the proposed
alternative mechar,isms, covering financial, management, and technical
aspects.
(c)   use the conceptual framework developed to rank the alternatives
suggested in terms of feasibility of implementation.
2.    Based on the 1989 NDSO/SWEDRUG consultancy, the consultant would review the
management situation at NDSO, and
(a)   recommend an organizational structure for NDSO which is corsistent
with the implementation of a Community Revolving Drug Fund.
(b)   analyze in detail the financial viability of the recommended
organizational structure.
(c)   provide in detail the steps for implementing the recommenda-tions of
section 1.
(d)   specify and document in detail the involvement of t'-e restructured
NDSO in the implementation of the Community Revolving Drug Fund.
3.    Based on insights obtained from the above 1-2, the consultant would
(a)   provide guidelines/modalities for setting up Conmunity Revolving  u.g
Funds.
(b)   recommend policies, which if adopted, will strengthen the
institutionalization sustainability of the Fund.



- 115 -
Part Va{-
Page 1 of 2
LIS
SECOND POPMATION. B WR. AND IUTRTON
03 Ix bDosotal Maa "amt
Te cncal Assistance Program - Draft Tern  of Reference
The objectives of the program are tos
1.    Facilitate the program of hospital improvements as approved by the
Ministry of Health including:
(a)   clarification of responsibilities and reporting
relationships between QE II and MOH.
(b)   upgrading the facility and the equipment status of the
hospital, the development of the maintenance program, and
strengthening human resource development, and
(c)   strengthening the nursing process.
2.    Strengthen the general QE II management capability through:
(a)   the placement of a senior management consultant for two
years.
(b)   the establishment of a management analyst position, a
training officer position, and two personnel officer
positions.
(c)   a middle management training program.
(d)   a twinning or link program.
3.    Maintain close contact with the Ministry of Health and liaise with
the Minlstry of Works, Works Architect Health Unit (WAHU),
Ministry of Public Service, and international agencies (e.g., SIDA
and UNDP) to ensure appropriate coordination and standardization
of activities where necessary.
4.    Facilitate the establishment of the hospital's new management
structure, including the re-or&anization of departments,
definition of clear measurable and functional objectives, and
establishment of measurable performance indicators.
5.    Assist the senior QE II management staff in developing their
management skills and facilitate a team-building effort.
6.    Teach and facilitate supervisory skills and techni.ques to help
develop the QE II management.



-116 -
ANUU 7
Part 2 (a
Page 2 of I
7.    Advise senior management on the new recruits required In the
I e diate future, taking into account financial considerations and
availability of personnel.
8.    Together with the proposed training officer, conduct training
needs assessments and facilitate implementation of practical,
realistic and problem-oriented staff developmen' plans.
9.    Develop and conduct on-the-job training for the training officer,
the two personnel officers, and the management analyst.  Assist
the Health Manpower Adviser in developing a practical and problem-
oriented training program for the District Health Administrators.
10.    Develop a simple but comprehensive management manual to cover the
functional areas of personnel, finance/accounting, and
transport/stores etc.
11.    Develop a simple but comprehensive technical/procedures manual to
cover areas such as: theater, X-ray, laboratory, laundry, kitchen,
casualty, ward etc.
12.    Design and deliver a training program on the use/adoption of the
manuals.



- 117 -
AM= 7
rart 2(b)
,uSOT                                                     :
SICOnID ?OPMATION. EALTH. AND NTITt9OL PROJECT
0Q II 5o0Ital lNlAnMt
Senor Nanaamt Advisor - Draft Texr  of Reference
General Deecritiot
As the Senior Management Advisor and team leader, he/she would
coordinate all QE II management activities and liaise with the donor
agency/agencies sponsoring the Technical Assistance Program. He/she would be
engaged for two years in providing specialized expertise in staff development
and organizational development and being responsible for the training and
support of the Management Analyst, the Training Officer and the two QE II
Personnel Officers (proposed).
Reporting
Reports to the QE II Hospital Superintendent.
Specific Responsibiliti-s
1.   To prepare a detailed Technical Assistance Program, monitor and
evaluate the program and prepare periodic reoorts and progress to the
QE II Hospitrl Suporintendent, the Principal Secretary of MOH and the
donor agency/agencies sponsoring the program.
2.   To ensure the implementation of the program within the budget and
time allocation.
3.   To assist the QE II Hospital Superintendent in developing his
management skills and management style/role within the context of the
newly structured hospital organization.
4.   To advise on overall policy, planning, monitoring and evaluation,
coordination, and financial and organizational management.
5.   To coordinate phased recruitment and assist the QE II training
officer in developing and implementing a QE II in-service staff
development program.
6.   In conjunction with the Senior Management, to identify those members
of staff who would benefit from more formal training, and the level
of training required.
7.   To consul t and coordinate with other technical assistance in the
management and human resource field working in MOH or in other
ministries such as Ministry of Public Service, Ministry of
Agriculture or Ministry of Finance.
8.   To undertake any other relevant duties that may be assigned by the
Principal Secretary/Superintendent.



- 118 -
AUNNE 7
Part 2(c)
Page 1 of 2
LESOTHO
SECOND POPULATION HEALTH. AND NUTRITION PROJECT
GE II Hosaital NaIaament
Maintenance Advisor - Draft Term of Reference
General Descriution
The Maintenance Advisor would be engaged for two years and be
responsible for implementing and evaluating the improvement program related
to the physical infrastructure and equipment status of the Hospital,
including the development of the Maintenance Department and advising on
future maintenance policies, objectives and strategies. He/she would be
also responsible for evaluating maintenance needs at HSA level, organizing
training for HSA staff and developing the maintenance support function of
QZE II Maintenance Department. The Advisor would provide technical inputs
to District Health Administrators on supervising maintenance and would
develop checklists for the district maintenance staff.
Reportins
Reports to the Hospital Superintendent and the Senior Advisor.
Specific Responsibilities
Maintenance and Management:
1.    To serve initially as director of the Maintenance Department until
an appropriate person can be recruited or trained to fill this
position, and then to act as a counterpart in an on-the-job and
training advisory capacity.
2.    To prepare (in conjunction with the Chief, Maintenance Department)
a full maintenance program for equipment and for the physical
facility, including a planned preventive maintenance program.
3.    To help develop the management and supervisory capabilities within
the Maintenance Department by assisting the Chief Technician,
Maintenance Department in his role, as well as by training from
within and or where necessary, recruiting heads of departments.
4.    To determine forms of servicing contracts for those items of
equipment which cannot be maintained locally.
5.    To develop a policies and procedures manual for the Medical
Engineering, Gardening & Grounds, Security, Switchboard and Radio,
and Physical Structures functions.



- 119 -
AMUE 7
Part 2(c)
Page 2 of 2
6.    To develop an emrgency preparedness manual and organize random
false alarms to ensure safe evacuation of patients in the event of
a fire or other disaster. Ensure that appropriate equipment and
signs are available in working order and strategically placed for
fire safety purpose.
Facility Upgrading
7.    To monitor all upgrading work to ensure its completion on time and
within budget.
8.    To represent the hospital management in progress and sites
meetings during the upgrading of the facility and coordinate
liaison with users.
9.    To check certificates and invoices for payment.
Equipping:
10.    To implement the equipment procurement program in liaison with
Project Management Unit and hospital equipment consultants.
11.    To advise and supervise equipment commissioning and training of
operators and maintenance staff.
12.    To ensure that operating and maintenance manuals for new equipment
are received and distributed to appropriate staff.
National Support Functions:
14.    To evaluate needs at all HSA facilities, organize training for HSA
maintenance crews through NHTC/LTI, train HSA managers and
District Health Administrators in supervising maintenance, and
organize workshops in all HSAs to familiarize sta.f with equipment
handling procedures.
15.    To prepare procedures for and assist QE II Technical/Maintenance
Department in providing technical support to HSA facilities.
Training of Counterpartst
16.    To be responsible for training of: (a) maintenance staff; (b)
District Health Administrators; and (c) selected numbers of users.



- 120 -
AM 2 7
Part 2(d)
SECOND POPULATION, HKLTL AND NUTRITIO..ROJJC
(a II Hospital eusnbamnt
Nurava   Advisor - Draft TermS  of Referenoe
Gbneral Description
TFe Nursing Advisor would be engaged for two years and be
responsible for advising or and evaluating the provision assistance of the
n_irsing care in the hospital.
Report int
Reports to the Hosp4tal Superintendent and to the Senior
Management Advisor.
Specific Responsibilities
1.    To ensure that the nursing establishment has been fully agreed by
the Ministry of Health.
2.    To prepare a detailed recruitment program on a phased basis and
arrange induction training for nursing staff.
3.    To pr'pare detailed nurse staffing schedules in conjunction with
the Principal Nursing Officer.
4.    To prepare departmental operational policies and procedures for
all nursing areas in conjunction with appropriate members of the
nursing staff. This would form a manual suitable for use by
nurses in all wards and departments.
5.    To identify training requirements of nursing staff and ensure that
these are met in cooperation with the School of Nursing and the
National Health Training Center.
6.    To provide management training to the senior nursing staff.
7     In conjunction with the Maintenance Advisor, to prepare stock-up
for all patient areas.
8.    To provide in-service/on-the-job training in clinical/bedside
nursing and help the PNO to ensure quality clinical/bedside
nursing at all times.



- 121 -
AIUUU 7
Part 3.',
MSOThO
SECN.D              HuxTH. AUD RTITION PIOflCT
Suraical Contraception Trainina Comnultant
Draft Tezu  of A2for ece
General Deacription
In order to broaden contraceptive method mix, permanent surgical
contraceptive methods will be introduced for those couples who do not want any
more children. Two local doctors will be sent outside the country to train in
sterilization techniques. A consultant will then assist the two doctors in
setting up a local four-week course in sterilization techniques, particularly
milLi-laparotomy.
Reportinm
Reports to the Chief of the Family Health Diviston.
Specific Respotnsibilities
1.    To design the steriliza;ion training course for Lesotho, the consultant
would need t_.:
(a)   estimate the demand for sterilizations on a short-stay basis.
(b)   examine the capacity of existing clinic, ward, and theater
facilities of QE II to carry out short-stay sterilizations, and
the need for new facilities.
(c)   explore ways to shorten the interval between delivery and
postpartum sterilization and identify appropriate surgical and
anaesthetic techniques.
(d)   identify the number of doctor_ and nurses to be trained, location
of training, and equipment needs.
(e)   estimate the costs of such sterilization services.
2.    To organize the necessary p-rsonal, facilities, equipment, and supplies
to start a mini-laparotomy course.
3.    To train support staff.
4.    To assist the two local doctors in initiating a mini-laparotomy course.
5.    To develop guidelines for quality control.
6.    To train the staff in counselling and follow-up of patients for AVSC.
7.    To help the two local doctors in initiating the mini-laparotomy course.
After the first six weeks of the above consultancy, the consultant will
conduct a series of follow-up visits to provide technical advice as
identified.



- 122 -
ANNEX 7
Part 3(b)
LESOTNO
SECOND POPULATION, HEATH. AND NUTRITION PROJECT
FVmSl  Planziaa Pro-Srvice Traillnf  Adyl*or
Draft Term  of RefrWee
General Descrivtion
The center of FP service provision in Lesotho is the nursing
cadre, supplemented by non-nursing motivators and providers. Some of the
key constraints to FP service delivery inc'lude inadequate technical skills
and ori ntation in the preventative aspects of family planning.  The pre-
service training advisor will be engaged for about 14 weeks to review and
revise the curriculum for pre-serviev training of health workers in FP.
Reportinx
Reports to the Chief of the Family Health Division.
Specific Responsibilities
1.    To identify appropriate tutors at the NHTC, nursing schools, and
Nurne Assistants training schools.
2.    To define the role of these cadres in family planning service
delivery.
2.    To design appropriate curriculum and develop training materials
for nurse tutors.
4.    To design and conduct a refresher corse for the responible tutors.
5.    To review pre-service curriculum of all health workers.
'4.    To introduce into the curriculum the program management and
technical skills necessary for effective family planning service
delivery.
7.    To introduce client counselling techniques into the training
curric-lum.
8.    To integrete FP into curr4cula for training in maternal and child
health programs.



- 123 -
AM=EX 7
Part 3(c)
LESOTRO
SECOND POPULATIO, HEALTH AND NUTRITION PROJECT
Faqiy Planai   Cosmitv-Bead Distribution (C=I) Advisor
Draft Term of Ref-rece
Background
FP service delivery in Lesotho has predominantly been clinic-
based, with availability of services has mostly limited to health facility
utilizers. Because of staff shortages and heavy work-loads within these
facilities, an overall contracepti'e prevalence rate of only 72 has been
attained thus far, despite a 90X degree of literacy among women and 851
awareness of family planning by women of reproductive age. There is a need
to look into innovative ways of improving access to family planning
services, e.g., through CBD systems. LPPA has some pilot experience in
CBD, and it is proposed that this mode of service be extended. Towards
this goal, a CBD consultant will be engaged for about 12 weeks.
Reporting
Reports to the Chief of the Family Health Division.
Specific ResPonsibilities
1.    To advise and create a national and local capacity to plan,
organize, implement, and evaluate a nation-wide community-based
delivery system for fsmily planning services, initially on pilot
basis.
2.    To develop an appropriate curriculum for CBD workers.
3.    To train a cadre of supervisory level health and family planning
personnel in super -ion, guidance, and monitoring of the CBD
system for family planning services.
4.    To run seminars to orient community leaders in the concept of CBD
and their role in its promotion.
5.    Tc develop guidelines, manuals, and checklists for CBD on when and
how to treat and refer their clients.



- 124 -
ANNEX 7
Part 3(d)
LESOTBO
SECOND POPULATION. HEALTH. AND NUTRITION PROJECT
Famly Planznn  Youth Counseliu1  Advisor - Draft TS  s  of  eference
Backaround
The 1979 national population conference recognized the problem of
adolescent fertility in Lesotho. A number of factors such as increasing
urbanization, exposure to foreign cultures, tourism, and mass media and
deacline in the prevalence of the extended family system have contributed to
aii increase in the chances of unwanted adolescent pregnancies and abortion,
with attendant adverse medical, psychological, educational and econom;-
consequences to mother and child. To mitigate this problem, the conference
recommended family life education, information, and counselling services.
Two youth centers are thus proposed under the project. A short-term
consultant will be required for about three weeks to assist the creation
and strengthening of these centers.
Reporting
Reports to the Chief of the Family Health Division.
Specific Responsibilities
1.    To identify the fertility-related needs and problems of the Basoto
youth.
2.    To identify existing services, and evaluate the extent to which
they meet the needs of the youth.
3.    To design and introduce improved services.
4.    To train parenc/teacher trainers in youth counselling.
5.    To suggest socially and culturally acceptable interventions in
removing constraints to meeting the needs of adolescents in
contraception and responsible parenthood.



- 125 -
A1127
Part 4
Page 1 of 2
LESOTNO
SICOND POPULATION. HALSTH. AND NUTRITION PROa.C
Nutrition Trainin. Advisor - Draft teraa of Reference
General Description
The Nutrition Training Advisor would work with the Senior
Nutritionist in HOH and the Director of NHTC for about 4 weeks at the
beginning of the project, in the development and initial operation of a
training program for nutrition assistants.
Reporting
The Nutrition Training Advisor will report to the Chief of the
Family Health Division and the Senior Nutritionist of MOH.
Specific Responsibilities
1.    To assist, for an initial two-week period in late 1989 or early
1990, in the design of a three-month training course for nutrition
assistants. The course would operate initially for nutrition
assistants in Qachas Nek and Quthing Districts, and eventually be
used to train additional nutrition assistants in the country, as
the CNIHFS project expands to other districts.
2.    To assist, for a subsequent two-week period, with the operation of
the first training course.
3.    To work with the Senior Nutritionist of MOH and the staff of NHTC
in developing necessary resources and personnel for training of
nutrition assistants in the following areas:
(a)   Village mapping aod register keeping -  To identify
households with children below the age of 2, and indicate
information on a set of key determinants and economic
variables, i.e. family size, number of adults present,
employment of adults, amount of land owned, number of
animals owned, and whether the family receives remittances;
(b)   Human nutrition - Nutrition assistants should be provided
with a brief and simple overview of the principles of human
nutrition, the nature at@nd effects of lalnutrition,
nutritional requirements, and the relationship of
anthropometry to nutritional status. This should not,
however, become a mini course in nutritional biochemistry;



- 126 -
M 7
Part 4
Page 2 ot 2
(c)   Growth monitoring - ;o be able to assist VHWs in child
weighing and monitor this tast at the village level;
(d)   Nutrition educattI    To focus on the key messages likely to
be dissemina?-d  ~- Whe 1,ogram and the rationale underlying
each;
(a)   Comnai gardens anv  xaca.,. teration activity - Although
nutrition assistants ,,e ;   dy >een working in this area,
it will be important to exp-ai  :          ,oerlying income
generation component of this pr  -    >-d the specific
activities envisaged;
(f)   Introduction to related programs - Since tnie program
involves interministerial cooperation and interaction with a
number of existing programs, it is important that the
assistants understand these programs. This would include
IAPIS, Food for Work, and the Local Initiatives Support
Project in Quthing;
(g)   Credit and accounting - To support the credit dimension of
the program, nutrition assistants need to learn the basic
fundamentals of community credit management and accounting;
(h)   Hammr mill operation - Since hammer mills may represent an
important part of the program, the trainees should spend one
day at SWEC for an orientation on the operation and
maintenance of the equipment; and
(i)   Field component - The final weeks of the training should
take place in a project area in Qachas Nek or Quthing. This
part of the program and the logistics behind it should be
carefully organized with the help of the training advisor.
During this period, trainees would involve themselves in
each component of the program with supervision of the
trainers and, perhaps, one of the project managers. In
addition, each nutrition assistant should spend a
concentrated time period with one village family to better
understand the time utilization of village women and
constraints facing them in improving or maintaining the
nutritional status of their children. Finally, during this
field period trainees should be trained in the riding and
care of horses, which is essential if they are to be mobile
in the pilot districts.



- 127 -
Page 1 of 2
SECOND POPULATION, lUTl. AMD NUTRITION P        T
TS Control Advisor - Diaft Term  of Reference
General Description
The advisor would provide assistance to the development and
implementation of the National TB Program until a trained local medical
officer is available. The advisor would work as a member of the Disease
Control and Environmental Health Division, and will report to the Chief of
the Division.
Specific Responsibilities
The TB Control Advisor would continue:
1.    To implement (and revise as necessary) protocols for the
management of the disease.
2.    To conduct the surveillance of the disease and monitor the program
via the TB registration system.
3.    To assume responsibility, in conjunction with NDSO, for assuring
drug and other supplies, and for monitoring drug consumption.
4.    In conjunction with the Director of Laboratory Services and the
Chief Laboratory Technician, to maintain appropriate and reliable
TB diagnostic services throughout the country.
5.    To provide clinical/administrative support to all Health Service
Areas by means of quarterly visits.
6.    To liaise with the mines medical services.
7.    To liaise with the Health Education Unit in the development of TB
related materials.
8.    To work closely with his/her division chief in the formulation and
execution of management systems appropriate for the control of all
communicable diseases.
9.    To assist in the provision of training to all cadres of health
workers as required.



- 128 -
AI=7
P% t 5(a)
Page 2 of 2
In addition, he/she would be responsible for the execution of new
initiatives within PHN II.
10.   To identify a suitable training program for the Mosotho medical
officer who would become his/her successor.
11.   To assist in providing training and implementing management
changes to strengthen peripheral disease control activities.
12.   In conjunction with the Financial Controller of MOH, to execute
the deficit grant funding of TB patients in PHAL institutions.
13.   With the necessary outside assistance, to carry out the
tuberculin, drug resistance, and pilot treatment studies planned
in the project.
The Advisor would to have knowledge of TB programs in developing
countries, and should have clinical experience of the management of
tuberculosis as well as experience in clinical epidemiology. He/she would
produce quarterly progress reports on the program for the Project Manager
and the Director General of Health Services.



- 129 -
ARM  7
Part 5(b)
LESOTHO
SRCOND PO?PX,TION, IIUTLS JUID NUTRITIOII PROJtC
8D Cortrol Sctalist - Draft Terms of Ibf-rce
Geral Descrlition
The STD specialist would assist the Disease Control Unit of MOH in
organizing, implementing, and coordinating the STD control program during
the first two years of the project. The main emphasis would be on
establishing a pilot project to strengthen STD service delivery. The pilot
would be conducted in three phases: (a) Phase 1 (two years) - to establish
STD services at three HSA hospitals (Butha Buthe, Maseru QE II, and Mohales
Hoek) plus two health centers in each HSA; (b) Phase 2 (three years) - to
cover the expansion of STD activities to five additional health centers in
each area; (c) Phase 3 (which will not be covered by the proposed project)
- to expand STD activities country-wide. A local medical officer would be
identified as a countcrpart (STD Control Program Manager at the Disease
Control Unit) and undergo one-year M.P.H. training with a short-term
attachment to mn STD program overseas.
Reporting
Reports to the Chief of the Disease Control & Environmental Health
Division.
Specific Responsibilities
1.    To develop standard treatment protocols for common STDs in
Lesotho, to be incorporated in a STD manual.
2.    To introduce and implement appropriate screening procedures for
the pilot areas.
3.    To introduce a recording system that will facilitate partner
notification.
4.    To oversee upgrading of existing OPD facilities for STD work.
5.    To procure necessary equipment for the clinics.
6.    To provide training for the medical doctors and nurses involved in
STD activities.



- 130 -
AMNE 7
Part 6(a)
LESOTHO
SECOND POPULATION. HEALTH. AND NUTRITION PROJECT
Financial Nanaamnt Advisor - Draft Term  of Reference
General Description
Since 1983, the MOH has been strengthening its financial
management capabilities, especially through decentralization. As the
second step in this process, the restructuring of MOH program budget is
being implemented to reflect the recently-introduced MOH organogram. The
Financial Advisor would be engaged for one year to upgrade the skills of
MOH headquarters accounting staff in financial management. He/she would
also assist the Chief Accountant/Controller of Accounts in enhancing the
on-going decentralization process.
Reportinm
Reports to the Principal Secretary of the Ministry of Health.
Specific Responsibilities
1.    To train MOH accounti"- staff in the measurement/use of public
sector financial goals relevant to tile operations of the Ministry
of Health.
2.    To train MOE accounting staff in the collection and analysis of
expenditures, based on a "Facility Accounting System".
3.    To expose accounting staff to the new program budgeting formats.
4.    To organize external training programs for accounting staff.
5.    To develop and implement a 'Health Facility Performance Indicators
System", which would enable facility-based budgeting, cost
control, and expenditure/revenue monitoring.
6.    To provide assistance in the implementation of the "Targeted
Credit Scheme" with LADB.
7.    To supervise the "Re-.:'lving Drug Fund" constantly.



- 131 -
ANU 7
Part 6(b)
LESOTHO
SECOND POPUIATION. HEALTH, Al NUTRITION PROJECT
Or0-nisation and Nuiazient Advisor to XPSU - Draft Tor*_ of Reference
General Description
The Organization and Management Advisor would be engaged for about
eight weeks to help define better functions, organization, staffing and
work program of the Health Planning and Statistics Unit. The advisor would
assist the HPSU in drafting a new statement of vocation and developing job
descriptions and work plans for the Unit's staff.
Reporting
Reports to the Chief of the Health Planning and Statistics Unit.
Specific Responsibilities
1.    To carry out a task analysis of the HPSU.
2.    To determine the tasks which are properly within the realm of
HPSU's responsibility.
3.    To make recommendations concerning the development of appropriate
tasks and the institutionalization of new tasks.
4.    To recommend an organizational structure for the unit.
5.    To suggest an implementation schedule and strategy for the
recommendations made.
After the first six weeks of the above consultancy, the advisor
will follow up the HPSU's performance with a series of short-term visits to
monitor and help in the implementation of the recommendations contained
therein. The continued contact between the unit and the technical advisor
will be productive as it will ensure that the re-organization is
implemented smoothly and that problems can be solved during the implemen-
tation process.



- 132 -
ANNEX 7
Part 6(c)
LESOTHO
SECOND POPULATION. RELTH. AND NUTRITION PROJECT
Health Information Svsters Advisor - Draft Ter  of Referms
General Description
The Health Information Systems Advisor would be based at the
Health Statistics branch of HPSU for about three months, to carry out a
data needs asses&ment of all divisions (MOH headquarters and HSA) based on
present and projected activities.
Reportin
Reports to the Health Information Manager, HPSU.
Specific Responsibilities
1.    To assess and determine MOH's basic data needs.
2.    To develop a suitable feedback mechanism for data collectors/users
(i.e. type of data required, format of representation, frequency
of reporting, etc.).
3.    To determine optimum staff numbers, level of staff training, and
equipment required by the Health Statistics Unit to cater for
MOH's information needs.
4.    To design training programs which the Unit should carry out to
upgrade skills and knowledge of MOH data users.
5.    To examine the current MOH data management system and study the
possibility of introducing a mini-computer system to serve the
entire ministry.



- 133 -
AMEXt 7
Part 6(d)
Page 1 of 2
SuCOuD POPMLATION. HEALTH, AID NUTRITION PROJECT
Health Manpwoer Advisor - Draft Terue of Reference
General Description
The Health Manpower Advisor would be responsible for providing
leadership in strengthening MOH's manpower management. He/she would train
and support the staff of the Health Manpower Department in developing human
resource management policies, systems and procedures related to manpower
planning, staff training and development, and personnel administration. At
the end of the assignment, the staff of the Health Manpower Department
should be clear about their role within MOH, manpower management, and have
sufficient understanding and experience in these systems to make the
necessary adjustments as changing circumstances dictate.
Reporting
Works as a counterpart to the Director of the Manpower Department
and reports to the Principal Assistant Secretary.
Specific Responsibilities
1.   To assist in the development, implementation and maintenance of
human resource management information systems for personnel
administration, manpower planning, and training.
2.   Through on-the-job training, to assist in the development of the
manpower planning process in MOH. This process should provide
senior managers with the information and the planning framework
necessary to make decision on staffing and training priorities.
3.   To assist in the design and implementation of a system for
selection, placement, and monitoring of training activities.
4.   To assist in the design, implementation, and evaluation of
management training programs.
5.   To assist in the development and use of a personnel manual for all
managers at all levels.
6.   To assist the Director of the Manpower Department to prepare for
his/her internship by setting learning objectives, assisting in
the development of a study/observation guide, and helping in the



- 134 -
Part 6 (d)
Page 2 of 2
design of an internahip report format. On the return of the
Director of Department, to assist him/her in reviewing the lessons
learned and in applying these.
7.   To assist in the design and implementation of a computerized
personnel management information system (PMIS), in coordination
with Ministry of Public Service, by collecting the necessary staff
information, verifying the same information, feeding it into the
computer, and customizing the necessary output formAts.
8.   To train the MOH staff in using computers and in running the PMIS.



- 135 -
A    7
Part 6(a)
SECOND POPULATIOT. HEALTM. AND NUTRITION PROJ6CT
INC Mbanament So clallst - Draft Ter of Reference
General Description
To strengthen the capacity of Health Education Unit (HEU) in
performing its specialist function fn comunications, the IEC Management
Specialist would be engaged for about 30 weeks over the five year life of
the project to assist the HEU staff in the improvement of management
techniques and their application for design/implementation/monitoring of
IEC programs.
Report nn
Reports to the Chief of the Health Education Unit.
Si-ecific Responsibilitios
1.    Through on-the-job training, to assist the HEU staff in
strengthening management skills particularly in the areas of:
(a) management by objective;
(b) time management;
(c) long-range planning;
(d) supervisory techniques; and
(e) budgeting.
2.    To review and evaluate the existing IEC strategies/plans of HEU,
which have been developed jointly by LDTC and HEU.
3.    To assist HEU in developing an annual work plan covering IEC
activities for all public health programs for which the Unit is
responsible.
4.    To assist lEU in strengthening the linkages/coordination among all
agencies involved in IEC activities in Lesotho.
After the first twelve weeks of the above assignment, the
consultant would follow up with a series of short visits (two weeks twice a
year over the life of the project) to monitor the implementation of IEC
activities, advise on further management improvements, and assist in new
and refresher training.



- 136 -
AM 7
Part 6(f)
SICOND POPULATION. HEALTRh AND NUTRITION PROJECT
Advisor to the Director of NHTC - Draft Terna of Reference-
General Descrtiition
The Advisor would assist the Director of the NHTC in running the
recently completed National Health Training Center during the first year of
the project. He would act as a special advisor and provide advice on a
broad range of management issues (training plans, staffing, curriculum
design, etc.).
Revortint
Reports to the Director of the National Health Training Center.
Specific Responsibilities
1.    To develop medium- and long- term training plans in collaboration
with the new Manipower Department, covering all in-country training
programs and external training needs.
2.    To design coordinated curricula for all cadres in training
(including continuing education).
3.   To participate in the selection of NHTC personnel.
4.    To assist in curriculum design for NHTC courses.
5.    To develop appropriate manuals and materials.
6.    To attend Examination Board meetings.
7.   To serve on the NHTC Academic Council and other committees.



- 137 -
ANNEX 8
Page 1 of 3
LESOTHO
$ECOND POPULATION. ERALTE AND NUTRITION PROJECT
SIMVARY OF TRAINING ACTTVITINS
I. Overseas F.flolshipeInterushiD Traininsa
Description of Training        Number of  Durat'on of          Number per Year
Persons    Course
Per Person  PY1    PY2   PY3   PY4   PY5
____________________________
A. Rural Health Services
1. PHC Systems Support
1.1  Public Health Nurses          2    24(m)         2      2
B. Urban Healtk Services
1. QE II Hospital
1.1  General Management            1      8(w)        1
1.2  Maintenance Skills            4    16(w)         4
C. Family Planning
1. Minilaparatomy                   2      6(w)        2
D. Nutrition
1. Applied Nutrition                2    24(m)         2      2
E. Disease Control
1. TB Control
1.1  TB                            1    12(w)                      1
1.2  IUATLD TB Course              5      8(w)        2      1
2. STD/AIDS Control
2.1  MPH                           1    12(m)         1
2.2  Regional Attachment            3     2(w)        3
2.3  Laboratory Techniques         1      2(m)        1
F. Institutional Development
1. MOH Mgt. Systems Support
1.1  Public Sec. Fin. Mgt.         2      6(w)        2
1.2  Health Planning & Finance    3    36(m)          1      1     1
1.3  Computer Science              1    24(m)         1      1
Information Mgt.              2     2(w)               1      1
1.4  Human Resource Mgt.           1      6(m)        1
1.5 IEC /1
1.6  Computer Programming          1      8(w)               1
2. National Health Trairing Center
2.1  General Science               4    24(m)         1      2     2     2      1
m - month
w = week
d = day



- 138 -
ANNEX 8
Page 2 of 3
II. Local TraininalVorkahoDst
Description of Training         Number of  Duration of          Number per Year
Persons    Course        PY1   PY2   PY3   PY4   PYS
Per Person  ----------------------------
A. Rural Health Services
1. PHC Systems Support
1.1 Public Health Nurses           12    18(m)                            12
PHC Workshop                   80     4(d)        40    40
1.2 Maintenance (technical)        36     5(d)        18    18
Maintenance (basic)            36     5(d)        18    18
Maintenance Workshop           80     2(d)        40    40
B. Urban Health Services
1. QE II Hospital
1.1 Top & Middle Mgt.              30    30(w)        30
1.2 Clinical Training /2
C. Family Planning
1. CBDs Tratning                   375     3(w)        45   120   120      60    40
2. VHWs/TBAs Training             3040     2(w)       500  1000  1000    500    40
3. Medical Doctors                  20     4(w)         4     4      8      4
4. Nurse Tutors                      8    14(w)               8
HSA-Based Trainers               69    12(w)        34    35
Nurses Training                 120    12(w)              30    3O      30    30
5. Youth Counsellors                 4     3(w)               4
6. Central Level Managers            6     2(w)               6
7. Policy Makers Workshop           75     5(d)        25    25    25
D. Nutrition
1. Nutrition Assistants             20    12(w)        20
E. Disease Control
1. TB Control
1.1  TB/DC Training (HAs)          19     3(w)        19
TB/DC Training (general)    38       2(w)        19    19
1.2  TB Training (HC)             475     l(d)       475   475   475    475   475
1.3  TB Annual Meeting             38     2(d)        38    38    38      38    38
1.4  National Workshop            100     l(d)       100
2. STD/AIDS Control
2.1  STD Mgt. (MD)                 30     2(w)         3     3      8      8      8
2.2  STD Counselling (NAs/HAs)   60       l(w)         6     6    16      16    16
2.3  STD Control/Manual (NCs)    60   2-5(w)           6     6    16      16    16
2.4  STD Workshop                 120     3(w)                     40     40    40
m - month
w - week
d - day



- 139 -
ARNV= 8
Page 3 of 3
Description of Training        Number of   Duration of         Number per Year
Persons     Courses      FY1   PY2   PY3   PY4  Pn5
Per Person  ----------------------------
F. Institutional Development
1. MOH Mgt. System Support
1.1 Public Sec. Fin. Mgt.          4     4(w)         4
MOH Workshop (MOH heads)    10      3(d)        10
1.2  Computer Skills               9     2(w)         2     7     2
HSA Planning Workshop       200     3(d)        40    40    40      40     40
1.3  Data Analysis/Mgt             7     4(w)         7
Data Utilization (NCs)      200    12(w)       200
1.4  IEC /3
1.5  District Health Adm. /4      40     4(w)         8     8     8       8      8
Management Analysis /5        8     6(w)         8
Computer Skills               1     4(w)         1
District Mgt. Workshop /6  120      2(d)              30    30      30     30
Org.& Devt. Workshop /7      80     2(d)              20    20      20     20
2. National Health Training Center
2.1 Medical Laboratory Sci.        4    38(m)         4     4     4       4
3. Project Management
3.1 Launch Workshop               50     2(d)        50
m - month
w - week
d = day
Notes:/1   Detailed training plan for IEC is being formulated with the assistance
of a ST consultant under the first project.
/2   Detailed training plan for QE II is to be formulated with the assistance
of the General Advisor during the course of the project.
/3   Same as the above 1.
/4-5 These two courses will be integz-ted into a 5-day refresher course
during PY2-PY5.
/6   District Management Workshop will cover all administrative aspects
including financial, information, personnel/manpower mgt., etc.
/7   Basic management courses for HSA staff.  Training fund will be
administered by Head of Manpower Dept.



- 140 -                           ANNAM 9
LESOTHO
SECOND POPULATION. HEALTH AND NUTRITION PROJECT
LIST OF DOCUMEMNS AND DATA AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE
A. Proi*et Related
1. Lesotho Health Financing Study, United Medical Enterprise Ltd., March
1988
2. Management Study of Queen Elizabeth II Hospital in Maseru, Llevelyn-
Davies Weeks, May 1988
3. Manpower Management, Ministry of Health, November 1988
4. Manpower Training Plan for Specific Manpower Cadres, National Health
Training Center, May 1988
5. Nutrition and Mother-and Child Health in the Preparation Phase of the
Population, Health, and Nutrition Proiect, Royal Tropical Institute,
October 1988
6. Prolect Agreement Between the Government of Lesotho and the United
Nations Fund for Population Activities, June 1988
7. Report on Health Service Area Planning in Lesotho, Ministry of Health,
D.ecember 1988
8. Report of the UNFPA/IPPF/WHO Review Mission on UNFPA Assistance to
Family Health Division, Ministry of Health, May 1988
9. Review of the National Essential Drug Supply and the Operations of the
National Drug Stockpile Organization (NDSO), SweDrug Consulting AB,
January 1989
10. Summary of Management Needs Assessments Carried Out Under the DMI
Projeet, Ministry of Health, August 31, 1988
11. Working Papers for Rural Clinic Improvement Programme (RCIP) - World
Bank Proiect Phase II, Rural Clinic Improvement Programme, October 1988
12. Detailed Project Proposals, Ministry of Health and World Bank, February
1989
13. Detailed Cost Tables, World Bank, March 1989
B. Background
1. Fourth Five-Year Development Plan (1986/87-60/91 Fiscal Years) Volume I,
Ministry of Planning, Economic and Manpower Development
2. Lesotho Country Economic Memorandum, World Bank, Report No. 6671-LSO,
May 1987
3. Public Expenditure Priorities in Lesotho, World Bank, Report No. 7243-
LSO, September 1988



MAP SECTION



_iftD 2?353
s~                                 S                                   b F                                                       I                  >200  280'  79c0                      29?0                                   300
' i i _ , t) ";, J ro Fs@., b,.,, '; . ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L E   S O T H   O
SECOND POPULATION, HEALTH,
M- h                     , w_ orw_                                                       /   z> 5d  <> f .,                                                                                     AND NUTRITION PROJECT
27-30'-                                                                   8         
MAPUT        TSO ERIBE>                                                                                                                          1              o      4
0      10      20      30      40
29-00~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~93
~~~~~~MS ''
P'v,e~~ric                      + MAFTEN                                                     Nc:e                                                                        F+        o Airoject LApocotlrr.LceFors
< y Y  W                                                                               t      2 750 csnd Above~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~293 
RIJA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~>I  8
C." vv,i- ~LP'cI                                                                                                                                                                           STD/AIDS Corrho
No O.k.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~R   0 Sk   HA
Htealthr Ftclltite.
CIktlcli
LlUrb- Filter Clinic to It. Co.rt,oct.d Unrder the Prefet
-                                          @          Ro~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Eisting Filter ClWc.k
Liphlfl,g                                                                    OACHA'S NEK ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*             R-rl Cli1c, to be Upgraded U-te, he Proljct
O     R-1a Clin. of Leowtir Flying Doctor SeMR,ie (LFDS)
Health 0rgonlooIorr
  Airstrips (Appro.irnote Locotlocs)
Fe-d Rood. (RE.Nting ed/or Un,der Coo.trctto)
El-eootln, i M.ters:
2,750 end Ab-v
2,500 . 2,750
2,000.- 2,500                                                  30-30
ob~~~ ~n   ~~~             C     Selected Town
Di,trict lBo-rd-rI.
29~30                                  30'00
AFRIL 1980



