Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 18507
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
LESOTHO
SECOND POPULATION, HEALTH AND NUTRITION PROJECT
(CREDIT 2059-LSO)
October 28, 1998
Africa Human Development Group 1
Eastern and Southern Africa
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit: Maloti (plural), Loti (singular)
At the time of Project Appraisal
US$1.00 = M2.37
MI = US$0.42
At the time of Implementation Completion Report
US$1.00 = M4.61 (1997 average)
Ml = US$ 0.22 (1997 average)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
June 1 - May 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CBD       - Community Based Distribution (of contraceptives)
CHAL    - Christian Health Association of Lesotho
DCA       - Development Credit Agreement
DflD      - Department for International Development
GOL       - Government of Lesotho
HMIS      - Health Management Information System
HNP       - Health, Nutrition and Population
HSA       - Health Service Area
KABP    - Knowledge, Attitude, Behavior and Practice
LADB      - Lesotho Agricultural Development Bank
LHDA      - Lesotho Highlands Development Authority
LPC       - Lesotho Pharmaceutical Corporation
LPPA      - Lesotho Planned Parenthood Association
MCH/FP  - Maternal and Child Health/Family Planning
MOHSW   - Ministry of Health and Social Welfare
MOU       - Memorandum of Understanding
NDSO      - National Drug Supply Organization
NHTC      - National Health Training College
PCC       - Project Coordination Committee
PHAL      - Private Health Association of Lesotho (now CHAL)
PMU       - Policy Management Unit
PPF       - Project Preparatory Facility
RCIP      - Rural Clinic Infrastructure Program
SAR       - Staff Appraisal Report
SDR       - Special Drawing Rights
VHW       - Village Health Workers
Vice President             Callisto E. Madavo
Director                   Pamela Cox
Sector Manager:            Ruth Kagia
Task Team Leader    :      Julie McLaughlin



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE
Evaluation Summary ........................i
PART I: Project Implementation Assessment .................................................1
Introduction and Background .................................................1
Project Objectives .I.......................
Achievement of Objectives .................................................2
Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project .................................................5
Sustainability and Future Operation .................................................6
Bank Performance ................................................7
Borrower Performnance ................................................8
Assessment of Outcome ................................................9
Future  Operation     ................................................9
Key Lessons Learned   .................................................9
Part     II : Statistical Annexe s1s ................................................ 
Table IA:    Summary of Assessments.11
Table IB:  Summary of Assessments: Rural Health Services Component .12
Table IC:  Summary of Assessments: Urban Health Services Component .15
Table ID:  Summary of Assessments: Family Planning Component .18
Table IE:  Summary of Assessments: Food and Nutrition Component .21
Table 1F:  Summary of Assessments: Disease Control Component .23
Table IG:    Summary of Assessments: Institutional Development Component .26
Table 2:  Related Bank Loans/Credits .29
Table 3:      Project Timetable.30
Table 4:      Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual .31
Table 5A:    Project Costs.32
Table 5B:    Project Costs.33
Table 6: Project Financing .3
Table 7:  Status of Legal Covenants .35
Table 8A: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs .39
Table 8B: Bank Resources: Missions .40
Appendices
Appendix A: Completion Mission's Aide Memoire
Appendix B: Information Gathering Process During ICR Mission
Appendix C: Financial Management Report
Appendix D: Beneficiary Survey
Appendix E: Borrower's Evaluation Report
Appendix F: Borrower's Comments on the Draft ICR
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
LESOTHO
SECOND POPULATION, HEALTH AND NUTRITION PROJECT
(CR 2059-LSO)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Population, Health and Nutrition
Project in Lesotho, for which Credit 2059-LSO in the amount of SDR9.4 million (US$12.1 million
equivalent) was approved on July 11, 1989, and made effective on November 1, 1989.
The original closing date was December 31, 1995, and, after two extensions, the Credit was
closed on March 31, 1998. Final disbursement took place on August 10, 1998, at which time a balance of
SDR1.69 million (US$2.39 million) was canceled. The European Community (now the European Union),
the Overseas Development Administration (now the Department for International Development) and the
Irish Government provided parallel financing.
The ICR was prepared by Gayle Martin (AFMZA) and Andrew Follmer (AFTHI), under the
overall guidance of Julie McLaughlin (AFTH1), and reviewed by Ruth Kagia (Sector Manager, AFTH1)
and Pamela Cox (Country Director for Lesotho). The Borrower provided comments on the draft ICR
which are included as Appendix E.
Preparation of this ICR began during the final supervision mission (March 1998) and continued
during the completion mission (July 1998). The ICR is based on material in the project file (Staff
Appraisal Report, the Development Credit Agreement, supervision reports, correspondence between the
Bankl and the Borrower, progress reports by the Borrower, internal Bank memoranda); and interviews
with Bank staff, consultants, parallel financiers, staff of the project management unit, and officials and
stakeholders in Lesotho who were closely associated with the Project. Additional input on the project's
impact was obtained from a small-scale survey of health service consumers, and an analysis of the patient
populations using the filter clinics.
The Borrower contributed to preparation of the ICR by providing views as reflected in the
Completion Mission's Aide Memoire (Appendix A), by preparing its own evaluation of the project's
execution and initial preparation (Appendix D), and by providing detailed comments on the parts of the
ICR as it evolved and formally responding to the draft ICR (Appendix E). The conclusions of the ICR
are based upon the findings of the mission, the input by the borrower, as well as discussions with staff
within the managing unit.
XThe project was financed by IDA, but "the Bank" is used in this report when referring to the World Bank as an institution or its
staff.



EVALUATION SUMMARY
Second Population, Health and Nutrition Project
(CR 2059-LSO)
Lesotho
Introduction
1.    The Second Population, Health and Nutrition (PHNII) Project was conceived as an instrument of
public investment in priority areas, based on disease-specific morbidity and mortality needs. The project
was a follow-up to the Population and Health Project (Credit 1585-LSO), the Bank's first health project
in Lesotho (1985-1992), and both were implemented by the Ministry of Health and Social Welfare
(MOHSW). The Project became effective in November 1989 and closed in March 1998, after two
extensions. Some components were modified following the mid-term evaluation, and the component
which was to be implemented by the Lesotho Agricultural Development Bank was dropped. The first
project achieved important successes which the PHNII project sought to build upon. In both projects the
variances between the anticipated and actual outcomes can be traced directly to limited institutional and
human resource capacity.
Project Objectives
2.    The project objectives stated within the SAR were to: (i)continue strengthening the decentralized
health service infrastructure and logistical support system, both in rural and urban areas, and improve the
efficiency of service delivery; (ii) reduce the rate of population growth and enhance the delivery of
family planning services; (iii) reduce morbidity and mortality through programs targeted at critical health
problems, including infant malnutrition and infectious diseases (TB, STD/AIDS); (iv) enhance the
economic efficiency and financial sustainability of the country's health care system; (v) strengthen
support systems for health planning, information and manpower development; and (vi) introduce the
necessary institutional and policy reforms, and draw upon NGO and private sector resources, to realize
the other above objectives.
3.    The objectives were implemented through six project components: (i) rural health services; (ii)
urban health services; (iii) family planning; (iv) nutrition and food security; (v) disease control (sexually
transmitted diseases, tuberculosis); and (vi) institutional development (financial management, health
planning, health information systems, human resource development, health education). The project
proposed policy reforms in the areas of health financing and institutional and human resource capacity
that would enhance the ability of the Ministry of Health and Social Welfare (MOHSW) to increase rural
and urban access to health care. These policy reforms were also intended to support specific health
interventions such as family planning, TB, STDs and nutrition.
4.    Given the limited institutional capacity of the borrower, a constraint which was recognized within
the PCR of the Population and Health Project, the objectives for the PHNII Project were probably overly
ambitious. They also focused on the achievements of short-term gains over the longer-term institutional
strengthening and commitment required to sustain these aims. Although policy reforms were mentioned,
the objectives appear to indicate an underestimation of the challenges of designing and implementing
effective policy reforms. Twenty-one legal covenants attempted to ensure actions critical to the
achievement of objectives. Some of these were found to be inappropriate or insufficient to protect
objectives. For example, although cost-recovery of aims of 12-15% of recurrent expenditure did result in
10% recovery, the remittance of fees to the center, the impact of fees on the poor, and the inefficient



Evaluation Summary                                                                       ii
collection of fees for tertiary care undermined the objective. Similarly, the requirement that posts be
established did not result in posts being filled.
Implementation Experience
5.    Achievement of Objectives. The project made achievements in the strengthening of priority
programs (nutrition, STDs, HIV/AIDS, TB, and family planning), and in improving health infrastructure,
especially in underserved areas. It also managed to increase collaboration between the private and public
sectors (Christian Medical Association of Lesotho, and Lesotho Planned Parenthood Association). It was
much less successful at enhancing the economic efficiency and financial sustainability of the country's
health care system; strengthening support systems for health planning, information and manpower
development; and introducing institutional and policy reforms. The lack of progress in these areas also
undermines the potential sustainability of achievements made within priority health programs and
infrastructure. The project did raise awareness of the shortcomings in institutional capacity, and it is
credited with contributing to the current focus on systemic issues, as evidenced by the commitment to
reforms and a sector program defined within the 1995 Health and Social Welfare Plan, and the 1996
Round Table Document, Building Partnership for the Lesotho Health Sector Reform.
6.    Sustainability. It is uncertain whether the successes that were achieved are sustainable as the
institutional development component and the institutional aspects of the other components are the
weakest achievements. There was, and continues to be, strong reliance on non-Basotho for the
management and leadership of critically important disease interventions and programs,e.g. TB and STD-
HIV/AIDS programs. Nearly a third of all staff who received project-financed long-term training have
departed from the Ministry.
7.    Factors Affecting Achievement of Objectives.  The  turnover  in  leadership  within  the
implementing agency, the Ministry of Health and Social Welfare, combined with the loss of staff trained
under the project to other ministries, to the private sector and to South Africa adversely affected project
objectives. The poor achievement in institutional strengthening can partly be attributed to the fact that
planning and financial management staff do not report directly to the MOHSW, but rather their respective
ministries of Planning and Finance, and to the inability of the MOHSW to retain staff in these units. In
addition, personal and family relations, and political affiliations influenced the commitment of staff to
project components and the ability of the leadership in the Ministry to guide implementation. The
ambitions of the project and the appraisal of capacity do not seem to have sufficiently appreciated the
limitations in organization, management, staffing and work practices. The failure of GOL to budget
satisfactorily for the recurrent cost implications of investments in human capital (i.e., upgrading of posts)
contributed substantially to this loss of staff. Capacity building was narrowly interpreted as training for
the acquisition of administrative and technical skills, with less attention paid to changing the incentive
framework which would have enabled trained officials to implement their newly acquired skills.
8.    Borrower performance is rated "marginally satisfactory". After the first few years of the project,
leadership and project oversight was lacking, largely due to the departure of key officials who were
involved in project preparation, and general leadership problems within the MOHSW. Commitment to the
project was variable among the component managers, and the lack of leadership for and ownership of
components is correlated to those which made limited achievements. The PMU was intended to facilitate
implementation, but not to provide leadership and initiative, and yet, such was not forthcoming from the
MOHSW. Bank performance is also rated "marginally satisfactory". Supervision of the infrastructure
and programmatic interventions was detailed and ensured successful achievement of several objectives.
However, many of the shortcomings in the performance of the Borrower, could have been detected earlier



Evaluation Summary                                                                         iii
and addressed during supervision or through restructuring of project objectives. The frequency of
supervision missions was not optimal (especially after the mid-term review which did reveal institutional
weaknesses), and attention during supervision to institutional development and financial management
was insufficient.
9.     Assessment of Outcome. Overall, the project outcome was marginally satisfactory2. Significant
accomplishments were made in the specific health programs targeted and in improving infrastructure, but
limited achievements in the area of financial management, health information, human resource planning
and development, and health planning detract from the sustainability of these successes. Over the past
decade knowledge of institutional development and capacity building has grown substantially; many
shortcomings in project design and certain aspects of supervision are identified with this hindsight.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations and Key Lessons Learned
10.    Summary of Findings. The turnover of leadership and staff in the MOHSW will continue to affect
operations in the sector unless appropriately addressed by the GOL. The project design and appraisal
underestimated the limited capacity of the implementing agency, and subsequent recognition that these
limitations were undermining objectives were not redressed. The achievements made in strengthening
the programs in family planning, tuberculosis, STDs, HIV/AIDS and nutrition were significant, but may
not be sustainable. Borrower's commitment to the project was not sufficiently institutionalized.
Institutional constraints were revealed by the project, and the current increased emphasis on resolving
such can be attributed to the project experience and Bank supervision.
I1.    Future Operation. Many lessons learned and recommendations are to be addressed by the
currently proposed sector-wide approach to developing the health sector. This approach provides a
favorable framework which could facilitate resolution of many institutional issues that need to be
addressed. An important result of the project has been the current emphasis and focus on institution
building. The current discourse on the health reforms has moved away from deliberations about disease-
specific interventions, to improvement of the institutions that underpin the existing investments. Work on
the design of the new program has recognized the need for more widespread ownership among the range
of stakeholders and is addressing this in preparation. It will also attempt to address the human resource
constraints from the outset, and is working with staff to consider the feasibility of commitments given
institutional constraints.
12.    Lessons for Future Operations. Lessons emphasize the need for ensuring sufficient ownership
and commitment to the project; sufficiently appraising institutional capacity and tailoring the project to
borrower's capacity; focusing on institutional strengthening which will ensure sustainability of
objectives; the value of Bank supervision; the need to include a broader range of expertise (e.g., financial
management) in Task Teams; and the importance of monitoring systems for assessing project impact.
Although the Completion mission did assess the outcome as unsatisfactory, further input from the borrower and review ofthe
findings by the managing unit concluded that an unsatisfactory rating did not acknowledge the achievements which were made.



PART I: PROJECT IMEPLEMENTATiON ASSESSMENT
Introduction and Background
1.    The strengthening of human resources through improvements in the provision of education and
health services has been a central focus of the Government of Lesotho's development agenda for several
decades. Consistent with this development objective, the Government of Lesotho (GOL) undertook the
Second Population, Health and Nutrition Project (PHNII, Credit 2059-LSO). The importance of these
investments in preventive care and clinic-based curative care for the development of the health delivery
system was supported at the time of project identification by the fourth Health Sector Plan (1986-1991).
2.    The Project was conceived as an instrument of public investment in priority areas, based on
disease-specific morbidity and mortality assessment. It is a follow-up to the Population and Health
Project (Credit 1585-LSO), the Bank's first health project in Lesotho (1985-1992). PHNII became
effective in November 1989 and closed in March 1998; in 1995 the project was extended by 15 months,
and the second extension for one year was granted in 1997. The PHNII project sought to build upon the
first health project's contributions to: restructuring and expansion of the previously rudimentary health
system, especially in rural areas; construction of filter clinics; and the strengthening of Family Planning
(FP) and Tuberculosis (TB) services. In both projects the variances between the anticipated and actual
outcomes can be traced directly to the limited institutional and human resource capacity. The first and
second projects overlapped by three years, thus it was difficult to incorporate the lessons from the
completion report of the first project into the design of the second.
Project Objectives
3.     The project objectives as stated in the SAR were to: (i) continue strengthening the decentralized
health service infrastructure and logistical support system, both in rural and urban areas, and improve the
efficiency of service delivery; (ii) reduce the rate of population growth throughout the country and
enhance the delivery of family planning services; (iii) reduce morbidity and mortality through programs
targeted at critical health problems, including infant malnutrition and infectious diseases (TB,
STD/AIDS); (iv) enhance the economic efficiency and financial sustainability of the country's health care
system; (v) strengthen support systems for health planning, information and manpower development; and
(vi) introduce the necessary institutional and policy reforms, and draw upon NGO and private sector
resources, to realize the other above objectives.
4.    To achieve these objectives, the project was to implement the following six components. After
the mid-term review in 1994, two aspects of the nutrition component were dropped: (a) the provision of
credit for the purchase of diesel-powered grain mills which was to be implemented by the Lesotho
Agriculture Development Bank, and (b) the establishment of a nutritional surveillance system.
(a) Rural Health Services (US$3. 0 million). Activities included (i) upgrading and construction of
clinics; (ii) development of a preventive maintenance program; (iii) development of PHC support
teams; (iv) development of a drug inventory and budgeting system for clinics; and (v)
development of an HSA3 Development Fund for locally-defined priority activities.
3 Health Service Areas are the administrative units of the District Health System. They are essentially health districts, but are not
consistant with local government administrative districts.



Project Implementation Assessment                                                            2
(b) Urban Health Services (US$6. 7 million). Activities included: (i) construction and extension of
four Filter Clinics4, and cons truction of on-site accommodation; and (ii) upgrading of the QEII
Hospital through infrastructure improvement, provision of equipment and the building of
institutional and human capacity.
(c) Family Planning (US$1.1 million). This component included (i) training of key health
personnel in family planning; (ii) undertaking of workshops for national leaders to develop
consensus concerning a population policy; (iii) expansion of Lesotho Planned Parenthood
Association's efforts to train and deploy community-based distributors; and (iv) establishment of
a Youth Counseling Center.
(d) Nutrition and Food Security (US$0.4 million). Project activities included (i) training of
nutritionists and nutrition assistants; (ii) creation of nutritionist positions in MOHSW; (iii)
provision of credit to women's groups through the LADB for the purchase of diesel-powered
grain mills; and (iv) establishment of a nutritional surveillance system.
(e) Disease Control (US$2.3 million): The Sexually Transmitted Diseases component included (i)
establishment of a pilot scheme for comprehensive STD/AIDS management; (ii) provision of
equipment for the referral laboratories at selected hospitals; (iii) conducting of operational STD
management research; and (iv) improving the STD/AIDS reporting system. Tuberculosis
activities included: (i) Strengthening and supporting TB control program; (ii) improving TB drug
supply and drug monitoring system; (iii) improving TB treatment at CHAL facilities; (iv) training
and assigning PHC assistants with special TB responsibilities; and (v) conducting TB
management studies and annual evaluation of the TB control program.
(f) Institutional Development (US$5.1 million). Activities included: (i) improvement in financial
management, health planning, health information systems, human resource development and
planning; (ii) health promotion through strengthening and establishment of department and unit in
the MOHSW; (iii) training; (iv) technical assistance; (v) computerized information systems; (vi)
support to NHTC's five-year development plan including infrastructure improvements; and (vii)
equipment and capacity building.
S.     Given the limited institutional capacity of the borrower, a constraint which was recognized within
the PCR of the Population and Health Project, the objectives for the PHNII Project were probably overly
ambitious. They also focused on the achievements of short-term gains over the longer-term institutional
strengthening and commitment required to sustain these aims. Although policy reforms were mentioned,
the objectives appear to indicate an underestimation of the challenges of designing and implementing
effective policy reforms. Twenty-one legal covenants attempted to ensure actions critical to the
achievement of objectives. Some of these were found to be inappropriate or insufficient to protect
objectives. For example, although cost-recovery of aims of 12-15% of recurrent expenditure did result in
10% recovery, the remittance of fees to the center, the impact of fees on the poor, and the inefficient
collection of fees for tertiary care undermined the objective. Similarly, the requirement that posts be
established did not result in posts being filled.
Achievement of Objectives
6.     The project components are rated in the Statistical Tables attached which contain a detailed
discussion of the achievements and outstanding issues in each component. Achievements are discussed
4 The concept of Filter Clinics were introduced by the PHNII project. Thiese clinics aim to provide in- and out-patient services in
order to decrease pressure on regional hospitals and the national referral hospital, QEII.



Project Implementation Assessment                                                        3
under the following categories: priority health program objectives, infrastructure objectives, financial
objectives and institutional objectives. The project was successful in achieving objectives related to
priority health programs and infrastructure, but less successful at achieving objectives that were
institutional in nature. The project was also less successful in achieving objectives that required multi-
sectoral collaboration, for example, under the nutrition and food security component and the institutional
development component. As institutional interventions would have produced systemic improvements in
the delivery of specific health interventions, this shortcoming detracted to a certain extent, from the
sustainability of some of the successes in disease control and service delivery.
7.    Priority Health Program Objectives: Due to the inefficiency of monitoring systems, the impact
on morbidity and mortality cannot be quantified. Although, also not quantified, informants describe a
positive impact of the project on societal and government attitudes toward certain health interventions,
such as family planning, and STD services, especially services aimed at the youth. Anecdotal reports
from program managers suggest that, although the increase in prevalence of diseases such as TB and
STDs has not been halted, the rates of increase have been slowed over the past decade. PHC support
teams were established and--through these teams-- preventive interventions improved, and community-
based outreach work of clinics was strengthened. Many interventions also raised the awareness among
men about issues that have traditionally been perceived to be the responsibility of women (e.g. family
planning, STDs).
(a)    STDs: Despite many constraints and early delays, STD services and STD/IHV/AIDS
surveillance improved substantially under the project.5 The project contributed toward the
establishment of pilot STD programs which later became regional STD reference centers. These
centers provide regional laboratory support, and coordinate supervision and monitoring of clinic-
based STD interventions. The findings of a KABP study were used to develop youth-friendly
IEC materials. The availability of STD services to youth, however, has a strong urban bias.
Operational research was conducted which facilitated the development of locally-appropriate
STD interventions. A high level of awareness and commitment is being maintained among
district-based health professionals through on-going refresher training.
(b)    TB: Together with inputs from the Irish government, the project contributed toward the
drafting and dissemination of protocols for TB diagnosis and management, upgrading clinical
skills of relevant health professionals, and the improved clinical management of TB. Consumers
were generally happy with TB services, but rural clients continue to face the challenge of
traveling great distances to receive daily clinic-based TB treatment.
(c)    Family Planning: This project, together with other family planning inputs, contributed
substantially to the improvement of government and consumer attitudes toward family planning.
The project also facilitated the introduction and expansion of community-based distribution of
contraceptives, thereby substantially improving contraceptive coverage. The most recent
MOHSW data (1993) indicate contraceptive coverage to be at approximately 22%, but UNFPA
indicates that this figure has risen to close to 30%.6
(d)    Nutrition: The nutrition component was scaled down after the mid-term review. The
most important achievement was the appreciation by the MOHSW of its role in improving
5 AIDS reporting substantially improved: reported cases of AIDS increased from 10 in 1990 to 341 in 1995 and 2,203 in 1997.



-Project Implementation Assessment                                                           4
nutritional status and the need for a Nutrition Unit. Through training and technical assistance the
project contributed to the development and strengthening of the newly-established Nutrition Unit.
8.    Infrastructure Objectives: The construction and upgrading of the NHTC was successfully
completed, and the college is playing an important role in the development of a cadre of health workers
and professionals to serve the health sector. The upgrading and equipping of QEII hospital (funded by the
EU) was completed; however, maintenance has been deficient, and gains from upgrading are no longer
evident.7 The upgrading and equipping of 14 rural clinics was completed. A separate evaluation of the
rural clinic building program was recommended by the Bank Team and completed in 1997. It mainly
aimed to assess the efficiency of contract management under force account versus the employment of
private contractors. It presented lessons which should be incorporated into future programs, specifically
the need to pay attention to detail in construction, and the consequences of lack of insurance for project
vehicles, open-ended budgets, and unspecified contract completion dates. It also confirmed the
impression of the Task Manager that outsourcing had become a viable option which might improve upon
the quality and cost of civil works.
9.     Filter clinics were constructed despite substantial delays. Out-patient usage of the filter clinics is
steadily increasing8 and has decreased pressure on the out-patient department of QEII. As yet, they have
had no impact on the in-patient departments because wards in filter clinics are not operational. Some
reasons for the sub-optimal utilization of the filter clinics to date are: (i) they were constructed and
opened near the end of the project, so have only just becoime operational; (ii) it is difficult for QEII staff
to discourage use of QEII for primary care; (iii) none of the in-patient departments at the filter clinics
have yet been opened due to the inability to re-deploy sufficient staff to filter clinics and failure to budget
for the full operational costs of the new facilities; and (iv) lack of involvement of clinical professionals in
planning of clinics. These assets, especially the in-patient facilities, are likely to decline unless attention is
now given to utilization and maintenance.
10.   Responsibility for maintenance of clinics in the rural areas has been effectively assigned to a non-
government organization. Their approach has been to encourage community involvement and clinic
ownership by communities, which augurs well for the sustainability of rural clinic investments. In urban
areas the institutionalization of facilities management has not been very successful; to date -- despite
recognition of its importance -- the MOHSW has not yet been able to establish a post for an Estates
Manager.
11.    Financial Objectives: The most important financial objective was to increase revenue collection
at health facilities to recover 15% of recurrent costs. This was achieved in most HSAs (30-40%), except
for the Maseru HSA where collection was as low as 6% of recurrent costs. The design and
implementation of the revenue collection system serve mainly an accounting purpose, with little
consideration for efficiency. It is therefore unclear whether the revenue collected always exceeded the
transaction costs of revenue retrieval. Another cost is that of closing some facilities at midday to enable
providers to take the revenues to the central collection point. The impact of fees on use by the poor is
unknown. Fee revenues are not locally retained, and local quality improvements--a main justification for
user charges--were not implemented. Although a stated objective was to improve the efficiency of service
delivery, mechanisms envisioned to achieve efficiency improvements were never clearly defined.
7 The decline of the investments into the QEII hospital may be part of efforts by some in the Ministry to underscore the need for
the building of a new referral hospital.
8 For example, comparison of the average use for the first 6 months after opening and the past 6 months shows a 78% increase in
utilization of the Qoaling filter clinic.



Project Implementation Assessment                                                     5
12.   Institutional Objectives: In addition to the achievements and shortcomings listed below, the
project contributed to the growing realization in the health sector of the need for health policy reform and
attention to institutional strengthening (as evidenced in the 1995 Health and Social Welfare Sector Plan
and 1996 Round Table Document). The momentum generated through this process is a direct result of
the project. During the last year of the project, seven multi-sectoral and multi-professional working
groups were formed, coordinated by the Health Planning and Statistics Unit. The focus of these groups
has been on systems development (i.e., financial management, human resource development and
planning, infrastructure planning and maintenance), within which disease-specific interventions were
implemented. While these groups require on-going support, their emphasis on institutional strengthening
as opposed to a "wish-list" of separate interventions, clearly signifies progress.
a.    Financial Management:  The previous financial controller spearheaded numerous
financial management reforms, but the impact was limited due to her retirement and the lack of
commitment to the project objectives by her successor. In addition, financial management staff
are Ministry of Finance cadre which affects their commitment to the objectives of the MOHSW,
and the role of leadership in the MOHSW in affecting improvements in financial management.
Optimal implementation of the decentralized financial management system is being facilitated by
the recent efforts to appoint accounting staff at the district level.
b.    Health Planning:  Numerous consultant reports stressed the importance of, and
mechanisms for, improving the functioning of the Health Planning and Statistics Unit (HPSU).
Little success was achieved due to: (i) the appointment of economic planners who, because of
rotation of between ministries, had little incentive to acquire health-specific expertise; (ii) the loss
of staff trained under the project to South Africa and other government departments; (iii) poorly
articulated demand for the outputs of HPSU; and (iv) failure of HPSU to implement many sound
and legitimate findings of technical consultants.
C.    Human Resource Development: Inputs focused on studies and consultancies, and the
creation of institutional structures (e.g. creation of specific posts, formation of the
Manpower/Human Resource Development Department). There was little emphasis on incentives,
institutional arrangements, and operational guidelines to improve the management and efficiency
of the system. While the creation of institutional structures is important, there appears to have
been an implicit assumption that the creation of these departments or posts were sufficient
indicators of institutional development and reform.
13.   Many institutional interventions required government-wide action (e.g. with the Treasury and
Accountant-General, the Public Service Administration, the Ministry of Agriculture, the Department of
Population and Manpower in the Ministry of Planning, the LADB, etc.). The difficulty of achieving inter-
ministerial and inter-agency cooperation was underestimated in some instances (as in the nutrition
surveillance), but there were other instances in which inter-ministerial cooperation was achieved once
MOHSW leadership placed sufficient priority on such collaboration (e.g., acquiring the posts for a human
resource development unit).
Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project
14.   The project closed with SDR1.69 million of the SDR9.4 million Credit undisbursed. After the
first 3 years, disbursement slowed substantially, and in 1995 cumulative disbursement was 49% (Table
4). Technical assistance was one of the largest areas of underspending (although Table 5B does not



Project Implementation Assessment                                                       6
include TA provided by the parallel financiers). This low disbursement is not unique to this project and is
a more generic problem that the MOHSW faces -- the Ministry annually underspends on its own budget,
and fails to implement many planned interventions. This is related to poor planning, poor financial and
management information systems, and problems associated with leadership due to the frequent turnover
in Principal Secretaries and Ministers, as well as senior staff.
15.   Although several factors which adversely affected the project were not fully under the
Borrower's control, measures could have been taken by the MOHSW to minimize the impact of these
factors. Clearly, a constraint which affected the environment was the lack of political stability: after 7
years of military rule, a multi-party democracy was introduced in 1993. Its introduction has been
followed by dissension in various parts of the civil service, a coup d'etat in 1994, and major political
divisions in government in 1997 which continue to date, culminating in September 1998 with severe civil
strife. These political dynamics have given rise to certain political economic strictures that influenced the
functioning of civil service and the MOHSW.
16.   Complex property laws caused substantial delays in the acquisition of land for the construction of
clinics and resulted in considerable escalation of construction costs. The combination of a lack of
continued leadership, high staff turnover, and the loss of trained staff to South Africa have impacted
negatively on the attainment and sustainability of project and sectoral objectives. Consequently, the
capacity for implementation and the priority given to the project at conception was not sustained
throughout. The high staff turnover also resulted in a lack of institutional memory, and exacerbated
delays in the acquisition of land for the construction of clinics. Although the limited success of civil
service reform posed a problem which could continue in the future, the loss of staff to other government
departments by MOHSW could have been minimized through improved human resource management
and planning.
Sustainability and Future Operation
17.   It is uncertain whether the successes that were achieved are sustainable as the institutional
development component and the institutional aspects of the other components are the weakest
achievements. In recognition of the capacity implications of projects with substantial 'hardware' and
'software' aspects, the PCR of the first health project, undertaken three years into PHNII implementation,
recommended that in projects with substantial capacity building objectives, the 'hardware' elements
should be kept to a minimum. The implementation experience of the PHNII project reconfirms this
recommendation.
18.   There was, and continues to be, strong reliance on non-Basotho for the management and
leadership of critically important disease interventions and programs, e.g. TB and STD-HIV/AIDS
programs. Nearly a third of all staff who received project-financed long-term training have departed from
the Ministry. The failure of GOL to budget satisfactorily for the recurrent cost implications of
investments in human capital (i.e., upgrading of posts) contributed substantially to this loss of staff.
Capacity building was narrowly interpreted as training for the acquisition of administrative and technical
skills, with less attention paid to changing the incentive framework which would have enabled trained
officials to implement their newly acquired skills.
19.   The reliance on CHAL and LPPA in the delivery of services stresses the importance of
concluding effective agreements with NGOs. Substantial progress has been made in the production of a
Memorandum of Understanding between GOL and CHAL, and both parties have moved from an initial



Project Implementation Assessment                                                   7
adversarial relationship to a more moderate and informed position.
Bank Performance
20.   Bank performance is rated "marginally satisfactory".  Many of the shortcomings in the
performance of the Borrower, and the PMU in particular, should have been detected and addressed earlier
in the project lifespan. Furthermore, after the mid-term review, the quantity of the Bank's inputs, as
reflected in the frequency of supervision missions, was not sufficient. If Bank supervision missions had
encompassed a broader span of skills, and placed a greater emphasis on institutional development, some
constraints may have been addressed.
21.   Project identification was consistent with the GOL's fourth Health Plan, but what emerged was a
relatively large project which sought to address a wide range of sectoral needs. Considering the size of
the country and the health sector, the project was quite complex (although not unusual for this generation
of HNP projects). Unfortunately, the various project components were conceived and implemented as
vertical components, with a combination of institutional development interventions comprising a separate
component. This arrangement obscured the importance of institution building in the ultimate success and
sustainability of the interventions undertaken in the various components. Integration of institution
building into the component interventions could have increased the demand for institutional interventions.
The approach to institutional change adopted in the SAR was a planning-oriented approach instead of a
behavior change approach aimed at putting in place the institutional arrangements to provide incentives to
managers to perform optimally.
22.   The deign and appraisal process made extensive use of local Basotho talent and non-Bank
consultants, but was heavily reliant on support from a few key officials. At appraisal there appears to
have been an underestimation of the implied human resources and capacity needed for project
management and implementation. Given the capacity constraints within the MOHSW, the composition of
the PMU proposed in the SAR (a project manager, administrative assistant and accounts clerk) was found
to be inadequate during project supervision. Although concern was expressed in the SAR regarding the
ability of the MOHSW to absorb recurrent cost implications of district hospital upgrading being proposed
by the MOHSW at the time, this concern did not appear to apply to the filter clinics being proposed under
the project, as there was no explicit analysis of their recurrent cost implications.
23.   Given the complexity of the project, supervision was a challenge. Monitoring of progress and
project implementation was detailed and well received by staff. Comments from supervision missions
were extremely helpful and constructive, and represented--in many instances--the only real feedback that
component managers received. Although, some officials felt that there were instances where the Bank
was too flexible by failing to effectively challenge the MOHSW when implementation slowed. Bank
inputs did not reflect advances and innovations in organizational development and institution building,
and more extensive use of institutional development specialists would have been beneficial. Toward the
end of this nine-year project, there appears to have been a decline in supervision of the project and only
the civil works consultant visited the project. There was no formal supervision report (590) for a 12
month period in 1996/97. These were the years subsequent to the first project extension and should have
been the time when the Bank intensified its supervision. The retirement of the Task Manager, the lack of
a Task Team, and the delay in formal reassignment in Task Management partly explains the lapse in
supervision. This period coincided with reorganization within the Bank and changes in management of
the Lesotho country portfolio which may explain why the situation did not receive timely attention from
management.



Project Implementation Assessment                                                    8
24.   The wisdom of extending the entire project should be questioned, since some of the non-
performing aspects of the project had already been canceled after the mid-term review. It appears that
there was insufficient analysis by the Bank of the causes of the low performance of the institutional
components, as it would have been evident that additional time would be insufficient to achieve the
outstanding institutional objectives. Knowledge in the areas of institutions and institutional improvement
had grown considerably since the project was conceived, and these should have been reflected in
supervision mission outputs, the mid-term review or in response to the Borrower's requests for project
extension.
Borrower Performance
25.   Borrower performance is rated "marginally satisfactory". Although several (of the many)
Principle Secretaries and component managers were committed to the project's success, leadership and
project oversight dissipated. This occurred after the first few years of the project, and can largely be
ascribed to the departure of key officials who were involved in project preparation, and general
leadership problems within the MOHSW. Commitment to the project was variable among the component
managers and was strongly influenced by personal and family relations, and political affiliations.
26.   The Project Management Unit (PMU) operated separately from the line function operations of
the Ministry. This was a valid decision at the outset of the project because of capacity constraints in the
MOHSW (and it was also a lesson learned from the first project). Despite encouragement by later Bank
Supervision Missions, little effort was made to formally incorporate the PMU into the MOHSW. While
many component managers appreciated the ability of the PMU to avoid the bureaucracy of the MOHSW
and facilitated access to funds, this came at the expense of disciplined planning by managers. This
arrangement also raised concerns about accountability and ownership, since many component managers
perceived the PMU as being primarily accountable to the World Bank. Some also felt threatened by the
decision-making power which, by default rather than by design, came to be vested in the PMU.
27.   Project management focused on addressing day-to-day operational requirements -- which was
done very effectively. Procurement and disbursement operations were also well managed. In the absence
of leadership from the Ministry however, this was insufficient to implement the program. The role of
project leadership was to have remained in the MOHSW, yet the PMU was often assumed to have
responsibility for leading the program. This in part could be the result of (i) the PS's office, to which the
project was accountable, being too senior to provide effective and prioritized oversight, (ii) the limited,
fixed-term appointment of PSs resulted in frequent turnover; and (iii) the sporadic nature of Project
Advisory Committee meetings. The feedback mechanisms to ensure that the recommendations of
Supervision Missions, evaluations and consultant reports were formally considered and responded to,
were not very effective.
28.   The PMU lacked sufficient capacity to perform a high level of financial management. The
deficiencies in this area reflect a lack of supervision and support from the Borrower (MOHSW and MOF)
and the Bank. In the absence of external technical support, a Financial Management Advisory
Committee, or clearly identified financial management procedures and guidelines, the following
weaknesses in financial and operational management were identified at the Completion Mission: (i) PMU
was unable to produce its own Project Financial Statements -- the only reports prepared were by the
office of the Auditor General; (ii) the absence of a Cash Flow Management system gave rise toad hoc
management of cash flow; and (iii) accounting records, such as cash books for the Maloti Current account



Project Implementation Assessment                                                        9
and the Special Account, were not kept up to date. A detailed assessment of project financial management
appears in Appendix B.
Assessment of Outcome
29.   Overall, the project outcome was marginally satisfactory9. Significant accomplishments were
made in the specific health programs targeted and in improving infrastructure, but limited achievements
in the area of financial management, health information, human resource planning and development, and
health planning detract from the sustainability of these successes. Bringing about institutional change is
one of the more difficult development challenges. Although knowledge in institutional development and
capacity building has grown substantially over the past decade, many shortcomings in project design and
certain aspects of supervision reflect conventional wisdom at the time. An important indirect effect is the
current emphasis and focus on the improvement of the institutions that underpin the existing investments:
the need to focus on the basics and get the fundamentals right.
Future Operation
30.    Many lessons learned and recommendations are to be addressed by the currently proposed sector-
wide approach to developing the health sector. This approach provides a favorable framework which
could facilitate resolution of many institutional issues that need to be addressed. An important result of
the project has been the current emphasis and focus on institution building. The current discourse on the
health reforms has moved away from deliberations about disease-specific interventions, to improvement
of the institutions that underpin the existing investments. Work on the design of the new program has
recognized the need for more widespread ownership among the range of stakeholders and is addressing
this in preparation. It will also attempt to address the human resource constraints from the outset, and is
working with staff to consider the feasibility of commitments given institutional constraints.
Key Lessons Learned
31.   The most important lessons learned are identified below. These lessons are informed by current
conventional wisdom, and suggest key areas that need to be addressed by the Borrower and Bank in any
future Bank operations in the sector:
*  In  a capacity  constrained  environment, implementation  experience  suggests that
project/program designs be simplified and focus on fundamentals.
*  Accountability, ownership and Borrower oversight problems could be partly addressed by (i)
integrating the Project Management Unit into the MOHSW structures; (ii) securing broad-
based support, ownership and commitment to the project from a wider range of stakeholders.
*  Broader stakeholder involvement in project identification and preparation is required to
buffer against changes in leadership and staff turnover. Efforts need to be made to ensure
that incoming officials who are key to the project are fully involved in and committed to
project implementation. If commitment has decreased, and/or staff turnover has resulted in a
substantial decline in implementation capacity, project objectives and strategy should be re-
assessed.
Although the Completion mission did assess the outcome as unsatisfactory, further input from the borrower and review ofthe
findings by the managing unit concluded that an unsatisfactory rating did not acknowledge the achievements which were made.



Project Implementation Assessment                                                      10
*  Sustainable improvements in the health system demand attention to institutional capacity, yet
these longer-term aims require specialized inputs from the Bank. Where institutional
development is key to sustainability, expertise in this area is essential during supervision to
evaluate technical assistance provided, and the continued merit and viability of various
institutional building interventions.
*  Supervision of financial management also requires specialized inputs. Project preparation
and appraisal need to consider requirements for building and sustaining sufficient financial
management capacity. Supervision budgets must provide for sufficient expertise in the Task
Team and in preparation and supervision missions.
*  Bank supervision was highly valued, as it was often the only substantive feedback that
program managers received. Supervision was key to the success in the programmatic disease
interventions.
*  Task Teams (rather than single Task Managers) are required to ensure continuity on the part
of the Bank.
*  Impact assessment is not possible without baseline data, and a monitoring system should be
in place at project inception with monitoring undertaken by relevant units. A formal
mechanism of incorporating findings and recommendations from evaluation reports and
technical assistance inputs into program implementation should be devised.
*  The Bank should, in considering project extensions, distinguish between activities which
simply require more time for completion and those which have not progressed due to
institutional constraints or lack of commitment.



Statistical Annexes                                                                                11
LESO THO: Population, Health & Nutrition II Project
PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1A: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of objectives    Substantial      Partial       Negligible      Not applicable
Macro policies                                                                      X
Sector policies                                                    X
Financial objectives                               X
Institutional development                          X
Physical objectives                 X
Poverty reduction                                                                   X
Gender issues                       X
Other social objectives                                                             X
Environmental objectives                                                            X
Public sector management                                                            X
Private sector development                                                          X
Other (specify)                                                                     X
B. Project sustainability         Likely        Unlikely       Uncertain    i
x
C. Bank performance              Highly        Satisfactory    Deficient          Highly
satisfactoryv                                  unsatisfactory
Identification                                     X
Preparation assistance                             X
Appraisal                                                          X
Supervision                                                        x
D. Borrower performance          Highly        Satisfactory    Deficient          Highly
sati facto                                     unsatisfactory
Preparation                                        X
Implementation                                                     X
Covenant compliance                                X
Operation (if applicable)                                          X
E. Assessment of outcome         Highly        Satisfactory;    Deficeient        Highly
x



Statistical Annexes                                                                             12
LESOTHO: Population, Health & Nutrition II Project
Table 1B: Summary of Assessments: Rural Health Services Component
A. Achievement of objectives    Substantial     Partial      Negligible     Not applicable
Macro policies                                                                    X
Sector policies                                   X
Financial objectives               X
Institutional development                         X
Physical objectives                X
Poverty reduction                                                                 X
Gender issues                                                                     X
Other social objectives                                                           X
Environmental objectives                                                          X
Public sector management                                                          x
Private sector development                                                        X
Other (specify)             |                               _X
B. Project sustainability        Likely        Unlikely      Uncertain
x
C. Assessmentof outcome         Highly       Satisfactory     Deficient         Highly
satisfactory                                  unsatisfactory
x



Statistical Annexes                                                                                                                13
CompOnent  VDesription      )                      Acievemen and    sndiugi issues                                         Riting*
Rural Health  Upgrading of fourteen existing clinics and   Clinic upgrading, construction and equipping was successfully completed. These  S
Services    construction of one new clinic in remote    clinics have substantially improved the quantity and quality of the health
areas.                               infrastructure, especially in underserved areas. Some clinics are not yet fully
operational. At appraisal it was explicitly decided that works will be carried out by
force account, but the local contracting industry has matured since the late 1980s.
An evaluation of the rural clinic upgrading program recommended more extensive
use of outsourcing; contractors should be held responsible for losses; all vehicles
should be insured; contractors should be held to a set completion date and budget;
professional assistance with contract administration was proposed.
Development of a preventive maintenance   Maintenance is funded by MOHSW and implemented by CHAL. Community     HS
program for HSA facilities.          involvement in maintenance is encouraged, although MOHSW was initially very
hesitant. The District Management Improvement Program prepared maintenance
manuals for the HSAs in order that the QEII Maintenance Department would
provide back-up to the HSAs.
Establishment of Primary Health Care  PHC support teams were established in 1991. Their inputs expanded gradually, and  HS
teams in each HSA, development of a   they were fully functional in 1996. This was facilitated by intensive training of
course for Public Health Nurses at NHTC,  public health nurses and health assistants by NHTC. Good leadership from
and provision of vehicles for six mountain   MOHSW proved to be instrumental. Through these teams the preventive and
HSAs.                                 health promotive interventions improved, and community-based outreach work of
clinics were strengthened. Rural field training at the upgraded Tsa'Kholo clinic and
hostels was delayed because of no water supply. This has recently been corrected
and field training of public health nurses is proceeding.
Provision of raw materials for the    Successfully implemented.                                                 HS
manufacture of drugs by the LPC.
Development of facility-based inventory    Mechanisms were developed, but because of poor stakeholder involvement,  US
and budget systems to improve drug    especially in the districts, the recommendations and proposed procedures were
ordering by the clinics.              never fully implemented. Transparency was felt to be lacking and rationalization of
drug use was imposed by merely cutting drug allocations.
Conducting a study of options for     Study was to be completed by Dec. 1990. Missions recommended repeatedly that  MS
increased efficiency and self-fmancing of   MOHSW inform IDA what its intention was with regard to completion of study.
the drug system.                      Study was eventually done but with substantial delay.
* The ratings focus narrowly on the implementation of specific activities, and less on the sustainability. Sustainability is considered more in the rating of the objectives.



Statistical Annexes                                                                                                                         14
Component  Description (DCA)                          Achievements and Outstanding issues                                          Rating
Establishment of an HSA Development     The oversight committee functioned for the first few years of the project. By 1997,  MS
Fund to provide resources to each HSA to   30 projects had been approved, of which 22 had been implemented for a total of
carry out locally-defined priority activities.  M408,3 15. Utilization of the fund continued until March 1997. There is little
follow-up to ascertain the impact of funds.
HS = Highly satisfactory
S  = Satisfactory
MS = Marginally Satisfactory
US = Unsatisfactory
* The ratings focus narrowly on the implementation of specific activities, and less on the sustainability. Sustainability is considered more in the rating of the objectives.



Statistical Annexes                                                                              15
LESOTHO: Population, Health & Nutrition II Project
Table 1C: Summary of Assessments: Urban Health Services Component
A. Achievement of objectives  :- Substantl      Partial       Negligible    Not applicable
Macro policies                                                                   X
Sector policies                                    X
Financial objectives                                              X
Institutional development                          X
Physical objectives                X
Poverty reduction                                                                X
Gender issues                                                                    X
Other social objectives                                                          X
Environmental objectives                                                         X
Public sector management                                                         X
Private sector development                                                        X
Other (specify)                                                                  x
B. Projectsustainability         Likely         Unlikelyv     Unceftain-
x
6SiCa iA  t   k-t- a E L LL\ E !                 E:                  i.             g  Y,E; ::Ei
C. Asssmet    outcomte           Highly      Satfisfactoy/    Dei cient       Hig l
satisfactor                                 .unsatisfactor
x



Statistical Annexes                                                                                                                  16
Component   Description (DCA)                       Achievements and Outstanding issues                                  Rating
Urban Health   Establishment of three Filter Clinics in  Building of filter clinics was successfully completed with delays and  S
Services    Maseru and one in Maputsoe, including    resultant cost increases. Construction errors further increased the cost (some
the construction of on-site          costs were borne by Ministry of Works). Qoaling clinic was proposed for
accommodation for five staff members for  cancellation after the mid-term review, but was completed nonetheless.
each clinic (except Mapaleng clinic) and   Utilization of filter clinics is steadily increasing. Although filter clinics are
the provision of a multi-purpose vehicle   not functioning at optimal levels congestion has been decreased at QEII out-
and an ambulance for Maseru and an   patient department; in-patient departments at filter clinics are not yet
ambulance for Maputsoe.              operational. Some contributing factors are: the concept of filter clinics is
new in the Lesotho health sector; insufficient deployment of doctors and
recruitment of nurses; layout of clinics and the proximity of male wards to
maternity wards; lack of operating facilities (physicians' view); insufficient
space for laboratory and x-ray procedures; inadequate drug supply at some
clinics.
Upgrading of the QEII Hospital in Maseru  Upgrading and equipping successfully performed (financed by EU), but  S
through infrastructure improvement,  maintenance has been deficient and gains from upgrading are no longer
provision of equipment and the       evident. Some aspects of the upgrading were dropped due to cost increases.
introduction of a new organizational  The management consultancy (financed by DflD) was stopped prematurely
structure and improved management    because of cost overruns. Although several objectives were unfulfilled, it
practices.                           was found to be beneficial. A subsequent evaluation found that many
recommendations of the consultancy were not implemented: Estate
management - action plan and procedures were drafted but posts were not
filled; Hospital Advisory Board - was established, and functioned
reasonably well; the Board contributed to management improvement, but
the central administration was not receptive to many of its
recommendations. Given the lack of follow-up and maintenance, the failure
to implement computerized system proved to be prudent.
Conducting a training program to enhance  Training was completed. There was inadequate transfer of skills by  MS
the skills of hospital medical, technical    consultants, and the transfer and loss of trained staff impeded sustainability
and administrative staff.            of capacity building inputs.
Conducting a hospital efficiency study for  Functional Expenditure analysis study was done, but usefulness is hard to  MS
QEII and eight district hospitals.   assess as feedback was not broadly shared with management.



Statistical Annexes                                                                                                              17
Component 4De cition tDCA)                         AchiementandO        inding iues                                   Rt in g
Conducting a study to examine options    Masterplan study (a rationalization study) was undertaken and completed.  S
for the size, functions and phased  The study examined, amongst others, options establishment of a new
establishment of a new national referral    national referral hospital. The extent to which this study informed the
hospital.                           MOHSW's position on a new referral hospital is unclear.



Statistical Annexes                                                                           18
LESOTHO: Population, Health & Nutrition II Project
Table 1D: Summary of Assessments: Family Planning Component
A. Achievement of objectives    Substantial   Partial       Negligible    Not applicable
Macro policies                                                                X
Sector policies                                  X
Financial objectives                                                          X
Institutional development                        X
Physical objectives.                                                          x
Poverty reduction                                                             x
Gender issues                     X
Other social objectives                                                       x
Environmental objectives                                                      X
Public sector management                                                      X
Private sector development                                                    x
Other (specify)                                                               x
B. Project sustainability       Likely        Unlikely      Uncertain
x
C. Assessment of outcome        Highly      Satisfactory    Deficient       Highly
satisfactory                               unsatisfactory
x



Statistical Annexes                                                                                                               19
Component   Deription (DiA)                       Achievntnd Ous ta ndig issues                                           Rati i
Family    Training of key health personnel in family  Local and foreign training of nurse tutors successfully done. Training workshops in  S
Planning    planning.                            contraceptive technology (aimed at nurse clinicians, nurse midwives and doctors)
and surgical contraception (aimed at doctor-nurse teams) were completed, but many
have left the Ministry.
Undertaking of workshops for national  Several workshops were held that were able to raise the level of awareness about  MS
leaders to develop consensus concerning a  family planning and population policy and to start the process of consensus
population policy.                   building. In a country where the notion of family planning was not only foreign, but
socially unacceptable, it is quite an achievement that the policy report produced.
The process was led by an Inter-Ministerial Task Force based in the Department of
Planning and Manpower. The remaining issues and challenges reflected in a 1996
review are: the lack of national consensus on the population policy; the policy
lacked a gender focus; the proposed population policy was overly optimistic and not
implementable; the policy was drafted with limited consultation with the relevant
donors such as UNFPA; and the lack of effective composition and functioning of the
institutional framework for implementing the National Population Policy.
Conducting seminars for MOHSW, PHAL   The seminars were conducted and raised the level of awareness of managers with  S
and NGO officials in the management of   regard to family planning and management of programs, and facilitated better
population/family planning programs.  implementation of FP services.
Expansion of Lesotho Planned Parenthood  A working group comprised of officials from Family Health Division and LPPA  HS
Association's effort to train and deploy  defined exactly how expansion should proceed and division of responsibility
community-based distributors.        between LPPA and MOHSW. LPPA was approached to manage the expansion
from 3 to 10 clinics. Training and refresher courses facilitated expansion. This
expansion was successful. Once fully operational the program was taken over by the
MOHSW, and recently it was again expanded nationally. Some logistical and
distribution problems associated with the expansion are currently being resolved.
Training and equipping of VHWs in two or  Successfully implemented and was expanded to other areas.            HS
three pilot areas.



Statistical Annexes                                                                                                                 20
Component  Description (DCA)                       Achievements and Outstanding issues                                       Rating
Establishment of a Youth Counseling   Two youth counselors were appointed and based at Maputsoe and Maseru.       S
Center at Maputsoe.                   Appointment of a third counselor was being planned. Numerous peer educators have
been trained and work extensively among the youth. Initially the program had a
strong rural focus, but the departure of the Maputsoe counselor for training has left
the Maputsoe center unstaffed. The need for expansion of these services to other
rural areas is expressed by many clinic attendees in rural areas. The Youth
Counseling program is expected to form a key component of the Adolescent Health
program in the MOHSW which is currently being developed.
Provision of contraceptives for MOHSW  Supply of contraceptives is generally good in MOHSW clinics, and even more  S
and LPPA.                             consistent at LPPA facilities. Although the buffer stock remains below the
recommended 12 month level, the resolution of logistical problems have ensured
sustained supply.



Statistical Annexes                                                                             21
LESOTHO: Population, Health & Nutrition II Project
Table IE: Summary of Assessments: Food and Nutrition Component
,A Achievement;of objectives:ji   Substantiad   Partial       Negligible  "Not applicable
Macro policies                                                                  X
Sector policies                                   X
Financial objectives                                                            X
Institutional development                         X
Physical objectives                                                             X
Poverty reduction                                                               X
Gender issues                                                                   x
Other social objectives                                                         X
Environmental objectives                                                        X
Public sector management                                                        X
Private sector development                                                      X
Other (specify)                                                                 X
B Prjectsustinablt    0   iLikely'         Unilikely    JUncertain
x
jc. Aisesiment o outcome         Highly      Saifcoy          Dercient        Hgl
satisfactory                                unsatisfactory
x



Statistical Annexes                                                                                                                 22
Component  Description (DCA)                       Achievements and Outstanding issues                                        Rating
Food and    Provision of fellowships for masters-level   Although training was provided, the overall impact was only marginally satisfactory  MS
Nutrition    training in applied human nutrition to two   because the nutritionists were lost from the MOHSW. Short training courses and
MOHSW staff members, and provision of  study tours were jointly financed with UNICEF and have proved beneficial..
training for nutrition assistants and
supervisors.
Provision of two vehicles to enhance  Vehicles were purchased and is currently being utilized by the Nutrition Unit.  S
mobility of supervisory personnel in
Qacha's Nek, Quthing and MOHSW
headquarters.
Provision of credit to women's groups  Activity was canceled after the mid-term review due to non-performance (lack of  US
through the LADB for the purchase of  nutrition staff, inactivity of LADB other factors affecting the Nutrition Component).
diesel-powered grain mills,           The agreement with LADB was canceled, and money was to be used for purchase of
hand grinders to be distributed to VHW, for rental to village women at a nominal
rental fee. This was not implemented because of the shortage of nutrition staff.
Creation of nutritionist positions, one in  The positions were established. but the initial delay and the low level at which these  S
the Family Health Division of MOHSW   positions were created contributed to the loss of the nutritionists trained under the
and the other in the field.           Credit. Nutrition Unit collapsed in 1994. No nutrition activities were included in the
restructured project, pending the re-establishment of the Nutrition Unit. Unit was re-
established in 1996 and now has 4 nutritionist posts which have been filled.
Establishment of nutritional surveillance    Not implemented. Reasons are: lack of nutrition staff in MOHSW; poor coordination    US
system.                               between MOHSW and Ministry of Agriculture, despite Nutrition Coordination Office
being created in the Prime Minister's Office; and lack of support from MOHSW
leadership.



Statistical Annexes                                                                               23
LESOTHO: Population, Health & Nutrition II Project
Table IF: Summary of Assessments: Disease Control Component
A. Achievement of objectiveslz4;.:: :Substantia-:;    Partial:  Negligible    Not applicable
Macro policies                                                                     X
Sector policies                     X
Financial objectives                               X
Institutional development                          X
Physical objectives                                                                X
Poverty reduction                                                                  X
Gender issues                       X
Other social objectives                                                           X
Environmental objectives                                                          X
Public sector management                                                           X
Private sector development                                                         X
Other (specify)                                                                    X
B. Projet sustainabiity           Likely        Unlikely 70!   Uncertain: 
x
C A~sessmn ofotcm                  higl       :Satisfactory     Deiin             ighl
satisfactory                                 unsatsfactr
x



Statistical Annexes                                                                                                                 24
Component  Description (DCA)                       Achievements                                                               Rating
Disease    Provision of TB drugs through the Lesotho  For the most part, drug supply shortages experienced due to liquidity and  SI
Control:    Pharmaceutical Corporation and        management difficulties at NDSO. Some drugs have been directly procured from
Tuberculosis  establishment of an improved system for    suppliers until NDSO able to assure reliable supplies. GOL is increasingly taking
Control    monitoring drug supply and consumption.   over greater proportion of the TB drug costs.
Strengthening of the Disease Control and    New TB advisor (funded by Irish Government) appointed in 1990 whose contract  S
Environmental Health Division at      was repeatedly extended until 1997. New diagnosis and treatment manuals were
MOHSW Headquarters to support the TB    drafted, distributed and implemented. Regular quarterly supervisory visits have been
control program.                      made to HSAs. A Masotho counterpart doctor was appointed in 1991, but departed
in 1993 shortly after receiving training. The same happened to a second doctor in
1997 after receiving MPH training under the program. Inability to retain a local
head of the program has remained an important shortcoming, and is of even greater
concern after departure of the Irish TB advisor.
Provision of improved treatmernt of TB irn-  Since July 1991 TB inpatient charges at PHAL facilities were abolished and GOL  HS
patients at PHAL facilities.          agreed to quarterly reimbursements. The beneficiary assessments suggested general
satisfaction with TB treatment.
Assignment of at least one public health  Deployment of health assistants to HSAs was successfully completed. Follow-up  HS
assistant in each HSA to be responsible for  training occurred locally and abroad. Training workshops were held for traditional
primary health care activities with   healers. IEC materials complemented the programmatic interventions. The
emphasis on TB control. Provision of  purchased motorcycles were initially inadequate and were replaced. Appropriate
appropriate training, on-site         upgrading of driving skills enabled more effective use of motorcycles by health
accommodation and motorcycles to      assistants. TB coordinators were appointed in HSAs to follow up more closely on
support above activities.             defaulters and to reduce the heavy workload of health assistants.
Undertaking an independent annual     After receiving necessary training, a TB survey among miners, a tuberculin survey  S
evaluation of the TB control program and   and a drug sensitivity survey were completed and analyzed in conjunction with the
conducting following studies: tuberculosis  South African Medical Research Council's TB Program. In 1993/4 HIV testing of
survey, drug sensitivity survey, and pilot    TB patients revealed 12-15% prevalence rate. In 1996 this figure was 30-40%. This
six-month trial on multi-drug supervised    required specific, more expensive drugs to be used among these patients causing the
ambulatory chemotherapy.              TB drug costs to increase substantially.



Statistical Annexes                                                                                                                25
Co Xmponentt :Descriptiont li\i;t (DCA)            Act X t0 0 20 hievementand Outstamdingses                               R d        itingis
Disease    Establishment of a pilot scheme for   The STD programs in pilot HSAs were delayed due to slow identification of staff.  S
Control:   treating and counseling STD/AIDS patients  One pilot district changed to ensure close link with HIV/AIDS pilot program
Sexually   in three HSAs, including the training of    areas. These pilot areas later became regional reference centers that provide
Transmitted   personnel, provision of transport, drugs  regional laboratory support, supervision and monitoring. STD training
Disease    and equipment, and the remodeling of  incorporated in short course for MCH/FP trainers. Laboratory technicians for
Control    existing hospital and clinic facilities.  pilot HSAs trained at QEII hospital. Chronic shortage of drugs occurred due to
NDSO's financial and management crises.
Provision of equipment for the central  Laboratory and clinical space is seriously lacking, even after the renovations of  MS
laboratory at QEII Hospital and       QEII to create STD clinic. Through the Irish funded MEDLAB project technical
laboratories in the Butha Buthe and   assistance from Irish laboratory technician was provided and local counterparts
Mohales Hoek hospitals.              have been trained.
Carrying out of operational research on  Studies on etiology of STD syndromes and anti-microbial sensitivity and  HS
high risk groups.                    resistance pattern was completed in 1994. Results were discussed and protocol for
syndromic management of STDs were drafted and approved. IEC materials were
produced and distributed. Training of HSA nurses and doctors on syndromic
approach, drug management and use of new reporting forms and syphilis
screening followed. Training was expanded to pharmacy technicians and doctors
in Flying Doctor Service. Refresher courses are routinely conducted. Reliance on
expatriate may hamper sustainability.
Modification of the existing MOHSW    STD advisor was never appointed, but short term clinical and management    S
screening and disease reporting system to   advisors were eventually used. Despite limited advisory support, inadequate space
better capture HIV/STD patients.      and other limitations, the STD program progressed well. STD management and
treatment protocols have been developed, presented to QEII staff, HSA nurse
clinicians, LHDA staff. Processing of data collected with new forms is limited by
failure to establish HMIS. Anecdotal evidence from clinicians suggest that STD
prevalence remains high.



Statistical Annexes                                                                           26
LESOTHO: Population, Health & Nutrition II Project
Table 1G: Summary of Assessments: Institutional Development Component
A. Achievement of objectives-   Subsbtntial.   Partial      Negligible    Not aDplicable
Macro policies                                                                X
Sector policies                                  X
Financial objectives                                            X
Institutional development                                       X
Physical objectives                                                           X
Poverty reduction                                                             X
Gender issues                                                                 X
Other social objectives                                                       X
Environmental objectives                                                      X
Public sector management                                                      X
Private sector development                                                    X
Other (specify)                                                               X
B. Project sustainability       Likely        Unlikely      Uncertain
x
C. Assessment of outcome        Highly      Satisfactory    Deficient       Highly
satisfactory                               unsatisfactory
x



Statistical Annexes                                                                                                                27
Compoetw D>:ecrption (DCA)                        Achieve| nti                                                             Rat in
Institutional  Development of a system for facility-  Financial controller, who had taken leadership in financial management reforms  US
Development  based budgeting, cost control, and    retired prematurely, and new financial controller never got directly involved with
expenditure and revenue monitoring on  the project. Revenue collection at QEII remained low at 6% of total recurrent
MOHSW, through training of MOHSW      expenditures (compared to 30-40% in other HSAs), and leakage persists.
fnancial and other relevant officers.  Implementation of financial management reforms made by consultancy to QEII
was never fully implemented because of lack of accounting staff, as well as of staff
skilled in management and policy analysis. The shortages in accounting staff is
currently being addressed. Project provided ongoing support to budget and
expenditure analysis workshops but later workshops had limited usefulness. Due to
high staff tumover much of the capacity built through these workshops was not
retained.
Provision of computer equipment to    Computers have been purchased, but are not being utilized at all. Appointment of  US
automate MOHSW's fimancial information  local counterpart to the computer programmer advisor based at the HPSU was
system.                               delayed because of low level of the post. Post was also not provided for in
budgeted, and IDA agreed to cover salary. Local programmer was trained.
Better defnition of the scope of work of    The usefulness of Organization and Management technical assistance was  MS
HPSU and improvements in its planning    questioned for a long time. Under the new leadership, there was also long delay in
skills, through the provision of technical    utilization of health planning technical assistance. This was eventually accessed
assistance, training, and computer    under the EU funding. Computers from HPSU were stolen, and were replaced.
equipment.
Strengthening of the MOHSW's Statistics   MOHSW was not satisfied with initial HMIS technical assistance. Effectiveness of  US
Unit through provision of training,   subsequent technical assistance was hampered by lack of suitable counterpart in the
technical assistance and computer and  HPSU. Data management training provided for data entry clerks, HSA
office equipment.                     management teams and a new data collection forms was developed. Repeat visit by
consultant was delayed because of inadequate follow-up by HPSU (e.g. piloting of
forms in HSAs). This, and other staffing constraints prevented expansion of
decentralized HMIS.
Establishment of a Manpower Department  After a substantial delay, the Department of Human Resource Management was  MS
in MOHSW, including a computerized    eventually created in 1996; and after an additional delay, the posts were filled. The
personnel information system, through the   Director departed, and position remains unfilled. Because of the power likely to be
provision of training technical assistance    vested in this position and the lack of leadership, there has been very slow progress
and equipment.                       in human resource development.



Statistical Annexes                                                                                                                28
Component  Description (DCA)                       Achievements and Outstanding issues                                     Rating
Institutional  Establishment and training of a new cadre   Cadre was trained and developed, and administrators were appointed. This proved  S
Development  of District Health Service Administrators   very beneficial for district management. Initially there was overlap in
(cont'd)    and a Unit for District Operations  responsibilities between the administrators and the District Medical Officers. This
Management in MOHSW headquarters to   delayed the acceptance of the administrators by some medical was slow to accept.
coordinate the DHSA.
Strengthening the Health Education Unit of The Unit was slow in accepting technical input offered by the project. One officer  MS
MOHSW in its specialist function for  was trained and the recording studio was constructed and equipped together with
PHN-related IEC activities through    other donor funds. The Unit provides some IEC support for health programs, but it
provision of a small recording studio,  is not very proactive and could be better utilized.
funds for design, production and
dissemination of printed IEC materials,
training and technical assistance.
Support to NHTC's five year development  Bank provided initial funding for college infrastructure (administration block,  S
plan including infrastructure        teaching complex, offices, staff houses, dormitories, library). Equipment and
improvements, provision of equipment and  technical assistance was funded by Irish government. Support was given for one
supplies, instructors and fellowships.  long term and several short term, training initiatives. Workshop for the revision of
l_______   |_______________________J the NHTC Act was funded; Act is still being processed.



Statistical Annexes                                                                       29
LESOTHO: Population, Health & Nutrition II Project
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
ILan/redittitle                   Purpose                     Year-of        Status
: : . _____________   I                :approval
Preceding operations
1. CR 1585-LSO        To reinforce the organization and      April 23, 1985   Completed
management of MOHSW through training
Population and Health   and technical assistance; to improve
Project               effectiveness and coverage of health care
$3.5 million          services through clinic upgrading;
improving efficiency of health services and
($4.1 disbursed)      access to family planning services, provision
of communications, training of outreach
workers, and supply of contraceptives;
develop health manpower through the
establishment of NHTC.
2. CR 1898-LSO        Provided earmarked funds for clinic    April 19, 1988   Canceled
Urban Sector          building.
Reorientation Project
$20.4 million
Following operations
1. IBRD 339030-LSO    To put into place the physical and     June 4, 1998    Phase lB on-
managerial capacity for Lesotho to transform           going
Lesotho Highlands     its principal natural resource of abundant             (Phase IA
Water Project         water, into export revenues that can be                completed)
applied to poverty reduction and economic
stability, while maximizing the local
$45 million           development benefits to the Basotho.
2. CR 53200-LSO       To support the health sector reforms process  2000     Identification
that is currently underway. This includes
Sector-wide reform   systems development, policy reform and the
Project               support of evidence-based planning and
$30 million           management of health services.



Statistical Annexes                                                                         30
LESOTHO: Population, Health & Nutrition II Project
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in project cycle             Date planned         Date actual/latest estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)  January 1988       January, 1988
Preparation                            July, 1988              July, 1988
Appraisal                              January, 1989            January, 1989
Negotiations                           April, 1989              April 24-28, 1989
Board presentation                     July, 1989              July 11, 1989
Signing                                August, 1989            August 9, 1989
Effectiveness                          October, 1989            November 1, 1989
Changes to the Development Credit
Agreement:
*  Section 5.08, Schedule I                                    November 3, 1992
*  Section 5.08, Schedule I                                     July 14, 1993
*  Extension of Closing Date                                   March 26, 1996
*  Schedule I                                                  November 1, 1996
Midterm review                         November 1, 1993         February 1, 1994
Project completion                     December31, 1995         March 31, 1998
Loan closing                           December31, 1995         April 9, 1998



Statistical Annexes                                                                                                    31
LESOTHO: Population, Health & Nutrition II Project
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ Millions)
Y 1.990  FY 1991 FY 1992 ,FY 1993- FY 1994 FY 1995  FY 196  FY 197  FY 199.
Appraisal estimate    0.29      1.25     3.38      5.58     7.47      9.02     9.48      9.48     9.48
Actual                 1.09     2.63     3.71      4.02     4.56      4.76     6.06      6.80     7.72
Actual as % of estimate  375.9%   210.4%    109.8%   72.0%    61.0%    52.8%    63.9%    71.7%    81.4%
Date of final                                                                               August 10, 1998
disbursement



Statistical Annexes                                                                                          32
LESOTHO: Population, Health & Nutrition II Project
Table 5A: Project Costs
Appraisal estimate (USSM)               Actual/latest estimate(USSM) *
Item           Local costs   Foreign costs       Total      Local costs   Foreign costs    Total
Rural Health                1.2            1.8            3.0           N/P            N/P           1.2
Services
Upgrading of Rural        0.4            0.8             1.2           N/P            N/P           0.7
Clinics
PHC Systems               0.6            0.7             1.3           N/P            N/P           0.3
Support                           _  _____              _         _        _
HSA Development           0.2            0.3             0.5           N/P            N/P           0.3
Fund
Urban Health                2.3            4.4            6.7           N/P            N/P           3.7
Services
Filter Clinics            0.6             0.9            1.5           N/P            N/P           2.7
Upgrading of QEII          1.7            3.5            5.2           N/P            N/P           1.0
Hospital                                           _                                          .
Family Planning            0.6             0.5            1.1           N/P            N/P            .2
Food and Nutrition         0.2             0.2            0.4           N/P            N/P           0.1
Disease Control            0.5             1.8            2.3           N/P            N/P           0.1
Tuberculosis              0.3             1.1            1.4           N/P            N/P          0.01
Control
STD/AIDS Control          0.2            0.7             0.9           N/P            N/P           0.1
Institutional               1.5            3.6            5.1           N/P            N/P           2.4
Development
MOHSW                     0.7             1.7            2.4           N/P            N/P           1.2
Management Support
Natl. Health              0.6             1.7            2.3           N/P            N/P           0.5
Training Center
Project Management        0.2            0.2             0.4           N/P            N/P           0.7
Base Cost                  6.2            12.4            18.6
Physical                   0.5             1.1            1.6
Contingencies
Price Contingencies         1.4            0.5            1.9
Total Project Cost         8.1            14.0            22.1          N/P            N/P           7.8
Source: Govemment of Lesotho (GOL)
* These costs refer to the project costs that were financed by IDA and GOL. Though the SAR estimates included contributions from parallel
financiers, the Project Management Unit managed the IDA funds only. Other donors did not make available data on their actual contributions.
N/P: Not Provided. The Government's accounts did not disaggregate foreign and local costs.



Statistical Annexes                                                                                                                                       33
LESOTHO: Population, Health & Nutrition II Project
Table 5B: Project Costs
Appraisale$timatef V (US  T osnds)            Actulatsetia te(SSTosans 
Item                Local costs       Foreign costs        Total        Local costs    Foreign costs          Total
Investment Costs                         4,726.3          11,909.8         16,636.0       N/P             N/P                    7,284.2
Civil Works                              1,924.4           2,886.6          4,810.9       N/P             N/P                    2,407.3
Furniture & Equipment                      566.6           1,563.5          2,130.1       N/P             N/P                   1,952.12
Supplies & Materials                       462.3           1,146.8           1,609.1      N/P             N/P
Vehicles                                   177.5             693.2            870.7       N/P             N/P                      712.9
Technical Assistance                        96.0           4,509.1           4,605.1      N/P             N/P                      992.4
Training                                 1,142.2             700.4           1,842.7      N/P             N/P                    1,042.8
Credit                                      63.3              42.2            105.5       N/P             N1P                          0
Fund                                       238.5             238.5            477,7       N/P             N/P                      176.7
Project Preparatory Facility                55.5             129.5            185.0       N/P             N/P                          0
Recurrent Costs                          1,426.9             496.2           1,923.1      N/P             N/P                      490.4
Salaries & Allowances                      917.5                 -            917.5       N/P             N/P                      383.1
Vehicles 0 & M                              46.1             261.3            307.4       N/P             N/P                     107.43
Equipment 0 & M                             57.2             133.4            190.6       N/P             N/P
Building 0 & M                             406.1             101.5            507.6       N/P             N/P
Baseline Cost                            6,153.1          12,406.0          18,559.1      N/P             N/P
Physical Contingencies                     557.6           1,072.7           1,630.3      N/P             N/P
Price Contingencies                      1,383.5             571.5           1,955.0      N/P             N/P
Total Project Cost                       8,094.2          14,050.1         22,144.4       N/P             N/P                    7,774.6
Source: Government of Lesotho (GOL)
N/P: Not Provided. The Government's accounts did not disaggregate foreign and local costs.
' These costs refer to the project costs that were financed by IDA and GOL. Though the SAR estimates included contributions from parallel financiers, the Prcject Management Unit
managed IDA
and GOL funds only. Other donors did not make available data on their actual contributions.
2 This figure includes both "Furniture and Equipmenf' and "Supplies and Materials", as GOL accounts did not disaggregate these items.
This figure includes "Vehicles O&M", "Equipment O&M", and "Building O&M" as GOL accounts did not disaggregate these items.



Statistical Annexes                                                                                             34
LESOTHO: Population, Health & Nutrition II Project
Table 6: Project Financing
Appraisal estimate (US$M)                Actual/latest estimate(US$M)
Source                 Local        Foreign        Total         Local        Foreign         Total
Costs         costs                       costs         costs
1. IDA                            4.0           8.1           12.1          N/P           N/P            7.7
2. Parallel financing              1.8           5.3           7.1          N/P           N/P            N/P
institutions
- EECIEU                          1.4           1.8           3.2          N/P            N/P            3.6
- Govt. of Ireland                0.2           2.4           2.6          N/P            N/P           N/P
- ODA/DflD                        0.2           1.1           1.3          N/P            N/P           N/P
3. Government of                   1.7           0.6           2.3          N/P           N/P            .03
Lesotho
TOTAL                              7.5          14.0          21.5          N/P           N/P           11.3*
Source: Govemment of Lesotho, IDA, EEC
N/P: Not Provided. The Govemment's accounts did not disaggregate foreign and local costs.
* Though the SAR estimates included contributions from parallel financiers, The Govemment of Ireland and DflD (formerly ODA) have not
made available the amount of their contribution.



Statistical Annexes                                                                                                              35
LESOTHO: Population, Health & Nutrition II Project
Table 7: Status of Legal Covenants
Section   Covenant  Present| Or inal    Revised             Description f covenant                           menh 
te  StaUs    fulifillinent  fulfillment
dae       date.
3.01(c)     03        C                              Make available proceeds of Credit to  Component was dropped under restructuring.
LADB under arrangements satisfactory   An amount of SDR10,479.70 was reimbursable
to IDA.                            to IDA and Ml 1,603.11 relating to
Withholding Tax.
3.01(d),    10,09     CP                             Carry out project in accordance with  Project Advisory Committee has not met
schedule 4                                            Schedule 4: work plans, progress    frequently. Evaluation studies were completed;
reports, evaluation studies.       progress reports were not always timely; work
plans were not consistently drafted throughout
the project.
3.01(d),    10,09     CD                             Carry out project in accordance with  Achievements have been detailed in Tables IB-
schedule 4                                            Schedule 4: primary health care teams,   G
filter clinics, district administrators, and
nutritionist in MOHSW.
3.03       05        C                              Continue to maintain PMU, composed of Functions of Administrative Assistant and
Project Manager, Administrative    Assistant Accountant performed by one person.
Assistant, Assistant Accountant and  Wholly insufficient accounting skills in, or
Secretary, in accordance with TORs and  accounting support to PMU. PMU is being
qualifications satisfactory to IDA.  dissolved as the project has ended.
3.04       01        CP                             Operate Imprest Account for rural clinic  Imprest Account was closed in 1993/94.
upgrading with minimum balance of  Inadequate remedial action was taken in
M250,000.                          response to observations made by Auditors,
e.g.: the non-recovery of M67,895.08 from EU
and M193,371.00 from GOL, in respect of
ineligible payments made; total amount of
M691,761.83 on the Imprest Account should
have been transferred to the Consolidated
Revenue Fund.



Statistical Annexes                                                                                                              36
Section   Covenant  Present --Origina      Revised eDescription of covenant                             Comments
tye status   fulfillment  fulffillment
date       date
3.05       03        C      04/01/1991              Fund directly payments for treatment of  Since July 1991 CHAL facilities have
TB patients in PHAL clinics.       abolished charges for in-patient TB treatment
with quarterly reimbursements from MOHSW.
CHAL hospitals now receive operating grants
from MOHSW.
4.01(a)   01,02,09   CDINC                           Maintain records and accounts in    PMU has inadequate internal capacity to
accordance with sound accounting   produce its own Project Financial Statements;
practice.                          the only statements prepared were by Office of
Accountant General. None of the project
accounts were independently reconciled since
March, 1998.
4.0 I(b)(i),   01,03   CD                             Provide audit of project accounts to IDA  Audit reports were frequently delayed.
(ii)                                               within 9 months of FY end.          Inadequate remedial action has been taken in
response to some Audit reports.
5.01(a)     02        C       06/30/1990             Take measures so as to receive 12%  10% recovery achieved by June 1990.
recovery of MOHSW recurrent        User fee increases in 1991 affected utilization
expenditures.                      adversely. Mission recommendations did not
always take full account of demand-side
responses to user fee increases (Aide Memoire,
Nov 1991) despite recommending that a
detailed study is needed before MOHSW
recommends user fee increases.
5.01(a)     02        C       06/30/1992             Take measures so as to receive 15%  Leakage rather than level of fees was found to
recovery of MOHSW recurrent        be an important obstacle to achieving the
expenditures.                      revenue collection targets - QEII being
responsible for greatest loss. Aggressive
measures and prosecutions took place to
address this.
5.01(b)    05,10       C      03/31/1990             Adopt plan satisfactory to IDA for  Completed.
increasing utilization of private doctors
and nurses in govermment hospitals.



Statistical Annexes                                                                                                             37
Section::Ei: f Covenant i Pmesenti:! Originalei   Revise d:i   l, Desc iption of covenant              Comne  ts
tye status   fulfillmenit  fulfillent
dAt        date
5.02      02,10      C      03/31/1990    5/1990   Implement program acceptable to IDA    Revenue collection at district facilities were
giving target revenue collection for  higher than in Maseru. There was a shortfall of
district health facilities and providing  MOHSW funds to cover the revenue recovery
incremental resources and incentives to   award in FY1990. Project funds were sought to
institutions which achieve or exceed  fund the shortfall. Awards were not budgeted
their targets.                     for in 1991, 1992. This was subsequently
corrected.
5.03       10       C/CP    03/31/1990             Finalize memo of understanding with  MOU with PHAL was signed on 02/08/1998
PHAL recovering subvention levels and  (effective from 04/01/1995), but was not
planned benefits for PHAL institutions   successfully implemented. MOU is being
and PHAL obligations for service   revised. Revised MOU to be informed by Task
delivery, financial reporting and  Force Report.
minimum staffing levels.
5.04 (a)    10,09     C       06/30/1990            Complete hospital efficiency study  Completed.
covering QEII and 8 district hospitals.
5.04 (b)    02,10     CP      04/01/1991             Commence phased plan to strengthen  ODA sponsored technical assistance to help
financial management and achieve unit  implement recommendations started January
cost targets.                      1991. Financial management improvement did
not progress as anticipated. Unit cost targets not
implemented.
5.05 (a)    10,02    CP/NC    12/31/1990             Complete study of efficiency and   MOHSW was no longer convinced of need for
financing of drug expenditures.    study (3/1996) because it was thought that
another study will cover this area of work. This
was not the case.
5.05 (b)(i)    10      C       04/01/1991            Commence implementation of drug     Consultancy on de-linking NDSO (public
procurement /supply reform program.    wholesaler) and LPC (manufacturer) being
undertaken. An appropriate role for NDSO
being considered.
5.05       03        CP     04/01/1992             Ensure adequate budgetary allocation for Partially Completed.
(b)(ii)                                             drug supplies to rural clinics.



Statistical Annexes                                                                                                                            38
DCA      Covenant  Present    Original         Revised           Description of covenant                          Comments
Reference    type       status    fulfillment  fulfillment
date         date
5.06      12,05,10     NC       06/30/1990               Implement arrangement satisfactory to    Government attempted implementing existing
IDA for retaining health personnel on  (but deficient) bonding arrangement. It does
govt. scholarships.                    not appear to be a plausible strategy.
5.07       10,05       CP       12/31/1990               Develop optimal staffing pattern and    Human Resource Development Department
alternative scenarios for health       was established, but head was never appointed.
manpower expansion, redeployment and   This hampered the implementation of the
retention.                             recommendations of numerous Human
Resource consultancies.
5.07     05,12,10      CP       12/31/1989               Establish and staff posts of Manpower    Although the staff posts have been created as
Department Health and planning         early as 1990, they have not been filled. At
officers.                              project closure the Human Resource
Development Unit was not yet functional.
Covenant types:                                                                                             Present status:
I =    Accounts/audits                          8 =     Indigenous people                                   C =      covenant complied with
2 =    Financial performance/ revenue generation  9 =   Monitoring, review, and reporting                   CD =    complied with after delay
from beneficiaries
3 =    Flow and utilization of project funds    10 =    Project implementation not covered by categories 1-9  CP =    complied with partially
4 =    Counterpart funding                      11 =    Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource  NC =    not complied with
allocation
5 =    Management aspects of the project or     12 =    Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/ regulatory/ institutional
executing agency                                 action
6 =    Environmental covenants                  13 =    Other
7 =    Involuntary resettlement



Statistical Annexes                                                                              39
LESOTHO: Popuiation, Health & Nutrition II Project
Table 8A: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
(US$ Thousands)
lanned                 Revised,Ata
Stage of project     Weeks        US$        Weeks        US$        Weeks         US$
cycle
Preparation to        N/P         N/P         N/P          N/P         82.5       174.5
appraisal
Appraisal             N/P         N/P         N/P          N/P         18.9        43.2
Negotiations          N/P         N/P          N/P         N/P         6.3         15.1
through Board
approval
Supervisionl         202.3        615.9       211.8       590.1      202.42       579.2
Completion              9         11.7          9          11.7         911.7
TOTAL                 N/P         N/P   r         NP       N/P        319.1       823.7
Source: FACT Cost Report run on August 25, 1998.
NIP: Not Provided
1 Assumes FY1986-FY1995 actual expenditures were equal to planned (and revised planned). The World Bank
Information System did not retain the "planned" figures for those years.
2 Includes 2.5 weeks ($5,300) financed by Trust Fund.



Statistical Annexes                                                                                                                   40
LESOTHO: Population, Health & Nutrition II Project
Table 8B: Bank Resources: Missions
Stage of    Monthlyear    Number   Days   Specialized staff skills          Performance rating               Types of problems
project                   of persons   in          represented
cycle                                field
Implementation    Development
status        objectives
Through     June, 1989
appraisal
Appraisal
through
Board
approval
Supervision   May, 1990     4          6        Mission leader         1                 1              Protracted process of acquiring land
6  Economist                                     for filter clinics resulted in delay of
tendering process and cost
6       Architect                                               increases. Procurement has been
6       Young Professional                                      delayed, in some instances for no
apparent reason - project manager
thought to be inadequately skilled.
Supervision   August, 1990   2         6        Economist              I                 I              Little progress has been made on the
6       Architect                                               appointment of a project manager.
The administrative assistant was
appointed as acting project manager,
leaving vacant the posts of deputy
project manager and administrative
assistant. This imposes a very
workload on an inexperienced
manager. Delays in building of filter
clinics have been caused by
acquisition of clinic sites.



Statistical Annexes                                                                                                              41
Stage of    Mouth/yAr    Nuimber Dy    Specializied staff skills        Performance rating           T:iypes-of prtoblems
poet                  of pesn       nrepresenited
cycle               |                =< r |0 umbl:r |:;field
Supervision  January, 1991   3        12      Economist              1               1              The main problems were: obtaining
12     Public Health Specialist                               Public Service Administration
permission for approval of
12     Architect/Civil Works                                  important positions. including the
Manpower Development
Department; reaching agreements
with LADB on arrangements for
credit to women's groups for
hammer mills and meeting the
project target dates.
Supervision   April, 1991  3          12      Economist              1                1             Indication by PS-Planning that the
12     Public Health Specialist                               Manpower Development
Departnent would no longer be
12     Lawyer                                                 established. Completion of PHAL
study has been delayed and the
Memorandum of Understanding
between PHAL and GOL is likely to
be delayed. A clinic constructed
under the previous project was not
operational.
Portfolio   August, 1991                                             2               2
Update
Supervision   November,    3          12      Economist              2               3              The MOHSW's budget request was
1991                     12      Public Health Specialist                              cut a by a third. This budgetary
shortage is likely to cause a major
12     Architect/Civil Works                                  threat to attainment of some
objectives and sustainability of
other project objectives.



Statistical Annexes                                                                                                                   42
Stage of    Month/year    Number   Days   Specialized staff skills          Performance rating               Types of problems
project                   of persons    in         represented
cycle                                field
Supervision   April, 1992   2           11      Economist              2                 2              Progress on hammer mill aspect of
11      Public Health Specialist                                nutrition component disappointing
to date. Land acquisition for filter
clinics continue to cause delays.
Other problems: uncertain drug
procurement & distribution, delays
in hiring TA, failure to resolve
manpower problems.
Portfolio    August, 1992                                              2                 2
Update
Supervision   June, 1993    3           12      Economist              2                2               Project appears stagnated since last
12      Public Health Specialist                                spn. mission. Deterioration of staff
morale and effectiveness leading to
12      Architect/Civil Works                                  loss of many well-trained staff.
Progress with managerial reforms
disappointing. DHS study not
analyzed after a full year of survey.
Lack of agreement with important
NGO partners such as PHAL and
LPPA.
Mid-Term    January, 1994   3           14      Economist               3                2              Nutrition program intervention after
Review                                  13      Public Health Specialist                                departure of UNICEF nutrition
advisor. LADB made no loans for
6       Nutrition Specialist                                    hammer mills & scrapping of this
aspect suggested. Long delays
experienced with building of last
filter clinic (Maseru South);
recommended that this aspect of
project be scrapped. This was
further motivated by the likely



Statistical Annexes                                                                                                                              43
Stage of     Mo nth/yar    Number    D ys,  Speeialized staff skills              Performance rating                  Types of pr,oblms
project                     of persons    in           represented
cycle                        ~~~~~~~~~field
difficulties staffing the filter clinic.
Major problems encountered with
other components in human
resource development & planning,
financial mgmt., health planning,
education. All linked to acute
shortage of staff.
Portfolio     January, 1994                                                  3                  2
Update
Supervision   June, 1994      3            7        Economist                3                  2
7        Public Health Specialist
5       Nutrition Specialist
Portfolio     December,                                                      S                  S
Update        1994
Supervision   June, 1995      3            9        Economist                S                  U                Progress in addressing the human
9        Public Health Specialist                                     resource and financial management
issues in the MOHSW's Action Plan
9        Architect/Civil Works                                        has been minimal. This casts doubt
on attainability and sustainability of
project objectives at this stage.
Portfolio     June 1995                                                       S                 S
Update
Supervision   March, 1996    2             10       Economist                S                  S
10      Architect
Portfolio     January, 1996   2            9        Economist                 S                 S
Update                                     9        Architect
(# 1 8 )       _  _ _  _ _  _ _  _ _  _ __             _ _  _ _  _ _  _ _  _  _ _ _  _ _  _ _     _ _  _ _  _ _  _  _ _  _ _  _ _  _ _  _ _  _  _  _



Statistical Anuexes                                                                                                                44
Stage of    Month/year    Number   Days   Specialized staff skills        Performance rating               Types of problems
project                  of persons   in          represented
cyleb                               field
Supervision  January, 1997   3         12      Operations             S               S              Project not supervised over past
(#19)                                  11      Architect/Civil Works                                 year. Least progress made on
systems development. Belated
12     Health Systems                                         attention given to HR planning and
development, information systems,
fnancial planning and mgmt,
pharmaceutical policy.
Portfolio   June, 1997                                                S                S
Update
(#20)
Supervision   September,   2          5        Architect/Civil Works    S             S              Concerns over delays of civil works
(#21)        1997                      9       Heal Specialist                                       overseen by Ministry of Works, and
failure of Ministry of Works to
terminate outstanding contracts. All
further civil works to be contingent
upon appointment of a supervising
architect.
Supervision   March, 1998    5         14      Health Specialist      S               S              The project components which
14     Economist                                              functioned through the project
extension were disappointing.
13     Health Economist                                       Although completion of the filter
12     Human Resource                                         clinics were facilitated by the
12 pHumanlResource                                    extension, the clinics to date are not
14      Specialist                                            yet fully functional as the staff
Public Health Specialist                              operating costs have not been
provided for. Community-based
distribution of contraceptives was
successfully initiated under the
project, but sustainability may be
jeopardized because of inability to



Statistical Annexes                                                                                                                  45
Stge bof   tXMouth/ye      Nuber n    Days   Specializdstaff skills        P e frmance rafing               Type of rblem
prjc                     ofprsons    i             ersne
cycle                      ~~~~~~~~~field
institutionalize the CBD posts.
Much of the training and technical
assistance funded under the project,
as well as units that were
established, may have limited
impact because of staff loss and
high turnover.
Completion   July, 1998     2          12       Health Economist
4       Financial Management
Specialist



Appendices
APPENDIX A: COMPLETION MISSION AIDE MEMOIRE
Draft Aide Memoire
Implementation Completion Mission
Population, Health and Nutrition II Project
(Credit 2059-LSO)
July 1998
1.    During July 1998 Gayle Martin (Health Economist) and Anthony Hegarty (Senior Financial
Management Specialist) visited Lesotho. This mission was a continuation of the process of the
Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the second Population, Health and Nutrition (PHNII)
project that was initiated at the March 1998 Supervision Mission. The Mission thanks the Project
Management Unit for assisting and facilitating the various aspects of the Completion Mission. We also
would like to thank officials from the MOHSW, CHAL, LPPA, and donor partners without whose
valuable insights the Implementation Completion Report would not have been possible.
2.    The main objective of the current mission was to gather necessary information for the ICR
through discussions and consultations with Lesotho Ministry of Health and Social Welfare (MOHSW)
officials and other partners involved with health service delivery, as well as the donor community. These
information exchanges will assist in the assessment of the operational and financial management of the
PHNII project, the Borrower (MOHSW) and Bank's performance, the overall impact, implementation
and sustainability of the project. Special emphasis will be placed on the key lessons learned. As with any
assessment, the ICR is retrospective in its information base, but importantly, this report is intended to
have a forward looking orientation in that its central focus is on lessons learned to inform future
development initiatives in this sector.
3.    The following tasks were undertaken: (a) interviews with component managers and individuals
who have been closely associated with the project; (b) discussions with donors who were involved in the
project as parallel financiers as well as partners in project implementation; (c) conduct a small-scale
survey at selected clinic sites to assess the impact of the project from the perspective of beneficiaries; (d)
where needed, assist PMU and MOHSW officials with the Borrower's contribution to the ICR. This Aide
Memoire aims to summarize the information acquired through the above tasks.
4.    The Second Population, Health and Nutrition (PHNII) Project is a continuation of the Population
and Health Project (Credit 1585-LSO), the Bank's first health project in Lesotho (1985 - 1992). The
PHNII project was effective from November 1989 and closed in March 1998. The first project had very
important successes which the PHNII project sought to build upon. In both instances the variances
between the anticipated and actual outcomes can be traced back to institutional and human resource
capacity constraints. It is sad that a lack of institutional capacity was cited as a major justification for the
PHNII project, yet is a major area of where more work remains lacking. But, the project has made some
achievements in this regard -- the current realization of the need for health policy reform and the energy
generated through this process is a direct result of the project.
5.    The Mission explained and confirmed with the Principal Secretary and the Project Coordinator
the Borrower's contribution to the ICR. It was agreed that the Project Coordinator wUll provide a draft
of the Borrower's contribution to the ICR will be ready by 30 July, 199& The following responsibilities
were discussed:



Appendices
* Draw up Operational Plan
(Plan should contain a description of the project's future performance, and should
define the performance indicators to be used for monitoring of operations and
development impact).
* Evaluation Report
(Contents: assessment of Project Objectives and extent to which objectives were
attained, Implementation and Operation experience; evaluation of Bank's
Performance; effectiveness of relationship between Borrower and Bank; and lessons
learned).
* Assist Bank in ICR preparation
(Providing the necessary information for ICR; Feedback on quality of Bank's
contribution from Identification to Supervision).
6.     A client survey of more than 500 clinic users was conducted as part of the Completion Mission.
The survey was administered by University of Lesotho students in Sesotho. This was an infornal survey
aimed at assessing consumers' views and perceptions about the health services, accessibility of health
services, and to identify areas where consumers felt services could be improved. The survey was
conducted over a period of 4 days in rural and filter clinics in four HSAs (Maseru, Leribe, Mafeteng,
Roma). Results are summarized in Appendix c. Patients were generally satisfied with the overall service
quality, as well as TB and Family Planning services. Less than 5% thought that the service quality was
not acceptable. The main areas of complaint were: long waiting times; irregular clinic opening times; lack
of maternity services at certain clinics; no accommodation for mothers giving birth; lack of electricity and
heaters; lack of specialized services such as dental services, optical services, x-ray facilities, laboratory
tests; impatient nursing staff.
Mission Findings and Conclusions
7.     Achievement of Project Objectives. Generally the objectives had 4 key themes: physical
objectives, health improvement objectives, financial objectives and institutional development objectives.
The extent to which the objectives have been achieved in terms of the indicators'0 specified in the project
appraisal report is difficult to assess, because the information does not exist in most instances. Based on
anecdotal accounts it appears that the disease specific interventions have had the effect of slowing the
increase in disease prevalence, but not able to succeed in decreasing the prevalence of conditions such as
STDs (and H1V/AIDS). Drug availability appears to be variable, depending on the remoteness of the
health facility.
8.     A variety of physical objectives were achieved (building of 14 rural clinics, 4 filter clinics,
upgrading of QEII, construction and upgrading of NHTC), but the mechanisms required to ensure optimal
utilization and maintenance of these facilities were lacking. The project was much less successful at
achieving the project and sectoral objectives that were institutional in nature. This shortcoming detracted
to a large extent from the health and infrastructure achievements. The lack of a strong institutional
framework will impact directly on the sustainability of the project's achievements, and the optimization
of project inputs. The project was also less successful at achieving objectives that required multi-sectoral
collaboration; for example, under the nutrition and food security component the nutritional surveillance
system was never realized due to poor coordination with the Ministry of Agriculture and the Nutrition
10 For example: total fertility rate, contraceptive prevalence rate, facility-based case fatality rate, annual TB Prevalence annual
STD prevalence annual HIV prevalence of wasting/stunting facility-based incidence of malnutrition among children and women,
drug availability in public health facilities.



Appendices
Coordination Office within the Office of the Prime Minister.
9.    The financial objectives were achieved, but there may be been some undesirable consequences.
One of the main financial objectives was to increase revenue collection at health facilities. The way this
has been implemented raises important equity as well as efficiency concerns: (1) In some instances it is
not clear that the revenues collected exceed the resources spent on revenue collection. (2) There are
demand-side responses that need to be considered when planning what services will be charged for and
what not: for example, some patients reported being charged for STD services - this may hamper
successful management of the STD problem in the country. (3) Also on the demand-side are the equity
consequences. Some consumers seem to be avoiding health care until medical complications set in.
10.   Project Implementation. The Project Management Unit (PMU) operated separately from the
line function operations of the Ministry, and little effort was made to formally incorporate the PMU into
the MOHSW (despite encouragement by later Bank Supervision Missions). Many component managers
liked the fact that the PMU was separate because it avoided the bureaucracy of the MOHSW and
facilitated access to funds. This may have been a valid consideration at the outset of the project; but in the
long run, scarce institutional and human capital were being diverted from the institutions of the MOHSW.
11.   Project management was limited to addressing day-to-day operational requirements. This was
done very effectively, and procurement and disbursement operations were well managed. This however
came at the expense of project reporting, monitoring and proactive project management. The PMU
received insufficient support from the MOHSW for it to be effective, especially in project monitoring.
Feedback mechanisms to ensure that the recommendations of the Supervision Missions, evaluations of
project interventions and consultant reports were formally considered and responded to could have been
improved. The PMU (Project Management Unit) did not have sufficient capacity to perform the required
level and quality of financial management. The deficiencies in this area reflect a lack of supervision and
support from both the MOHSW and the Bank. In the absence of clearly identified financial management
procedures and guidelines, several weaknesses in financial and operational management were identified.
These are summarized in Appendix b.
12.   Major factors influencing the Project. Factors not subject to Borrower's Control: (1) Complex
property laws caused substantial delays in the acquisition of land for the construction of clinics. (2) The
slow pace and limited success of civil service reform and the loss of trained and experienced staff to
South Africa pose problems that will continue in the future, though there are measures that the MOHSW
can take to at least minimize loss of staff to other government departments. (3) Governance: various
political dynamics have given rise certain political economic strictures that influenced the functioning of
civil service and the MOHSW. Factors subject to Borrower's Control: (1) The combination of a lack of
continued leadership, high staff turnover, and low staff morale have impacted strongly on the attainment
and sustainability of project and sectoral objectives. The result is that the capacity for implementation and
the priority given to the project that existed at the conception of the project was not sustained throughout
implementation. (2) The failure to incorporate the project management unit into the MOHSW institutional
structure gave rise to inefficiencies and incentives that are not conducive to institution strengthening. (3)
The strained relationship between the MOHSW and health NGOs detracted from the sustainability of
many successful project achievements.
13.   Assessment of Outcome. Overall, the project outcome was marginally satisfactory. The limited
achievements in the area of financial management, health information, human resource development and
planning, and health planning detracted from sustainability of the early successes of disease specific
interventions. Bringing about institutional change is not easy, and has proven to be one of the tougher



Appendices
development challenges. The concern here is thus less regarding the slow progress of institutional
development, but rather the approach to institutional change (planning approach instead of a behavior
change approach). There have been important spill-over effects. The most important effect is the current
emphasis on the improvement of the institutions that underpin the existing investments, i.e. on
development of the systems (for example, financial management, human resource development and
planning, infrastructure planning and maintenance) within which disease specific interventions are
implemented.
14.   Key Lessons Learned.
Monitoring and Evaluation:
* A simple monitoring system that will inform both project management and program implementation
should be developed and implemented early during the project. Baseline data should be collected
before the project is implemented. The indicators that are chosen should take cognizance of the data
requirements and existing capacity. A formal mechanism of incorporating findings and
recommendations from evaluation reports into program implementation should be devised and
implemented. The beneficiary assessments and client surveys conducted in this study provided a rich
body of information to providers, and demonstrated the importance of qualitative research and client
feedback.
Project Management and MOHSW Leadership:
*  The lack of continuity in MOHSW leadership resulted in discontinuous and ineffective supervision.
This may in part be because the office to which the project was accountable, the PS's office, may
have been too senior to provide effective and prioritized oversight.
* The problems with financial management stresses the need for a financial management mechanism
that clearly identifies financial management procedures and guidelines. The project experience
stresses the importance of training, external technical support (by the Bank or Borrower), or a
Financial Management Advisory Committee where insufficient financial management capacity exists.
Bank Supervision:
*  Detailed oversight of progress through supervision missions was a highly valued aspect of Bank
supervision, as it was often the only substantive feedback that program managers received. This was
key to the success in the programmatic disease interventions.
* In deciding on requests for project extension, the Bank should carefully distinguish between project
activities that need more time to be implemented, from activities which need to be reconsidered
because the approach may have limitations, or because implementation capacity may be lacking.
Capacity Building, Technical Assistance, and Training:
* Training should much be closer linked to the goals of the Unit from which the official comes, and
will return to. The specific expected outputs on return should also be identified, and specific
mechanisms should be devised to ensure that experiences and expertise is transferred to the returning
official's Unit.
*  Technical assistance appears to have had little sustainable success.  This is a very serious
shortcoming as the Borrower, through this project and other donor inputs, makes substantial
investments into technical assistance. There needs to be a clear mechanism in the MOHSW to
question whether TA recommendations were accepted and implemented by the relevant manager; if
they were not accepted, why not; and what needs to be done to address the issue for which the
consultant was originally contracted.



Appendices
APPENDIX B: INFORMATION GATHERING PROCESS DURING ICR MISSION
Interviews with component managers and others
* Interviews will be used to explore the following issues:
* Implementation
*  How successful has the project been at achieving the overall project objectives and the
specific component objectives as stated in the SAR?
*  What are the major factors that influenced the success or failures in the project? Distinguish
between factors not in the control of the government and the MOHSW, factors under the
control of the government and the MOHSW, and factors under control of the implementing
agencies (PMU and departments responsible for implementation of specific components).
*  Have there been delays in implementation? What were the causes and how could these delays
have been avoided (especially in the Start-up and Investment Phases of the project)?
* Sustainability
* Are the project and its components sustainable?
* What could have been done to improve the sustainability of the various components?
* Bank Performance
- Are there ways in which the Bank could have performed better at identifying problems
sooner, and assisting the MOHSW to resolve such problems? Were changes in the project
environment considered during project implementation? Did the Bank suitably complement
the MOHSW's efforts during project implementation? Was feedback timely and useful?
* Borrower Performance
* Are there ways in which the Bank could have performed better at identifying problems
sooner? How effectively were implementation problems addressed? Were changes in the
project environment considered during project implementation?
* Outcome and Impact
 Comment on your perspectives regarding the impact of the project and your specific
component, for example quality, coverage, access and health impact.
* Has the project contributed toward improvement of human resource and institutional capacity
to deliver services?
* Lessons Learned
* What were the key lessons learned, especially lessons that will enhance the implementation
of future project in the health sector of Lesotho?
*  What needs to be done to address these lessons that you have raised?
Small-scale survey of health service consumers
* A small scale will be conducted of consumers of the services that the project aimed to improve, for
example STD services, TB services and family planning services.
*  This will be conducted at selected sights in Maseru and the districts.
*  On the supply-side, this will be complemented by an assessment of the services provided.
Borrower's performance infinancial management, and operational management
* A review will be conducted of the financial and operation management provided by the Project
Management Unit.



Appendices
* This will include:
* detailed review of the financial records
* reconciling bank statements with audited statements
* assessment of procurement practices
* review of the asset register
* interviews of the Project Manager and Accountant



Appendices
APPENDIX C: FINANCLIL MANAGEMENT REPORT
A FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT REVIEW
A INTRODUCTION
1.1 The issues and weaknesses identified in this Review have been made following a brief visit. As
such, the Review should not be relied upon to disclose all possible issues and weaknesses that a
more comprehensive assessment might bring to light.
B   ISSUES AND WEAKNESSES
I   INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS
1.1 The Project Management Unit (PMU) did not have sufficient internal capacity to produce its own
Project Financial Statements (either monthly, quarterly or annually).
1.2 In retrospect, external technical support (i.e. a professionally qualified accountant with relevant
practical experience, including proficiency in computer applications and systems development)
should have been retained in order to direct and guide the financial management operations of the
PMU whilst appropriate staff development and capacity building arrangements were put in place.
1.3 Doubts were expressed about the contributions made by the Project Advisory Committee as,
apparently, it met infrequently.
1.4 The Project did not have a Finance Committee, or an equivalent Committee, with defined terms of
reference and reporting responsibilities.
2   FINANCL4L REPORTING (Interim andAnnual)
2.1 The only Project Financial Statements prepared were those produced annually by the Office of the
Auditor General.
2.2 By virtue of 2.1, Project Management was not provided with timely, relevant, understandable and
reliable financial information for planning, control and decision making purposes.
3  BUDGETARYAND ACCOUNTING SYSTEMS
Bank Accounts
3.1 None of the Project Bank Accounts have been reconciled since March 1998.
3.2 No separate records were maintained by the Project in respect of the IDA Loan Account. The Loan
Account was never independently reconciled, as reliance was placed by the PMU on statements
received from the World Bank.



Appendices
3.3 The Project's records in respect of the Special Account in US Dollars at the Lesotho Central Bank
were not independently maintained as they were vvritten up from the Central Bank Statements and
the Central Bank correspondence file.
3.4 Serious dissatisfaction was expressed by the PMU about the quality of service provided by Lesotho
Bank. It appears that a number of Projects are likely to transfer their business elsewhere.
Cash Flow Management
3.5 Project Cash flow was managed on an "ad hoc" basis. The Cash Book balance for the Maloti
Current Account was overdrawn at 31 March 1998 by Maloti 155,808.3 1.
3.6 At the outset, a Cash Flow Management System should have been established.
Ministry of Finance/Treasury: Monthly Returns
3.7 Although Monthly Returns were made by the Project to the Treasury in respect of movements on all
bank accounts, no feedback was received from the Treasury.
3.8 In the case of other projects (e.g. Education Project - ESDP), a monthly computer printout is
received from Treasury (usually about 3 months in arrears). However, those printouts are of little
value for planning, control and decision making purposes as they only show a total figure for a
Project's Maloti Current Account payments and a listing of individual counterpart payments. In any
event, considerable doubts have been expressed about the accuracy of the Treasury printouts (e.g.
ESDP).
Accounting Records
3.9 Some important accounting records were not up to date e.g. Cash Books for the Maloti Current
Account and for the Special Account.
3.10 As stated in 3.2 above, no separate records were maintained for the IDA Loan Account as reliance
was placed on statements received from the World Bank.
Sundry Matters
3.11 The Project has not reviewed by the Internal Audit Unit (Ministry of Finance) in recent years.
Apparently, that Unit is under-staffed and, according to the Deputy Permanent Secretary at the
Ministry of Finance, proposals have recently been submitted to the Ministry of Public Service
(Personnel Division) to have the Unit upgraded to a Department and to have staffing levels
increased.
3.12 The Project did not develop its own Financial Procedures Manual.
3.13 Neither a Fixed Assets Register nor an Inventories Management System was established.



Appendices
4   EXTERNAL AUDIT
4.1 Terms of reference for the audit were not prepared.
4.2 The only Project Financial Statements produced were those prepared annually by the Office of the
Auditor General.
4.3 Having reviewed the Management Letters for 1994/95, 1995/96 and 1996/97, it appears that
inadequate remedial action has been taken by the PMU in response to some of the observations
made by the auditors e.g.
=> Imprest Account (closed in 1993/94): the non-recovery of M67,895.08 from EU and
M193,371.00 from GOL in respect of ineligible payments made; and the total amount of
M691,761.83 on the Imprest Account should have been transferred to the Consolidated
Revenue Fund.
=  An amount of M145,455.00 was not deducted from Contractors in respect of Withholding
Tax.
=' Non-recovery of a duplicated payment M58,370.00 made to Nqaka Construction. If a
Contractor's Ledger was maintained, this over-payment would probably not have occurred.
=> An error in the amount of M58,775.52 relating to Lesotho Bank.
Issues relating to the LADB Bank - an amount of SDR 10,479.70 reimbursable to IDA and
Ml 1,603.11 relating to Withholding Tax.
=' Sundry issues, including a statement by the auditors that Project Financial Statements should
be prepared by PMU Staff and not by them.
5  ANALYSIS, MONITORING AND SUPERVISION
5.1 From a financial management perspective, the non-availability of timely, relevant
and reliable financial information has been a major constraining factor.
5.2 At the outset, monitorable financial management performance indicators should have been
established for the Project.
C   CONCLUSIONS
1.1 The principal objective of the PMU financial management system should be to support management
in their deployment of limited resources with the purpose of ensuring economy, efficiency and
effectiveness in the delivery of outputs required to achieve desired outcomes, that should serve the
needs of the people of Lesotho.
1.2 A properly established financial management system by PMU should be capable of
producing timely, relevant, understandable and reliable financial information that should enable



Appendices
management to plan, implement, monitor and appraise the Project's progress towards the
achievement of its stated and agreed objectives.
1.3 In terms of delivering on the aforementioned objectives, and in planning a Financial Management
System for the Health Sector Reform Program, the issues and weaknesses identified in Section B
must be successfully addressed.
D   NEXT STEPS
1.1 Under the PHRD, a firm of consultants will be retained to develop and install a Financial
Management System to meet the financial information requirements of:
=> the proposed Health Reforms Coordination Office (status requires clarification);
=> the Principal Secretary, Ministry of Health and Social Welfare; and
=> the Treasury/Accountant General, Ministry of Finance.
1.2 Draft termns of reference for the proposed consultancy are presently under preparation and should be
available for discussion within the next few days.
1.3 The Financial Reforms Working Group needs to be re-energized.
1.4 The PMU should address the audit queries referred to in 4.3 above. It should also liaise with the
Accountant General regarding the procedures for closing the Project's bank accounts ( Reference:
Accountant General Savingram dated 8 August 1997).



Appendices
APPENDIX D: BENEFICIARY SURVEY (DRAFT REPORT)
A client survey of more than 500 clinic users was conducted as part of the Completion Mission. The
survey was conducted by University of Lesotho students in Sesotho. This was an informal survey aimed
at assessing consumers' views and perceptions about the health services, accessibility of health services,
and to identify areas where consumers felt services could be improved. The survey was conducted over a
period of 4 days.
A purposive sample was taken from filter clinics and rural clinics in four HSAs: Maseru (38.2%), Leribe
(27.8%), Mafeteng (20.4%) and Roma (13.6%). In Roma only consumers of rural clinics were
interviewed. Forty percent of the respondents were users of filter clinics. Approximately 80% of
respondents were females. Nearly 40% of respondents were between 15 - 25 years of age, 33% between
25-40 years and 29% were over 40 years old.
Overall, consumers were generally satisfied with the health services. Less than 5% thought that services
were not satisfactory, or were of insufficient quality. Similarly, less than 5% of consumers thought that
staff attitudes were not satisfactory. A rich body of information was however obtained from the
consumer's comments and recommendations for suggested improvements. There was no systematic
difference in responses between the rural clinic and filter clinic respondents.
The average travel time for consumers of rural clinic services was 64 minutes and for filter clinic users
mean travel time was 41 minutes. On the whole, 22% of respondents traveled more than an hour to get to
a clinic. Given the long travel time, it is not surprising that waiting time was raised as a major area where
consumers felt improvement was needed. People felt that opening hours were not punctual, were irregular
and not long enough. The practice of closing clinics to return the revenues collected to the HAS hospital
was often the cause underlying the waiting time problems. The lack of supervision of clinic staff was also
raised as a shortcoming.
The following were the main issues that emerged:
*  Waiting time, clinic opening times: Consumers felt that time management at clinics were generally
poor, and that waiting time is much too long. People felt that clinic hours were not regular not
adhered to, and that better supervision of clinics is needed. The lack of after hours services (night and
weekend) were also raised as a shortcoming.
* Maternity services: The lack of maternity services were a major source of complaint. This was also
accompanied by requests for accommodation for women who are giving birth, or have just given
birth.
*  In-patient services: The lack of wards and in-patient facilities were raised by many, and also in
relation to the request for more matemity services.
*  Electricity and Heaters: another common complaint was the need for heaters in the waiting rooms
and electricity in the clinics.
*  Extensions to clinic buildings: many consumers felt that clinic buildings were too small and needed to
be extended.
*  Nursing and Medical Staff. There was a general feeling that clinic staff numbers were insufficient.
Many requested that doctors spend more time at the clinics, or that doctors be posted permanently at
some clinics.
*  Attitudes: Many respondents felt that nurses did not spend enough time with the patients.
*  Drugs/medicines: This was a main problem raised. The lack of drugs, the inability of nurses to give



Appendices
injections, the fact that patients had to supply their own tablet containers.
*  Lack of specialized services: dental services, optical services, x-ray facilities, laboratory tests, TB
services. These services were often only available at Queen II Hospital.
*  Some less frequent requests were: improvement of access roads to clinics; availability of ambulance
services; ability of nurses to give sick leave; improvement in clinic equipment; better and cleaner
toilet facilities.



Appendices
APPENDIX E: BORROWER'S EVALUATION REPORT
PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWERS PERSPECTIVE
1.1    Perspective of the Project Design, Implementation and its Development Impact: The design of
the project has been recognized as satisfactory as it was undertaken by a professional team from
both the National, International experts as well as the Bank staff. To a large extent it sought the
views of the intended beneficiaries both internal and external to the Ministry of Health. Thus is
said to have been participatory. It was further recognized that the project objectives were
consistent and supportive to the overall objectives of the Ministry in particular and GOL in
general.
However, the main deficiency in the design of the project was the omission to undertake the base
line survey as a basis for evaluating the project during the mid-term and after the completion of
the project.
Mechanisms which were put in place, that is, Departmnental heads(commonly known as
component managers, who served as Implementing Agencies, the Project Management Unit set-
up to coordinate the project and to provide back-up support to the component managers while the
Project Coordination Committee (PCC) was entrusted in overseeing the smooth Implementation
of the project activities, this arrangement was found desirable as can be attributed to the
successful attainment of some of the project objectives as detailed below. This arrangement was
found desirable as it freed component managers from administrative burden leaving them with
time to concentrate on technical issues.
The general consensus is the project could have accomplished even more if the PCC had been
more active and more so pro-active in defining the direction of the project from time to time and
taking remedial action whenever necessary in a timely and coordinated manner.
1.2    Assessment of Project Objectives and the extent to which Objectives were Attained: Considering
the nature(broad, multidisciplinary and long-term) of the objectives of this project and the
absence of base line data, it has been very difficult to objectively assess the impact of the project.
However, given the fact that the project sought to contribute and strengthen all but three of the
nine programmes(Headquarters, Queen II, Health Service Areas, Mental Health, Public Health,
Leprosy control, Central Laboratory, NHTC, Social Welfare) of the Ministry is indicative of the
significant contributions and the potential gains inherent of the project in the long run.
Basically the project performance has been recognized as satisfactory. Significant gains were
made in the areas of Family Health programme, namely, CBD and youth counseling; NHTC;
RCIP, Disease Control including TB , and STDIHIV/AIDS control programmes. The latter two
which boosts fully developed and nationally accepted and used standardized treatment protocols,
with TB programme now fully funded by the Government. While both CBD and Youth
Counseling (known as Adolescent Health) institutionalized, after both programs were
successfully piloted by the Lesotho Planned Parenthood Association (LPPA). However, effort is
still required to create more positions and streamline the structural/organizational issues. All the
civil works was successfully completed under NHTC (staff houses, library and access road) and



Appendices
RCIP (upgrading of 14 rural clinics and construction of one new clinic) within the first three
years of the project.
Even though much has yet to be accomplished under other components especially Institutional
Development potential for effective sectoral planning, and efficient financial management now
exists from the extensive significant specialist training and TA that has been extended to these
components, namely, strengthening of these components.
Components such as Financial Management, and Nutrition components attained mixed results in
that they were the first to move on with the planned activities including increase in revenue
collection rates and decentralization of the financial system; and establishment of the nutrition
unit, recruitment, and training of the staff were successfully undertaken but were not sustained.
This gains were lost shortly as a result of the departure of the responsible officers
Components which accomplished least under the project are Nutrition sub-component of
hammermills, which could not take off completely and had to be cancelled after the mid-term
review basically as a result of non-performance of the LADB. IEC expected minimally against
the budget mainly due to inability of the department to produce work plans in time. However, the
studio which was constructed under the project continues to be utilized to produce health related
audio visual materials for the various programmes in the Ministry whenever need arises.
Establishment and operationalization of the Human Resource department remain problematic.
The delayed establishment of the department, failure by the Ministry to recruit the Director of the
department and the deployment of inappropriate officials with no formal training and practical
experience in Human Resources, a situation which poses the biggest threat to the
accomplishments made todate by the Ministry in general and the Project in particular.
Investments, including, extensive training (post graduate programmes in Health Planning and
Management; Drug Policy Issues including Drug Regulatory, and Management; Food and
Nutrition Program Management; Public Health) and TA both long and short term(especially the
long term consultancies in the area of Health Planning and Management, Financial Management
and Human Resources) made under the Institutional Development component are yet to yield the
anticipated benefits. However, the motivation behind the Ministry to adopt the Sector Wide
Program route should be recognized as a result of the growing awareness of the need to
redirect/change the approach emanating from both the exposure of the senior staff to the new
developments in the health sector in the world through training and inter reactions with TAs and
various consultancies undertaken under the project.
The most significant but indirect contribution of the Project was the awakening of the Ministry
into the need for a more comprehensive approach in addressing the health needs of the nation.
Historical events seems to point at the mid-term review of the project as a turning point of the
Ministry in adopting a Sector Wide Program as a reform strategy. This is evidenced by the heavy
investment undertaken by the project in financing the Policy Review work which included
Stakeholders workshop, the Health Profile of Lesotho, and finally the development of the Health
Sector Plan for 1996-2001. The latter of which was a used extensively as a background document
during the March 1996, Round Donor Conference and subsequent work relating to the
development of the Health Sector Investment Program. Indeed this is a significant contribution
made by the project if this initiatives can be sustained through the implementation of the
anticipated Health Sector Investment Programme due in 1999/2003. The development of which is
supported by the World Bank through the PHRD Japanese Fund and the anticipated PPF ahead of



Appendices
the new Credit still to be negotiated, together with the grant funds from the African Development
Bank.
In general the physical and infra structural investments that were made under the project has
significantly improved accessibility and quality of health care in Lesotho. That is, the rural clinics
and urban filter clinics. However, the potential benefits (accessibility and decongestion of Queen
II and Leribe hospitals) of the filter clinics has not been realized as these clinics are not fully
operational due to problems of staff shortage. Failure of the Ministry to undertake the options
study regarding the future of Queen II hospital has left this facility in a desperate situation which
need urgent consideration to at least bring it to a standard somewhat comparable to that of the
district hospitals.
1.3   Implementation and Operation Experience: Experiences relating to implementation and
operation of the project activities was of mixed pace and success as highlighted above. In the first
few years of the project implementation went on smoothly only to slow down due to institutional
memory loss which can be attributed to a high staff turnover and the top and middle management
levels. A factor which left the Ministry without consistent leadership and direction throughout the
Project life.
In general the hardware of the project, that is, civil works which was undertaken by the Rural
Clinics Improvement Programme and Project Management Unit directly(with technical assistance
from Ministry of Works through the Works Architect Health Unit) progressed quite well except
the delays associated with acquisition of the land for the filter clinics. This can be attributed to the
stability of the personal involved and standardized nature of the work undertaken and the obvious
immediate gains to both the intended beneficiaries and the government of the day.
Very little was realized in terms of the policy reforms as planned partly due to lack of focus and
leadership within the Ministry and the external factors regarding the unwillingness of other
players such as Public service- in relation to establishment of Human Resource department, and
LADB and Agriculture in relation to Nutrition activities. The lack of commitment and non
appreciation of the intentions of the new managers regarding the project objectives precipitated
the whole problem.
The coordination of the project was set up right from the start and operated well in the beginning
but soon lost the momentum towards the close-up of the project due to staff turnover(the
departure of the Deputy Manager and the Administrative Assistant in January 1997 and October
1996 respectively. However, no viable financial systems were developed by the PMU despite the
fact that the unit was recognized as operating well by all Missions including those undertaken by
the Financial Management Experts/Disbursement Officers except for the ICR mission undertaken
after the closure of the project. In this regard, the Bank staff should have assisted in setting up
both the management and financial system to track both physical progress and financial outflows.
In this case the Bank should develop a standard check-list against which PMUs or PIUs or such
units should operate with to avoid ambiguity and uncertainty as to what standard such units
should maintain and/or operate at. Currently this seems to be left to the individuals to decide what
is adequate or what is not adequate.
The PMU distinguished itself in the smooth handling of procurement to the extent that it did not
suffer any declaration of misprocurement throughout implementation. However, it is regrettable



Appendices
that two of the audit reports were qualified due to mix up of funds between financiers by the
RCIP program, whereby funds were borrowed between different donors accounts to stop gap for
another donor in the case of delays on the part of the concerned donor. However, this was always
rectified as soon as the appropriate funds were received from the rightful financier.
Coordination of the activities funded by the cofinanciers, namely, the Irish Government, the then
European Economic Union and the British ODA were not coordinated directly by the PMU and
thus there no records of the accomplishments made except for the TB program which has been
managed successfully by the long term Irish TB Specialist who has since left the sustainability of
the program threatened.
1.4   Evaluation of Bank Performance: The Bank performance has been recognized as professional
and supportive throughout the implementation. The missions were well spaced with an average of
two missions per year. However, the expertise during missions was bias towards Family Health,
Nutrition and Civil Works and lacking in total in expertise in the difficult areas of Institutional
Development such as Health Planning, Financial Management, Health Information , IEC,
Epidemiologist and Human Resource(except for one occasion where a Human Resource
Specialist was incorporated during one Mission - but this was "too little too late" given the
importance and urgency to address the Human Resource issues.
The one thing weary about the conduct of the Missions was that Bank tended to concentrate too
much in trying to resolve the day to day/minor implementation problems instead of looking at the
larger and more complex policy issues which are difficult in nature to address and resolve and
which the Ministry would have derived more benefit. In any case this is where it is generally
believed that the Bank is better qualified and placed to assist, for example, in motivating the
central government to move ahead with say, the global issues such as the Financial reforms
and/or Public Service reforms which would have eased some of the Ministry frustrations in
forging ahead on its own while this are universal problems in the country.
Missions by the Disbursement and/or Financial Management Specialist were conducted outside
the main bi-annual Missions and because they were conducted under the auspices of Ministry of
Finance, Aide Memoires were seldom shared with line Ministries including Ministry of Health. It
remains very unclear as to whether their findings were ever shared with the concerned Task
Managers in the bit to streamline the operating problems where they existed. Further this
missions were more ad hoc and non-structured. However, the Disbursement Officers were always
thorough in inspecting supporting documentation for Statement of Expenditures (SOEs). Further
they conducted disbursement and procurement seminars within the country where common
financial and procurement implementation issues and problems were addressed and resolved to
ease disbursement problems.
1.5   Effectiveness of Relationship Between the Borrower and the Bank: The relationship between
the Bank and the Borrower was found effective in the sense that both parties were able to discuss
issues as partners and colleagues in the human development endeavors. The Bank staff were
recognized as professional and contributed immensely to the success of the project. The long stay
of the Task Manager and other experts ensured continuity and consistency during
implementation. It is to be regretted that this was not the case with the local staff.
Its only in the last two and half years that relations deteriorated between the Bank and the
Ministry due to insistence of the Bank to the Ministry to fulfill the agreed conditionalities. The



Appendices
long gap between Mission and uncertainty of the person responsible for the project from the
Bank side during the period February 1995 to April 1996 caused a lot of anxiety within the
Ministry, as requests were not honored in time and the responses were inconsistent and varied
with individuals. Relations also were strained as the Bank insisted on the fulfillment of the agreed
conditionalities. However, since the new Task Manager started her assignment relations
normalized somehow as she was viewed as very supportive and sympathetic of the situation of
the Ministry.



Appendices
APPENDIX F: BORROWER'S COMMENTS ON THE ICR
The report is factual and constructive on the whole. It has brought into light shortcomings of both the
Bank and MOHSW which could not be apparent to people directly involved. It certainly contributes
greatly to our performance in the future.
Specific Comments refer to:
(10) PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
The suggestion to incorporate PMU came very late and was not a wise thing when the project
was winding up. Otherwise it is welcome.
There was a perception, however, that PMU was seen as an extended view of the bank, and at no
time in earlier mission was the shortcomings of the PMU in areas such as limited capacity on financial
management, reporting, etc. ever indicated.
(12) FACTORS SUBJECT TO BORROWER'S CONTRACT
The extent to which the reported "strained relationship between MOHSW and NGOs detracted
from sustainability of many successful project achievement of projects affecting the two has continued
without major problems, especially in rural clinics improvement". We acknowledge the need for GOL
and NGOs to address and agree on an acceptable modus operandi. This is already ongoing.
(14) KEY LESSONS LEARNT
Limitations on the human resources to manage resources in accordance with the set financial
procedures and guidelines had been the major handicap. Efforts to develop local capacity and putting
mechanisms in place to retain it is mandatory. This however is not the domain of the Ministry of Health
alone.
The high staff turnover, especially at management level, has indeed contributed to many of the
delays and lack of direction in the many aspects of the project.
Regards.
Dr. M. Mosotho
Principal Secretary



IBRD 21353
t99995'lA         - $                                         .>                                                            (        ~         33  z                           29'30                 30300
'/.IIH A[R4dA PS.A' 7-,  i   2 SEBOCI.E .>C                                                                                                          SECOND POPULATION, HEALTH,
AND NUTRITION PROJECT
MAPT0         I;RIBF                                     A- B<,;         E    
0      a1    20       30    40
K.LOMETERS
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~29
F   <     i           HeaBh   KO-                                                                                                          PilotProjectcikotions.
Ncvrolflebrcg                                                                                                                                    - ,5 n bv
30C3n  6 C  \      @        N      e                     nb ,. s hss hPml nsa.sd hP rhe WmB r s s s Hmcsmlzv er e ronwen  d   i  2,000 -rbn 2, tet5 linic0so0e Costroted3Uder0he Pojeo
;   R   (             b    m l    e    C   o rro resn   r  e  O e n a lF rs   M ed  d   sd b   W odO   R dS   .d  R oroh  C li ios   to   b   U p g r o d e d U n d er   ti e  PT ajno
.  w  n                 \                                  -3b  m      trergoUR  '*dPu8d"6O lifo9,,,w la,lahbO W S95E   _ , _   Inter  ailonal    B aundaries~Ai stri s  (A prooi rete Loco loes
L  _ _   _   28  is                           29|;eu(1                            2943~~~~~~ 2,7 0 end0 Abovel9
39 32,00  - 2000ASE2
ot~~~~~~~~~~~~nentinlRcdse
ORIJA  , %   &                          -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PRL18



