Page  1
                                                     CONFORMED COPY
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 2059 LSO
         (Second Population, Health and Nutrition Project)
                              between
                        KINGDOM OF LESOTHO
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                       Dated August 9, 1989
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 2059 LSO
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated August 9,  1989,  between KINGDOM OF LESOTHO
(the  Borrower)  and  INTERNATIONAL  DEVELOPMENT  ASSOCIATION (the
Association).
     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower,  having  satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has  requested  the  Association  to assist in the
financing of the Project;
     (B)  the Borrower has requested  from the Republic of Ireland
(Ireland)  a  grant  in  an  amount  approximately  equivalent  to
$2,600,000 (the Irish Grant)  to  assist  in financing part of the
Project on terms and conditions  set  forth in an agreement (Irish
Grant Agreement)  to  be  entered  into  between  the Borrower and
Ireland;
     (C)  the Borrower has  requested  from  the European Economic
Community (EEC) a grant  in  an amount approximately equivalent to
$3,200,000 (the EEC  Grant)  to  assist  in  financing part of the
Page  2
Project on terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the EEC
Grant Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and EEC;
     (D)  the Borrower and the Overseas Development Administration
of the United Kingdom intend to  enter into a memorandum of under-
standing (the ODA Memorandum of Understanding) for the purposes of
making available goods and services  to  the Borrower with a value
of about $1,300,000 (the ODA Grant) to assist in financing part of
the Project on terms  and  conditions  set  forth in the ODA Memo-
randum of Understanding; and
     WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend  the  Credit  to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the  last  sentence  of  Section  3.02  deleted  (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several  terms  defined  in  the  General  Conditions  and  in the
Preamble to this  Agreement  have  the respective meanings therein
set forth and the  following  additional  terms have the following
meanings:
     (a)  "Special  Account"  means  the  account  referred  to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
     (b)  "MOH" means the Borrower's Ministry of Health;
     (c)  "MOA" means the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture;
     (d)  "AIDS" means the Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome;
     (e)  "HPSU" means the Health  Planning and Statistics Unit in
MOH;
     (f)  "HSA" means a Health Service Area;
     (g)  "IEC" means Information,  Education and Communication of
health and population activities;
     (h)  "LPPA" means the Lesotho Planned Parenthood Association;
     (i)  "TB" means Tuberculosis;
     (j)  "PMU" means the Project Management Unit within MOH;
     (k)  "PHAL" means the Private Health Association of Lesotho;
     (l)  "RCIP"  means  the  Rural  Clinics  Improvement  Project
within the Borrower's Ministry of Interior;
     (m)  "STD" means Sexually Transmitted Diseases;
     (n)  "VHW" means a Village Health Worker;
     (o)  QEII Hospital" means the  Queen Elizabeth II Hospital in
Maseru;
     (p)  "NHTC" means  the  Borrower's  National  Health Training
Center;
     (q)  "PAC" means the  Project  Advisory Committee established
by the Borrower to review Project Implementation;
Page  3
     (r)  "LADB" means the Lesotho Agricultural Development Bank;
     (s)  "M" means Maloti, the Borrower's currency; and
     (t)  "Project Preparation Advance" means the project prepara-
tion advance granted by  the  Association to the Borrower pursuant
to an exchange of letters dated  July 5, 1988, and August 3, 1989,
and March 1, 1989,  and  June  22, 1989, respectively, between the
Borrower and the Association.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
     Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms  and  conditions  set  forth  or  referred to in this
Agreement,  an  amount   in   various   currencies  equivalent  to
nine  million  four   hundred   thousand  Special  Drawing  Rights
(SDR 9,400,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The amount  of  the Credit may be withdrawn
from the  Credit  Account  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this  Agreement  for  expenditures  made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be  made) in respect of the reason-
able cost of goods and services required for the Project described
in Schedule 2 to  this  Agreement  and  to  be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
     (b)  The Borrower shall,  for  the  purposes  of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a  special account in a bank on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Association. Deposits into, and
payments out of, the Special  Account  shall be made in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
     (c)  Promptly  after  the  Effective  Date,  the  Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to  itself  the  amount  required  to  repay the principal
amount of the Project  Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstand-
ing as of such date  and  to  pay  all unpaid charges thereon. The
unwithdrawn  balance  of  the  authorized  amount  of  the Project
Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
     Section 2.03. The Closing  Date  shall  be December 31, 1995,
or  such  later  date  as  the  Association  shall  establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal  amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time at a  rate to be set by the Association as
of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of
one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
     (b)  The commitment charge  shall  accrue:  (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of  this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on  which  amounts  shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit  Account  or  cancelled;  and (ii) at the
rate set as of the June  30 immediately preceding the accrual date
and at such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter
pursuant to paragraph (a) above.  The  rate  set  as of June 30 in
each year shall be applied from  the next date in that year speci-
fied in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
     Section 2.05. The  Borrower  shall  pay  to the Association a
service charge at the rate  of  three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on  the  principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
     Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on January 1 and July 1 in each year.
     Section 2.07. (a) Subject  to  paragraphs  (b) and (c) below,
Page  4
the Borrower shall repay  the  principal  amount  of the Credit in
semi-annual installments payable  on  each  January  1  and July 1
commencing January 1, 2000, and ending July 1, 2029. Each install-
ment to and including  the  installment  payable  on July 1, 2009,
shall be one  percent  (1%)  of  such  principal  amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal
amount.
     (b)  Whenever: (i) the Borrower's  gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for  five consecutive years; and (ii) the
Bank shall consider  the  Borrower  creditworthy for Bank lending,
the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof
by the Executive Directors of  the  Association and after due con-
sideration by them of  the  development of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment  of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to  repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet  due  until  the  principal amount of the
Credit shall have been  repaid.  If  so requested by the Borrower,
the Association may revise  such  modification to include, in lieu
of some or all of  the  increase  in  the amounts of such install-
ments, the payment of interest  at  an annual rate agreed with the
Association on the principal  amount  of  the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time,  provided  that, in the judgment of
the Association, such revision shall  not change the grant element
obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
     (c)  If, at any time  after  a modification of terms pursuant
to  paragraph  (b)  above,  the  Association  determines  that the
Borrower's economic condition  has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so  requested  by the Borrower, further modify
the terms of repayment to  conform to the schedule of installments
as provided in paragraph (a) above.
     Section 2.08. The currency  of  the  United States of America
hereby specified for the purposes  of  Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this  end,  shall  carry out the Project, except
for Part D.3 through its Ministry of Health with due diligence and
efficiency  and  in  conformity  with  appropriate administrative,
financial, engineering  and  public  health  practices,  and shall
provide, promptly as needed,  the  funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the Project.
     (b)  Without limitation upon  any  of  its other obligations,
the Borrower  shall  cause  LADB  to  carry  out  Part  D.3 of the
Project, with due diligence and  efficiency and in accordance with
appropriate  administrative  and  financial  practices,  and shall
provide, promptly as needed,  the  funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for Part D.3 of the Project.
     (c)  The Borrower shall  make  available  the proceeds of the
Credit allocated to Part  D.3  to  LADB, under arrangements satis-
factory to the Association.
     (d)  Without limitation upon the  provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and  except  as  the  Borrower and the Association
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4
to this Agreement.
     Section  3.02.  Except  as  the  Association  shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the  goods,  works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit shall be governed  by  the  provisions of Schedule 3 to
Page  5
this Agreement.
     Section 3.03. The  Borrower  shall  continue  to maintain the
PMU, composed  of  a  Project  Manager,  Administrative Assistant,
Assistant Accountant and  Secretary,  in  accordance with terms of
reference and with qualifications satisfactory to the Association.
     Section 3.04. The Borrower shall: (a) continue to operate the
Imprest Account  for  the  upgrading  of  rural  clinics under the
control of the Director of RCIP;  and (b) at all times, maintain a
minimum balance of M 250,000, in said account.
     Section 3.05. The Borrower  shall,  commencing April 1, 1991,
fund directly payments  for  treatment (hospitalization and drugs)
of TB patients in PHAL hospitals.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower  shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts  adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound  accounting  practices,  the  operations, resources and
expenditures in  respect  of  the  Project  of  the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible  for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have  the  records  and  accounts  referred  to  in
               paragraph (a) of  this  Section including those for
               the Special Account  for  each fiscal year audited,
               in accordance with  appropriate auditing principles
               consistently  applied,   by   independent  auditors
               acceptable to the Association;
         (ii)  furnish to the  Association,  as soon as available,
               but in any case  not  later  than nine months after
               the end of each such  year, a certified copy of the
               report of  such  audit  by  said  auditors, of such
               scope and in such  detail  as the Association shall
               have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the  Association  such other information
               concerning said  records,  accounts  and  the audit
               thereof as the Association  shall from time to time
               reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were  made  on  the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause  to  be maintained, in accordance
               with paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section, records and
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least  one year after the Associa-
               tion has received the audit  for the fiscal year in
               which the last  withdrawal  from the Credit Account
               was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
               bills,  receipts  and  other  documents) evidencing
               such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Association's representatives to examine
               such records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records  and accounts are included
               in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
               this Section  and  that  the  report  of such audit
               contains a separate opinion  by said auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
               during such fiscal  year,  together with the proce-
Page  6
               dures  and  internal  controls  involved  in  their
               preparation, can  be  relied  upon  to  support the
               related withdrawals.
                             ARTICLE V
                          Other Covenants
     Section 5.01. (a)  The  Borrower  shall  take all measures as
shall be necessary to  achieve  recoveries  in its health services
equivalent to at least: (i) 12% of MOH's recurrent expenditures by
June 30, 1990; and  (ii)  15%  of  MOH's recurrent expenditures by
June 30, 1992.
     (b)  The Borrower shall  by  March  31,  1990,  adopt a plan,
satisfactory to the Association, for increasing the utilization of
private doctors and nurses in government hospitals.
     Section 5.02. The Borrower shall by March 31, 1990, implement
a  program,  acceptable  to  the  Association:  (a)  giving target
revenue collection levels for  its district health facilities; and
(b)  providing  incremental  resources  and  other  incentives  to
institutions which achieve or exceed their targets.
     Section 5.03. The Borrower shall  by March 31, 1990, finalize
a memorandum  of  understanding  with  PHAL,  satisfactory  to the
Association, covering subvention levels and other planned benefits
for PHAL institutions,  as  well  as  PHAL obligations for service
delivery,  financial  and  other  reporting  and  minimum staffing
levels.
     Section 5.04.  The  Borrower  shall  by:  (a)  June 30, 1990,
complete a hospital efficiency  study  for QEII Hospital and eight
other district hospitals,  in  accordance  with terms of reference
satisfactory to the Association;  and  (b) April 1, 1991, commence
implementation of a phased plan satisfactory to the Association to
strengthen financial management  and  achieve unit-cost targets in
its hospitals.
     Section 5.05. (a) The  Borrower  shall  by December 31, 1990,
complete a study of the  efficiency and financing of drug expendi-
tures, covering  procurement,  distribution,  stock management and
prescribing practices.
     (b)  The Borrower  shall  by:  (i)  April  1, 1991, following
discussions with  the  Association,  commence  implementation of a
reform program for improved efficiency and equity of drug procure-
ment and supply; and  (ii)  April  1,  1992, ensure that there are
adequate budgetary allocations  for  drug  supplies  for its rural
clinics.
     Section 5.06. The Borrower shall  by June 30, 1990, implement
a bonding arrangement satisfactory  to the Association for retain-
ing health personnel trained on government scholarships.
     Section 5.07. The Borrower  shall  by: (a) December 31, 1989,
establish and staff  the  posts  of  Manpower  Department head and
manpower planning and  development  officer;  and (b) December 31,
1990,  develop  an   optimal   staffing  pattern  and  alternative
scenarios  for   health   manpower   expansion,  redeployment  and
retention.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Remedies of the Association
     Section 6.01. Pursuant  to  Section  6.02  (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified:
     (a)  Subject to subparagraph (b) of this paragraph, the right
of the Borrower to withdraw  the  proceeds of the Irish Grant, the
Page  7
EEC Grant or the ODA Grant  made to the Borrower for the financing
of the Project shall have  been suspended, cancelled or terminated
in whole or  in  part,  pursuant  to  the  terms  of the agreement
providing therefor, or
     (b)  Subparagraph (a) of  this  paragraph  shall not apply if
the Borrower establishes  to  the  satisfaction of the Association
that: (i) such suspension,  cancellation, termination or prematur-
ing is not caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of
its obligations under such agreement;  and (ii) adequate funds for
the Project are available  to  the  Borrower from other sources on
terms  and  conditions  consistent  with  the  obligations  of the
Borrower under this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE VII
                    Effective Date; Termination
     Section 7.01. The  following  events  are  specified as addi-
tional conditions to  the  effectiveness  of this Agreement within
the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
     (a)  the Association has  been  notified  that all conditions
precedent to the  initial  disbursement  of  the  Irish Grant, EEC
Grant  and  ODA  Grant,  other  than  the  effectiveness  of  this
Agreement, have been fulfilled; and
     (b)  the  Borrower  has  appointed  the  Project  Manager and
Administrative Assistant  referred  to  in  Section  3.03  of this
Agreement.
     Section 7.02.  The  date  ninety  (90)  days  after  the date
of  this  Agreement  is  hereby  specified  for  the  purposes  of
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
                           ARTICLE VIII
            Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section  8.01.  The  Minister  at  the  time  responsible for
Finance of the  Borrower  is  designated  as representative of the
Borrower  for  the  purposes  of  Section  11.03  of  the  General
Conditions.
     Section 8.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Ministry of Finance
          P.O. Box 395
          Maseru 100
          Lesotho
          Cable address:                      Telex:
                FINMIN                           4330 LO
                Maseru                           4367 LO
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 2033
          United States of America
          Cable address:                      Telex:
                INDEVAS                          440098 (ITT)
                Washington, D.C.                 248423 (RCA) or
                                                  64145 (WUI)
Page  8
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                          KINGDOM OF LESOTHO
                          By /s/ T. W. van Tonder
                                         Authorized Representative
                          INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                          By /s/ Michael Gillette
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of  the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the  Credit  to  each  Category  and  the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in         Expenditures
     Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1)  Civil Works:                                100%
     (a)  for Parts A,         1,100,000
          C, E and F
          of the
          Project
     (b)  for Part B of          600,000
          the Project
(2)  Vehicles,                 2,600,000         100% of foreign
     furniture,                                  expenditures and
     equipment                                   90% of local
     and supplies                                expenditures
(3)  Consultants'              1,500,000         100%
     services
(4)  Training and              1,100,000         100%
     workshops
(5)  Nutrition                   100,000         50% of LADB
     Activities                                  loans
     Fund
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in         Expenditures
     Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
Page  9
(6)  (a)  HSA Develop-           200,000         100%
          ment Fund
          under Part A.7
          of the Project
     (b)  PHAL Support           200,000         100%
          Funds for TB
          Treatment
(7)  Salaries:
     (a)  for PMU staff          100,000         100%
     (b   incremental            100,000         100% up to
          MOH posts                              March 31, 1992;
                                                 70% up to
                                                 March 31, 1993;
                                                 30% up to
                                                 March 31, 1994;
                                                 and 0% thereafter
(8)  Refunding of                400,000         Amount due pur-
     Project Prepara-                            suant to Section
     tion Advance                                2.02 (c) of
                                                 this Agreement
(9)  Unallocated               1,400,000
                              __________
         TOTAL                 9,400,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term  "foreign  expenditures"  means expenditures in
the currency of any country  other  than  that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and
     (b)  the term "local expenditures"  means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower  or  for  goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  paragraph  1  above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
     (a)  payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement;
     (b)  payments for expenditures  under  Category (1) (b) until
the Borrower has undertaken the actions specified in Sections 5.01
(b), 5.02 and 5.03;
     (c)  payments for expenditures  under  Category (6) (a) until
the Borrower has undertaken the  actions specified in Section 5.01
(a) (i); and
     (d)  payments for expenditures  under  Category (5) (a) until
terms and conditions for the loans satisfactory to the Association
are agreed upon between the Borrower and LADB.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The objectives of the Project  are to introduce financial and
institutional policy reforms  within  the Borrower's health sector
to achieve the following objectives:  (i) slow the pace of popula-
tion growth; (ii) strengthen the  health  system in both rural and
urban areas; (iii) reduce the spread of tuberculosis and sexually-
transmitted diseases;  (iv)  lower  the  rate  of  malnutrition in
children and  mothers;  and  (v)  strengthen  support  systems for
Page  10
sector  planning,  financial,  personnel  and  health  information
management and manpower development.
     The Project consists of the  following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof  as  the  Borrower  and  the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Rural Health Services
1.   Upgrading of fourteen  existing  clinics  and construction of
one new clinic in remote areas.
2.   Establishment of  Primary  Health  Care  teams  in  each HSA,
development of a  course  for  Public  Health  Nurses at NHTC, and
provision of vehicles for six mountain HSAs.
3.   Development  of  a  preventive  maintenance  program  for HSA
facilities.
4.   Provision of raw materials  for  the manufacture of drugs for
rural clinics by the Lesotho Pharmaceutical Corporation.
5.   Development of facility-based inventory and budget systems to
improve drug ordering by the clinics.
6.   Carrying out of a  study  of options for increased efficiency
and self-financing of the drug system.
7.   Establishment of an HSA Development Fund to provide resources
to each HSA to carry out locally-defined priority activities.
Part B:   Urban Health Services
1.   Establishment of three Filter  Clinics  in  Maseru and one in
Maputsoe, including the construction  of on-site accommodation for
five staff members for each  clinic  and the provision of a multi-
purpose vehicle and an ambulance  for  Maseru and an ambulance for
Maputsoe.
2.   Upgrading of the QEII  Hospital in Maseru through infrastruc-
ture improvement, provision of equipment and the introduction of a
new organizational structure and improved management practices.
3.   Carrying out of a training  program  to enhance the skills of
hospital medical, technical and administrative staff.
4.   Carrying out a hospital  efficiency  study for QEII and eight
district hospitals.
5.   Carrying out of  a  study  to  examine  options for the size,
functions, and phased  establishment  of  a  new national referral
hospital.
Part C:   Family Planning
1.   Training of key health personnel in family planning.
2.   Undertaking of  workshops  for  national  leaders  to develop
consensus around a population policy.
3.   Conducting seminars for MOH,  PHAL  and  NGO officials in the
management of population/family planning programs.
4.   Expansion of Lesotho  Planned Parenthood Association's effort
to train and deploy community-based distributors.
5.   Training and equipping of VHWs in two or three pilot areas.
6.   Establishment of a Youth Counselling Center at Maputsoe.
7.   Provision of contraceptives for MOH and LPPA.
Page  11
Part D:   Food and Nutrition
1.   Provision  of  fellowships   for  masters-level  training  in
applied human nutrition to two MOH staff members, and provision of
training for nutrition assistants and supervisers.
2.   Provision of two vehicles  to enhance mobility of supervisory
personnel in Qachas Nek, Quthing and MOH headquarters.
3.   Provision of credit to  women's  groups  through the LADB for
the purchase of diesel-power grain mills.
4.   Creation of nutritionist positions,  one in the Family Health
Division of MOH and the other in the field.
5.   Establishment of a nutritional surveillance system.
Part E:   Disease Control
1.   Tuberculosis Control
     (a)  Provision of TB drugs through the Lesotho Pharmaceutical
Corporation and establishment of an improved system for monitoring
drug supply and consumption.
     (b)  Strengthening of the  Disease  Control and Environmental
Health Division at  MOH  Headquarters  to  support  the TB Control
Program.
     (c)  Provision of  improved  treatment  of  TB in-patients at
PHAL facilities.
     (d)  Assignment of at  least  one  public health assistant in
each HSA to be responsible for primary health care activities with
emphasis on TB control. Provision of appropriate training, on-site
accommodation and motorcycles to support above activities.
     (e)  Undertaking an independent  annual  evaluation of the TB
control program and the carrying  out  of the following studies: a
tuberculosis survey; a drug  sensitivity  survey; and a pilot six-
month trial on multi-drug supervised ambulatory chemotherapy.
2.   STD/AIDS Control
     (a)  Establishment of a pilot  scheme  for treating and coun-
selling STD/AIDS patients in three HSAs, including the training of
personnel, provision of  transport,  drugs  and equipment, and the
remodelling of existing hospital and clinic facilities.
     (b)  Provision of  equipment  for  the  central laboratory at
QEII Hospital and laboratories in the Butha Buthe and Mohales Hoek
hospitals.
     (c)  Carrying  out  of  operational  research  on  high  risk
groups.
     (d)  Modification of the  existing  MOH screening and disease
reporting system to better capture STD/AIDs cases.
Part F:   Institutional Development
1.   Financial  Management:  (a)  Development   of  a  system  for
facility-based  budgeting,  cost   control,  and  expenditure  and
revenue monitoring in MOH,  through  the training of MOH financial
and other relevant officers.
     (b)  Provision  of  computer   equipment  to  automate  MOH's
financial information system.
2.   Health Planning: Better definition  of  the  scope of work of
HPSU and improvements  in  its  planning  skills, through the pro-
vision of technical assistance, training, and computer equipment.
Page  12
3.   Health Information:  Strengthening  of  MOH's Statistics Unit
through  the  provision  of  training,  technical  assistance, and
computer and office equipment.
4.   Manpower Planning and  Development:  Establishment  of a Man-
power  Department  in  MOH,  including  a  computerized  personnel
information system, through  the  provision of training, technical
assistance and equipment.
5.   District/HSA Management: Establishment and  training of a new
cadre of District  Health  Service  Administrator  and  a Unit for
District Operations Management  in  MOH headquarters to coordinate
the DHSA.
6.   Information, Education  and  Communication: Strengthening the
Health Education Unit of MOH  in  its specialist function for PHN-
related IEC activities,  through  provision  of  a small recording
studio, funds for design,  production and dissemination of printed
IEC materials, training and technical assistance.
7.   National Health Training Center:  Support to NHTC's five year
development plan including  infrastructure improvements, provision
of equipment and supplies, instructors and fellowships.
                           *     *     *
     The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1994.
                            SCHEDULE 3
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under  contracts  awarded  in  accordance with procedures
consistent with those  set  forth  in  Sections  I  and  II of the
"Guidelines for  Procurement  under  IBRD  Loans  and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.   To the  extent  practicable,  contracts  for  goods  shall be
grouped in  bid  packages  estimated  to  cost  the  equivalent of
$50,000 or more each.
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Lesotho may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55  and  2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Civil works estimated  to  cost  less  than the equivalent of
$200,000 and goods estimated to  cost  less than the equivalent of
$50,000, may be procured under  contracts  awarded on the basis of
competitive  bidding,  advertised   locally,  in  accordance  with
procedures satisfactory to the Association.
2.   Items or groups  of  items  estimated  to  cost less than the
equivalent of $20,000 per contract,  up to an aggregate amount not
to exceed  the  equivalent  of  $500,000,  may  be  procured under
contracts awarded on the  basis  of comparison of price quotations
solicited from a list of  at  least three suppliers eligible under
the Guidelines, in  accordance  with  procedures acceptable to the
Association.
3.   Civil works under Part A.1 of the Project, may be carried out
Page  13
by the Borrower's own forces through the Rural Clinics Implementa-
tion Project.
Part D:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
     (a)  With respect to each  contract for civil works estimated
to cost more than the equivalent of $100,000 or more and for goods
estimated to cost the  equivalent  of  $50,000 or more, the proce-
dures set forth in paragraphs 2 and  4 of Appendix 1 to the Guide-
lines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made
out of the Special Account,  such  procedures shall be modified to
ensure that the two conformed  copies  of the contract required to
be furnished to the Association  pursuant  to said paragraph 2 (d)
shall be furnished to the  Association  prior to the making of the
first payment  out  of  the  Special  Account  in  respect of such
contract.
     (b)  With respect to each  contract  not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set  forth  in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to  the  Guidelines  shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to  be  made  out  of  the Special Account, such
procedures shall be  modified  to  ensure  that  the two conformed
copies  of  the  contract  together  with  the  other  information
required to  be  furnished  to  the  Association  pursuant to said
paragraph 3 shall be furnished  to  the Association as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to  paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to
this Agreement.
     (c)  The provisions of  the  preceding  subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts  on account of which the Associa-
tion has authorized  withdrawals  from  the  Credit Account on the
basis  of  statements  of  expenditure.  Such  contracts  shall be
retained  in  accordance  with  Section  4.01  (c)  (ii)  of  this
Agreement.
2.   The figure of 15% is  hereby  specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
     In order to assist the  Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the  Borrower  shall   employ  consultants  whose  qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions  of employment shall be satis-
factory to the Association. Such  consultants shall be selected in
accordance with  principles  and  procedures  satisfactory  to the
Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consul-
tants by World Bank Borrowers  and  by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 4
                      Implementation Program
1.   The PMU  within  MOH  shall  have  overall responsibility for
Project Coordination. PMU shall  be  headed  by a Project Manager,
who shall report directly to the Principal Secretary, MOH. The PMU
shall, inter alia:  (a)  organize  and  supervise  the drafting of
annual work plans and progress  reports for various Project compo-
nents; (b) consolidate such  work  plans  and progress reports for
review by PAC; (c) organize quarterly meetings of PAC; (d) monitor
overall Project implementation and assist in removing bottlenecks;
(e) maintain  overall  Project  accounts;  and  (f)  assist in the
recruitment of consultants.
2.   The Borrower shall establish  and maintain a Project Advisory
Committee, composed of managers of  all the Project components and
subcomponents.  The  committee  shall  meet  quarterly  to  review
implementation of the Project and discuss future work plans.
Page  14
3.   The Borrower shall: (i) by  February  15 in each year furnish
to the Association the  annual  work  plan for the following year;
(ii) by June 30 in  each  year, prepare the annual progress report
for the previous year; and (iii)  within eight weeks of the end of
each quarter, furnish to  the  Association progress reports on all
the Project components.
4.   The Borrower shall within  twelve months of the Effectiveness
Date furnish to the Association terms of reference for the evalua-
tion studies  on  the  following  Project  components:  (a) family
planning; (b) food and nutrition; and (c) disease control.
Rural Health Services
5.   The upgrading  and  construction  of  rural  clinics shall be
undertaken by  RCIP.  Selection  of  sites  for  new  and upgraded
clinics shall be the  responsibility  of  HPSU, in accordance with
established criteria.
6.   Primary health care  teams  shall  be  formed  in each HSA by
redeploying health assistants to HSA-level and training additional
public health nurses. In  addition,  the  Borrower shall develop a
course for public health nurses at NHTC.
7.   The Borrower shall  create  up  to  eight  posts for District
Health Service Administrators. The  Borrower  shall appoint a head
for the Operations Management Unit within MOH.
8.   The Borrower shall establish  an  HSA Development Fund Review
Committee to assess HSA  micro-project proposals and monitor their
progress. The  members  of  the  Committee  shall  be  the Project
Manager, MOH  headquarters  staff,  and  representatives  from the
Ministry  of  Finance,  the  Ministry  of  Planning  and  the PHAL
Secretariat. Each HSA  shall  be  allocated  about  $20,000 in HSA
Development Fund resources. Prior  to  the start of each financial
year, each HSA  shall  submit  to  the  Committee  through HPSU, a
comprehensive proposal for each  micro-project, in accordance with
a standard format. Each HSA shall submit to the Committee periodic
progress reports on  their  micro-projects including an accounting
for funds expended.
Urban Health Services
9.   The Borrower  shall,  in  order  to  improve  the quality and
accessibility of urban  PHN  services  and promote decongestion of
QEII and Leribe Hospitals,  create  three filter clinics in Maseru
and one in Maputsoe. The Borrower  shall ensure that the sites for
the Filter Clinics are  secured  and  that  it makes available for
filter clinics construction, funds earmarked for clinics under the
Urban Sector Reorientation Project, (Credit 1898-LSO).
10.  The Borrower  shall  establish  a  Management  Board  at QEII
Hospital, consisting of, inter  alia, department heads, MOH repre-
sentatives and  the  local  community  representatives.  The Board
shall advise  the  Hospital  Superintendent  on  policies relating
primarily to planning, monitoring and evaluation, coordination and
hospital  finances.  The  Borrower  shall  redeploy  one personnel
officer from MOH headquarters to QEII Hospital.
11.  To assist hospital  officials  in  the  implementation of the
organizational  and  management   reforms   at  QEII  Hospital,  a
technical assistance  team  shall  be  employed  headed  by a team
leader, who shall serve  as  senior  advisor to the Medical Super-
intendent, and  including  advisers  for  maintenance  and nursing
services.
12.  The  Borrower  shall   strengthen  the  Manpower  Development
Division in MOH by  appointing  a  second  training officer for at
least two years, to handle QEII hospital-based and other training.
The Borrower shall develop and  furnish an annual training plan to
the Association for  its  review.  The  Borrower shall furnish the
Page  15
first such plan to  the  Association  within four months after the
QEII Hospital management team  is  in place and thereafter furnish
such annual training plans by December 31, in each year.
Food and Nutrition
13.  The Borrower shall  cause  LADB  to  provide credit to active
women's groups in  Qachas  Nek  and  Quthing Districts for diesel-
powered  mills  under  the  following  terms.  Credit  funds shall
provide 50% of the loans  extended to women's groups as identified
by the  Borrower's  Child  Nutrition  and  Household Food Security
Project. Women's groups participating shall agree to set aside 10%
of their profits to be  used  for  local nutrition efforts by said
groups.
14.  The Borrower shall by  April  1,  1990, create a nutritionist
post within MOH.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                          Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the  term  "eligible  Categories"  means  Categories (1)
through (7) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible  expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed  out  of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated  from  time  to  time  to  the  eligible  Categories  in
accordance with the provisions  of  Schedule  1 to this Agreement;
and
     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equiva-
lent to SDR 500,000 to  be  withdrawn  from the Credit Account and
deposited into the Special Account  pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
this Schedule.
3.   After the Association  has  received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account  has  been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and  subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account shall be made as follows:
     (a)  For  withdrawals  of   the  Authorized  Allocation,  the
Borrower shall furnish to  the  Association  a request or requests
for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount
of the Authorized  Allocation.  On  the  basis  of such request or
requests, the Association shall, on  behalf of the Borrower, with-
draw from the Credit Account  and deposit into the Special Accountsuch amount or 
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
     (b)   (i)  For  replenishment  of  the  Special  Account, the
                Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
                for deposits  into  the  Special  Account  at such
                intervals as the Association shall specify.
          (ii)  Prior to or at the  time of each such request, the
                Borrower  shall  furnish  to  the  Association the
                documents and other  evidence required pursuant to
                paragraph 4 of  this  Schedule  for the payment or
                payments  in  respect  of  which  replenishment is
                requested. On the basis  of each such request, the
                Association  shall,  on  behalf  of  the Borrower,
                withdraw from the Credit  Account and deposit into
                the Special Account  such  amount  as the Borrower
                shall have requested and  as shall have been shown
Page  16
                by said documents and  other evidence to have been
                made  out  of  the  Special  Account  for eligible
                expenditures.
All such deposits shall be  withdrawn  by the Association from the
Credit Account under  the  respective  eligible Categories, and in
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by
said documents and other evidence.
4.   For each payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to  the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such  payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of   paragraph  3  of  this
Schedule, the Association shall  not  be  required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
     (a)  if, at any time,  the  Association shall have determined
that all  further  withdrawals  should  be  made  by  the Borrower
directly from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions
of Article  V  of  the  General  Conditions  and  paragraph (a) of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
     (b)  once the total  unwithdrawn  amount  of the Credit allo-
cated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstand-
ing special commitment entered into by the Association pursuant to
Section  5.02  of  the  General  Conditions  with  respect  to the
Project, shall equal the  equivalent  of  twice  the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from  the  Credit  Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn  amount  of  the  Credit  allocated  to  the  eligible
Categories shall follow such  procedures  as the Association shall
specify by notice to the  Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall
be made only after and  to  the  extent that the Association shall
have been satisfied that all  such amounts remaining on deposit in
the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized
in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any payment out of the  Special  Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount  not  eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule; (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Association, the Borrower  shall, promptly upon notice from
the  Association  (A)  provide  such  additional  evidence  as the
Association may request, or  (B)  deposit into the Special Account
(or, if the Association shall  so  request, refund to the Associa-
tion) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall
otherwise agree, no further  deposit  by  the Association into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
     (b)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any amount outstanding  in  the  Special  Account will not be
required to cover further  payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon  notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount.
     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any  portion  of the funds on deposit in
the Special Account.
     (d)  Refunds to the Association  made pursuant to paragraph 6
(a), (b) and (c) of this  Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal  or  for cancellation in accord-
ance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.
Page  17
