Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCAL USE ONLY
Report No. 13160
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MALI
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
(CREDIT 1654-NLI)
JUNE 15, 1994
Agriculture Operations Division
Sahelian Department
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used bv recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Monetary Unit: CFA Francs (CFAF)
Per US$ 1.00:
Appraisal Date (December 6, 1985): CFAF 434
Closing Date (December 31, 1992) : CFAF 276
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
1 stere = 1 st.cbm (m3)
1 m3 of stacked roundwood = 2 steres = 450 kg
1 m3 Gmelina arborea firewood = 1.6 steres (st.cbm) = 580 kg
26 Gmelina arborea poles = 1 m3 (roundwood)
I Toe = I ton oel equivalent = 2.5 tons of air dry wood
I Toe = I ton oel equivalent = 1.45 tons of charcoal
LIST OF ACRONYMS
CFD           Caisse francaise de developpement (French Development Fund)
CTFT          Centre technique forestier tropical (Technical Center for Tropical Forestry)
CMDT          Compagnie malienne des textiles
DNEF          Direction nationale des eaux et forets (National Directorate of Water and Forests)
DPP           Departement des projets et de la plannification
DREF          Direction regionale des eaux et forets (Regional Directorate of Water and Forests)
ERR           Economic Rate of Return
FAC           Fonds d'aide et de cooperation (French Aid and Cooperation Fund)
FAO           Food and Agricultural Organization of the United Nations
FFN           Fonds forestier national (National Forestry Fund)
GRM           Government of the Republic of Mali
GNP           Gross National Product
MDC           Minist0re du ddveloppement et de la cooperation
OAPF          Operation amenagement et productions forestieres (Managed Development and
Forestry Production Operation)
OHV           Operation Hautes Vallees
ONF           Office national forestier (National Forestry Office)
OPNBB         Operation du parc national de la Boucle de Baoule (Boucle de Baoule National Park
Operation)
PCR           Project Completion Report
PGRN          Projet de gestion des ressources naturelles (Natural Resources Management Project)
PNBB          Parc national de la Boucle de Baoule (Boucle de Baoule National Park)
PNLCD         Programme  national  de  lutte  contre  la  desertification  (National  Anti-
Desertification Program)
PPF           Project Preparation Facility
PSA           Projet services agricoles (Agricultural Services Project)
RURGS         Recherche sur l'utilization rationnelle du gibier au Sahel
Research into Rational Utilization of Game in the Sahel
SAR           Staff Appraisal Report
UTS           Unite technique speciale (Special Technical Unit)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Offics of Dirctor-Genral
Operations Evaluation
June 15, 1994
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
Subject:      Project Completion Report on Mali
Second Forestry Project (Credit 1654-MLI)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on Mali-Second Forestry Project (Credit 1654-
MLI) prepared by the Africa Regional Office with part II prepared by the Borrower. The quality
of the report is satisfactory and the careful review contributed by the Borrower adds significantly to
its quality.
The project built directly upon experience gained in an earlier project (First Forestry-Cr.883-
MLI) and conformed closely to Government's development strategy in that sector. Recognizing the
environmental and economic threat brought on by the rapid destruction of the natural forest cover,
the second project aimed at controlling forest resource degradation, expanding the supply of
fuelwood, and simultaneously improving the policy environment as well as the technical and
managerial capacities of existing forest institutions.
Despite substantial implementation, the state-managed semi-industrial plantation program was
canceled before its completion in view of its low economic viability (poor soils and lower than
expected yields and prices). The rural forestry component was canceled because its managed
activities contradicted the common-law's free felling of trees by villagers, and because forest rangers
stifled beneficiary participation. However, the Government eventually abandoned the policy of state
management of natural resources, and a new strategy of participatory forest and plantation
management was developed and implemented from 1990, backed up by a successful applied research
program. Despite this favorable development, the failure of the rural forestry and plantation
programs as designed, and poor results with the forest wildlife component, indicate an unsatisfactory
rating. Institutional development is rated as modest.
A follow-on project (Natural Resource Management-Cr. 2370-MLI) is successfully
implementing a participatory forest regeneration program, and is providing substantial institutional
support to villagers and forestry agencies; therefore as the eventual developments under the
completed project are likely to lead to sustainable use of the forest resource, sustainability is rated
as likely.
The project will be audited together with the follow-on project.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLMION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF MALI
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
(Credit 1654-MLI)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Preface ..................................................  i
Evaluation Summary  . .............................................    ii
Part I - Project Review  by the Bank             ..................1................... 
1.       Project Identification  ....................................    1
2.    Background ..........................................  1
3.       Project Justification and Objectives  ...........................    3
4.       Project Components and Costs  ..............................    4
5.       Project Implementation  ...................................    4
6.   Project Results . ........................................  5
7.       Sustainability .........................................  12
8.       Performance of the Association and the Borrower  ..................  14
9.       Relations Among the Donors and with the Borrower  ................  15
10.      Conclusions, Recommendations and Follow-up Action  ...............  15
Part 11 - Project Review  by the Government                ...............               .................   17
1.       Introduction ..........................................  17
2.       Relations with the Donors .................................   17
3.       Impact of the Project ....................................   18
4.       Evaluation of the Bank's Performance   .........................  23
5.       Evaluation of Mali's Performance  ............................  24
6.    Conclusions .......................................... 26
Part HI - Statistical Information   .             ......................................   29
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






- j -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF MALI
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
(Credit 1654-MLI)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Second Forestry Project in Mali,
for which Credit 1654-MLI in the amount of SDR 5.9 million was approved on March 14, 1986.
The credit was closed on December 31, 1992, one year behind schedule. By this date, the Credit
was almost completely disbursed; only SDR 6,802 were cancelled effective May 7, 1993.
Parts I and III of the PCR were prepared by the Agricultural Operations Division of
the Sahelian Department of the Africa Region (AF5AG). The Borrower prepared Part II.
Preparation of the PCR is based, inter alia, on the Staff Appraisal Report, the
Development Credit Agreement, the FAO/CP preparation report, supervision reports, correspondence
between the Bank and the Borrower, and between the Bank and Cofinanciers, internal Bank
memoranda, annual reports prepared by the executing agencies and discussions with representatives
of the Borrower, and the Bank.



I



- jj -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF MALI
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
(Credit 1654-MLI)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Project Objectives and Components
1.    The Second Forestry Project followed upon a First Forestry Project (Credit 883-MLI)
financed by IDA from 1979 to 1985. Recognizing the environmental and economic threat posed by
the rapid destruction of the natural forest cover, both projects aimed at controlling forest resource
degradation, expanding the supply of fuel, service wood and other forest products to Bamako without
further depleting natural forests, and simultaneously improving the policy environment as well as the
technical and managerial capacities of existing forest institutions (DNEF, OAPF and OPNBB).
2.    In line with the Government's forestry policy, the main objectives of this Second Forestry
Project were: (i) under the DNEF Component: to strengthen the operations, planning, management
and monitoring capacity of the Ministry of Agriculture's Forestry Department through the creation
of a monitoring and evaluation unit, the construction of offices, studies to improve the formulation
of Mali's forestry policy and investment program, staff training, and reinforcement of the tax
collection system; (ii) under the Rural Forestry Component: to promote on-farm tree planting and
agro-silvopastoral management of unreserved forest cover in the Koulikoro region; (iii) under the
OPNBB Component: to strengthen wildlife conservation in the Boucle du Baoule National Park; and
(iv) under the OAPF Component: to establish of 3,000 ha of state-managed industrial plantations;
improve management of the gazetted natural forests (over 140,000 ha) and existing industrial
plantations (over 3,054 ha) in the Bamako area; and finance an applied research program relevant to
the management of natural forests in the project area (para 4.1, Part I).
Project Financing
3.           The project was cofinanced by IDA, the French Development Fund (CFD), the
French Ministry of Cooperation (FAC) and the Government of Mali. Applied research activities were
financed by a grant from the Government of Norway. By the credit closing date, the integrated
participatory forest management program of the Rural Forestry Component was still being financed
out of the undisbursed balance of the CFD Credit. At the request of the GOM, the closing date of
the Norwegian grant was extended to December 31, 1994 to help cofinance implementation of this
program (para 4.2, Part 1).
Project Design
4.           Project design was in line with the 1985 Government forestry policy (see Chapter 2
of Part I) and based on lessons learned under the First Forestry Project which called for balancing



- iii -
plantation activities with other natural forest protection and management activities and for developing
a comprehensive sectoral policy framework to underpin future Bank involvement in the sector (para
3.2, Part I). Project design did not, however, pay sufficient attention to the managerial weaknesses
within the DNEF; the lack of staff communication and technical skills in natural forestry resource
management; the lack of sectoral background information, particularly about mechanisms governing
the marketing of forest products; the excessive centralization of the decision-making process; the
deficiencies in the legal frameworks for forestry and land tenure; the forestry officers' negative
attitudes towards custodial activities; and Government budgetary constraints, especially as regards
recurrent expenditures required to manage and maintain the successive semi-industrial plantation
programs developed under the Project.
Implementation Experience
5.            The project was jointly prepared and appraised by the CFD, the FAC and the Bank
between October 1984 and January 1985. It was approved in March 1985 and became effective in
June 1985. The original closing date was postponed to December 31, 1992. The technical assistance
was put in place in a timely fashion and was essential in advising the implementing agencies on
technical and financial matters.
6.            Three major events affected implementation, however (para 5.4, Part I): (i) the Rural
Forestry component was cancelled in March 1989 because the conditions imposed on its
implementation were never met. The attitudes of the forest rangers charged with extension activities
conflicted with the component's objectives. Committed as they were to repression, forest rangers
were unable to win the interest of the rural population. Residual credit resources of this component
were allocated to the OAPF component to support the testing of a new participatory forest
management strategy; (ii) the semi-industrial plantation program was discontinued on December 31,
1989 when it became obvious that unfavorable climate and soil conditions would affect its economic
viability, and (iii) as a result, a new strategy of participatory forest and plantation management was
initiated from 1990 onwards. After this welcome project reorientation, quality and implementation
of the plantation and forest management programs improved substantially. Implementation of most
of the other components remained unsatisfactory, however, for the reasons given below.
7.            Procurement was carried out in accordance with guidelines and virtually all funds
were disbursed (only SDR 6,802 were cancelled effective May 7, 1993). The construction program,
including the headquarters of the DNEF, the Koulikoro headquarters of the DREF, enlargement of
the OAPF's offices for the management unit, and six control stations on the outskirts of Bamako, was
executed on schedule and within the projected budgets. The same applies to procurement of
equipment and vehicles.
Results
8.            Physical project objectives were substantially achieved for the OAPF industrial
plantation program with 2,878 ha out of the 3,000 ha planted, an achievement of 96%, two years
in advance of the credit closing date. The shortfall was caused by the discontinuation of the industrial
plantation program in 1989, as requested by the Association, in view of its low economic viability.
For industrial plantation, the ex-post economic rate of return is far below appraisal estimates, i.e.,
3% vs 12% at appraisal, because of higher development costs and lower yield than expected, as well
as wood price trends on the Bamako market which proved to be well below the 1985 price projections
(para 6.20, Part I).



- iv -
9.            Based upon very effective applied research, however, the participatory forest and
plantation management program, which was initiated only in 1990, generated a series of benefits,
including (i) the emergence of an innovative approach to fostering the participation of the rural
population in integrated management of natural forest and rural forestry. This approach proved more
cost-effective than industrial plantations; (ii) the development of regeneration techniques to manage
and reconstitute the natural forest cover; and (iii) the participation of villagers who directly benefitted
from production under the project (i.e., the sale of wood for their own profit). It is expected that
this approach will in turn alleviate pressures on natural forests and at the same time boost farmers'
revenues.
10.           Institutional strengthening of the DNEFfell substantially short of goals because of the
inadequate design of the human resources development (training) program, the poor planning and
management capacity of the institution and the reluctance to use technical assistance (para 6.3, Part
I). The study program was also partly neglected. Only the wood market study led to conclusive
results. The effects of enforcement and control of the new harvesting and fiscal policy regulations
were also negligible. Although forest fees were increased two-fold in 1985, wood prices in Bamako
remained low and the sharp reductions recorded in 1991 in both cutting and transaction revenues
clearly illustrated the difficulties encountered by forest rangers in enforcing the new fiscal policy
regulations.
11.           In the Boucle du Baoule National Park, project activities were insufficient to reverse
the current degradation trends (para 6. 10, Part 1). As a result, wildlife populations shrank steadily
during the project period. Large mammals have practically disappeared; large antelopes have become
very scarce under the combined onslaught of drought (1987-88) and competition from man
(resurgence of poaching) and domesticated livestock. Nor has the project succeeded in halting the
deterioration of park infrastructures (buildings, trails, firebreaks, bridges). On the other hand, the
regeneration potential of natural vegetation and of populations of small animals (e.g., primates and
warthogs) seems to have remained unaltered.
12.           The conditions imposed on the implementation the Rural Forestry Component were
never met (para 6.7 to 6.10, Part I). First, the forest policy was in contradiction with common-law
practices. Second, the motivations and attitudes of the forest rangers involved in extension activities
conflicted with the component's objective of promoting popular participation in forest resources
management. Third, at the onset of the project, technical packages and incentives able to stimulate
grassroots involvement were virtually non-existent. As a result, the component never took off and
was therefore cancelled in 1989. In retrospect, the cancellation of this component seems paradoxical
given the great many local initiatives undertaken by small farmers in natural resource conservation
(shea trees) and tree planting (nere, baobabs, Acacia albida, fruit trees) and the promising results of
the OAPF participatory forest and plantation management programs, which were launched in 1990
and are being satisfactorily implemented.
Sustainability
13.           Despite anticipated improvements, it seems clear today that industrial plantations
cannot simultaneously resolve fuelwood supply problems and combat desertification. These problems
call for measures both to steer consumers toward alternative energy sources and encourage sustained
management of natural forests.
14.           Government-owned industrial plantations, as established under the First and Second
Forestry Projects, will be onerous to manage (para 6.20, Part 1). In light of their low productivity,



- v -
investment and recurrent charges are too high at current urban-market prices. If it proves possible
to improve product value in the future, for example by increasing production of construction wood
and timber, a number of issues still remain: a standing material of low quality which could be
improved only through very expensive sylvicultural tending; competition from natural forest
production; and the limited purchasing power of end-users (para 7.3, Part 1). Therefore, degradation
of natural forest resources would only be prevented if natural forest and plantation could be managed
as an integrated system of resources with the participation of the local populations that exploit them.
This has been clearly demonstrated under the OAPF participatory management program (para 7.4).
Moreover, this strategy, by boosting the revenues of the peripheral villagers, is expected to alleviate
the pressures on these forests. This new approach is being developed and promoted nationwide under
the ongoing Mali Natural Resource Management Project (PGRN) (Cr. 2370-MLI).
15.           The setbacks experienced by the Rural Forestry and OPNBB components undoubtedly
have contributed to a better understanding of the issues involved in forest -- and natural resources --
management, and have helped the Forest Department to refocus its sectoral policy (para 7.6, Part I).
In particular, the failure of the Rural Forestry component demonstrates three things: first, that the
current forestry policy framework needs significant reform (resource tenure, integration of resource
utilization, trade reforms, economic adjustment, institutional incentives, etc.) to make it more
conducive to participation;  second, that the forest services' technical capacity needs to be
strengthened; and third, that participatory and social forestry are indeed. feasible as demonstrated by
the OAPF's revised program. Today, there are positive signs, and forest policy is being revised as
a result of the Government's recent decentralization policy. Increasingly, reform-minded technocrats
within the Forest Department are requesting institutional changes enabling them to better integrate
natural resource management into their mandate. However, although the Forest Department possesses
a core cadre of sectoral specialists capable of dealing with sectoral issues, the average forester is ill-
prepared to deal with them in the field. Without concerted attention to improving the technical skills
of field agents with the support of the donor agencies (the Bank in particular), the viability of the on-
going policy reform program will be compromised (para 10.1, Part 1).
16.           The performance of the Association has been good throughout the project cycle. It
manifested some shortcomings, however, particularly at the design stage (preparation and appraisal)
with regard to institutional weaknesses and during supervision (para 8.1 to 8.5, Part 1).  The
institution-building component could have been better focussed on structural weaknesses identified
during the First Forestry Project.  Supervision missions could have reacted more quickly and
forcefully to identified alternative solutions (i.e. to avoid the suspension of the Rural Forestry
component).
Comments on Borrower's Views
17.           The project review  from  the Borrower's perspective (Part II of the PCR) was
prepared when Parts I and III were drafted. In appraising the project's performance, the Borrower
mentions the excellent relations it had with the Association (and the other donors) but regrets the
remoteness of the Bank's decision process and emphasizes the need for more and longer field
supervision missions. It underlines the relative success of the OAPF industrial plantation and the
follow-up participatory forest management program and the need for further Bank support to human
resource development and capacity building as a prerequisite for effective implementation of the new
forest policy framework. It attributes the failure of the Rural Forestry and OPNBB components to
unfavorable economic conditions, associated with deficient sectoral policy frameworks, leading to
poor attitudes on the part of foresters. It also emphasizes that this situation cast doubt upon the
efficiency of forestry institutions in the minds of donors, who gradually withdrew from the sector,



- vi -
often without thoroughly analyzing the situation, and even when results clearly indicated that the
activities ought to be continued.
18.           These views are for the most part relevant and correspond to many of the points made
in Part I of the Project Completion Report.
Findings and Lessons Learned
19.           The major findings and lessons are the following:
(a)    Climatic and soil conditions in Mali do not allow for cost-effective wood production on an
industrial scale. Fuelwood production is too expensive under the current urban wood price
system.  Conditions are also unlikely to yield enough wood to address effectively the
problems of natural resource degradation associated with the rapidly increasing urban demand
for wood products;
(b)    In an environment where the destruction of the natural forest is caused by land clearing for
agriculture, overgrazing and extensive exploitation of woodfuel, integrated natural forest
management with the participation of those who exploit resources is feasible when efficient
input from professional services is made available;
(c)    Policy reforms should be developed in response to sectoral issues brought up by the major
forest users and institutions prior to the design of detailed investment operations. This
requirement was already stressed in the 1989 Project Performance and Audit Report of the
First Forestry Project. They should include economic policy reforms related to forest
resource pricing and fiscal policies; forest management reforms related to the nature of state
intervention for resource allocation and management; institutional development policies; and
policies to foster local participation. Appropriate policy reforms will also require a strong
focus on sector work to help identify intersectoral policy flaws, and integrate forestry
objectives into wider economic and environmental frameworks. The failure to take this into
consideration during preparation of this project greatly affected the performances of the forest
taxation reform program and the Rural Forestry component;
(d)    The attitudes and capacities of staff and administrators are critical elements in the
dissemination of more sustainable forest management practices and participatory forestry. In
the future, the design of institution-building and training components for the forest sector
should be formulated with a view to long-term institutional development, with well-defined
timetables in terms of training programs and the handover of responsibilities to the private
sector and local communities. This was not the case under this project; thus, forestry
institutions are still unprepared to fulfill their technical, legislative, judicial, and regulatory
functions; and
(e)    The successes and failures of this Second Forestry Project should spur broader reflection on
the strategic elements needed to promote rational management of natural resources in Mali.
As a result, a new policy dialogue with the Government will be required. The recently
approved IDA-financed Natural Resources Management Project (PGRN) has a comprehensive
approach involving and empowering the rural population and decentralizing the decision-
making process. To date, however, forestry institutions are ill-prepared to face these new
challenges.  Successful implementation of this project will therefore require strong
institutional support to local communities that the forest sector institutions are not in a



- vii -
position to offer. The Government's new decentralization policy also requires drastic changes
in the very structure of forest policy. As a result, there is an urgent need for a detailed
institutional study covering all sector institutions (including the DNEF and other dependent
agencies, training, research, etc.), in order to define a new governance framework and a
long-term human resource development program to prepare the forestry staff to assume its
new functions (as has been done for the agricultural services). This study can be carried out
under the PGRN Project.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF MALI
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
(Credit 1654-MLI)
PART I
PROJECT REVIEW BY THE BANK
1.    PROJECT IDENTIFICATION
Project Name:              Second Forestry Project
Credit No.                 1654-MLI
Operational Responsibility:   Africa Region, Sahelian Department, Agriculture Division
Country:                   Mali
Sector:                    Agriculture
Subsector:               Forestry
2.   BACKGROUND
2.1           Sector Development Obiectives.  Mali is one of Africa's poorest countries.
Agriculture is the mainstay of the economy, contributing 50 percent of GNP (US$ 270/capita in
1989), and foreign trade is dominated by cotton exports. However, rapid population growth and
successive droughts of the past two decades have led to significant drops in crop yields, declining soil
fertility, and reduced fallow lands and fallow periods. Despite these constraints, Mali has achieved
annual real economic growth of 3.4 percent since 1985. The literacy rate remains one of the lowest
in Africa (17 percent) and will inevitably pose many obstacles to the country's long-term
socioeconomic development.
2.2          In 1982, following a series of serious economic and financial crises stemming from
unsuitable economic policies, Mali adopted a sectoral policy reform program with IMF support.
Since 1988, this program has focused mainly on: (i) promotion of the private sector, savings, and
investment competitiveness; (ii) improving public-sector management and trimming budget deficits;
(iii) human resource development, and (iv) sustainable management of natural resources.' Three
adjustment programs are currently being implemented: the Structural Adjustment Program and two
sectoral programs for education and agriculture.
2.3          The objectives of the agricultural sectoral adjustment program (Credit 2163-MLI)
include: (i) increasing rainfed farm production through greater efficiency in agricultural extension
and input distribution; (ii) developing credit and improving marketing systems; (iii) improving and
upgrading irrigation; (iv) promoting soil conservation and agroforestry activities, and (v)
strengthening natural resource management capacities. Additional Bank support in agriculture includes
the Agricultural Services Project (Credit 2235-MLI), and the Natural Resources Management Project
These programs were set forth in three Economic Policy Framework Papers (PFPs) covering the
periods 1988-90, 1990-92 and 1992-94.



- 2 -
(Credit 2370-MLI). This latter project provides continuity of the Bank's support for sustainable
management of natural resources, especially forest resources.2
2.4           Forestry Sub-sector Development Obiectives. Although forest lands account for 14
percent of Mali's total area (17.4 million hectares), the forestry sector contributes only 2 percent of
GNP. These figures, however, do not accurately reflect the situation: some 91 percent of household
energy needs are met by firewood (1.6 million toe). Between 1978 and 1990, the surveys conducted
by the project showed that firewood volume marketed in the major urban centers had doubled,
reaching about 410,000 tons a year in Bamako alone (a value of about CFAF 7 billion a year).
Moreover, forest lands provide a range of other products that are omitted from official statistics:
poles, posts, forage, game meat, fruits, shea nuts, gums, haulm, traditional medicinal products,
basketwork and wickerwork materials, etc. In addition, the forests provide shelter necessary to
sustained farm and livestock production.
2.5           Droughts have had a particularly severe impact on the productive potential of Mali's
forests by increasing the frequency of bush and forest fires, accelerating land clearing and the
cropping of marginal lands, degrading standing material, overgrazing, over-extraction of firewood,
etc. These trends have been exacerbated by de facto free access to forest resources despite a very
restrictive, hard-to-enforce legislation. At the same time, low wood market prices have discouraged
both tree planting and sustainable management of natural forest.
2.6           Since 1973, increasing attention has been given to the role of forestry in Mali's
socioeconomic development. Recognizing the increasing environmental and economic threat posed
by the successive droughts and the rapid destruction of the natural forest cover, the GOM, assisted
by the donor community, developed a National Anti-Desertification Program (PNLCD). The program
aimed at expanding sources of fuel and service wood and strengthening the Forest Department's
capacity to implement effective forest protection and management programs. The First and the
Second Forestry Projects, as appraised in 1979 and 1985, responded to these policies and priorities
and to most donors' views on the type of action needed.3
2.7           Forest Policy Development. The current Forestry Code dates from 1984. Under the
code, the right to establish and enforce regulations governing the use of forest land has been vested
solely in the Forest Department (DNEF). The Code distinguishes between two domains: gazetted
forests and protected forests. Furthermore, according to the land tenure legislation, most trees in
rural areas are under the jurisdiction of the Forestry Code. Strict management rules have been laid
down by the Forest Department for each of the two domains. They prohibit forest land clearing,
harvesting green wood, tree felling in rural areas, gathering certain leaves and fruits, and hunting
without prior authorization by the forest authority. Only the gathering of dead wood and low-value
fruit and leaves is permitted. Forest rangers were empowered to collect revenue from wood-cutting
permits (harvesting taxes) and to fine violators (transaction taxes). These legislative mechanisms,
which reflected the legislator's concern with protecting the country's forest resources, have in most
cases been applied in an arbitrary fashion, the forest rangers being primarily concerned with
maximizing forest revenues. Given the scale of natural resource degradation in Mali, this policy,
despite its internal coherence, has in practice been tragically ineffectual, as the forest services have
2      See Part III, Table 1.
The 1990 portfolio of forestry projects comprised nine operations of this type, for a total of CFAF
3.7 billion. However, eight of these operations were due to end in 1993.



- 3 -
never been adequately staffed or properly budgeted to implement it. The traditional capacity of rural
populations to manage their natural resources was also curtailed.
2.8           Since 1991, as a result of recent political events, a new forest policy has emerged that
is better geared to vertical integration with end-user groups. The current forest policy reform is
aimed at: (i) better integration of forestry activities into rural development; (ii) decentralization, and
gradual transfer of natural resource management and protection to local authorities; (iii) restructuring
the Forest Department by limiting custodial functions and emphasizing the advisory role; (iv)
improving operating procedures on logging and taxation to foster participatory strategies, and (v)
adapting the country's land-tenure and forest legislation to the new context.
3.     PROJECT JUSTIFICATION AND OBJECTIVES
3.1           The Second Forestry Project followed a First Forestry Project (Credit 883-MLI)
implemented from 1979 to 1985. Both were financed jointly by IDA, CFD (previously CCCE) and
FAC. In 1986, the Government of Norway joined in with an IDA-administered grant.
3.2           The rationale of the Second Forestry Project was based upon sectoral constraints and
lessons learned under the first project. According to the 1989 Project Performance and Audit Report,
the first project successfully fulfilled several objectives and tested a new concept of forestry
development under Sahelian conditions. The report, however, made reference to the following issues:
first, the need to set more realistic plantation objectives; second, the importance of determining the
optimal size of the project and balancing plantation activities with other natural forest protection and
management activities; and third, the need to develop a comprehensive sectoral policy framework as
an underpinning for future Bank involvement in the sector. The Second Forestry Project was thus
aimed at reversing forest resources degradation by (i) promoting industrial reforestation and
management of natural forests around Bamako; (ii) strengthening wildlife conservation activities in
the Boucle du Baoule National Park; (iii) expanding rural forestry activities initiated under the first
project on a pilot basis by promoting on-farm forestry and participatory forest management; and (iv)
strengthening Forestry Institutions (DNEF, OAPF and OPNBB) to improve their technical capacities
to plan, execute and monitor forestry activities, establish industrial plantation on degraded forest land
and recover forest fees from wood harvested on public land.
3.3           The project was jointly prepared by the CFD, the FAC and the Bank. Although its
timing and scope were appropriate, structural constraints and institutional weaknesses (see para. 2.8
above) were underestimated during preparation. Project effectiveness would have been increased had
more attention been paid to the absence of design, planning and technical capacities within the DNEF;
to the lack of communication and extension skills among rural forestry personnel; to the lack of
sectoral background information and of the mechanisms governing the marketing of forest products;
to the excessively centralized decision-making process; to deficiencies in the legal frameworks for
forestry and land tenure; to forest rangers' attitudes towards custodial activities; and to budgetary
weaknesses, especially as regards recurrent expenditures incurred by the successive reforestation
programs.



- 4 -
4.    PROJECT COMPONENTS AND COSTS
4.1           To achieve its objectives, the project had four major components:
(a)    The Forest Department Component (DNEF), including the construction of office
building in Bamako and Koulikoro (Regional Office) as well as the provision of
material, technical and transport equipment. This institution-building program was
complemented by (i) a program of studies to help formulate new forestry strategies;
(ii) a training program to strengthen DNEF managerial, technical and monitoring
capacities; and (iii) the establishment of administrative measures to increase the
efficiency of forest fees collection and, in turn, foster wood saving measures and
reduce wood-fuel consumption in Bamako;
(b)    7he Rural Forestry Component, intended to expand on-farm forestry activities, and
promote integrated participatory management of forest lands (agro-silvo-pastoralism)
in the Koulikoro and Sikasso regions;
(c)    The OPNBB Component, to strengthen protection activities in the Boucle du Baoule
National Park according to management plan prescriptions; and
(d)    The OAPF Component to increase the supply of forest products for Bamako. This
component included: (i) the management of the three major gazetted forests around
Barnako; (ii) 3,000 ha of new semi-industrial plantation; (iii) the management 2,370
ha of semi-industrial plantation established under the first project; and (iv) an applied
forestry research program.
4.2           The project was financed jointly by the IDA Credit (SDR 5.9 million or CFAF 2.6
billion), the CFD Credit (FF 46 million or CFAF 2.3 billion) and the Government of Mali (CFAF
900 million). The applied forestry research program was financed by a grant from the Government
of Norway (NOK 22.5 million or CFAF 1 billion). Project technical assistance was funded by the
French Ministry of Cooperation (FAC). At the IDA credit's closing date, the OAPF program was
still being financed out of the residual allocation of the CFD Credit and Norwegian grant.
5.    PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
5.1           Executing Agencies. All the forestry institutions involved in project implementation
existed at the time of project start-up. Overall responsibility for the DNEF, Rural Forestry and the
OPNBB components was assigned to the DNEF Director. The study program was entrusted to the
DNEF Project and Planning Division (DPP), the Rural Forestry Component to the Regional Forestry
Director in Koulikoro, and protection activities in the Boucle du Baoule National Park to the OPNBB
Director. As a consequence of the institutional weaknesses noted in para. 3.4, the components under
DNEF administration failed to achieve a sufficient level of efficiency.!
5.2           Responsibility for forest management, plantation and applied research activities in the
forest around Bamako was vested in the OAPF Director. This component benefitted from: (i)
continuity (OAPF had already been responsible for the first project); (ii) outstanding flexibility,
4      Shortcomings having affected DNEF efficiency are discussed in section 6.



- 5 -
especially when it became apparent that the semi-industrial plantation program was not financially
viable; (iii) adequate integration of the results of the applied research program, and (iv) judicious
use of technical assistance. Starting in 1989, OAPF initiated a new participatory management
strategy and was thereby able to redress its financial situation, as reflected in Part III.5.
5.3           Credit Effectiveness. The IDA Credit Agreement was signed on March 14, 1986 and
became effective on June 7, 1986, i.e., a year after the closing date of the first project. During this
period, the OAPF semi-industrial plantation program initiated during the first project was proceeding
on schedule under a PPF endowment.  Work was slow to start, however, under the other
components.
5.4           Major Events in Proiect Implementation. Three wise and important decisions were
made by the Government as a result of major implementation problems: (i) suspension of the Rural
Forestry component in March 1989 and reallocation of residual credit resources to the OAPF
component (CFAF 189.6 million out of a total of CFAF 272 million); (ii) discontinuation of the
OAPF semi-industrial plantation program on December 31, 1989 when it became apparent that the
program was not financially viable, and (iii) as a result, the initiation of participatory management
activities frorn 1990 onward.
5.5           Financial management and accounting.  Financial planning, programming and
administration was vested in the OAPF management unit established under the first project. The
quality and rigor of the financial management (including an efficient cost accounting system) were
verified throughout the project by successive supervision missions. No major delays occurred in
either disbursements or replenishment of the Special Account. Government counterpart funds were
made available in a regular manner to the OAPF semi-industrial plantation program. However, this
was not always the case with regard to the DNEF, Rural Forestry and OPNBB programs.6
5.6           Extension of the closin2 date. The credit was extended by a year to December 31,
1992, in order to continue financing the expansion of the new OAPF participatory management
program initiated in 1990. At the project closing date, participants numbered about 900 (including
500 women), distributed among 42 villages. At this time, the OAPF program is still being financed
by the residual CFD Credit, the Norwegian Grant and the Malian Government.
5.7          The IDA Credit was almost completely paid out by the project closing date. Tables
3.1 and 3.2 of Part III show the breakdown by financing category and component.
6.    PROJECT RESULTS
Support to DNEF
6.1          Infrastructure and equipment.  The construction program, including the DNEF
headquarter in Bamako, the regional DNEF headquarter in Koulikoro, new offices for the OAPF
See Part III, Tables 6.1 and 6.2.
As evidenced from the inability of the National Forestry Fund (FFN) to contribute CFAF 80
million to the PNBB protection and management activities.



- 6 -
management unit, and six toll stations on the outskirts of Bamako, was executed on schedule and
within budget.7 The same applies to the procurement of equipment.
6.2           Study Program. 7hree basic studies to define newforest sector development strategies
were financed under the component. They included: (i) management plans for the Rail gazetted
forests (218,000 ha); (ii) a feasibility study on irrigated forestry, and (iii) a wood marketing study
in the five major urban centers of Mali.
6.3           Of the three studies, only the wood marketing study was carried out in accordance
with the program cleared by the Association and met its specific objective, although with substantial
delays. Baseline surveys carried out to support the design of a management plan for the Rail gazetted
forests provided valuable information on the standing material and the socioeconomic constraints to
implementation. However, they failed to clearly define management strategies or the conditions for
local participation. To justify the development of irrigated forestry, the economic assumption was
based on a theoretical average annual yield of about 35 m3/ha, although past experience in both Mali
and Niger demonstrated that such hypotheses were unrealistic (annual averages of 7 m3/ha on
irrigated industrial plantation and 2 m3/ha on irrigated village blocks are more typical).8 Nor did
the study take into account all the constraints that could affect this type of development, e.g., land
tenure situation, shortage of suitable lands, competition with other crops, drainage requirements,
marketing problems, etc. Under these circumstances, the economic justification for an ambitious
national development program of this kind was far from clear. There is no doubt, however, that
small village plantings in the form of windbreaks or shelterbelts in association with farming can be
beneficial. To date, no decision has been taken on follow-up action in response to these comments.
6.4           In contrast, the study on wood marketing in the five urban centers of Bamako, Mopti,
Segou, Koutiala and Gao underlined the very important role that wood plays in Mali 's energy balance
sheet, accounting for more than 96 percent of household energy consumption. Woodfuel consumption
in Bamako has practically doubled since the inception of the project in 1978, to around 410,000
tons/year, including 15,000 tons of charcoal. Extrapolated for the country as a whole, these figures
indicate a wood-energy market value of about CFAF 20 billion (over CFAF 7 billion for Bamako
alone), not considering self-consumed production.  To these figures one must add lumber
consumption on the order of CFAF 2-3 billion per year. To date, the wood sector generates an
estimated 17,000 jobs in Mali, including some 1 1,000 in Bamako. The rise in wood sales volume
has also been accompanied by greater professionalization: the small farmer producers, increasingly
aware of the financial importance of wood, are devoting themselves more and more to commercial
exploitation. In the process, they are becoming increasingly concerned with asserting their traditional
rights over natural resources, and especially forests. These trends call for urgent changes in the
following areas: (i) substantial policy reforms, particularly in regulation and taxation, in order to
reduce the prevalence of forest resource "mining"; (ii) decentralized planning of land management
and natural resource utilization; (iii) training local authorities in forest management, harvesting and
marketing; (iv) assistance to local authorities, and (v) revision of the forestry and land-tenure codes
(in progress when this report was being written). These conclusions are currently reflected in the
7      See Part III, Tables 4.1 and 5.1.
I      Niger: Second Forestry Project, Project Completion Report 10455, March 1992.



Domestic Energy Strategy for Mali9 and in the decentralized management strategy proposed by the
Natural Resources Management Project (PGRN).
6.5           Increase in Forest Revenues and Control. The objective of this subcomponent was
to increase the forest fee level in order to: (i) bring wood prices closer to their economic value and
thereby encourage energy-saving measures in Bamako, sustainable management of natural forests,
and make planting more attractive, and (ii) increase forest revenue to benefit the FFN. In accordance
with the project's proposals, six toll stations were established on Bamako's main wood supply routes
to increase the efficiency of the proposed policy changes. The two elements of this program were
implemented in accordance with effectiveness conditionalities, starting with the two-fold increase of
cutting permit fees in 1985.10
6.6           Project results have not borne out the assumptions of the appraisal report. First, the
two-fold fee increase had no impact on wood prices in Bamako: during the period 1985-91, wood
prices in Bamako, contrary to appraisal report projections, actually tended to fall in real terms
following a sharp rise in 1984 due to Mali's entry into the CFA zone." This could be explained
by increased competition between dealers and among producers, and by a reduction in the opportunity
costs of small-farmer labor. Second, although FFN revenues doubled between 1985 and 1987 in
accordance with appraisal projections, these results have to be weighed against an unexplained drop
in controlled volumes (-35 percent in the case of fuelwood between 1985 and 1989)."2 Third, the
toll system established under the project practically collapsed following the political events of 1991.
The sharp reductions recorded in 1991 in both cutting (-100 percent from 1990) and transaction
revenues (-180 percent) and in controlled-cutting permit volume (-51 percent) is undeniably due to
the difficulties encountered by forest rangers in enforcing the current forestry regulations. To date,
in some regions of Mali, the growing opposition of the rural population to forest rangers has slowed
or even halted the granting of felling permits and transactions.
6.7           Monitoring of Rural Forestry Activities. The creation of a Rural Forestry Monitoring
Unit was requested by the Association in order to (i) define qualitative monitoring and evaluation
criteria to assess the impact of rural forestry activities; and (ii) formulate a national rural forestry
strategy. Although the DPP drew up some preliminary proposals, the unit was never actually set up
in spite of numerous supervision recommendations.
Rural Forestry
6.8           This component provided for two pilot rural forestry programs, including: (i) two
integrated participatory forest management trials to define the conditions for the transfer of forest
resource management responsibilities to the rural people, and (ii) assistance in establishing
multipurpose on-farm tree planting in the Koulikoro region. In both programs, responsibility for
plant production was to be gradually transferred to private, family or community nurseries.
ESMAP Report No. 147-92, May 1992, World Bank.
10     See Part III, Table 8. The second two-fold increase, scheduled for June 30, 1988 (para. 3.29 of
the appraisal report), was never implemented. None of the supervision reports mentions the failure
to comply with this condition.
See Part III, Table 7.1.
12     See Part III, Table 8.



- 8 -
6.9           Implementation of the component was beset by many difficulties, with the result that
financing of this component was suspended in 1988. The only tasks completed under this component
were the construction of the Koulikoro Regional Forestry Office and the purchase of vehicles. Three
major reasons explain this setback. First of all, forest policy was in contradiction with common-law
practice. Second, the motivations and attitudes of the forest rangers conflicted with the component's
objectives. Committed as they were to repression, forest rangers were unable to win the trust of the
rural population. A radically different attitude would have been required in line with policy and
legislation reforms and changes in training, organization and administration of the subsector.
6.10          The lack of technical packages able to stimulate grassroots involvement in the
proposed program was undoubtedly an important additional constraint. Rural forestry research, still
at an embryonic stage when the project started, was not up to producing technical solutions for better
integration of trees into farming systems and forest management into small farmers' concerns.
6.11          Because of these shortcomings, the rural populations did not perceive the need for
rural forestry activities. Nor did the mutual mistrust between the forest rangers and the rural
population foster increased grassroots participation. With hindsight, however, the cancellation of this
component seems paradoxical in light of (i) the many local initiatives taken by small farmers in
natural resource conservation (shea trees) and tree planting (nere, baobabs, Acacia albida, fruit trees);
and (ii) the encouraging results of the OAPF participatory management program (see below). The
success of the latter is undoubtedly due to the availability of technical packages, financially attractive
to the participants, the existence of a supportive training program and the absence of repressive
methods.
Protection of the Boucle du Baoule National Park
6.12          This component was included in the project in response to a specific request of the
Government, in order to halt damage to the natural ecosystems of the Boucle du Baoule National Park
(PNBB), and especially to wildlife."3 At the project inception date, the Office du Parc National de
la Boucle du Baoule (OPNBB), the institution in charge of Park protection, lacked the physical and
human resources as well as the experience necessary to reverse the destructive trends affecting the
park. The major threats included: intensive forest land clearing, encroachment from the villages
located within Park boundaries, overgrazing by transhumant herds, traditional and urban poaching,
bushfires, etc. Approval of the Credit was tied to: (i) a firm Government commitment to protecting
the PNBB; (ii) adoption of a regional management plan including the Park and adjacent areas, and
(iii) moving three villages that threatened the Park's integrity. Initially, the Credit covered mainly
the purchase of equipment to build and maintain a network of trails and firebreaks. After the
suspension of the Rural Forestry component, CFAF 82.1 million was transferred to the PNBB
component to finance (i) a socioeconomic survey of the Park's resident population; and (ii) a
reassessment of the wildlife population."4 Both studies, carried out in 1992, were deemed essential
prerequisites for the design and implementation of a comprehensive management plan, as
recommended by the RURGS in 1983.
13     The Boucle du Baoule estate (or Complex) includes a National Park, a Biosphere Reserve and
adjacent gazetted forests which together totals about 1 million ha.
14    The last wildlife population inventory, carried out by the RURGS project, dated from 1979.



- 9 -
6.13          The findings of these two studies showed that project actions were insufficient to
reverse the current destructive trends. Although it was difficult to estimate the current wildlife
population in comparison with the 1980 census developed by the RURGS without performing a new
detailed inventory, the result of the reassessment showed that wildlife numbers have undoubtedly
decreased since project inception. Large mammals have practically disappeared; antelopes have
become very scarce under the combined onslaught of drought (1981-88) and increased competition
from man (poaching) and domesticated livestock. Nor has the project succeeded in halting the
deterioration of park infrastructures (buildings, trails, firebreaks, bridges). On the other hand, the
regeneration potential of natural vegetation and of small animal populations (primates and warthogs)
seem to remain unaltered.
6.14          The socio-economic study highlighted the contradiction that prevailed between alleged
participatory strategies and repression-oriented field activities, and areas of conflict between the
protection policy and local interests.
6.15          These gloomy results are due to a number of factors that hampered project
implementation: (i) absence of adequate preparation works; (ii) lack of local counterpart funds;'5
(iii) the very limited technical competence of OPNBB rangers; (iv) the failure to design and
implement a comprehensive management plan as outlined in the SAR; and (v) the conflicts posed
by the supervision mission's resistance to the Government's proposals to evict the resident
population."6 Despite the numerous recommendations of supervision missions, no appreciable
progress toward the solution of these problems took place during the project period. This situation
led to persistent disagreements with the Association during implementation.
SuDport to the OAPF Program
6.16          The OAPF program was executed in conformity with project objectives. As shown
in the following table, the main OAPF achievements were:'7
Activities               Scheduled    [     Actual          % Execution
Semi-industrial Plantations       3,000 ha          2,878 ha            95.9
Tending, Ist Project               3,054 ha         3,054 ha            100.0
Trail construction                  350 km           303 km             86.6
Trail maintenance                   936 km           936 km             100.0
Natural forest management          1,000 ha          400 ha             40.0
6.17          Manazement of the Gazetted Forests. Maintenance of existing trails and firebreaks,
regeneration felling and enrichment plantings were carried out in the three gazetted forests of the
15     The FFN has never released the contractual counterpart resources, estimated at CFAF 80 million at
appraisal.
16     The resident population was estimated at about 6,000 in 1979 and 13,350 in 1990, distributed
among 37 villages and 57 hamlets.
17     see Part 111, Table 4.2 for more details



- 10 -
Inventory results indicate that average annual growth ranges from 0.5 to 1.5 m3/ha. Because of a
slow start in inventory works, the only management plan completed at the project closing date was
for the Monts Mandingues. La Faya and Soussan management plans are under preparation and will
be completed in 1993. The recommendations of the Monts Mandingues management plans are now
being gradually implemented with the involvement of the surrounding population.
6.18          Semi-Industrial Plantation Pro gram. Operations under this subcomponent included:
(i) mechanized clearing of 3,000 ha of the Mont Mandingues and La Faya degraded natural forest
stands and their subsequent replanting with Gmelina arborea and eucalyptus to produce fuelwood and
construction timber, and (ii) maintenance and tending of the first project plantations over 3.000 ha.
Semi-industrial planting was suspended in 1989, in view of the high plantation start-up costs and
difficulties in selling Gmelina wood on the Bamako market, which favors wood from natural forests.
To overcome marketing problems, most of the wood sold by OAPF was below market price and
allocated to public institutions such as hospitals, schools, military camps or large bakeries. Indeed,
all industrial plantations created in the Sahel during the last decade have faced problems of this kind:
Bandia and Kaffrine in Senegal, Gonse in Burkina Faso, the Niamey reforestation program, and so
on. Actual average productivity is estimated at 7 m3/ha/year by the inventories carried out in the
Monts Mandingues plantation, as against the 13.2 m3 assessed at appraisal. The plantations created
by the OAPF have proven more productive, however, than those established under the above
projects."'
6.19          In 1989, when semi-industrial plantation activities were stopped, a total of 2,878 ha
had been planted (95 percent of the target of 3,000 ha).  Direct plantation costs, including
maintenance for the first two years, averaged CFAF 232,000/ha (CFAF 540,000, including overhead,
depreciation and extension services) with forest clearing and soil preparation accounting for 52
percent of this cost.'9 In the plantation established under the first project, 90 percent of the weeding
and regeneration felling programs was completed, while the sylvicultural work suffered substantial
delays (70 percent of the thinning program and 65 percent of the shoot selection work scheduled).
6.20          From the above operations, OAPF was able to sell 156,200 st.cbm (stere) of
fuelwood at an average price of CFAF 1,736/st.cbm, 135 tons of charcoal at CFAF 46,000/ton,
2,800 m3 of lumber at CFAF 15,500/m3 and 187,000 poles and posts at CFAF 388 each.2' These
average selling prices were not sufficient to cover direct operating costs, felling tax as well as
transportation and marketing expenses. Cash-flow analyses for each of these activities show that
OAPF lost an average of CFAF 261 per st.cbm of fuelwood and CFAF 14 per unit of service wood
(poles and posts) sold. On the other hand, the sale of timber and charcoal brought in a net profit of
CFAF 1,748 per cbm of timber and CFAF 14,000/ton of charcoal. As a consequence, the OAPF's
net operating deficit grew steadily to reach CFAF 50.6 million at the end of FY 1988.21 In view
of the prohibitive plantation development costs, the low yields recorded so far and marketing issues,
Is     Under rainfed conditions: Bandia: 2-3 m3/ha/year; Kaffrine: 2 m31ha/year for local species and 5
m3/ha/year for successful eucalyptus plantation (PCR No 9616); Niamey: 0.6-0.8 m3/ha/year
(PCR No 10455).
19    see Part III, Table 5.2 for more details
20    see Part III, Table 6.1 for more details
21    see Part III, Table 6.2



- I1 -
the decision to suspend the plantation program and institute participatory management activities was
fully justified.'
6.21         The Participatory Management Program. The suspension of the semi-industrial
plantation program in 1989 prompted OAPF to implement a new management strategy involving
population groups in sylvicultural activities under management contracts. To date, the program covers
19 villages, comprising 900 participants (including about 500 women). To implement this strategy,
three mobile teams have been created to prepare and supervise the management contracts with user
groups. This reform, however, necessitated the lay-off of about 400 agents and permanent workers,
who were organized into cooperatives (1990) and informal farmers' groups (1992).
6.22         The financial advantages of this new OAPF strategy were brought out by a specific
study conducted in 1991: on unprofitable sylvicultural operations such as pruning, thinning and
salvage logging, OAPF's net operating costs were reduced to nil as shown in the table below (in
CFAF/hectare, excluding supervision and depreciation):
Operations              Industrial Approach    Participatory Approach
Thinning operations, thriving plots
OAPF operating costs               137,700 - 172,000             0
OAPF net income                    348,400 - 528,000      168,500 - 342,000
Thinning operations, average plots
OAPF operating costs               126,800 - 137,700             0
OAPF net income                    116,200 - 175,900       55,700 - 114,000
Shoot selection, thriving plots
OAPF operating costs               110,000- 125,200              0
OAPF net income                    49,000 - 147,000              0
Shaping and pruning
OAPF operating costs               103,000- 111,100              0
OAPF net income                    25,600 - 76,600               0
6.23         Applied Research Program.  The applied research program  financed by the
Norwegian grant played a decisive role in the choice of the OAPF's new participatory strategy and
in preparation of the management contracts with population groups. The Special Technical Unit
(UTS) began with a plant improvement program, and then turned its attention from 1989 onward to
the technical, financial and socioeconomic problems affecting the management of semi-industrial
plantations and natural forest. The major achievements in the various areas of the research
program' include: (i) sylvicultural techniques: identification of highly productive Gmelina and
eucalyptus provenances; development of techniques of vegetative propagation of cuttings; direct
sowing techniques; and identification of improved thinning techniques; (ii) integrated management
of natural forests: identification of nursery production techniques of local species and natural
n     See Part III, Tables 6.1 and 6.2.
23    This program needs to be continued in order to confirm (or invalidate) the results obtained so far.



- 12 -
regeneration techniques; development of volume tariffs; phenology of the major local species; impact
of fire on natural regeneration; and economic evaluation of some management options, (iii) gazetted
forest management: methodology for the design of management plan; and monitoring of biodiversity;
and (iv) agroforestry extension: design of training and extension programs.
6.24          Economic Assessment of the Semi-Industrial Plantation Program. An internal rate
of return was calculated for comparison with the appraisal assessment for the semi-industrial
plantation program.' This calculation was facilitated by: (i) reliable plantation productivity data
from the Monts Mandingues and La Faya inventories; and (ii) an adequate cost accounting system.
Table 7 in Part III of this report shows that the IRR of 3 percent is well below the appraisal
projections (10.2 percent). The main reasons for this difference include: (i) development costs that
were well above appraisal estimates;' (ii) plantation productivity that was 50 percent short of
projections; and (iii) wood price trends on the Bamako market below the 1985 projections estimated
by the appraisal report at +5 percent/year for fuelwood and service wood (poles and posts).' The
appraisal mission in fact estimated that the price of wood would be at its parity value with kerosene
from 1992 onward.'
7.     SUSTAINABILITY
7.1           The following criteria were applied in assessing the sustainability of the project:
economic return, financial resources to cover recurrent costs; adequacy of the project strategy in term
of natural resource and forest conservation; vertical integration between project activities and end
users, and improvement of the operational capacities of the forestry institutions involved.
7.2           The project's economic return cannot be measured solely by the direct economic
performance of the plantation program as was done in para 6.21 above. Other direct and indirect
benefits -- some quantified at the time of the mission and some not -- also need to be taken into
account. First, peripheral villagers have directly benefittedfrom the OAPFparticipatory management
program (sale of wood for their own profit, beekeeping, agroforestry, management advice, and so
on). It is expected that this strategy will alleviate the pressures on these forests and at the same time
boost farmers' revenues. To what extent the rural population that participates in the program will
be able to maintain its activities without further assistance is unknown, however. Second, in selling
its production below market prices, OAPF effectively fostered the development of other sectors and
helped sustain important social institutions (particularly schools and hospitals). The new strategy
further strengthened this vertical integration by adding the peripheral population groups to the list of
direct beneficiaries. Third, the setbacks experienced by the Rural Forestry and OPNBB components
undoubtedly helped the Forest Department to refocus its sectoral policy. Moreover, the transfer of
the residual credit resources from the Rural Forestry Component provided for the expansion of the
OAPF participatory forest management program and the completion of basic studies essential to the
PNBB's future development.
24     An economic return was calculated at appraisal time only for the OAPF plantation component.
25     See Part III, Table 5.2.
26     See Part III, Table 7.1.
2'     See also the comments made during the Yellow Cover Review Meeting, September 13, 1985.



- 13 -
7.3           There are other lessons to be drawn from the poor economic performance of the
project's semi-industrial planting program, however: (i) in light of their productivity, the costs of
industrial plantations are too high at current urban market prices.28 It might be possible to improve
product value in the future, for example by increasing the production of construction wood (poles,
pickets, posts) and timber but this would require very expensive sylvicultural tending to improve the
standing material. At the same time, competition from natural forest production will still exist and
the low purchasing power of end-users will remain a limiting factor. Moreover, a solution of this
kind would call for an objective change in the production patterns on the plantations that could be
justified only as part of a master plan for Bamako's wood supply that would take into account the
current status of all available forest resources; (ii) it is evident from the applied research results that
substantial productivity improvements are feasible, especially through better selection of plant
material and intensive sylvicultural treatment. In view of the rainfall pattern, however, this would
require deep soils with very good water retention. Special attention will also need to be paid to the
best strains of Gmelina which have shown higher yields under the research program than those of
the project. Finally, more intensive sylvicultural treatments can undoubtedly raise current yields and
improve the quality of the standing material; (iii) despite these prospective improvements, it seems
clear today that industrial plantations cannot simultaneously resolve fuelwood supply problems and
combat desertification. Resolving these problems will call for new policy measures that steer
consumers toward alternative energy sources and that encourage sustained management of natural
forests.
7.4           Sustainable management of forestry resources in Mali, especially of the new plantation
resources created under the project, will depend in large measure on the willingness of Mali 'sforest
service to formulate a new forest policy and obtain the administrative means and legislative tools to
implement it. For the past three decades, Mali's forest policy has focused on protecting a forest
heritage seized from  rural populations which had owned it from time immemorial and on a
hypothetical development of new wood resources through industrial plantation. In the process, all
grassroots initiative was stifled. This is exemplified by the forest taxation and felling permits
systems, which, by favoring "mining" of the nation's forest resources, hindered their sustained
management. Under these circumstances, the rural populations, deprived of their forest resources
and excluded from decision-making concerning their management and from the benefits they could
yield, could not help but contribute to their destruction. The institutional weaknesses, both financial
and technical, and the repressive attitudes of forest rangers interested in the transactions system,
sharpen these trends. Today, such a policy is no longer possible. The OAPF experience demonstrates
that rural populations can progressively and profitably be entrusted with management responsibility.
7.5           The on-going decentralization process and reform  of the Land Tenure Code
undoubtedly open up new perspectives. Both foster a better integration of forestry into the general
socio-economic development context and legitimize the use of natural resources by the local
populations. Forest policy as well as institutions will need to be adjusted to these changes.
7.6           A number of forest policy measures that could facilitate sustainable management of
natural resources are currently being proposed as part of Mali's Domestic Energy Strategy
2$     See Part III, Table 6.2



- 14 -
Program.'  They include:  (i) grading of the cutting fees according to origin and method of
extraction for woodfuel for sale in Mali's urban centers; (ii) levying of the cutting fees on any
person transporting woodfuel intended for sale in urban centers; (iii) requiring that transporters
obtain haulage permits in order to make traffic-flow inspection and monitoring more effective, reduce
fraud and steer extraction toward the more productive and/or the least degraded areas; and (iv)
sharing cutting fee revenue with rural communities, both as an incentive and to increase self-financing
capacity for sustained management activities. These proposed policy measures, which concern only
woodfuel, could undoubtedly be extended to other forest products derived from sustained natural
resource management.
8.  PERFORMANCE OF THE ASSOCIATION AND THE BORROWER
8.1           Proiect Preparation started with an FAO/CP mission in 1983. A series of joint
missions with Bank, CFD and FAC/MDC staff finalized the appraisal document in 1985. While
project justification and design were well elaborated, it is evident in retrospect that productivity
assumptions and price projections were over-optimistic. This may be explained by the scarcity of
basic data when the project was being prepared and by under-estimation of soil constraints on
plantation yields. Too little attention was paid at appraisal to the problems affecting the marketing
of plantation products, expansion of on-farm  planting and policy flaws.   As regards project
management, the capacities of the DNEF and OPNBB to act on and adjust to the proposed programs
were substantially over-estimated. This fact largely explains the setbacks recorded by their respective
components. It should be noted, however, that the appraisal report recognized the possibility of these
setbacks, given the innovative nature of the Rural Forestry component, despite the encouraging results
recorded by the pilot agroforestry activities carried out under the first project.
8.2           The introduction and use of cost accounting was a decisive factor in refocusing the
OAPF program on alternative solutions offering a better economic return once it became clear that
the plantation program was not financially viable.
8.3           Supervision. The Bank (and the other donors) generally responded well to the
development constraints that affected project implementation. This is undoubtedly due to the high
quality of the supervision missions and the excellent work done by the OAPF staff who, by common
accord, agreed to draw up and implement alternative strategies and redefine project objectives. A
total of nine supervision missions took place during the seven years of the project; five of these were
organized jointly with the CFD and FAC and eight jointly with the CFD. On the Bank's side, all
the missions were directed by forestry specialists. The last two task managers were seconded from
the Technical Department (AFTAG). All the missions attached considerable importance to the
financial management of the project and to integrating local initiatives into implementation (as
described in para. 6.21). This fact demonstrates once again the importance of a sound accounting
system as a management tool. Project performance could have been improved, however, if more
time had been allocated to supervision work, especially in respect of: (i) the design, organization,
and development of the DNEF study program; (ii) difficulties that arose at the inception stage of the
Rural Forestry component, and (iii) design deficiencies and constraints affecting the protection of
the Boucle du Baoule National Park.
29     See: Strategie Energie Domestique : Propositions de reforme de la reglementation foresti&re, du
dispositif de controleforestier et du regime de taxation du bois-energie by A. Bertrand and G.
Madon, Provisional Strategy Steering Unit, Bamako, February 1993.



- 15 -
8.4           The fact that the OPNBB component did not receive adequate attention on IDA's part
may be due not only to the remoteness of the Park from Bamako and difficulties of access, but also
to the supervisors' lack of technical capability in park and biodiversity management. The proposals
put forward by the FAO Investment Center in 1990 appreciably improved supervision efficiency by
furnishing better background information and more appropriate development objectives. This was
in part due to the use of a local sociologist and anthropologist in the preparatory work.
8.5           Technical assistance. The technical assistance was greatly appreciated for its above-
average quality. The technical assistant recruited under the Norwegian grant to supervise the OAPF
applied research program deserves special mention for his initiative, his adaptability and his dedicated
interest in participatory forest management and rural forestry problems. In the case of the assistants
financed by the FAC (head of the financial unit, financial director and VSN), it would have been wise
to have provided them with more precise terms of reference regarding their training role so as to
ensure better transfer of knowledge and competence to local staff.
8.6           Executing agencies. The fact that most of the OAPF program objectives were
achieved is due to the quality and adaptability of the Malian staff assigned to the component. There
are, however, some causes for regret: (i) the compartmentalizing of the components, and the slow
integration of the initiatives taken by the OAPF into Mali's forest policy and other project activities;
(ii) the delays experienced by the DNEF studies program, due to the DPP's poor ability to adjust;
(iii) the suspension of the Rural Forestry component; and (iv) the very limited impact of the OPNBB
program on the conservation of the Park's natural ecosystems (especially its wildlife). On this latter
point, the Bank bears a large share of responsibility for failing to define precisely, from the project
preparation stage, the conceptual foundation of effective protection and the means to be deployed to
ensure it.
9.  RELATIONS AMONG THE DONORS AND WITH THE BORROWER
9.1           Relations between the Bank, the CFD, the FAC/MDC  and the Norwegian
Government were good throughout implementation. This undoubtedly led to unity of views among
the donors with respect to management. All decisions were made by mutual agreement. Relations
with the FAC/MDC were interrupted with the withdrawal of the last technical assistant in 1989.
9.2           On the other hand, relations between the Association and the Borrower were beset
by many difficulties, especially in connection with the Rural Forestry and OPNBB components. In
particular, differences of opinion which led to the suspension of the Rural Forestry component could
have been avoided, given the importance of this component and the initiatives taken to that end by
OAPF. Coordination between the Association and the Borrower could have been improved if more
time had been allocated to supervision tasks.
10.   CONCLUSIONS, RECOMMENDATIONS AND FOLLOW-UP ACTION
10.1          Above and beyond the technical problems that plague every project of this kind, the
partial failures of some components can undoubtedly be attributed to the impact of the structural
conditions affecting the forest sector as a whole.  Inappropriate forest policy/legislation and
institutional weaknesses that were outside the project's competence or beyond its ability to remedy
affected project performance. At present, despite project support, Mali's forest services remain
particularly weak.  More importantly, their structure continues to be ill-matched to:  (i) the



- 16 -
Government's new policy choices concerning decentralization and legitimizing the role of the local
authorities, and (ii) the new programs scheduled to inherit responsibility from this Second Forestry
Project, i.e. the Natural Resources Management Project (Credit 2730-MLI) and the forestry
component of the Domestic Energy Strategy for Mali.
10.2           Ensuring the success of these two projects will call for structural, institutional and
organizational changes. These changes will inevitably have repercussions on the role, responsibilities
and functional performance of the DNEF and the other sector institutions (OAPF, OARS, OPNBB,
training, and research). A number of institutional options are available. They include strengthening
the DNEF's regulatory role, privatization of a number of functions traditionally assigned to the forest
services (for example, inspection and collection of forestry taxes, inventories, design of management
plans, etc.), and the creation of new autonomous semi-public agencies. But whatever the institutional
solution adopted, it will have to reflect a consensus among the political authorities, the major forest-
sector operators (decentralized local authorities, loggers, small-scale producers, and transporters) and
the donors.



- 17 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF MALI
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
(Credit 1654-MLI)
PART II
PROJECT REVIEW BY THE GOVERNMENT
1.    INTRODUCTION
1.1          This Part II represents the translation of the contribution of the Government of Mali,
to the project completion report on the Second Forestry Project, financed jointly by the IDA, the
French Development Fund (CFD), the FAC, the Government of Norway and Mali.
1.2          The document reflects the views of a Malian Working Group set up to draft the report
during the project completion mission organized by IDA. The Working Group comprised Messrs
S. Kanoute, OAPF Director, and M. KaIll, Chief of DNEFIDPP, and was placed under the
supervision of the National Director of Water and Forest Resources (DNEF). The final version of
Part II of this completion report was prepared after the Malian Government had reviewed Part I.
1.3          The Second Forestry Project followed upon a First Forestry Project jointly financed
by IDA, CFD and FAC (hereinafter called the Association) and the GRM between 1979 and 1985
(Forestry Project, Credit 883-MLI). The Second Forestry Project (Credit Agreement 1654-MLI) was
started on July 2, 1986 and the closing date was set at December 31, 1991. In July 1986 the
Norwegian Government joined with the Association to finance an applied research program. At the
request of the GRM, IDA approved a one-year extension to continue financing participatory forest
management activities deemed to be innovative.
2.    RELATIONS WITH THE DONORS
2.1          Overall, relations with all the donors were good throughout the project, though some
cases of misunderstanding did occur to which we shall refer later.
2.2          Relations with the Bank. Implementation of the First Forestry Project (1979-1985,
Credit 883-MLI) had made the Malian forest authorities very familiar with the Bank's procedures.
This undoubtedly facilitated relations between the two partners. However, it should be noted that,
for reasons internal to the World Bank, the staff of its Resident Mission monitored the implementation
of the project only intermittently. As a result, the Resident Mission was perceived by the project
institutions, throughout the project, as a mere "go-between" with IDA.
2.3          Apart from this, no major difficulties arose in our relations with IDA, except what
the Government considered excessive stringency at the time of the suspension of the Rural Forestry



- 18 -
component.3 On the other hand, IDA showed great flexibility in agreeing to the Government's
request to extend the Credit to December 31, 1992 to continue financing the OAPF participatory
management program. For the same reasons, IDA recently approved a further one-year extension
of the Norwegian grant to continue the research program, fine-tune participatory forest management
strategies and prepare a manual on forest management to be used by the recent Natural Resources
Management project financed by IDA.
2.4          Relations with the CFD.  Relations were good, and the Bamako office was
instrumental in solving many questions that would otherwise have held up project implementation.
The resulting commonality of views between the IDA and CFD supervisors was reflected in highly
efficient utilization of the respective credits.
2.5           Relations with the FAC. The FAC's decision to bear the cost of the expatriate
personnel had a salutary effect, given the high cost of technical assistance under the respective IDA
and CFD credits.
2.6           Another positive aspect of relations with the FAC  (and the CFD) was the
understanding of a common language, which greatly facilitated communication.
2.7           Compared with the other two donors, the lack of FAC representatives on most
supervision missions was unfortunate. On several occasions, prompt support was needed, and FAC
was unable to provide it despite repeated appeals. The process of recruiting expatriate personnel for
the project and monitoring their activities should have been more rigorous. The technical assistants
ought to have been given precise terms of reference concerning training of their counterparts, in
accordance with their responsibilities.
2.8           Relations with Norway. Apart from the presence of Norwegian officials on two
supervision missions, there was no direct relationship between the two Governments. This is
unfortunate, since closer involvement of the donor in supervising the project and monitoring its
performance would have been beneficial. It would not only have helped the Norwegian side to
understand the reasons behind the choices made by the Malian authorities in allocating the grant, but
would also have allowed it to strengthen its assistance and consolidate the results achieved through
its financing.
3.    IMPACT OF THE PROJECT
Project Justification and Objectives
3.1          The Second Forestry Project was designed in 1985 during the preparation mission.
Its main objective was to deal with the increasing threat of deforestation over the entire country. The
causes of this deforestation are as follows: (i) over-extraction of firewood in peri-urban areas; (ii)
rapid expansion of commercial extraction of firewood in natural forest for cash, especially in the rural
areas (wood extraction having become a profitable activity). This trade was estimated at 3,370,000
tons in 1985, to supply a steadily growing population; and (iii) the rainfall deficit which exacerbated
the impact of wood extraction and marketing by sharply cutting rural dwellers' incomes (pushing
them to step up wood harvesting to compensate for lost income).
30     On this point, see para. 5.4



- 19 -
3.2          To deal with this dual economic and ecological situation, a number of activities were
included in the project: (i) expanding the semi-industrial plantation program based on fast-growing
species introduced by OAPF under the First Forestry Project to help meet Bamako's demand for
wood; (ii) managing the deteriorating natural forests (gazetted and/or protected) around Bamako,
including large forest resources. This operation was entrusted to OAPF; (iii) developing rural
forestry operations in the Koulikoro region in order to encourage the rural population to plant and
manage natural forests. This operation was placed under the direction of the Koulikoro regional
forest service (DREF); (iv) strengthening the National Forest Directorate (DNEF) to enhance its
efficiency through upgrading its infrastructures; studies to improve the existing knowledge of the
sector (this subcomponent was entrusted to the DPP; and forestry policy reforms designed to boost
potential government revenues from the extraction of forest resources.
3.3          In addition, exceptional assistance was to be provided to the OPNBB in the form of
equipment and communication facilities (radio links) in order to improve protection of the Boucle du
Baoule National Park (PNBB) and its adjacent forest reserves.
Review of the OAPF Program.
3.4           The purpose of the OAPF component was to provide Bamako with forest products
at lower prices while enforcing sustainable extraction of wood from natural forests located around
the city. To achieve both objectives, a number of activities were implemented: (i) preparation of
management plans covering various aspects of forest management in the three gazetted forests of the
Monts Mandingues, La Faya and Soussan; (ii) implementation of these management plans in
collaboration with peripheral communities through participatory management contracts; (iii) industrial
planting of exotic species (Gmelina) to produce timber, industrial wood and fuelwood and
management of the industrial plantations established during the First Forestry Project; (iv) extraction
and marketing of fuelwood, industrial wood and timber deriving from the management of plantations
and natural forests in accordance to the management plan prescriptions; and (v) develop an applied
research program to increase the efficiency of the above program. This subcomponent was financed
by a Norwegian grant.
3.5          The main factors justifying the OAPF integrated management program can be
summarized as follows: (i) the three natural forests are located at the periphery of Bamako and
represent some of the Mali's best protected forest stands. It therefore made sense to do everything
possible to protect them and ensure their sustainable management; (ii) the artificial plantation
program had to be expanded to relieve pressure on natural forest stands, and to meet Bamako's
consumer needs for timber and above all firewood and charcoal at decent prices. Since the inception
of the First Forestry project, woodfuel was becoming increasingly expensive for urban households;
(iii) the natural forest management program adapted to the region's ecology was justified because
artificial plantations were expensive and by themselves could only partly resolve the growing urban
demand for wood; (iv) the research program was justified because the efficiency of management
models and norms had to be increased considering the experiences in areas of similar ecology; and
(v) sustained management and conservation of the natural forest, in parallel to the plantation program,
was the best option available to combat desertification around Bamako.
3.6           As part of the forest management program, OAPF's tasks also included building and
maintaining trails and firebreaks, enrichment planting, natural forest and plantation inventory and
mapping, and the marketing of timber, industrial wood, fuelwood and charcoal.



- 20 -
3.7          Impact of the OAPF Component on Bamako's Wood Consumption. According to
the wood marketing study conducted by the project, Bamako's wood requirements are estimated as
follows:
- fuelwood:               350,000 tons/year
- charcoal:                17,500 tons/year
- poles, etc.:            152,000 units/year
- other forest products:  construction wood, fodder, basketry materials
accounting for an annual turnover of CFAF 500
million.
3.8          Between 1986 to 1991, the project produced more than 187,000 st.cbm (stere) of
firewood, more than 438,000 poles and posts, 2,800 cbm of timber and 135 tons of charcoal. OAPF
thus made an indisputable contribution to the Bamako's wood market.
3.9          Impact of the OAPF Component on deforestation and desertification. Despite these
results, the component has had only a relative impact, in absolute terms, on deforestation and
desertification.  Its efficiency has been severely curtailed by the demand for new farmland,
overgrazing, and uncontrolled wood harvesting to meet the needs of a rapidly growing population,
particularly since the halting of the semi-industrial plantation program in 1989. For forestry to have
a real impact, similar plantation programs had to be implemented around all major wood-consuming
centers.
3.10         The OAPF semi-industrial plantations nevertheless represent the forest service's
greatest technical accomplishment at the national level. They prove, if proof is needed, that the forest
sector does not consist solely of "protection and police enforcement" but also includes economic
actions that contribute to the socio-economic development of the nation.
3.11         The program also demonstrate that it is possible to regenerate plant cover and thereby
to combat desertification under Mali's ecological conditions. As a consequence, desertification should
no longer be perceived as an uncontrollable phenomenon.
Review of the Rural Forestry Program
3.12         The Rural Forestry component included two subcomponents with the aim of (i)
limiting the expansion of forest harvesting to supply the major urban centers through two integrated
forest management pilot programs developed in collaboration with the rural population and the
existing agricultural extension services (CMDT-OHV); and (ii) developing on-farm tree planting as
a follow-up to the pilot activities initiated with the FAC and the CFD during the First Forestry
Project in the Koulikoro region. At appraisal, it was anticipated that the supply of plants would come
from three rural nurseries established under the First Forestry Project. This subcomponent was
particularly intended to encourage the planting of multiple-use trees as requested by rural dwellers.
3.13         The design of both subcomponents was based upon a positive evaluation of the rural
forestry program undertaken under the First Forestry Project (Credit 883-MLI). The Koulikoro
region was selected because of its importance as a major wood source for Bamako.
3.14         Impact of the Rural Forestry Component on Wood Consumption and Desertification.
This component never really took off and was officially suspended in 1989 as a consequence of



- 21 -
radical differences of opinion on the implementation strategy between the DNEF, the Koulikoro
DREF and the Association. Underlying reasons included the lack of commitment from the DNEF
as well as the fact that forest policy and legislation offered no incentive either to rural people to
participate or to forest rangers to provide agroforestry extension services. At present, this situation
seems all the more paradoxical since the Government requested that the residual financial resources
of this component (about CFAF 272 million) be transferred to OAPF (CFAF 189.6 million),
precisely to develop a participatory natural forest management program and rural forestry activities
at the periphery of the three gazetted forests around Bamako. CFAF 82.1 million was transferred to
the OPNBB component. As a result, the Rural Forestry Component had no impact on wood supply,
wood consumption or desertification control.
Review of the OPNBB Program
3.15         The Boucle du Baoule National Park (PNBB) is a vast complex of about 1 million ha
of valuable biological diversity, particularly in wildlife. It includes a National Park, a Biosphere
Reserve and three forest reserves that are sparsely populated. About 13,000 people are living illegally
within the Complex, however. In addition, an estimated 500,000 people are living at its periphery
in direct connection with the complex (farmers, hunters and transhumant and other herders). The
protection of the Park is entrusted to the OPNBB, a branch of the DNEF created in 1972. The
conservation of the Park and its adjacent reserves has always been an integral part of Mali's forest
strategy for combating natural ecosystem degradation due to drought and human pressures.
3.16         Background studies, including a detailed wildlife inventory, were conducted under
a Netherlands-financed project (Research into Rational Utilization of Game in the Sahel or RURGS)
between 1977 and 1981. As a result, management options have been proposed. They included: (i)
the formulation of three development proposals which all advocated the resettlement of the population
living within the limit of the Park (ranging, at this time, between 500 and 4,000 persons); (ii) the
construction of resettlement camps at the periphery of the Park; and (iii) provision for personnel
training, infrastructures and equipment.
3.17         Since 1972, OPNBB protection activities within the Complex were financed from the
National Forestry Fund (FFN). However, funds allocated were never sufficient to cover OPNBB
operational expenses (except perhaps to operate the two or three vehicles that were available).3'
Under these circumstances, OPNBB never got the budget or human resources needed to adequately
protect the Park. Two factors explain this situation: first, the donor community had no interest in
wildlife protection; and second, the necessary political commitment was lacking at the national level.
3.18         The 1986 IDA decision to grant special support in the form of equipment and
communication under the Second Forestry Project was aimed at improving the situation. The Bank,
however, imposed three preconditions: (i) the design of a comprehensive development plan; (ii) the
resettlement of villages that could jeopardize the Park's integrity; and (iii) a contribution from the
FFN of CFAF 80 million to cover operational expenditures. Although it was believed at appraisal
that the Bank might also attract other donors, this did not happen.
3.19         Impact of the OPNBB Component on Ecosystem Conservation.  Assessing the
component's impact on biodiversity conservation was possible because of two studies executed in
1992. Both were financed by the residual funds transferred from the Rural Forestry component after
31    quoted from the DNEF's 1983 Annual Report



- 22 -
suspension. They include: (i) a socioeconomic and cultural survey of the resident population; and
(ii) a re-assessment survey of wildlife. On the positive side, the project undoubtedly strengthened
OPNBB's operational capacity by establishing and maintaining new control trails and firebreak lines
and purchasing control and communication equipment. Both made the control by forest rangers more
effective. IDA'a support was not adequate, however, to reverse or even contain the degradation
trends that threaten the survival of the Park. As a consequence, wildlife populations continued to
shrink steadily and the project had no effect whatsoever on the destructive traditional practices of the
local population (whether resident or nomadic).
3.20          The resettlement of the resident population never took place in the absence of local
counterpart funds (FFN) to finance it. With hindsight, however, this should be considered a positive
factor, since their effective participation should be required in any future management and protection
activities. It is anticipated that the OPNBB component of the PGRN will pay special attention to this
point.
Review of the DNEF Program
3.21          The DPP study program considerably improved existing knowledge of Mali's forest
sector. In particular, the findings of the wood marketing study were essential in developing new
strategies for sustained management of forest resources. This study also greatly improved awareness
of the forest sector's role in Mali's economy (level of extraction, particularly for woodfuel, wood fuel
supply sources and routes, urban consumption levels, and private sector marketing strategies and
procedures).
3.22          The suspension of the Rural Forestry component had a negative impact on the
formulation of participatory strategies as well as on the setting-up of the DNEF Monitoring and
Evaluation unit.
3.23          Under the taxation control program, six toll stations were implemented on the main
woodfuel routes around Bamako. As a result, inspection rates rose from 5 percent in 1985 to 50
percent for charcoal and 30 percent for fuelwood in 1988. Had this action covered the whole
country, it would have had a much bigger impact on forest resource management and revenues
allocated to the FFN. This would in turn have greatly boosted the DNEF's operational capacity in
the forest sector.
Forest Policy Changes durine Project Implementation
3.24          Most of the issues affecting project implementation stem from the 1982 forest policy.
While its sectoral goals were sound (prevent desertification, upgrade the living conditions of the
people by meeting basic needs, achieve national self-sufficiency in basic commodities, notably in
woodfuel), its implementation was beset by many flaws: (i) DNEF staff was assigned dual, but
antagonistic, responsibilities: custodial functions to protect the forests, and educational functions to
promote forestry development. This situation led to conflictual relationships between the forestry
staff and the rural population; (ii) the content and rationale behind the forest legislation were never
fully understood by the local population or by the staff. This situation led to false interpretations of
the Code and many excesses; (iii) the rural people, whose participation was sought, were never
involved in the decisions regarding the management and use of forest land located on their ancestral
territory; and (iv) the low wages undoubtedly stimulated the forestry staff, due to unfavorable
economic situation, to commit many acts of extortion.



- 23 -
3.25          All these factors contributed to the systematic resistance to forest legislation and
regulations. Moreover, the DNEF, as the Government agency in charge of forest conservation and
development, met resistance. The events of March 1991 clearly illustrated the general hostility to
the Forest Service.
3.26          The new forest policy now under preparation recognizes the need for structural
changes to safeguard the potential and diversity of the nation's natural resources heritage as a basis
for self-sustained development. Although the basic objectives of this new policy will differ little from
the 1982 principles, the strategic orientations will be geared to: (i) implementing the Government's
decentralization policy; (ii) developing and rehabilitating areas to be set aside permanently as forest
land (gazetted forests); (iii) managing the forest sector goods and services on a sustained yield basis;
(iv) making forest-product marketing more efficient by fostering private sector involvement; and (v)
creating the necessary conditions (incentives) for grassroots participation in the management of
renewable natural resources.
3.27          Institutional Conseguences. Implementation of this new forestry policy will require
drastic institutional changes to adapt the DNEF to the decentralization framework. At present, there
is a consensus with the political authorities that grassroots involvement cannot be obtained without
transferring forest management responsibility to local authorities. The new forest policy will
therefore assign four tasks to the Forest Services: (i) a policy and legislative function (analysis,
revision and formulation of forest policy objectives and means, supervising the application of laws);
(ii) supporting rural population groups through technical assistance, extension, information, training
and organization (service function); (iii) planning, monitoring and evaluating sectoral activities; and
(iv) direct management of the state private forest lands (gazetted forests, parks and reserves).
3.28          The new pattern of responsibilities will require the DNEF to adapt to its new role and
reorganize as a result. Furthermore, the technical capacity of the forest staff will have to be
strengthened, particularly with respect to its new role of providing support and advisory services to
the local communities.
4.  EVALUATION OF THE BANK'S PERFORMANCE
Services Performed by the Bank
4.1           Importance of Preparatory Works. The preparation stage represents an important
phase of the project cycle. It provides an opportunity for the two sides to reach agreement on
essential issues and on their respective responsibilities. In the course of preparatory works, the
borrower learns about the Bank's experience with similar projects implemented in other countries.
In the case of this project, the DNEF's human resource weaknesses and the information gaps for
sector management were adequately identified leading to the DNEF institutional strengthening
program. The design of the project was also based upon a comprehensive analysis of sectoral
management needs which, in particular provided an adequate rationale for the development of the
DNEF, OAPF and OPNBB programs. With regards the Rural Forestry component, the Malian forest
experts were not adequately associated with the component's formulation. But on the whole, this
preparation stage proved to be a valuable asset for project implementation.
4.2           Impact of Supervision Missions.  Supervision missions provided an appropriate
opportunity to monitor technical and financial developments under the project. They also provided
the basis for major decisions including, in some cases, a necessary refocusing of project activities.



- 24 -
Task management work done from  Washington helped in  (i) improving and expediting
disbursements; (ii) fine-tuning terms of reference for studies and work programs; and (iii) providing
adequate technical information.
4.3          The frequency of these missions was insufficient, however, with just over one field
supervision mission per year. The efficiency of the Bank's supervision program was sometimes
limited by the repeated absence of the project task manager, who was supervising projects in other
countries. In the Malian view, two missions per year should have been the rule to better internalize
and implement the mission recommendations. More supervision missions would also have provided
a better understanding of the issues and difficulties encountered by the executing agencies. In most
cases, however, the Borrower was well advised by the supervision staff, most of whom are
professionals.
4.4          Some decisions were made unilaterally, however, such as: (i) discontinuing the semi-
industrial plantation program without proposing alternatives to increase the supply of wood from
sources other than natural forests;' (ii) suspending rural forestry activities despite the benefits they
could have yielded; (iii) threatening to cancel financing of the Second Forestry Project if the FAO's
Rural Forestry Project was to be established at Mafeya.
Lessons to Be Drawn
4.5           Supervision missions were generally too short. In view of their low frequency, at
least two weeks should have been devoted to field work on each mission.
4.6           Transmission of the final version of the aide-memoire prepared after a supervision
mission took a relatively long time, especially when there were urgent problems to resolve. This
could be remedied by strengthening the follow-up capacity of the Resident Mission, as it was with
the CFD.
5.    EVALUATION OF MALI'S PERFORMANCE
Services Performed by the Institutions
5.1          DNEF Performance. Construction of the 700 m2 DNEF headquarters building was
completed on schedule and within budget. This new building provides DNEF staff with adequate
working conditions.
5.2          Implementation of the study program was delayed owing to several constraints
inherent to the administration: administrative sluggishness, inadequate technical capability, and
misunderstandings with the Association concerning certain objectives.
5.3          Objectives of the tax control program implemented under the project were only
partially met. The low impact of this program did, however, highlight the weaknesses of the
proposed system. As a result of the recommendations of the wood marketing study, additional
measures will need to be taken to both ensure a sustainable use of forest resources and to encourage
'3    It is the Govenment's opinion that the OAPF industrial plantation program showed better results
thn those in neighboring countries.



- 25 -
energy-saving measures in urban centers. They include: (i) a fundamental reform of the forest
taxation and control systems; (ii) the introduction of new regulations by which forest revenues will
be shared with small producers to progressively decrease the impact of 'mining practices"; and (iii)
improving the efficiency of forestry extension so as to develop new sustained forest management
skills and practices at the local level.
5.4           DREF Performance (Rural Forestry Component). The cancellation of the program
in 1989 was unfortunate, for the reasons discussed above. While the Malian side accepts part of the
responsibility for this situation, it regrets that the Association did not offer any alternatives.
5.5           OPNBB Performance. This component was financed solely by IDA at the request
of the Malian Government but no thorough study was done at the preparation stage. There is no
doubt, however, that the establishment of new trails and firebreaks, previously done manually and
solely financed by the FFN, greatly facilitated the protection of the Park by making it easier to travel
around and improving communication between control stations.
5.6           The socioeconomic and wildlife surveys, carried out in 1992, will also: (i) facilitate
the proposed OPNBB program under the PGRN; and (ii) provide other interested donors with
adequate background information for project preparation and implementation.
5.7           One of the difficulties affecting the development of this component was the lack of
counterpart funds from the FFN (CFAF 80 million).
5.8           OAPF Performance. As shown in the following table, OAPF's main achievements
under the industrial plantation program could be summarized as follows:
Activities          |   Scheduled    |     Actual      |   % Execution
Plantations                       3,000 ha         2,878 ha            95.9
Maintenance, Ist Project          3,054 ha         3,054 ha           100.0
Trail construction                 350 km           303 km             86.6
Trail maintenance                  936 km           936 km            100.0
NF management                     1,000 ha          400 ha             40.0
5.9           The financial monitoring of the industrial plantation program was greatly facilitated
by the efficient cost accounting system established under the First Forestry Project. The decision to
refocus industrial plantation activities towards participatory forestry was taken jointly with the
Association when it became obvious that industrial plantations were not financially attractive because
of their high start-up and maintenance costs.
5.10          The Applied Research program, carried out by the Special Technical Unit (UTS)
under the Norwegian Grant, yielded valuable results from trials and experiments in the following
areas: improvement of planting material; management of industrial plantations and natural forest;
ecological monitoring of the natural forest; impact of forest fires over natural regeneration; and



- 26 -
forest impacts on hydrologic systems. All these results have gradually been incorporated into work
programs.
5.11         If plantation work had not been discontinued, results achieved under the OAPF
program would have been more productive. During the project, as soon as socio-economic findings
became available, they were incorporated into development operations.
5.12         Finally, the transfer to OAPF of the Rural Forestry component residual funds, after
cancellation of the component, was essential to the development of the participatory management
program involving farmers living around the gazetted forests. This transfer was also instrumental in
developing and mastering leadership, communication and extension techniques on the part of OAPF
staff.
Lessons to be drawn
5.13         The DNEF study program was generally well targeted. It undeniably helped broaden
the sectoral data base. The wood marketing study, by identifying the driving forces behind wood
marketing in Mali, contributed to the preparation of the IDA Energy Project and to the definition of
new policies and strategies regarding the use of forest revenue and allocation of cutting permits to
provide incentives for the sustainable management of forest resources.
5.14         More support from consultants should have been requested to complete the two other
studies (Management of the Rail Forests and Irrigated Silviculture). The private sector (i.e. private
consulting firms) should have been more involved in some activities that had so far been executed
by the implementing agencies (e.g., designing forest management plans, which could have been
subcontracted to private firms). More interaction between project components should have been
developed for cross-fertilization. The same applies to trials and experiments to demonstrate their
viability and thereby help DNEF/DPP to adjust to new strategies.
5.15         In general, the planning and programming of DNEF operations was less rigorous than
it should have been. This may be explained by the prevailing socioeconomic conditions and political
environment. Greater attention should have been given to the training of local staff and other sector
operators in order to improve their operational efficiency.
5.16         The Malian Government did not honor its financial commitment in every instance.
To avoid such situations in the future, the Bank should consider only activities that the country can
afford.
5.17         Finally, strengthening Government's ownership  in project preparation and
implementation will lead to a better integration and adaptation to country realities and culture.
Therefore, the use of local skills in planning, implementing and monitoring Bank's projects is highly
recommended. Project preparation can pose important issues when Bank staff have to deal with
inexperienced local staff.
6.    CONCLUSIONS
6.1          The two forestry projects financed by the Association in Mali have undeniably yielded
promising results. However, these results could have been greater despite the general economic
conditions under which the projects were implemented.



- 27 -
6.2          In particular, the unfavorable socioeconomic conditions associated with inadequate
sectoral policy largely explain why the foresters' behavior has been so open to criticism and public
disapproval during the last decade. This situation cast doubt on the efficiency and effectiveness of
forest institutions in the minds of rural dwellers and donors, who gradually withdrew from the sector,
often without thorough study of the situation, and even when the results achieved indicated that the
activities ought to be pursued.
6.3           Results achieved under the OAPF program deserve special attention because of the
results of the participatory forest management program, particularly at a time when this ran counter
to the underlying principles of forest policy. It was indeed OAPF that initiated most of the recent
changes in Mali's forest development policy and strategy. The forest sector now contains an adequate
pool of human resources able to adjust to the new decentralized policy framework, provided that (i)
an adequate sectoral policy framework and sufficient incentives are implemented; and (ii) institutional
structures and programs are adapted to these new principles.
6.4           The Bank (and the other members of the Association) should further support the forest
sector, not only by addressing institutional weaknesses, but also through more comprehensive support
to decentralized forestry activities with the participation of local communities. This process is already
taken into account by the PGRN, and forest institutions should be more closely associated with its
implementation.
6.5          Improving the management of the gazetted forests, national parks and wildlife
reserves requires high level expertise above all. In Mali, despite efforts made under the Second
Forestry Project, professionals are scarce and are found only in government institutions. It is
incumbent upon them, however, to draw up norms and models for sustainable management.
6.6           Excluding the forest sector from future financing will not resolve the vital issue of
adapting Sub-Saharan Africa's forest institutions to a multisectoral framework that is essential for the
development of integrated natural resources management options.  Nor will it help contain
desertification and alleviate poverty. In this part of the world, it is inconceivable to design and
implement natural resource management programs without involving sectoral institutions.
6.7          In view of the large economic role of the forest sector, as mentioned earlier, forest
institutions have an important role to play in fostering the socioeconomic development of the country.
To achieve this goal, new multisectoral strategic and institutional approaches (i.e. in coordination with
agriculture and livestock) will be needed to get out of the current impasse. Results achieved so far
under the Second Forestry project are encouraging, but a great deal remains to be done to further
improve the process of participatory forest (and natural resources) management in which the OAPF
has been a pioneer since 1990.
6.8           The Bank has opened up new avenues with the PGRN and the Household Energy
Project. OAPF could certainly contribute to the implementation of both projects, especially around
Bamako because of (i) its capacity to design integrated, multipurpose and decentralized forest
management programs; (ii) its field experience in participatory forest management; and (iii) its past
experience in planting fast-growing exotics, plantation management and supply of forest products to
meet Bamako's needs.
6.9           Successful implementation of both projects, however, will require strong institutional
support to local communities that neither the DNEF nor the OAPF can currently offer. The
Government's new decentralization and sectoral policy choices will also necessitate drastic changes



- 28 -
in the very atructure of the sector. There is currently an urgent need for a detailed sector study
covering all sector institutions (including the DNEF and other dependent agencies, training, research,
etc.) in order to define a new governance framework and a human resource development program
to prepare forestry staff to assume their new functions (as has been done for the agricultural services).
The Bank's support will be sought in this process.



- 29 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF MALI
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
(Credit 1654-MLI)
PART III
STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1:     Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 2:     Project Timetable
Table 3:      Credit Disbursements
I         Indicators of Project Implementation
Table 4.1:    Planned and Actual Component's Completion Dates
Table 4.2:    OAPF Indicators of Project Implementation
Project Costs and Financing
Table 5.1:    Project Costs and Financing
Table 5.2:    OAPF Forest/Plantation Management Unit Costs
OAPF Financial Results
Table 6.1:    Summary of Costs and Benefits
Table 6.2:    OAPF Cash-Flow Results
Economic Results
Table 7. 1:    Projected Output (estimated vs revised)
Table 7.2:    Economic Prices of Wood
Table 7.3:    Projected Production over Project Life
Table 7.4:    Projected Revenue over Project Life
Table 7.5:    Costs Projection over Project Life
Table 7.6:    Economic Analysis
Table 8:     Evolution of DNEF-Controlled Production and Fees: Controlled Production
(1980-91); Cutting and Transaction Fees (1980-91)
Table 9:     Status of Project Covenants
Table 10:    Use of Bank Resources: Staff Inputs; Missions (Staff and Consultants)
Table 11:    Reports and Documents



- 30 -
Table I
MALI
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
RELATED BANK LOANS / CREDITS
Loans/Credit                                                Year of      Status
Title                         Purposes                  Approval
To help solve environmental degradation
Forestry I Project  and woodfuel shortages through industrial  1979      Completed
(Cr. 883-MLI)      plantation and agroforestry.                          in 1985
Mopti          To increase agricultural production and
Area Development    productivity of livestock herds and         1985        Closed
(Cr. 1597-MLI)      promote water management and village                  in 1991
tree planting.
To promote sectoral reforms to improve
Agricultural Sector    agricultural production (cotton and      1990      Under SPN
(Cr. 2163-MLI)     cereals), increase efficiency of rural
institutions and natural resources
management.
Agricultural      To improve agricultural services to
Services        farmers and herders, increase poverty      1991      Under SPN
(Cr. 2235-MLI)     alleviation, and enhance natural resources
management and protection.
To strengthen natural resources
Natural Resources    management capacity of local communities   1992     Under SPN
Management        to restore and sustain ecological stability
(Cr. 2370-MLI)     while improving agriculture, forestry and
livestock production.
Agricultural      To promote environmentally sustainable                 Under
Research Project    agriculture through improvement of the              Preparation
(PPF. 712-MLI)      research network and program with greater
responsiveness to farmers' needs.
Household Energy     To promote participatory forest
Project         management, restructuring of woodfuel                 Under
trade, and initiating fiscal system providing       Preparation
incentives for local participation.



- 31 -
Table 2
MALI
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
PROJECT TIMETABLE
Item                 Date Plannod        Date Rcvised        Datc Actual
Govemement Request                                                   4/1983
Identification                                                    11/1983
(FAO/CP)
Preparation                                                      10/1984
Appraisal                9/1984              6/1985             1/1985 to
1211985
Credit Negotiation           6/1985              7/1985             12/1985
Board Approval              7/1985              9/1985             1/1986
Credit Signature                                                   7/1986
Credit Effectiveness         9/1985              12/1985             7/1986
Credit Closing             12/1991             12/1992            12/1992
Completion                3/1992              3/1993             6/1993
Comments:
Identification/Appraisal: The Government of Mali first approached IDA in April 1983 with a request to prepare
a follow-up Forestry Project to extend the reforestation, social forestry and natural forest management program
started under the First Forestry Project (Cr. 883-MLI). On behalf of IDA, this Second Forestry Project was
identified in November 1983 by a FAO/CP Mission. It was subsequently appraised by two joint
IDA/CCCE/FAC follow-up missions that visited Mali in October - November 1984 and January 1985.
Coordination between the co-financers and the Govermment was remarkably efficient during the project
preparation cycle.
Pearation: A Project Preparation Facility (PPF) of US$ 1 Million was approved in June 1985. It provided
financing to (i) manage the plantation established under the first IDA Credit (883-MLI) during the interim
phase; (ii) further develop infrastructure; (iii) prepare the follow-up program (including expatriate technical
assistance); and (iv) establish an accounting unit.
Effectiveness: A juridical opinion confirmed that conditions for effectiveness were met on June 10, 1986, and,
accordingly the project was declare effective on July 7, 1986.
Einancing: The project was co-financed by IDA, the CCCE and the FAC. In addition, the Norwegian
Government contributed NOK 22.5 million on a grant basis earmarked for the protection of the newly
established plantation, management of gazetted forests and applied research. The IDA Credit Agreement was
amended accordingly. The Norwegian grant was administered by the Bank.
Closing     The IDA Credit was extended by one year to December 31, 1992 to support new management
participatory initiatives, the applied research program and additional studies to complement the biodiversity
component of the Natural Resources Management Project (Cr. 2730-MLI). The Norwegian Grant and the
CCCE Credit were extended by two years up to December 31, 1993.



-32-
Table 3
MALI
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
IDA CREDIT DISBURSEMENT
CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL DISBURSEMENT
IN SDR MILLION
Fiscal       Quarter      Estimated      Estimated        SAR          Actual         Actual         Actual        Actual
Year         Ending       Disbursmt    Disbursmt    Esti mated        by Year       by Quarter    Cumulative      as % of
by Year      by Quarter   Cumulative                                                  Estimated
1985         March
June
Sept                                                                         0.15           0.15
Dec                                                           0.56           0.41          0.56
1986         March                                                                         0.26           0.82
June                              1.15          1.15                          0.03          0.85
Sept                             0.00           L15                             0           0.85
Dec                1.15          0.00           L15           0.37           0.08          0.93         80.9%
1987         March                             0.19           L34                          0.33           1.26        94.0%
June                              0.38          L72                          0.28           1.54        89.5%
Sept                             0.38           2.11                         0.45           1.99        94.3%
Dec                1.27          0.32          2.43           1.25           0.19          2.18         89.7%
1988         March                              0.33          2.75                         0.48           2.66        96.7%
June                              0.22          2.98                         0.42           3.08        103.4%
Sept                             0.22           3.20                         0.25           3.33       104.1%
Dec                0.95          0.17           3.37          1.41           0.26          3.59        106.5%
1989         March                              0.16          3.53                         0.42           4.01       113.6%
June                              0.15          3.68                         0.22           4.23        114.9%
Sept                             0.16           3.84                         0.17            4.4       114.6%
Dec                0.76          0.29           4.13          1.05           0.24          4.64        112.3%
1990         March                              0.29          4.42                         0.26            4.9       110.9%
June                              0.22          4.65                         0.08           4.98        107.1%
Sept                             0.22           4.86                                        4.98
Dec                1.13          0.40           5.26          0.55           0.21          5.19         98.7%
1991         March                              0.40          5.67                         0.27           5.46        96.3%
June                              0.23          5.90                         0.08           5.54         93.9%
Sept                                                                         0.06            5.6
Dec                0.00                                       0.47           0.06          5.66
1992         March                                                                         0.11           5.77
June                                                                         0.06           5.83
Sept
Dec                                                           0.17                          5.9
6.24
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECI
Estimated Disbursement
7
6                                                                                           x
5
4
3
2
1985                 1987                  1989                  1991
1986                 1988                  1990                  1992
Fiscal Year
s SAR Disbursmt by FY E Act Disbursmt by FY  A SAR Cumulative
X Actual Cumulative



- 33 -
Table 4.1
MALI
SECOND FORESIRY PROJECT
PLANNED AND ACTUAL COMPONENTS' COMPLETION DATES
Project Components                 Planned             Acta            Months of
Completion        Completion            Delay
Civil Works
DNEF HQ Building                              06/87             12188                18
DREF Koulikoro Building                       06/87             01/90                30
Bamako Tax Toll-Post                          12186             09/89                33
Funcial Unit Center                           12/86             12186                 -
OAPF Field Posts                              12/86             12/86                 -
DNEF Studies
Management of Gazetted Forests                12187            06/90 1/              30
Irrigated Plantation                          12/88            04/90 V/              16
Forest,Product Marketing                      06/89             07/91                25
OPNBB Studies
PNBB Development Plan                         12/85                                 n.a.
Socio-Economic Survey                       additional          02/92               n.a.
Wildlife Re-Assessment                      additional          11/92               n.a.
Rural Forestnry
Creation Rural Forestry Unit                  09/89               4/                n.
Baae Line Survey                              12/86                                 n.a.
NaL Porest Management Plan                    12/87                /                n.a.
Gazetted Forests Mgt Plans                    12/87            01192 2/             37 I
Dmft Report. Completion of the baseline socio-economic survey on 10/90. The preliminary mangement proposal
submitted on 12/91 was considered inadequate for IDAICCCE financing.
2/      Draft report submitted on 6191 was considered inadequate for IDA/CCCE financing.
Eight preliminary management options were submitted to the Government by the RURGS project in November
1984. including an anticipatod ressettlement of about 500 to 4.000 people. Although requested by the SARP no
regional development plan was ever submitted to IDA.
/       Th'e action-plan was approved by IDAICCCE in August 1989, but the Rural Forestry Unit never materialized.
in practice.
never completed. Component cancelled in 1990.
never completed. Component cancelled in 1990.
2/      Field inventory completed in December 1990 with a final report submitted in August 1992.
The forest magemcnt sub-component did'nt really srted before the iniiation of participatory activitics with
the surrounding population in 1990. Prior to this date, the only management activities included maintenance works
(road maintenance, firebreaks cleaning) and trials (natural regeneration, enrichment, coppice selection).



- 34 -
Table 4.2
MALI
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
INDICATORS OF PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
OAPF
Unit     Appral          1986       1987       198        1W9       1990       1991      1092     Totl         %
Estimate                                                                                           achieved
New Somi-industrlal Plantation
ActivWea
Cbering        ha              2400         200        642       68         693                                     2233       93.0%
Havesting       ha              2142         200        642       6e9        693                                     2233      104.2%
Wlndrowing       ha             2233          400       568        720       591                                     2277       102.0%
Phwing         ha             3000          580       642        720        601       335                           2878       95.9%
Plar*ing       ha             3000          494        56s       720        601        497                          2878       95.9%
Weding         ha              3000         494       s5o         720       601        497                          2878       95.9%
Fencng         km                70                     22        20         20                                       62       88.6%
Forestry I Plantation
Weeding        ha              6000        1510        757       5s6        720        601       1151               5305       88.4%
Thinning       ha               500                     92        111       141                                      344       08.8%
Cler  Cutting    ha              3500                   1073       424        340        268       09n                3104       88.7%
Coppice Section    ha               300                                         18e          4                           190       63.3%
Firebreaks      km               300          47         57        6e         51         50        48                 319      106.3%
Roads         km                50           16                                                                      16       32.0%
Management of Natural Forestc
Firebreaks      km                            30                                                                       30
Enrichmnt        ha         nr               450        700        800      1000        680        510               4140
Inventory      unit        nr                  4       3.82                    3                                    10.82
Minweanco        ha          nr                 3          4                    4                                       11
Production
Fuolwood
New PLantation      sLm3          100485         5179    11610       26074      31059                                   80922        80.5%
Old Plantation       Lm3           90000         5006     25578       4609      11253      9768      30741              86956        96.6%
Nat. Forests        dtm3         nr             10448        200      3000                  2662      3100               19410
Totl Fusiwood       st.m3          190485       20633     44388      33683      42312      12430     33841              187287       98.3%
Charcoal
NewPlantafion         t               120          27         12        74         22                                      135      112.5%
Nd Forostt            t          nr                                     46         68                                      114
Total Charcoal        t               120          27         12       120         90                                      249      207.5%
Poles         unit          280000       59639     62519      22941      70009     39710      28210              283058      101.1%
Post.         unit          1 80000      1054U      47329     52324      34741     33559       2140              180639      100.4%
Timber         m3              2500         420        339       61e        360                                     1735       69.4%



- 35 -
Table 5.1
MALI
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
A. DNEF Component Costs (in FCFA Million)
Project Sub-Component               Appraisal           Actual            % of
Estimate                           Estimated
DNEF Sub-Component
Civil Works and Equipment                        356.5               350.1           98
Gazetted Forests Mgmt Study                      272.2                67.0           25
Irrigated Plantation Study                        24.7                 2.0           8
Forest Product Marketing Study                    27.1                38.5          142
Support Rural Forestry                            84.3                56.4           67
Support Tax Collection                            121.3               113.3          93
Training                                          57.3                67.3          117
Rural Forestry Sub-Component
Pilot Operation                                   97.5                 3.9           4
Tree Promotion                                    108.8                8.4           7
Management                                       415.0                91.1           22
B. OAPF Component Costs (in FCFA Milion)
Project Sub-Component               Appraisal           Actual            % of
Estimated                           Estimated
Mgt of Gazeted Forests                624,1             571.9              91.6
Industrial Plantation               1,803.6            674.8             37.4
Natural Forest Mgt                  118.0              227.9            193.1
Improvt of Planting Stock              281.9              182.9             64.9
General Management                  1,742.8              ?                 ?
of which Equipment
Silviculture Equipment                         102.78             41.66             40.6
Heavy Agricultural Equipment                   377.55             207.34            54.9
Trucks                                         302.88             16.67             5.5
Vehicles                                       217.65             75.27             34.5
Total Equipment                   1,000.86           340.95             34.1



- 36 -
Table 5.2
MALI
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
OAPF FOREST/PLANTATION MANAGEMENT UNIT COSTS
Management Activity                 Appraisal           Actual            % of
Estimated 1/                         Estimated
Plantation Establishment per ha
Plant Production                             22.000             50.433               229
Forest Clearing                              98.225             88.014                89
Land Preparation                             60.420             31.100                51
Plantation                                   29.830             59.284                199
Weeding (first only)                         23.285             32.777                141
Transport of Personnel                            S/            58.085               n.a.
Average Plantation Establishment Cost
Direct Costs                                233.760             282.350               121
incl. Supervision Costs                           _/            415.480              n.a.
incl. Spv. and Depreciation Costs                 5/ 540.730                         n.a.
Plantation Management 2/ per ha
Weeding per Year (2nd to 4th Year)           9.780              20.732               212
Pruning                                           6/            37.000
Pruning with Form Improvement                     6             106.300
Thitming                                          _             130.600
Coppice Selection                                 6             115.850
Clear (salvage) Felling 2/                        6
Natural Forest Mgrnt Costs per ha
Inventory and Management Plan
Road Construction (per Km)                  757.800
Firebreaks Construction (per Km)            406.760
Road Maintenance (per Km)                    79.300
Pirebreak Maintenance (per km)               16.790
Enrichment Planting
Coppice selection
Clear FeOing _/                              41.360             61.650               149
Costab unit costs, including 10% for physical contingencis.
2/      All operation included (harvesting, skidding, piling) assuming a 1/3 - 2/3 ratio between plantation blocks
with high and low standing volume.
_/      45 m3/ha in average (1992 inventory of La Faya Plantation).
i/      assuming an average commercial standing volume of 25 m3 (Fuelwood: 96% and Timber: 4%) for open
woodlands (65%) to lower dry forest (35%) according to project inventory results (1990 and 1992).
not specificaOy differentiated.
not specifically rated. Appraisal estimates based on potential production costs: Fuelwood: FCFA 941/st.m3
and Poles: FCFA 84/unit.



- 37 -
Table 6.1
MALI
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
OAPF: SUMMARY OF COSTS AND BENEFITS
OAPF Costs/Benefits Ratio per Commodities                            OAPF Average Unit Production Costs
Fuelwood 69%          Sale      cost    Benefit            Operation           Fuelwood   Poles    Timber Charooal
Year    Prod.    price       price     ratio                                  stm3       unit       m3      100Kg
st.m3    FCFA    FCFA   per cent
Harvesting                315       169     1708      2300
1986      23897      1912      1960      -2.5           Marketing                 123        42      1426       400
1987      25241      1894      2437    -28.7            Transport                1514       191      9552       500
1988      45634      2003      3041    -51.8            Forest Fees                45                1042       100
1989      38372      1822      1683       7.6             Total                  1997       402    13728      3300
!990      13224       813       412      49.3
1991       9832       563       304      46.0                         OAPF Costs/Benefits Ratio
(1986 - 1991)
Poles and Posts 18%   Sale      cost    Benefit
Year     Prod.     price     price     ratio                   80
unit     FCFA    FCFA   per cent
70_
1986      42068       405       306       24.4                 60_
1987      30129       460       248       46.1
1988      28491       483    n.a.      n.a.
1989      31509       506       247       51.2                 40 -
!990      34195       258       157      39.1                 30
1991      20307       148    n.a.      n.a.
20_
10 
Charcoal 2%           Sale      cost    Benefit                    0   a  n                    J 
Year     Prod.     price     price     ratio                 -10-       X
10OKg    FCFA    FCFA          %
-20
1986        276      5340      3950      26.0                -30
1987                 5060      1450      713
1988        740      4838      3490      27.9                -40
1989         22      4385      3260      25.7                  50
!990         46      3314    n.a.      n.a.
1991         68       1500     1270       15.3               -60
1986 1987 1988 1989 !990 1991
Timber 11%             Sale     cost    Benefit
Year     Prod.    price      price     ratio
m3      FCFA    FCFA  per cent                                          Years
1986        750    15126    19199    -26.9                    fFuelwood ECharcoal OPoles andPosts
1987        655    17092    13774         19.4                                  OTimber
1988        617    18261    14411        21.1
1989        449     17498    15684        10.4
!990        165      6909         0    n.a.
1991        180      4333         0    n.a.



Table 6.2
MALI
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
OAPF CASHFLOW RESULTS
(1986 - 1992)
in FCFA x 1000
Fuel-    Char-    Poles                Sales    OAPF
Year    wood       coal      Posts    Timber   Results  Cashflow
sales    sales    sales    sales
1986      -1168     -316       3690    -3083      -877      3852
1987     -13704       444      6282     2172    -4806       4299
1988     -50621       987      3087      1606  -44941   -35912
1989       4099       249      2268      1386     8002    14448
1990       5661       129      3479      1140    10409    17415
1991       1786        15   -3342         780     -761      4500
OAPF Financial Results
(1986 - 1992)
30
20-
10 
0
-10 
-20-
-30-
-40-
-50-
X Total Cash Flow



- 39 -
Table 7.1
MALI
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN ANALYSIS
PROJECTED OUTPUT AVERAGE lha. GMELINA PLANTATION
ESTIMATED VS. REVISED
Plantations          Production
Year  Timber m3              Poles Units           Fuelwood Stnm3
Estimated Revised Estimated Revised Estimated Revised
2
3
4
5                                                                   20
6                              36                     8
7                             184         32         40             24
8
9                             254         90         59             24
10
11
12                                         52                        22
13                              56                    13
14                             260                    40
15                                         40                        23
16                             192                    48
17          2                   48                    11
18
19
20
21                             184                    40
22          4                   42                    10
23                             204                    48
24
25
26
27
28                             176                    40
29                                                    82             73
30        20         66        226



- 40 -
Table 7.2
MALI
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN ANALYSIS
ECONOMIC PRICES OF WOOD PRODUCTS
ACTUAL VS. ESTIMATED
Economic Price of Firewood
Financial          Economic               Fmancial                  Economic
Price (1984)       Price (1984)           Price (86-92)             Price (86-92)
Import parity price    2,500               3,750                     1,997                     2,996
Transport to Bamnalo    (790)               (752)                   (1,514)                   (1,440)
LoadingAuloading         (46)                (46)                    (315)                      (315)
Felling and stacking    (204)               (204)                       0                          0
Transport of labor      (104)               (100)                       0                          0
Miscellaneous           (286)               (272)                     (123)                     (117)
Stumpage value         1,069               2,377                       45                      1,124
Adjusted sturnpage value:                  3,697
Economic Price of Building Poles
Financial          Economic               Financial                 Economic
Price 1984         Price (1984)           Price (86-92)             Price (86-92)
Import parity price      325                463                       401                        571
Transport to Bamako      (90)                (85)                    (191)                     (182)
Loading/unloading        (46)                (46)                    (169)                      (169)
Felling and stacking      (9)                 (9)                       0                         0
Transport of labor        (5)                 (5)                       0                         0
Miscellaneous            (27)                (26)                     (42)                       (40)
Stumpage value           148                292                        (1)                      181
Economic Price of Timber
Fmancial           Economic               Fmancial                  Economic
Price (1984)       Price (1984)           Price (86-92)             Price (86-92)
Imported lumber mark  67,500
Quality discount     (13,500)
Ex-sawmill: Gmelina   54,000
Sawing cost           (25,000)
Gmelina log equivalen   17,400            22,968                    13,728                    18,121
Transport to saw-mill  (5,653)            (5,376)                   (9,552)                   (9,084)
Cutting and trimming    (154)              (154)                        0                         0
Extraction             (2,125)            (2,019)                   (1,708)                   (1,623)
Miscellaneous          (1,983)            (1,884)                   (1,426)                   (1,355)
Stumpage value         7,486              13,536                     1,042                     6,060



- 41 -
Table 7.3
MALI
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN ANALYSIS
PROJECTED PRODUCTION OVER LIFE OF THE PROJECT
Plantations         Production
Year               Timber in m3                    Poles in units                     Fuelwood in st.m3
Estimated  Revised             Estimated  Revised                 Estimated        Revised
1985
1986                            420                                                      26400          5,179
1987                            339                                                      26400         18,610
1988                            616                                                      26400         26,070
1989                            360                                                      26400        31,060
1990                                                                                                   11,320
1991                                              21600    15,800                         4800        26,250
1992                                              132000    18,100                       28800         25,604
1993                                              132000    67,500                       28800         29,100
1994                                             284400    70,100                        64200         28,000
1995                                             284400    64,800                        64200         17,300
1996                                             262800    79,800                        59400        25,800
1997                                              152400    29,432                       35400         12,500
1998                                             186000    37,500                        43200        15,800
1999                                              189600    50,900                       31800        24,600
2000                                              189600    22,700                       31800         13,000
2001                                              304800    28,800                       60600         16,600
2002                 1200                         333600    24,100                       67200         13,900
2003                 1200                         300000                                 59400
2004                 1200                         144000                                 35400
2005                1200                          144000                                 35400
2006                1200                          139200                                 30600
2007                2400                          135600                                 30000
2008                2400                          258000                                 58800
2009                2400                          258000                                 58800
2010                2400                         258000                                  58800
2011                2400                          147600                                 34800
2012                2400                          122400                                 28800
2013                                              105600                                 24000
2014                                              105600                                 24000
2015               12000                          241200                                 73200
2016               12000    36,000                241200                                 73200         36,000
2017               12000    41,400                241200                                 73200         41,300
2018               12000    52,500                135600                                 49200         52,600
2019               12000    43,900                135600                                 49200         43,900



- 42 -
Table 7.4
MALI
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN ANALYSIS
PLANTATION REVENUE OVER PROJECT LIFE
Revenue
Price of                  Price of                      Price of                    Plantation
Year                    Firewood                     Poles                       Timber                         Only
1985                                                                                                               0
1986                      2,996                       425                          15,126                 21,869,204
1987                      2,996                       446                          15,882                 61,139,660
1988                      2,996                       469                          16,676                 88.378,392
1989                      2,996                       492                          17,510                 99,359,445
1990                      2,996                       517                          18,386                 33,914,720
1991                      2,996                       542                          19,305                 87,215,231
1992                      2,996                       570                          20,270                 87,018,270
1993                      2,996                       598                          21,284                127,549.793
1994                      2,996                       598                          21,284                125,809,039
1995                      2,996                       598                          21,284                 90,582,346
1996                      2,996                       598                          21,284                125,018,611
1997                      2,996                       598                          21,284                 55,050.856
1998                      2,996                       598                          21,284                 69,762,463
1999                      2,996                       598                          21,284                104,140,700
2000                      2,996                       598                          21,284                 52.523,001
2001                      2,996                       598                          21,284                 66,956.509
2002                      2,996                       598                          21.284                  56,056,626
2003                      2,996                       598                          21,284                          0
2004                      2,996                       598                          21,284                          0
2005                      2,996                       598                          21,284                          0
2006                      2,996                       598                          21,284                          0
2007                      2,996                       598                          21,284                          0
2008                      2,996                       598                          21,284                          0
2009                      2,996                       598                          21,284                          0
2010                      2,996                       598                          21,284                          0
2011                      2,996                       598                          21,284                          0
2012                      2,996                       598                          21,284                          0
2013                      2,996                       598                          21,284                         0
2014                      2,996                       598                          21,284                         0
2015                      2,996                       598                          21,284                         0
2016                      2,996                       598                          21,284                874,072,836
2017                      2,996                       598                          21,284               1,004,884,161
2018                      2,996                       598                          21,284               1,274,989,152



Table 7.5a
MALI
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
COSTS PROJECrION OVER PROJECT LIFE
ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN
Clearing      Nurseries    Plantation    Weeding 1   Weeding 2    Weeding 3    Weeding 4              Total        Pruning      Thining 1   Thinning 2    Thinning 3
Plantation
43478916      24913902       29286246      16191838                                                 113870902
49815924      28545078       33554744      16191838       10241608                                  138349192
63370924      36311760       42684480      16191838       10241608      11343120                    180143730
52866414      30310233       35629684      16191838       10241608      11343120      14927040    171509937
10241608      11343120      14927040       36511768      18278000      64516400
11343120      14927040      26270160       20942000                    73919600
14927040      14927040      26640000      64516400                     94032000
22237000                    73919600
64516400                    94032000
73919600
94032000



Table 7.5b
MALI
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
COSTS PROJECTION OVER PROJECT LIFE
ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN
Thinning 4      Total         Fuial         Total    Construction  Construction      Total     Maintenance Maintenance        Total        Total
Thinning      Cutting     Silviculture    Roads       Firebstaks  Construction     Roads       Firebreaks  Maintenance Developinent
0     12124800      19117720     31242520                                              145113422
0                   23185320     23185320       1268800        789130      2057930    163592442
0                   28846160     28846160       1268800       1741600      30104C0    212000290
0                   20744760     20744760       1268800       28543-0      4123100    196377797
64516400                   82794400                   20338000      20338000       1268800      3710590       4979390    144623558
73919600                   94861600                    19524480     19524480       1268800      4550009       5818809    146475049
158548400                  185188400                                                1268800      5356010       6624810    206740250
78490600    152410200                   174647200                                                1268800      5356010       6624810    181272010
158548400                  158548400                                                1268800      5356010       6624810    165173210
78490600    152410200                   152410200                                                1268800      5356010       6624810    159035010
94032000                   94032000                                                1268800       5356010      6624810    100656810
78490600    143007000                   143007000                                                1268800       5356010      6624810    149631810
73919600                   73919600                                                1268800       5356010      6624810      80544410
94032000                   94032000                                                1268800       5356010      6624810    100656810
78490600     78490600                    78490600                                                1268800       5356010      6624810      85115410
0                                               1268800       5356010      6624810       6624810
0                                               1268800       5356010      6624810       6624810
0                                               1268800       5356010      6624810       6624810
0                                               1268800       5356010      6624810       6624810
0                                               1268800       5356010      6624810       6624810
0                                               1268800       5356010      6624810       6624810
0                                               1268800       5356010      6624810       6624810
0                                               1268800       5356010      6624810       6624810
0                                               1268800       5356010      6624810       6624810
0                                               1268800       5356010      6624810       6624810
0                                               1268800       5356010      6624810       6624810
0                                               1268800       5356010      6624810       6624810
0                                               1268800       5356010      6624810       6624810
0                                               1268800       5356010      6624810       6624810
0                                               1268800       5356010      6624810       6624810
30455100     30455100                                                1268800       5356010       6624810     37079910
34893900     34893900                                                1268800       5356010       6624810     41518710
43155000     43155000                                                1268800       5356010       6624810     49779810
37051650     37051650                                                1268800       5356010       6624810     43676460



- 45 -
Table 7.6
MALI
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
Total          Infrastructure    Technical          Central           Total                              Net
Year           Development          Equipment    Assistance               Unit            Costs                           Benefits
1985                      0          8178102                0               0         8,178,102                        (8,178,102)
1986              145113422       56,1104799                0       46.559,500      247,783,721                      (225.914,517)
1987              163592442       31,468374                 0       48.534,500      243,595.316                      (182,455,656)
19U8              212000290      222,442,537                0      100.994,400      535,437,227                      (447,058,835)
1989              196377797       26,922338                0       40,465330       263,765,465                      (164.406,020)
1990              144623558                0                0        7,145.000      151,768,558                      (117,853,838)
1991              146475049         6,912,000               0        7,145,000      160,532.049                       (73316,818)
1992             206740250                                  0        7,145.000      213,885,250                      (126,866,980)
1993              181272010                                 0        7,145.000     18,417,010                        (60,867,217)
1994              165173210                                          7,145,000      172.318,210                       (46,509,171)
1995              159035010                                          7,145,000      166,180,010                       (75,597,664)
1996              100656810                                          7,145,000      107,801,810                        17,216,801
1997              149631810                                          7,145,000      156,776,810                      (101,725,954)
1998               80544410                                          7,145,000       87,689,410                       (17,926,947)
1999             100656810                                           7.145,000      107,8018,10                        (3,661,110)
2000               85115410                                          7,145,000       92260,410                        (39,737,409)
2001                6624810                                          7,145,000       13,769,810                        53,186,699
2002                6624810                                          7.145,000       13.769,810                        42,286.816
2003                6624810                                          7,145.000       13,769,810                       (13,769,810)
2004                6624810                                          7,145,000       13.769,810                       (13.769.810)
2005                6624810                                          7.145,000       13,769,810                       (13.769,810)
2006                6624810                                          7.145,000       13,769,810                       (13,769,810)
2007                6624810                                          7.145,000       13,769,810                       (13,769,810)
2008                6624810                                          7,145,0C0       13,769,810                       (13.769A10)
2009                6624810                                          7,145,000       13,769,810                       (13,769,810)
2010                6624810                                          7,145,000       13,769,810                       (13,769,810)
2011                6624810                                          7.145,000       13,769,810                       (13,769,810)
2012                6624810                                          7.145.000       13,769,810                       (13,769,810)
2013                6624810                                          7.145,000       13,769,810                       (13,769,810)
2014                6624810                                          7.145,000       13,769,810                       (13,769,810)
2015                6624810                                          7,145,000       13,769,810                       (13,769,810)
2016               37079910                                          7.145,000       44,224,910                       829,847.926
2017               41518710                                          7,145,000       48,663,710                       956,2M,451
2018               49779910                                          7,145,000       56,924,810                      1,218,064,342
2019               43676460                                          7,145,000       50,S2L460                       1,015.061,804
0
Rate of                Retum                        3%



- 46 -
Table 8
MALI
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
EVOLUTION OF DNEF CONTROLLED PRODUCTION AND FEES
DNEF Controlled Production
Fuel-  Char-  Timber  Poles                          Fuel-  Char-  Timber  Poles   Total
Year   wood    coal                                          wood    coal                       Wood
st.m3    tons     m3       unit                       m3      m3       m3       m3       m3
1980     561      44.5    11.7      323                      336.6    61.9    11.7    11.5   421.7
1981     487      43.5      8.3     202                      292.2    60.5       8.3      7.2   368.2
1982     467      57.3      2.4     123                      280.2    79.6       2.4      4.4   366.6
1983     475      43.5      0.5     108                       285      60.5      0.5      3.9   349.8
1984     443      59.4       5      236                      265.8    82.6        5       8.4   361.8
1985     493      58.4      3.9     145                      295.8    81.2       3.9      5.2   386.1
1986     477      56.5      4.3     261                      286.2    78.5       4.3      9.3   378.4
1987     373      52.5      5.9     243                      223.8    73.0       5.9      8.7   311.4
1988     337      35.3    12.4      278                      202.2    49.1    12.4        9.9   273.6
1989     308      40.1      8.1     362                      184.8    55.7       8.1    12.9   261.6
1990     361      83.6      7.2     336                      216.6   116.2       7.2    12.0   352.0
199i     239       40        4      132                      143.4    55.6        4       4.7   207.7
DNEF Controlled Production and Fees
DNEF Fees                                                    (1980- 1991)
Cutting Trans.  Forest    Total                  400
Year    fees    fees    fees    fees
FCFA Million
1980     443       95    139.3   172.7                 300_
1981     53.8   1543    208.1   246.8
1982    69.2   189.3   258.5   297.8
1983    67.9   108.2   176.1   213.6
1984    68.7       85    153.7   178.8                 200 _
1985     74.3   107.5   181.8   213.8
1986    119.8   171.8   291.6   340.5
1987     147    162.6   309.6   361.6
1988    137.6   171.2   308.8   366.6                  100 -
1989    130.2   138.4   268.6   325.3
1990    135.4   124.4   259.8   313.9
1991     83.3    43.4   126.7   155.6
1980 19821984 1986 1981990
1981 1983 1985 1987 1989 1991
Years
Om3 Fuelwood Dm3 Charcoal 0m3 Timber
A DNEF Cutting Fees X DNEF Forestry Fees



- 47 -
Table 9
MALI
SECOND FORESTRY COMPONENT
STATUS OF PROJECT COVENANTS
Description                      DCA Section     Comili-           Remarks
of Cgvenants     ance
Open and maintain Project Account                       2.02           met
Ensure that the funding of DNEF, OPNBB and OAPF        3.01 (e)      not fully   Borrower encountered
at not less than their 1985 level                                      met    financial problems
Procurement of goods, works amd services according      3.02           met
to the Credit Agreement
DNEF Studies and Rural Forestry pilot schemes          3.03 (a)      not fully   not complied with
carried out in accordance with terms of reference and                  met    timetable
timetables satisfactory to the Association
Review of the DNEF Study program results not later     3.03 (b)        not     Cancellation of the Rurl
than September 30, 1988                                             complied   Forestry Component
with
Mechanical repair to equipment to be carried out in     3.04           met
the OAPF garage
Implement a regional development plan satifactory to   3.05 (a)      not met   Still under consideration
the Association for the Boucle du Baoule National                              at the Credit Closing
Park                                                                           Date
Remove the vilages located within the boundaries of    3.05 (b)      not met   Borrower encountered
the Boucle du Baoule National Park in accordance                               difficulties in teh
with the regional development plan                                             absence of the
development plan and
financing problems
Stumpage rates and forestry fines to be raised by      3.06 (a)      not fully   Stumpage rates increased
100% in 1985, 1988 and 1991 in accordance with the      and            met     by 100% only in 1985
Forestry Code                                           4.03
Contract with CMDT and OHV to coordinate                3.07         not met   With canceUation of
responsibilities for Part A (2) of Project                                     Project Component,
coordination agreements
were not materialized
The Central Management Unit to maintain separate       4.01 (a)        met
records and accounts in respect of Project departments
and/or agencies
Audit of accounts                                      4.01 (b)        met
Provision to IDA of all documentation concerning       4.01 (c)        met
procurement
DNEF to employ duly qualified accountant                4.02           met
Ensure that all revenues from the collection of         4.04           met
stumpage fees and fines continue to be deposited into
the FFN
Ensure that all revenues from OAPF's sales are          4.05           met
credited to OAPF's accounts



- 48 -
Table 10
MALI
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
USE OF BANK RESOURCES
10.1 Staff Inputs
stage/Year      1984      1985     1986    1987   1988    1989    1990         1991     1992    1993    TotaL
Preparation    11.40       2.90                       _       _                                             14.30
AppraisaL                 24.90      7.80                                                                   32.70
Negotiation              _ _        4.40                                                         ______      4.40
Supervision                         5.60   6.70    7.50    4.90    8.30    14.30    8.00    4.80            60.10
Conpletion                                                                       =         =      2.80       2.80
Other             0.10     1.80      5 80    1.50     _                                                      9.20
Total           11.50    29.60    23.60    8.20    7.50    4.90    8.30    14.30    8.00    7.60    123.50
10.2  Missions
Project   Month/  Number  SW          Specialization     Performance        Types of
Stage    Year     Persons  Field       Represented        Rating           Problems
TMroueh Aporaisal
Preparation        11/83      2       3           Forester
Ecowrnist
Appraiul I         10/14      4       2           Foresters (3)
Economnist
Appraisa n          1/85      2        1.5        Forester
Economist
Suvervision
Supervision l      2/86       4 I/     I          Economists (2)      1 It      Ftnancial
Foresters (2)                 Management (Rural Forestry)
Supervision nI     3/87       5 I/     I          Foresters (3)       1 y1      Fnancial (Plantation recurrent cost)
Economist (2)                 Management (Rurl Forestry/OPNIB)
Supervision M      12/87      4 I/     I          Foresters (3)       1 2       Managenent (Rural Forestry)
Economist
Supervision IV     12188      4 I/     1.5        Forester            2         Fuancial (OPNBB)
Economist                     Management (Rural Forestry)
Supervision V      6/89       5 l/     I          Forester            3         Management (Rurl Forestry)
Econotisut (4)
Supervision VI     3/90       2 1/    2           Forester            3         Financial (OPNBB)
Economist                     Management (Studies/Rural Forestry)
Supervision VII    10/90      4 _/    2           Foresters (3)       2         Fnancial (OPNBB)
Economist                     Management (Studies)
Supervision VM     5/91       21/     2           Forester            2         Fancial (OPNBB)
Economist                     Management (Studies/OPNBB)
Supervision DX     2/92       2 1/    2           Forester            2         Fuiacial (OPNBB)
Economist                     Management (OPNBB)
Supervision X      8/92       Update  -           Forester            2         Mangement (OPNBB)
I/       Joint miuion with CCCE and MDRIFAC
y        Rating from Form 590. However, based on the Development Impact rated 2, the overal rting should have been 2.
3/       loint Miuion with CCCE Rnd Norwegian Government representatives.



- 49 -
Table 11
MALI
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
REPORTS AND DOCUMENTS
Belieres, J.F. - Rapport d'activites - Periode du 11 mai 1987 au 31 octobre 1987, 31 octobre 1987.
Berthe Abou, L. - Memoire - Reflexions autour de l'evaluation (ex-post) des projets de foresterie
rurale - Orientation m6thodologique I partir des expdriences maliennes, Centre d'etudes financieres,
economiques et bancaires, juin 1988.
Bertrand, A., Konandji, H., Madon, G., Mariko, D., Salah, C. - Etude des filieres
d'approvisionnement des villes en produits forestiers, Tome I, Synthbse, Centre Technique Forestier
Tropical, July 1991.
Bertrand, A. - Etude des filieres d'approvisionnement des villes en produits forestiers: Bamako.
Segou. Mopti. Koutiala et Gao, mai 1992.
Boucare, S. - Aspects institutionnels du programme national de gestion des ressources naturelles dans
le cadre du PNLCD - Atelier sur la revue des institutions du Ministere de l'agriculture. de l'elevage
et de 1'environnement, mars 1992.
Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique - Rapport d'evaluation du second proget forestier.
Catterson, T.M. & Gauthier, M. - Gestion integree des domaines classes de l'OAPF et
Animation/vulgarisation, SocieteInternationale d'Experts-Conseils General Woods and Veneers LtWe.,
juin 1992.
Centre Technique Forestier Tropical - Amelioration du materiel vegetal et des techniques sylvicoles -
Les pare-feu arbores, mars 1985.
Centre Technique Forestier Tropical/Intercooperation Beme - Etude economigue des nroblbmes
forestiers en IIIeme region - Marches urbains des produits forestiers - Place et role de la foret dans
les systemes de production ruraux, juin 1985.
Chatelain, C. - Gestion participative des fOrets classees de Soussan. Ia Faya et des Monts Manding -
Mission d'appui, Institut de Recherche et d'Application des Methodews de Developpement, aoot
1992.
de Bie, S. & Kessler, J.J. - An Aerial Resource Inventory of TMe National Park "Boucle du Baoule.'
RURGS, Nature Conservation Department, Agricultural University Wageningen, The Netherlands,
1983.
Direction Nationale des Eaux et FOrets - Division Projet et Programme - Etude de potentialites des
fOrets du Rail, juin 1990.
Durand P. - Mali - Energy Assessment - Household Energy Demand and Renewable Energy
(Sectorial RgRgW, ESMAP, March 1989.
ESMAP - Household Energy Strategy - Report No. 147-92, May 1992.



- 50 -
FIPEC - Audit comptable et financier - Bilan et comptes 1983.
FIPEC - Audit comptable et financier - Bilan et comptes 1985 (ler exercice du 2eme Projet).
FIPEC - Audit com2table et financier - Bilan et comptes 1986 (2eme exercice du 2bme Proietl.
FIPEC - Audit comptable et financier - Bilan et comptes 1987 (3eme exercice du 2bme Projet).
FIPEC - Audit comptable et financier - Bilan et comptes 1988 (4eme exercice du 2eme Projet).
FIPEC - Audit comptable et financier - Bilan et comptes 1989 (Sme exercice du 2eme Projet).
FIPEC - Audit comptable et financier - Bilan et comptes 1990 (6eme exercice du 2eme Projet).
FIPEC - Audit comptable et financier - Bilan et comptes 1991 (7eme exercice du 2eme Proiet).
Gariglio, J.J. & Morel, J. - Preparation du Second Projet Forestier, FAO/IBRD CP, 04/17/86.
Gorse, J.E. - Project Review Report - Components Financed by Norway, April 1989.
Humpal, D. - Natural Resources Management Support Project - Mali Action Proeram, Development
Alternatives, January 15, 1988.
Institut d'Economie Rurale - Etude socio-economigue d'amena,ement des fortts class6es des rails,
Ministere des ressources naturelles et de l'elevage - Direction Nationale des Eaux et f6rets, octobre
1990.
Madon, G. - Mali Energy Assessment - Woodfuel Sub-Sector, January 1989.
McLain, R. - Aeroforesterie en 5eme region du Mali - Contraintes liees au droit coutumier et
moderne, Land Tenure Center, Universite de Wisconsin, 6 fevrier 1991.
Ministere des ressources naturelles et de l'elevage - Direction Nationale des Eaux et forets - Rap2g
de la 9eme conference nationale des eaux et fOrets sur la participation des populations I l'organisation
de l'exploitation du bois, mars 1989.
Ministere des ressources naturelles et de 1'elevage - Direction Nationale des Eaux et fMrets, Cellule
de foresterie rurale (2o Projet forestier 1654/MLI) - Plan directeur (1989-1991), aoOt 1989.
Ministere des ressources naturelles et de l'elevage - Direction Nationale des Eaux et forets, Et&u
d'inventaire de la Faya des Monts Mandingues, decembre 1990.
Ministere des ressources naturelles et de l'elevage - Direction Nationale des Eaux et fMrets -
Opfrations amenagement et production forestiere.
Ministere des ressources naturelles et de l'elevage - Direction nationale des eaux et forets -
Proposition pour la mise au point d'un dispositif de gestion participative et decentralisee des forets
de la region de Bamako - Periode transitoire 1992-1993, decembre 1991.



- 51 -
Ministere des ressources naturelles et de l'elevage - Direction Nationale des Eaux et forets, RappDo
final sur l'inventaire des plantations de la Faya, ao0t 1992.
Plan d'opdration pour la mise en oeuvre de la strategie energetigu au Mali.
Programme Conjoint PNUDlBanque Mondiale d'Assistance A la Gestion du Secteur de l'Energie -
Strategie pour l'energie domestigue, f6vrier 1992.
Projet RURGS (Mali/Pays-Bas) - Amenagement rdserve de la biosphere 'Boucle du Baoule",
novembre 1984.
Trans Energ - Rapport d'etude sur la planification de I'energie - Secteur combustibles forestiers - Bois
et charbon de bois, janvier 1983.
Warshall, P. - Mali - Biological Diversity Assessment. Office of Arid Lands Studies, University of
Arizona, March 1989.
World Bank - Mali - Programme national de gestion des ressources naturelles (RaDDort de
pr6paration).



