Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Cd. /6g2S*Az7
Report No. 5787-ELI
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF MALI
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
December 6, 1985
Western Africa Projects Department
Agriculture C
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official dulies. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit  :    CFA Franc (CFAF)
US$1.00             CFAF 434
CFAF 1 million      US$2,304.00
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
I stare of fuelvood from
natural forest                      =  0.50 m3 or 225 Kg of dried wood
1 m3 of fuelwood from natural forest =  2 stares or 450 Kg of dried wood
1 stare of fuelwood from                       3
plantation (Gmelina variety)        =  0.60 m  or 350 Kg of dried wood
1 m3 of fuelwood from
plantation (Gmelina variety)        =  1.67 stares or 583 Kg of dried wood
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CCCE           Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (French Aid
Agency)
DNEF           Direction Nationale des Eaux et Forats (National Directorate
of Water and Forests)
DPP            Division  des  Projets  et  des  Programmes  (Programs  and
Projects Directorate)
FAC            Fonds d'Aide et Cooperation (French Grant Aid Agency)
IER            Institut d'Economie Rurale (Rural Economics Institute)
MRE/CD         Ministare des Relations Exterieures/Cooperation et
Developpement (Ninistry of External Relations/Cooperation
and Development, France)
NENE           Hinistere charge des Ressources Naturelles et de l'Elevage
(Ministry of Natural Resources and Livestock)
OAPF           Operation Amenagement et Productions Forestieres (Forestry
Management and Production Operation)
OPNBB          Operation Parc National de la Boucle de Baoule (Boucle
du Baoule National Park Operation)
FISCAL YEAR
IDA                      July I - June 30
Government               January 1 - December 31
OAPF                     January 1 - December 31



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF MALI
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
DOCUMENTS CONTAINED IN PROJECT FILE .................................. iii
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUNMARY ...................................... iv
I.       BACKGROUND ................................................1... 
A. Introduction .1
B. The Rural Sector .1
II.      THE FORESTRY SUBSECTOR .        .......................................   2
A.   Resources ...............................................    2
B.   Institutions ............................................   4
C.   Government Policy and Recent Experience ..................   6
D.   Experience with Past Lending .............................   8
III.     THE PROJECT ................................................                9
A.   Objectives and General Description ......................   9
B.   The Project Area ........................................  10
C.   Detailed Features .        ......................................  11
D.   Project Implementation ..........          ........................  14
E.   Xonitoring and Evaluation ........           .......................  16
F.   Cost Estimates and Financing .......            .....................  16
G.   Procurement and Disbursements .......            ....................  18
H.   Accounts and Audit ..............         ........................  21
I.   Markets and Prices ..............         ........................  21
J.   Recurrent Costs and Cost Recovery ........................  22
K.   Benefits and Risks . ......................................   22
IV.      AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION .....             .............  23
This report is based on the findings of an IDA/CCCE/MRE appraisal mission
which visited Mali in October 1984 and a second IDA mission of January
1985.   The  missions  consisted  of  J. Gorse,  Senior  Forestry  Specialist,
D. Jarvis, Economist, and M. Tapo, Financial Analyst (IDA), L. Humbert
(CCCE)  and  J. Clement  (MRE/CD).   The  report  was  processed  by Alexandra
Gripari and edited by Michale Moriarty.
I   document has a rtricted distribution and may be used by recpients only in the performance of
their ofricial duties. Its coDtents maY not otherwie be disclbsed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
ANNEXES
2-1     Forestry Subsector:Resource Base
2-2     Markets, Prices and Fiscal Policy
2-3     DNEF Organization Chart
2-4     Recent Projects in Forestry Sector
3-1     Pilot Rural Forestry Component
3-2     Studies Component
3-3     Project Implementation Schedule
3-4     T. A. Requirements
3-5     Project Costs by Summary Accounts and Financing
3-6     Disbursement Schedule and Profile
3-7     DNEF Budget
3-8     Production
3-9     Economic Analysis
MAP
IBRD No. 18886: Mali - Project Location



REPUBLIC OF MALI
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
DOCUMENTS CONTAINED IN THE PROJECT FILE
A.   Reports Related to the Sector                                   Code
1.   "Etude du developpement forestier en milieu rural",
Thomson, Taylor, Montagne, Sylla, Keita, Konate;
December 1983                                             223.304
2.   "Planification de l'energie":  Annex III:
Secteur "Bois et charbon de bois", Transenerg; 1984.   223.305
3.   "Politique forestiere nationale", DNEF; 1982.             129.813
(A+B) MLI-Cr.883
4.   "Analyse du secteur forestier et propositions", CILSS,
Club du Sahel; 1982.                                     223.306
5.   "Rapport Final: Projet de recherche sur l'utilisation
rationelle de gibier au sahel", Vol. B2, University of
Wageningen; 1984.                                        223.307
B.   Reports and Studies Related to the Project
1.   "Preparation du second projet forestier", OAPF; 1984.  223.308
2.   "Foresterie rurale IIeme Region", CTFT; April 1985.    223.309
3.   "Amenagement des forets classees de la Faya et des
Monts Mandingues", J.Morel; March 1985.                   223.310
C.   Staff Working Papers
1.   Project Costs (Computer Printout); selected working
papers on economic and financial analysis, D. Jarvis;
May 1985.
2.   Unit Cost Tables, J. Gorse; December 1984.
(Filed correspondance .{ali-Forestry II,
December 12, 1984).
WAPAC
July 1985



REPUBLIC OF MALI
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            Government of Mali
Beneficiary:        National Directorate of Water and Forests (DNEF)
Amount:              SDR 5.9 million (US$6.3 million equivalent).
Terms:               Standard IDA Terms.
Flow of Credit
Proceeds:            Borrower to Di'EF (US$5.3 million):  grant
Project
Description:         The project addresses the increasingly real threat of
deforestation in many parts of Mali through a combina-
tion of urban and rural initiatives.   For the urban
market, tax reforms will influence demand by increasing
the consumer price of wood in Bamako and elsewhere
while wood supply will be improved through the planta-
tion component.  In rural areas market interventions
are inappropriate and technical solutions are scarce.
Accordingly, the project will finance two pilot schemes
aimed at developing guidelines for managing the
national  forest.   The  project  would  also  provide
technical assistance to the Forestry Department and
finance studies to improve knowledge of the sector.



- v -
Estimated Costs:    (Net of identifiable taxes and duties)
Local      Foreign       Total
US$ million----
Support to DNEF                            0.7          1.2         1.9
Rural Forestry Activities                  0.5          1.0          1.5
Semi Industrial Plantations                1.0          2.3         3.3
Other OAPF Activities                      1.8          3.3         5.1
Project Financial Management Unit          0.2          0.6         0.8
National Park Support                       -           0.3         0.3
Total Base Costs                           4.2          8.7         12.9
Physical Contingencies                     0.5          0.6          1.1
Price Contingencies                        1.0          1.7         2.7
Total Project Costs a'                     5.7         11.0        16.7
Financing Plan:
IDA                                   1.9         4.4          6.3
CCCE                                  1.7         3.7          5.4
MRE/CD/FAC                            0.1          2.8         2.9
Government/OAPF                       2.0         0.1          2.1
Total                                 5.7         11.0        16.7
a/     Includes US$1.0 million PPF advance.
Estimated Disbursements from IDA Credit :
FY86      FY87       FY88      FY89       FY90       FY91
…-------------- US$ million …
Annual          1.23      1.36       1.01      0.81       1.21      0.68
Cumulative     1.23       2.59       3.60      4.41       5.62      6.30
Economic Rate
of Return:           10% (calculated on 40% of project costs).



- vi -
Benefits and Risks:
The most immediate and easily quantifiable benefit is the
increased wood production from the semi-industrial plantations which given
the experience acquired under the first project, have low associated
technical risks. Much more important, although much more difficult to
quantify, are the potential benefits from the pilot rural forestry schemes
(supported by efforts to strengthen the forestry department) in arresting
the process of deforestation and soil degradation. Since these are pilot
operations they have a relatively high risk which will be minimized by
ensuring village participation and through close supervision.
Map: IBRD 18886
WAPAC
December 1985



REPUBLIC OF MALI
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
I. BACKGROUND
A. Introduction
1.01      In September 1983, the Government of Mali requested that IDA
consider continuing to finance the operations started under the First
Forestry Project (Cr. 883-MLI of March 1979) originally scheduled to close
in December 1984, and subsequently extended to June 1985.  This first
project was appraised in May 1978 and became effective in July 1980. It
had as its main objectives the establishment of semi-industrial plantations
to produce fuelwood and building poles, pilot activities relating to better
management of natural forest reserves and irrigated plantations, and the
creation of rural tree nurseries. Experience under the First Project is
discussed below (para 2.15).
1.02      The proposed project was prepared by consultants during a mission
to Mali in November 1983 in collaboration with staff of the First Project.
The final preparation report was submitted to IDA by Government in May 1984
with a request that the project be appraised.
1.03      A joint appraisal mission consisting of the Caisse Centrale de
Cooperation Economique (CCCE); the French Ministry of External Rela-
tions/Cooperation and Development (MRE/CD); and IDA visited Mali in
September/October 1984 followed by an IDA mission in January 1985. The
missions were assisted throughout by the management and staff of the entity
responsible for the First Forestry Project (OAPF - Operation d'Amenagement
et Production Forestiere/Forestry Management Production Operation).   In
June 1985 a Project Preparation Facility of US$1.0 million (PPF 321-MLI)
was approved to finance completion of activities required prior to the
start of the proposed project.
B. The Rural Sector
1.04      Mali has a population of over 7 million inhabitants in an area of
1.24 million km2 in the middle of sub-Saharan Africa.  Over 80Z of the
population lives in the rural areas and the country depends for its food
supply mainly on the wetter southern zones (800-1,200 mm rainfall) which
cover roughly 3 million hectares. Of these, some 2 million are cultivated.
A large portion of the country (58%) lies in the Saharan zone (less than
200 mm rainfall); the rest is divided between the Sahelian (200-350mm):
14%, Sudanian (600-800mm):  22%, and transitional zones:  6%.  The prin-
cipal crops are millet, sorghum, cotton, groundnuts and rice. Livestock
plays an important role in the agricultural system and in the national
economy. The country has suffered from declining and increasingly erratic
rainfall over the last decade, culminating in two years of severe drought



- 2 -
which have exacerbated the difficult economic conditions.   The overall
potential for agricultural production is generally limited by low and
uncertain rainfall (with the exception of the southern zone), fragile soils
prone to exhaustion and erosion, and low-yielding traditional crop and
livestock technologies with little scope for intensification. Nonetheless,
Malian farmers are among the most proficient in West Africa and there is
scope for further development in the south, especially in maize production.
In addition, with the Inner Delta of the Niger River, Mali has the largest
physical scope for expanding irrigation of all the Sahelian countries.
Major issues 'n the rural sector include the balance of investment between
irrigation and rain-fed agriculture, reform of the cumbersome and over-
staffed Rural Development Operations (ODRs - Operations de Developpement
Rural), establishment of an effective agricultural research program, and
increased beneficiary contribution to costs and activities.
II. THE FORESTRY SUBSECTOR
A.   Resources
2.01      Official statistics, which impute less than 2% of GDP to the
forestry subsector, do not adequately reflect the important role it plays
in providing fuelwood, building poles,and other products. Fuelvood (fire-
wood aLld charcoal) accounts for a high proportion of both rural and urban
energy resources (about 95Z) supplying basic needs for cooking and heating.
The forest cover is a significant dry weather grazing reserve and supplies
much of the fodder required for sustaining livestock. Subsidiary products
such as gum, shea nuts, various fruits and nuts, as well as thatching and
weaving materials, are widely used by the rural population. In addition to
providing a habitat for a wide range of animals and plants, the forest
cover has a profound ecological impact. Trees, shrubs and bushes fix the
soil, protecting it against wind and rain erosion, and serve to regenerate
soil fertility, in the form of bush fallow, under the traditional system of
shifting cultivation.
2.02      Natural forest vegetation covers some 17.4 million ha, 14% of
Mali's area, of which 12.9 million as natural forest stands, and 4.5
million as man-induced forests (bush fallows:  2.5 million, and forest
parks:  2 million).  Natural growtb rates average 0.4 m3/ha/year and range
from 0.75 m3/ha/year in the well-watered Sudano-Guinean zone, to only 0.05
m3/ha/year in the northern desertic zones (Annex 2-1).  Total growth is
over 7 million m3/year, but only some 30X of this is currently accessible
and exploitable, given population distribution, marketing conditions, and
endemic disease problems. The accessible proportion can and will increase
with the pressure of demand and resulting higher prices over time.
2.03      Areas classified by Government and legally protected against
encroachment include forest and fauna reserves, national parks and
controlled forestry areas, and cover 25% of the forested area, but owing to
limited government resources and growing population pressure, much of these
are "reserved" only in name, and have no management plan. There are some



-3-
5,000 ha of dense tree plantations (mostly achieved under the First
Project), and some village woodlots in the southern region of the country.
2.04      For a population estimated at 7.4 million inhabitants in 1982,
total annual fuelwood consumption was some 6.7 million m3 (3,000,000 tons)
of dried wood, compared to an accessible supply estimated at 2.7 million
m3. Of this, about 80% was consumed in the rural area and 20% in the urban
areas. Wood is a traded commodity only in the urban areas: in the rural
areas each family collects directly what it needs for its own consumption
and, in some cases, for sale to the towns.  By far the greater part of
fuelwood consumption is in the form of firewood, charcoal being used only
for ironing and making tea. Building poles and local timber amount to an
additional 5-10% of total wood consumption. Most demand for industrial and
construction wood is met by imports.
2.05      Without a major shVit in demand and supply patterns, Mali will
face a crisis in fuelwood supply in the next two decades. Already, in
areas of concentrated demand (around the towns), the effects of the deficit
are highly visible. While the bulk of the deficit is in rural areas, the
effects are spread over vast areas, and are not so obvious. The FAO has
estimated the current demand-supply situation, comparing consumption to
accessible (i.e., easily exploitable) natural production by ecological
zones. Not surprisingly, the balance is worst in the northern, arid areas,
where demand far outstrips natural growth, and where there is little that
can be done to improve the situation.  The balance improves as one goes
south, but only in the well-watered Sudano-Guinean zone is there a satis-
factory ratio (see Annex 2-1). For the country as a whole, annual consump-
tion is over twice the annual accessible natural growth. Given the current
overall population increase of 2.8% p.a., and urban population increases of
about 7% p.a., Mali's already depleted accessible forestry resources could
be irremediably disrupted within the next two decades.  By 2000 annual
demand will reach 7.9 million m3 of fuelwood, compared with an accessible
annual supply of 2.7 million m3.  This assumes that there will be no
increase  in  accessibility,  a pessimistic  assumption  since  it can  be
expected that scarcity and higher prices will induce greater efforts to
exploit wood currently cla:sified as inaccessible:   what the impact on
supply might be is impossible to predict.  By the year 2000, if current
urbanization and consumption patterns continue, annual fuelwood consumption
in Bamako, estimated at 0.330 million msin 1982 , may reach 1.5 million m3.
2.06        Wood is currently viewed by the population as a free good, a
perception both reflected in, and encouraged by, the very low level of
permit fees for cutting (stumpage fees).  Current prices do not encourage
individuals to plant trees for wood sales.  Marketing, prices, and the
critical areas of Government policies are discussed in Annex 2-2, along
with recommended changes. The problem of wood capital depletion is, by its
very nature,  a self-accelerating one.  The ecological impact of severe
droughts encourages the spread of eroded and degraded areas to engulf and



- 4 -
obliterate what are often marginal environments of limited productivity 1/.
If, at a minimum, the process is at least to be arrested, attention and
resources must be focussed on the management of renewable resources to give
sustained yields.
2.07        In order to achieve a long-term resolution of the problem both
sides of the demand/supply equation must be tackled. However, a distinc-
tion must be made between the options available, and policies to be pursued
in the urban and rural areas, respectively. For the urban areas, where
wood is traded, the pricing mechanism offers the possibility that raising
prices by taxation will encourage more efficient use and substitution by
other non-wood fuels, as well as providing resources for increased invest-
ment. This option is not available in the rural areas, where wood is not a
traded  commodity.   Here  demand  can  be  influenced  only  through  self
regulation, itself the result of education concerning the very real threat
at hand, and part of the broader movement to place responsibility for
environmental management in the hands of the population living in the area.
The alternative of externally imposed controls, i.e., F-zict enforcement in
every village of a stringent Forestry Code, has been demonstrated in many
countries as unfeasible, being neither affordable nor implementable. On
the supply side, it is the rural population that offers the only long-term
hope: wood supply can be increased by planting, whether in state-managed
schemes or privately at the rural level, but the costs of industrial
plantations makes them, at best, a very partial solution to the problem.
Supply can be increased in the short-term by increasing accessibility to
existing forest, but this needs to be done after careful planning (this
will be studied under the proposed project). Much can be done in the area
of management of the existing natural forest, and there is a need for a
major effort in adaptive research.The impending crisis regarding urban
demand for energy is not capable of resolution by planting alone:  a
combination of increased supply, reduced demand and fuel substitution is
the only answer. These actions all imply an immediate response as well as
long-term commitment from the Government in addition to the critical
participation of the population as a whole.
B.   Institutions
2.08      Organization.  The Forestry Department (Direction Nationale des
Eaux et Forets - DNEF) is one of the technical departments of the Ministry
of Natural Resources and Livestock (Ministare charge des Ressources
Naturelles et de l'Elevaga - MRNE). It has seven divisions at its Bamako
headquarters responsible for:
1/   The process and possible remedies have been the subject of a recent
Bank report entitled "Desertification in the Sahelian and Sudanian
Zones of West Africa" (Report No. 5210), and a Staff Working Paper
,No.704) "Fuelwood Consumption and Deforestation in African Countries"
(Anderson and Fishwick).



-5-
(a) environment;
(b) projects and programs;
(c) water and soil conservation;
(d) natural forest management and reafforestation;
(e) hunting and national parks;
(f) inland fishing; and
(g) personnel and equipment.
An organization chart for DNEF and the project is shown in Annex 2-3. Mali
is organized into seven forestry "Regions" and the Department also oversees
five semi-autonomous "operations" (or parastatal agencies), of which the
Forestry Management and Production Operation (Operation Aminagement et
Productions Forestiares - OAPF) and the "Boucle du Baoule" National Park
("Op&ration Parc National de la Boucle du Baoule" - OPNBB) are the two
affected by the proposed project. In addition, the FAC/CCCE-assisted Rural
Forestry Project in the Fana-Dioila-Koulikorc area has recently started
operating  as  a  quasi-autonomous  agency.   This  agency  would  receive
continued support and reinforcement as a component of the proposed project.
2.09      Resources.  Unlike other Sahelian countries, Mali has a rela-
tively large forestry staff, mostly trained at the Polytechnic Institute of
Katibougou and at the field training center of Tabacoro.  In 1983, total
staff consisted of 761 agents, an appropriate number for the country.
However, given the magnitude of the forestry problems, the Forestry Depart-
ment faces huge difficulties, made worse by inadequate funding of opera-
tions. There is little planning or monitoring of projects, and inventory
co)ntrol 2/ and management of field operations are generally weak. The
Forestry Departmen. is unable to provide the necessary surveillance and
protection of the forest cover against poaching, overgrazing, overclearing,
and bushfires; nor can it carry out the necessary reafforestation, manage-
ment of natural forest cover and erosion control programs on a significant
scale. The Department is supported by the national Budget, supplemented by
the receipts from stumpage fees and "transaction" payments, which are fines
imposed on illegal cutting. The latter have become far more important than
stumpage fees in recent years (Table 2, Annex 2-2). The receipts replenish
the Forestry Fund, which finances the bulk of the Forestry Department's
investment program. The overall level of funding must be increased if any
sustained and meaningful actions are to be undertaken. Extra resources can
only come from within the sector itself in view of the constraints on
2/   A FAC-financed project, recently started, is going to take an
inventory of existing natural forest cover and would build up an
inventory control unit within the Forestry Department.



6
government spending, implying a much greater degree of cost recovery and
beneficiary contribution: this is sought under the proposed project.
2.10      Training.  The quality of training of forestry personnel through
the Institut Polytechnic de Katibougou and the field training center of
Tabocoro is, on the whole, technically sufficient.  Nevertiheless, some
additional training is needed for key personnel in planning, managing and
monitoring, as well as extension.
2.11      Fo-estry research is the responsibility of the National Institute
for Zoological, Forestry, and Hydrobiological Research (Institut National
de la Recherche Zootechnique, Forestiere, et Hydrobiologique) located at
Sotuba but formally linked to the Rural Economic Institute (Institut
d'Economie Rurale). Due to the lack of personnel and funding, forestry
research is presently limited to small-scale trials (with the exception of
pramising Canadian-financed trials in the swamps of the Office du Niger
area). There is currently a grave lack of knowledge concerning species and
techniques suitable for arid and semi-arid zones throughout the region.
The effort required to put in place an appropriate research program lies
well beyond the resources of any individual country, and is now being
tackled at a region-wide level. Pending the development of such a program
the proposed project would limit its research support to providing funds to
carry out, within OAPF, applied research specifically oriented to
identifying and developing better planting stock for exotic and local
species, using already proven techaln±ues.
C.   Government Policy and Recent Experience
2.12      Starting with the severe drought of 1972-1973 and throughout the
subsequent dry decade, there has been growing awareness on the part of both
Government and donors of the importance of an effective forestry program.
In 1982, the Forestry Department issued both a "Forestry Policy" document
and an "Action Program", within the context of its overall objectives for
the rural sector. The goals are broad and unobjectionable and form the
foundation for the proposed Government development program to be funded
through both internal and external financing. The main program elements
are:
(a) institution-building in the forestry subsector;
(b) forestry research;
(c) implementation of state-managed and rural forestry projects on a
large scale;
(d) better integration and cooperation between services and agencies
dealing with forestry;
(e) training of forestry agents and farmers; and
(f) adoption of appropriate legislation (policy reform).



- 7 -
2.13      Apart from the IDA/CCCE/FAC First Forestry Project (para 2.15), a
number of other donors (Swiss, German, French, American, Canadian and
Dutch) have financed projects of various kinds throughout the country
(Annex 2-4). The overall results of this first generation of forestry
projects have not been encouraging: technical constraints in the Sahelian
region are legion.  A major p.;oblem is the lack of technical packages
well-adapted  to arid  and semi-arid conditions.   Experience with  semi-
industrial plantation has shown this to be an expensive method of
reforestation, though technically feasible; with time, unit costs will
tall, and production will increase as improved species are introduced.
Natural forest management has proved elusive, as not enough is known of the
natural growth patterns  on  which  to base  a management  plan.   Rural
reforestation has been even less successful wherever the classic village
woodlot approach has been tried. Farmers are more interested in planting
traditional species, including fruit trees, and demand is high for such
seedlings from nurseries. The Swiss-financed project in the Sikasso region
has been quite successful, however, benefitting from the high rainfall in
the zone, but the replicability of the technical approach (in the drier
areas)  and  of  its  administrative  set-up  .top-down)  is  limited.   A
FAC/CCCE-financed rural forestry project in the Fana-Dioila-Kolikoro region
has been badly affected by the most recent drought. The lack of success
should not be surprising - these are first atZempts at finding solutions in
a very difficult sector, and village level interventions in particular
confront all kinds of institutional, political and traditional obstacles.
Because  of  this,  OAPF/Forestry  Department  recently  carried  out  a
comprehensive study (financed under the first IDA project), the conclusions
of which are partially reflected in the proposed project, to make proposals
for more effective integration of forestry into the rural sector. There
are no instant panaceas, and progress can only be gradual given
Government's limited absorptive capacity. Forestry projects must therefore
be seen as long-term investments: the proposed project represents part of
a long-term program spanning many years and several projects.
2.14      The overall strategy followed thus far by IDA in the forestry
subsector, falls into three main categories, broadly defined as follows:
(a) to reduce the gap between consumption and supply of forestry
products (both fuelwood and others).  This is to be attempted
through increased supply (management of natural forests, better
access, forestry plantations both state-managed and rural,
cultivation of fast growing species) while reducing demand
through the pricing mechanism, thereby inducing more efficient
use of wood (improved stoves, efficiency in harvesting) and
substitution (principally by commercial fuels).
(b)  to improve  overall  knowledge  of  the  sector.   This  includes
further research into the role that forestry products play in
production systems, as well as research into improved traditional
species and adaptive techniques.
(c) to improve the policy environment. Given the limited impact of
direct demand and supply measures (see below), any large scale



- 8 -
intervention will, of necessity, involve the participation of the
rural population. To achieve such participation, the incentives
with regard to forestry and land utilization need to be improved
and made explicit; this involves questions of the forestry code
as well as price/taxation policy.
2.15        It must be recognized that the scope for anything more than
marginal gains in all these areas remains very small in the medium-term.
The technical constraints have already been discussed  (para 2.12);   to
these must be added the fact that pricing policy can only affect the small
portion of consumption that is commercially traded, and the major shift in
consciousness that has to take place not only on the part of the
farmer/consumer, but also by the forestry agent as well. Should rainfall
continue at recent levels, and population growth remain unchanged, it will
be difficult to arrest the process of degradation. Industrial plantation
offers at least some alleviation of the problem in the area of Bamako where
it is most critical.
D.   Experience with Past Lending
2.16      First Forestry Project (Cr. 883-MLI).  The project, which became
effective in July 1980 and closed in June 1985, had as its objectives:
(a) the creation and management of 3,400 ha of semi-industrial
plantations and the improvement of 1,000 hta zf natural forest
reserves to improve the supply of fuelwooI and building poles in
the Bamako area;
(b) an experimental component of 60 ha of plantations and 200 ha
managed national forest reserve in the Segou Region;
(c) an experimental irrigated plantation at Mopti (70 ha);
(d) creation and management of rural tree nurseries at Bamako, Segou,
and Mopti, as well as the rehabilitation and management of a
nursery of San; and
(e) complementary studies of rural forestry and wood utilization.
Total project cost at appraisal was estimated at US$9.4 million equivalent,
divided between IDA (43%), FAC (14%), CCCE (15%), and GOM  (23%).  The
project was implemented by OAPF, under the supervision of the DNEF.
2.17      There were delays in implementing the natural forest components,
and the irrigated forestry component at Mopti was dropped because of the
difficulty of managing an experimental activity so far from project head-
quarters.  For all other components, however, the project performed well,
despite higher than foreseen costs due to the oil price increases.  As
planned, 2,700 ha of semi-industrial rainfed tree plantations were estab-
lished, another 1,000 ha prepared for future plantings, and over 500,000
seedlings distributed to the rural population, although there was little



monitoring of the subsequent fate of the trees. The project has provided
on-the-job training for field and management staff, as well as developed an
impressive cost-accounting, inventory control and fuelvood marketing
system.
2.18      Major  lessons  learned,  and  reflected  in  the  design  of  the
proposed project, concern:
(a)  the necessity of restricting the project area to that which can
be easily supervised by the project entity (para 3.04);
(b)  practical experience in the establishment of semi-industrial tree
plantations and the harvesting and marketing of wood (para 3.09);
and
(c)  practical experience in the management of large-scale forestry
projects, in particular the accounting and monitoring aspects
(para 3.10).
III. THE PROJECT
A.   Objectives and General Description
3.01      The  proposed  project  would  be  a  continuation  of  the  first
IDA/FAC/CCCE project (Credit 883-MLI), and would build on the experience
of this first phase.   In the light of the diagnosis of the sector's
problems (para 2.06), this second phase project would aim to:
(a)  prevent further degradation/disruption o0  the endangered natural
forest cover of the second region through implementation of pilot
schemes for management of the unreserved forest cover (including
bushfallows and forest parks), as well as assistance to
tree/shrub/bush plantation in the rural areas and support to the
"Boucle du Baoule" National Park area;
(b)  effect changes  in the policy environment,  particularly price
policy;
(c)  strengthen  the  national  forestry  department's  ability  to
identify, design, plan, implement and monitor its development and
control activities;
(d)  improve supplies of local wood proGucts for Bamako through the
expansion of state-managed semi-industrial tree plantations and
management of the forest reserves in the Bamako area; and
(e)  improve the knowledge of the sector through a series of national
studies.



- 10 -
3.02      The  project would achieve these objectives by financing the
following main componenrs:
(a) pilot rural forestry activities in the Second Region;
(b) assistance to the "Boucle du Baoule" National Park (OPNEB);
(c) assistance to the Forestry Department Headquarters (DNEF):
(d) support to the Forestry Management and Production Operation
(OAPF) in the Bamako area; and
(e) creation of and support of a Central Administrative and Financial
Management Unit, through expansion of the OAPF unit.
3.03      Rationale  for Bank  Involvement.   IDA  financing  is  justified
primarily by the Association's unique position in being able to assist in
policy reform. In line with the Bank's publicly stated priority accorded
to forestry, the proposed project brings major new policy initiatives both
in rural forestry and in influencing demand. In addition, it reinforces
the thrust of our dialogue with Government on the demographic pressure on
resources  and  the  need  for  a  population  strategy.   From  our  own
perspective, there is a clear need to increase our knowledge of techniques
and gain further experience in the difficult conditions Of the sector.
B.   The Project Area
3.04      In light of the experience under the First Forestry Project, the
project area has been limited to the 2nd Region around Bamako, Fana, Dioila
and Koulikoro. This is a critical area owing to its prorimity to Bamako,
and one where pressure on the existing forest cover is very high. All OAPF
activities would be located in the forest reserves of La Faya, Les Monts
Mandingues, and Soussan, the first covering 80,000 ha, 50 km from Bamn1ko,
the second 14,500 ha, situated 20 km away and the third 37,000 ha at 70 km
distance; planting will be confined to the first two reserves. The rural
forestry activities would be concentrated in the area of Fana-Dioila-
Koulikoro (see Map No. 18386). The areas in question, along with most of
the National Park (OPNBB), lie within the southern part of the Sudanian
Savannah zone. The climate is characterized by a seven-month dry season
and a five-month rainy season (June to October), with annual rainfall
averaging 1,]00 mm. Land in the forest reserves is relatively flat, with
good access by all-weather roads. Only about 30X of the surface area has
soils suitable for plantation activity, however. The Koulikoro region lies
further north and has lower rainfall, 600-800 mm per annum. The forest
cover throughout the project area consists mainly of woodlands and tree and
shrub savannahs.   Productivity averages about 0.4 m31ha/year,  including
bush fallows and forest parks which provide a large part of the fuelwood
supplied to Bamako.  Agricultural uses take up about 25% of the land
surface, and population density is about 10 inhabitants/1=2. The areas of
the forest reserves are lightly populated, however, and this has caused
some problems in the supply of seasonal labor. Following the erratic and



- ii -
insufficient rainfall of recent years, numerous deteriorated patches have
occurred  in  some   overpopulated  areas:    this   could   trigger  the
erosion/degradation/desertification process if care is not exercised.
C.   Detailed Project Features
1.  Rural Forestry Activities
3.05      Given the crucial need to limit the increasing  uncontrolled wood
logging in the Fana-Dioila-Koulikoro area in the 2nd Region and in order to
build upon the ongoing FAC/CCCE rural forestry project, the proposed
project would include a redesigned and expanded rural forestry component.
This component would have two main elements:
(a) Two pilot schemes of agrosilvopastoral management of the un-
reserved forest cover, in full liaison with the rural population
and the established extension services in particular CMDT. The
first scheme would be implemented in the relatively well-stocked
and underpopulated area of Hafeya, the second in the understocked
and  overpopulated area  of Dioila.   The  pilot  schemes would
attempt to devise solutions to the urgent need to manage the
forest cover in the rural areas (especially around urban centers)
with the full participation of the rural population. They would
consist, in essence, of a transfer over time of responsibility
for the management of the village woodlands from the Forestry
Department to the villagers themselves. The initial stages of
the project would involve detailed studies and training of the
villagers. There is no doubt that this new form of management
would face many socio-economic and technical problems, but it is
only through such an approach that the heart of the problem can
be addressed. The pilot schemes will test approaches that have
shown promise e'lsewhere (Annex 3-1). They will be carried out in
accordance with a timetable agreed at negotiations and there will
be a midterm review of progress (para 4.01). It is a condition
of disbursement for this component that arrangements satisfactory
to IDA shall be made with the extension services in the project
area (para 4.03).
(b) Assistance to tree/shrub/bush plantations in the rural area of
Fana-Dioila-Koulikouro through provision of plants from the three
rural forestry nurseries established under the FAC/CCCE project.
The proposed project would promote the planting of mainly multi-
purpose trees wherever the farmer wishes to plant, with the
emphasis  on  individuals  rather  than  on  communities.   This
approach has been far more successful than the traditional
project community/village woodlot systems. Planting stock would
first be provided from the existing state-managed tree nurseries,
with the understanding that family or community-managed mini-
nurseries would replace the state-management in the near future.



- 12 -
3.06      Based on the results of these pilot schemes, in which respon-
sibility for the protection of their lands will be passed back to the
farmers, proposals would be developed by DNEF for the reform of land use
and tenure laws, forestry regulations and price incentives.  Such reforms
are a critical element in any long-term, large-scale development action,
whether in forestry or in other agricultural and livestock subsectors.
2.   Assistance to the l'Boucle du Baoule" National Park (OPNBB)
3.07      At the specific request of the Government, the proposed project
would provide support to OPNBB in protecting the "Boucle du Baoule"
National Park area which is under considerable pressure. This is a vast
massif of about 1 million ha of rich and diverse Sahelo-Sudanian vegeta-
tion, which lies on the immediate outskirts of the overexploited Bamako
area. This subcomponent would finance a radio communication network and a
rural road maintenance unit. Commitment has been obtained from Government
concerning a number of accompanying actions that need to be undertaken,
including:
(a)  implementing the existing regional development plan for the park
area (the plan is acceptable to IDA); and
(b)  removing the small number of villages situated within the park
boundaries over the life of the project. A plan has been drawn
up for their transfer, which provides adequate land beyond the
park boundaries.
Trarnsfer of the villages will be carried out in accordance with Bank
guidelines. Formal assurances were obtained on these matters at negotia-
tions. This component is independent of the rest of the proposed project,
though complementary to it. Should it not be implemented, the rest of the
project will not be affected.
3.   Assistance to Forestry Department Headquarters
3.08      This component would assist DNEF in its development and control
activities - with special emphasis on a considerably expanded rural par-
ticipation in reafforestation - through several subcomponents:
(a)  In'rastructure and equipment.  The proposed project would finance
the extension and equipment of additional office facilities at
DNEF (700 m2 including a library, map-room, meeting room), as
present facilities are inadequate.
(b)  Studies.   The proposed project would  provide  support  to  the
Project and Program Division of DNEF (Division des projets et
programmes - DPP) for four major national forestry studies
(details in Annex 3-2):
(i) a general study of the forest and fauna reserves and
national parks irn Mali, and development of a long-term
national plan for the management of these reserves;



-13 -
(ii) a feasibility study of the potential for expansion of
irrigated tree plantations in the uncultivated areas of the
"Office du Niger";
(iii) a study of the structure of the market for local forest
products, and their prices, in the towns other than BamaKo,
with a view to produce recommendations on stumpage fees and
fiscal policy; and
(iv) a study of the potential for rational increase in access to
the forest cover in the critical areas.
These studies would improve the formulation of Mali's forestry
policy and investment program. Outline terms of reference and a
schedule for their execution were agreed with Government at the
time of negotiations (para 4.01).
(c)  Assistance  to  the  DPP.   In  addition  to  its  expanded  rural
forestry component (para 3.05), the proposed project would assist
the special section within the DPP, dealing with rural forestry
activities in Mali on a national scale. The unit would monitor
and evaluate the numerous individual actions spread throughout
the  country.   The proposed  project would  finance  equipment,
training, consultant support and operating funds.
'd)  Reinforcement of forestry tax collection.  The proposed project
would assist the forestry department district of Bamako in
setting up a more efficient control network around the urban area
of Bamako, in order to render more effective the present tax
collection system for domestic wood products. The project would
finance six toll-posts on the main access roads to Bamako, and
two liaison vehicles. Staff would be provided by the forestry
district of Bamako.  In addition, commitment by Government to
increase forestry taxes from the 1984 levels would be sought at
negotiations with a view to bringing wood prices closer to the
price of substitutes (para 3.30, Annex 2-2, and para 4.01).
(e)  Training.   The  proposed  project  would  finance  supplementary
training of forestry officers, visits to similar projects in
neighboring countries, participation in forestry seminars, and
documentation.
4.   OAPF Activities
3.09      Under the proposed project, OAPF would become fully respcnsible
for the forest reserves around Bamako (La Faya, Monts Mandingues, and
Soussan)  The OAPF forestry component would have four main elements:
(a) General management of the forest reserves: protection, general
management and development of the forest reserves of the Bamako
area. This would include, inter alia:



- 14 -
(i) enforcement of forest policy;
(ii) inventory activities and elaboration of a sound management
plan;
(iii) maintenance and development of the road/track firebreak
network; and
(iv) maintenance and exploitation of the existing tree planta-
tions, totalling 4,100 ha.
(b)  Semi-industrial plantations.  Building on the experience acquired
under the First Forestry Project, OAPF would continue to estab-
lish semi-industrial tree plantations.  600 ha of tree planta-
tions per year would be realized over five ye-ars in the La Faya
and Monts Mandingues forest reserves. These plantations, mainly
of Gmelina arborea and Eucalyptus camaldulensis, would be estab-
lished under the same conditions as under the first project with
additional emphasis on protection from browsing and uncontrolled
bushfires.  Unit costs are expected to continue to fall as a
result of the more efficient use of resources.
Cc) Improvement of plantation stock and forestry techniques. Semi-
industrial tree planting is costly even under favorable soil and
rainfall conditions and there is crucial need for more productive
technical p.ickages if this type of peri-urban tree plantation is
to be developed further. The proposed project would finance a
special unit with an expatriate technical assistant in order to
improve plantation stock and forestry techniques.
Cd)  Natural forest management.  600 ha per year of natural forest
would be exploited in the forest reserves of the Bamako area.
This activity, started under the first project, is experimental:
little is known about feasible rotation patterns and there is a
dearth of research on the species and dynamics of natural wood-
lands in semi-arid zones. The component should provide valuable
information in this area.
5.   Central Administrative and Financial Management Unit
3.10      Given the excellent administrative and financial performance of
OAPF under the first project, the OAPF financial section would become a
Central Unit, responsible for the financial management of the entire
project. The proposed project would provide additional staff, computing
equipment and operating funds. Funds would also be provided for regular
and independent audits.
D.  Project Implementation
3.11      Overall responsibility for implementing the project will lie with
the Ministry of Natural Resources and Livestock, which will oversee the



- 15 -
activities of the key institutions involved.   DNEF will supervise  the
entire project, including OAPF's management of the semi-industrial planta-
tion components. The National Park and rural forestry components will be
carried out by two existing semi-autonomous entities under the tutelage of
the DNEF. A schedule for project implementation is given in Annex 3-3.
3.12      OAPF is well managed, with a strong financial team and reasonable
staffing levels.  The project will continue to provide necessary external
support in the form of:
(a) an expatriate financial director;
(b) an expatriate mechanic and assistant; and
(c) an expert in forestry works.
This existing core team will be reinforced by the addition of an expert in
applied forestry research for the project period. In addition, there is
provision for 16 man-months of short-term consultants to assist with
audits, monitoring, etc.  The bulk of the T.A. will be financed by the
French Government cooperative program. Terms of reference will be agreed
with Government and CCCE at negotiations, and appointments made in consul-
tation with the co-financiers.
3.13      DNEF's  current headquarters  structure  requires  reinforcement:
management and accounting skills are weak and with the exception of a few
key lead staff, the personnel are poorly trained in management activities.
The project aims to improve this situation through logistical support,
training, and visits by outside experts. DNEF will employ, as a condition
of disbursement for their components,  a trained accountant to prepare
project-related financial statements for the Central Financial Management
Unit (para 4.03).  Within the DNEF, the studies will be carried out by the
Projects and Programs Directorate (DPP), supported by short-term consultant
visits totalling 14 man-months.  DPP will monitor rural forestry activities
throughout the country, and train personnel in this area. Field studies
will be carried out by Malian consultants who will be trained in survey
techniques during the early part of the project. The National Park compo-
nent will be handled by  the  existing operation:   the  component  aims
specifically to improve the unit's capacity to carry out its responsibili-
ties through logistical support.  Mechanical repairs for OPNBB will be
carried out on a cost-basis, by the garage of OAPF.
3.14      The pilot rural forestry schemes will be the responsibility of
the Koulikoro Region o.1 the DNEF, building on the team established under
the CCCE-financed project. This is managed by the regional director of
DNEF, based at Koulikoro: he will be assisted by an expatriate technical
advisor and two volunteers throughout the duration of the project. Overall
project organization is detailed in a chart in Annex 2-3. Consultant and
expatriate  assistance  requirements  are  described  and  tabulated  in
Annex 3-4.



- 16 -
3.15      Each of the executing agencies, OAPF, OPNBB, Rural Forestry Unit,
and DPP, would prepare annual work programs and budgets which would be
submitted to IDA for approval before the beginning of each financial year.
Assurances to this effect were obtained at negotiations (para 4.01).
3.16    Present Status of Project.  All implementing agencies are already
in existence, and current facilities are adequate to initiate the project.
Terms of reference for the additional consultants required, and outline
TORs for the studies to be carried out under the project, have been
completed. Recruitment will commence prior to project start-up, in accor-
dance with FAC procedures.  Preparatory forestry works, begun under the
PPF, should permit project start-up in March 1986.
E.   Monitoring and Evaluation
3.17      Each  of  the  project  implementation units  (OAPF,  DPP,  DNEF-
Koulikoro, OPNBB) would produce an annual report on its activities and
progress, to be submitted to the Malian authorities and to IDA. Monitoring
within OAPF is the responsibility of the Forest Works Division: this will
be reinforced by outside help irh the area of inventory and output quality
measurement. The DPP is specifically designed to act as an M&E unit for
all rural forestry activities nationwide whether under the proposed project
or nos. Not later than six months after the end of the project, OAPF will
collaborate  with  DNEF  in  producing  a  detailed  completion  report
(para 4.01).
F.   Cost Estimates and Financing
3.18      Total project costs are estimated at US$16.7 million, with a
foreign exchange component of 66%. A summary of project costs is shown in
the table below:



- 17 -
aS
sacm rmint m
PSECIDFOU CaI sr
nuaccr COT Sumuak
(UFS' NILUII)               (us6 'low1                      2 Tota
I Foruita   la
Local  reFm      TiW     LocAl Faaaim   Tatal    ExWdm           Casts
a. maye To mu
WAAMCIWT   41  AUPFEJT                  143.6   170.4   34.3    342.5   405.8    748.3            54        6
SIUOIES                                 62.4   18m.0   271.4    196.2    450.0    646.2           70        5
itITUIG  O  OK  FEBRT                    11.3    53.0   65.1      27.0    12I.0    155.0          83         1
1930   TAX CLlECTIZI                     32.8    63.6    9.4      78.1    151.5    229.           66        2
TRmIIms                                  14.0    53.3   67.3      33.4    128.1    161.5          71         £
9m-otl Sr          To Ne                   284.4   530.7   815.1    677.21  120.5  1*940.6           65        15
u. mn nmmsmRr
PUOT lEGACT     0                        2B.4    46.3    75.2    67.*    111.5    179.1           62         1
ElSIEGN                                  54.1    25.9    80.7    130.4      6.8    192.1          32         1
rISMJO                                  135.0  331.6   46.6    321.5    789.5  1.111.0            71         9
Si-Total MM  FEB73                        215.2   404.4   622.5    519.5    962.8  1s41.3            65       11
C. WF
;'hTeM        O  FCST 7SE S             1538.5  342.5  501.0    377.4    815.5  1*192.?           68         9
ISTR*   L PIWTIMTIWI                   432.0  976.2 1*466.1  1026.5  2,324.2  3.352.7             6        26
MTa  FREShI rUMIEJUT                    27.7    64.4    92.0      65.9    153.2   211.1           70        2
19SED? UF 7t119 SWt                      26.2   184.7  210.9    62.4    439.7    502.1            Be        4
ES. IIE T                               523.2   8 t0. i324.J  1.245.6  lumo.t  352.5              a        24
Sub-Total OWF                            1W16.5 2.368.6 3P536.1  2*779.6  5*639.5  8.419.4          6U         65
S. CEIrL FJWANC   IWINV      T " MIT        74.1   237.9   312.0   176.5    566.4    742.9           76         6
*-LUE   SUUA E       In                -    37.1   134.2   171.3    88.4    319.5    407.9           76         3
Tal hISLhI COSTS                           17181.4 3*675.7 5,457.1  4,241.3  0.751.4 1293.0            67       100
Phsical Cumtioau es                       192.6   2.182   460.7   458.5    38.5  1.097.0            5S        a
Praie CatMugies                           413.2  706.6 14119.8    9..7  1.82.4  2.66.1              63       21
ta! PUlECT COSTS                           2M387.1 4.650.5 7*037.6  5.683.6 11*072.6 36s756.1          66       12Y
eba r 12. 1985  14:06
3.19               Cost estimates are based on January  1985 prices adjusted to
November 1985, the date of negotiations; costs were calculated net of all
identifiable taxes and duties, and include contingencies amounting to
US$3.8 million, or 31% of the base cost.   Physical contingencies were
calculated at 15% except for those items (staff, vehicles, equipment) where
quantities are clearly defined. In these cases, no physical contingencies
have been estimated. Total expected price increases during the projected
disbursement period amount to 16% of total project costs (21% of base
costs) based on the following projected inflation rates:



- 18 -
Assumed Local and Foreign Rates of Inflation (Z)
1986                7.0
1987                7.0
1988                7.5
1989                7.7
1990                7.6
1991                4.5
Differences between local and foreign rates of inflation are assumed to be
compensated by exchange rate adjustments.  Project costs are detailed in
Annex 3-5.
3.20      The proposed financing plan is based on a combination of parallel
and joint financing. IDA and CCCE will jointly finance, throughout the
project period:
(a) 90% of OAPF fieldworks and other operating costs excluding
salaries (US$2.5 million for IDA) declining to 802 over the
project period; and
(b) 95Z of the operating costs of the rural forestry component at
DNEF (US$0.2 million).
All other items will be financed Shder parallel arrangements for which
detailed lists of equipment, specifying the source of financing, have been
prepared (Project File, Item C.2).
3.21      The proposed IDA credit which is for SDR 5.9 million (US$6.3
million equivalent), will finance 38% of estimated project costs net of
taxes, including US$1.9 million equivalent local costs financing.  The
remaining external financing will be by: CCCE (US$5.4 million equivalent),
and MER/CD/FAC (US$2.9 million equivalent). OAPF will double its contribu-
tion to operating costs over the life of the project, financing this out of
wood sales, and the Malian Government will provide the remaining necessary
funds including all local salaries (total of US$2.1 million equivalent).
Government contributions under the first project have always been provided
in a timely manner and no special precautions are considered necessary for
the proposed project. The proceeds of the IDA Credit and the CCCE loan
would be passed on by Government in grant form to DNEF, OPNBB and OAPF
under regular budgetary procedures. Since OAPF has very limited revenues,
it would not be realistic to expect them to carry the burden of the credit.
The fulfillment of conditions precedent to the first disbursement by CCCE
is also a condition of credit effectiveness (para 4.02).
G.   Procurement and Disbursements
3.22      Procurement arrangements are summarized in the table below, with
the figures in parentheses showing the respective amounts to be financed by
IDA.



- 19 -
Procurement Arrangements
(US$millions)
Items to be procured                 Procurement Method               Total Costs
ICB     LCB a/   Other b/    N.A.
Civil Works c/                 ...        1.0        ...        ...       1.0
(0.8)                           (0.8)
Vehicles and Equipment d/   1.9           ...        1.5        ...       3.4
(1.9)                                      (1.9)
Consultant Services e/         ...        ...        3.1        ...       3.1
(0.1)                (0.1)
Operating support, PPF,        ...        ...         ...       9.2       9.2
Special Accounts                                               (3.5)    (3.5)
Total                          1.9        1.0        4.6        9.2      16.7
a/  Procuriemt will be sub ect to Qwernust   czlatiLs gernig lcal coqetitive
bddirg, ibich are me to the Bank.  ltess cting  ss tdn U10,000 equivalnt
-'11 be mue b  
b/  Items lEx   iidSz,^z   sm^slttservieYs, are finax:ed by OOCE and
-ill be awarded  aooee c ble to them.
c/  Ihe "Civil Wbds" eonsist of mmr -snks and buildings of estimted contract size less
t-an U$50,000 eud, unlik*ly to attract foreign bidders.
df  Vehicles and eqPment wil be       to the erxterncit   e in packages of US$100,000
equivalent or mwz, to aDbw I  fo      IDA Qzideoene Dmestic n-ifacturers would
recive a prefrne in bld evaluatim of 15%, or the awmxt of aztcms duties and other
igzort txes xitih a nao-exenpt iumxxter would have to pay, hibever is lower.
el lhe ICRs for al expatrate and local cosltant staff finpcd by the Project will be
agreed wfith ML  The qualificatio  and experience of consulants to be finameed by IDA
wauld be subject to prrreview snd aproval, along with their tets and conditicns of
-layest.
3.23       Disbursements.  The IDA Credit would be disbursed over 6 years
under the following categories:



- 20 -
Disbursement Categories of IDA Credit
Disbursements as
Category                                 Amount        Z of Expenditures
(US$ million)
1)  DNEF: a) Civil works                        0.50          95
b) Vehicles and equipment            0.10          100
c) Consultants' services
and training                      0.10          100
d) Operating costs                   0.20           35
e) Rural forestry unit               0.20           30
2)  OAPF: a) Civil works                        0.10          95
b) Vehicles and equipment            1.00          100
c) Consultant services and
training                          0.20          100
d) Operating costs (excluding        1.80           45 to Dec. 31/87
civil servants salaries)                         42 to Dec. 31/89
40 thereafter
3) OPNBB: a) Equipment                          0.15         100
b) Rural roads maintenance           0.15           95
4)  Refunding of PPF                            1.00
5)  Unallocated                                 0.80
6.30
3.24      Disbursements against the IDA Credit are to be disbursed against
certified statements of expenditure, with the exception of major contracts
for goods and services whose individual cost is more than US$20,000.
Documentation (SOEs) would not be submitted to IDA, but held by OAPF and
DNEF for review by IDA supervision missions and auditors.  IDA will not
accept any reimbursement application for a total of less than an estimated
US$20,000 equivalent.  A Special Account will be opened by the Central
Financial Management Unit to prefinance expenditures to be reimbursed under
the IDA credit.
3.25      The estimated Schedule of Disoursements of the IDA Credit is
shown in Annex 3-6. along with the African profile for Forestrv (and
Fishing) projects. The estimated disbursement period is shorter than that
of the standard profile reflecting:
(a) the fact that this is largely a repeater project; and
(b) the favorable disbursement experience of the First Forestry
Project, as demonstrated in Annex 3-6.



- 21 -
HI.  Accounts and Audit
3.26      OAPF currently maintains its accounting system in accordance with
sound and recognized accounting principles and practices acceptable to IDA.
IDA is in possession of an unqualified audit for the financial year ending
December 31, 1984.  The OAPF financial management team will extend their
coverage to all project components and become a Central Financial Manage-
ment Unit (CFMU). Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the CFMU
would maintain separate accounts for all project-related activities on
behalf of the DNEF, OPNBB, and the rural forestry component, and will
handle  all  disbursement  requests  (para 4.01).   An  external  auditor's
opinion and report satisfactory to IDA on the financial statements would be
provided within six months of the closure of each financial year.
I.   Markets and Prices
3.27      All wood produced by the project is expected to be absorbed by
the domestic market.  Even at full production, output would be less than
10 cf overall demand for fuelwood on the Bamako market; accordingly, no
marketing difficulties are foreseen. The timber produced will supply the
construction industry, partly replacing wood now imported from the Ivory
Coast.
3.28      OAPF presently sells fuelwood to wholesalers at an average price
of 1,850 CFAF per stare of 250 kg, equivalent to 7.4 CFAF per kg. Building
poles are sold at 360 CFAF per pole.  In order to secure OAPF's revenue
position it was confirmed at negotiations that they will continue to be
free to fix their own prices for wood products, to reflect their real costs
and market conditions. Since demand will always outstrip supply throughout
the project life, real price increases for fuelwood are projected to follow
those experienced in the past (5% p.a.) until substitutes (butane,
kerosene) become financiallv attractive (1995: Annex 2-2). The market for
building poles is expected to increase as Bamako continues to grow.  For
timber, prices for internationally traded tropical hardwood logs are
expected increase in real terms by 14% by 1995, following IBRD projections.
A similar increase has been assumed for timber produced by the project,
allowing for a quality discount.
3.29      Despite the real increases in fuelwood retail prices in recent
years, the market price, while similar to that found in neighboring coun-
tries, is far from reflecting the replacement cost of wood, or the real
costs of increasing deforestation to the country. Current retail prices are
about 60% of those estimated to be required to encourage replanting. The
stumpage fees are far below the desirable level; again, this is true of all
countries in the region. Because cf the extremely low effective rate of
taxation of forestry production, the potential impact of raising stumpage
fees in changing overall demand is very small. Nonetheless, something can
be done in the urban areas, and in view of the gravity of the situation,
increases in taxes and therefore prices, must be sought to the maximum
tolerable levels, and with the maximum speed possible.  This is all the
more desirable since it serves to raise revenue to support forestry



- 22 -
department activities, which are critical if any significant impact is to
be made. Accordingly it will be a condition of credit effectiveness that
Government increase permit (stumpage) fees from their 1984 levels by 100%,
and assurances were obtained at negotiations that additional increases of
100% would be applied by June 30, 1988, with joint review of the situation
after that point  (paras 4.01 and 4.02).  These increases, while having
significant revenue-raising implications for DNEF, will produce in
themselves only a marginal rise in the consumer price of wood (Annex 2-2):
to this, however, must be added the expected continued real price increase
of 5% p.a.
3.30      In order to ensure that the new tax revenues are devoted to
forestry activities, commitment was obtained from Government that all such
revenues will accrue to the Forestry Fund and that the real amount of
budgetary support for forestry will remain at least at present levels
throughout the project period (para 4.01). Government will review progress
with TDA not later than September 30, 1988 and should the new fees and tax
collection measures not result in a significant increase in revenues, or
should actual prices not be moving toward the parity price of substitutes
(kerosene), additional measures will be agreed to achieve the aim of parity
pricing.
J.   Recurrent Costs and Cost Recovery
3.31      The project will do little to either increase or decrease the
recurrent cost burden upon Government from its present level.  Increased
revenues from higher stumpage fees and tax coverage should be incremental
to current Government support which should, at the very least, be
maintained at present levels.  Current support to the subsector amounts to
about US$550,000 equivalent annually, of which 90% is spent on salaries.
An indication of the operating budget for DNEF and expected revenues is
given in Annex 3-7. Forestry is, by its very nature, a long term invest-
ment, and Government and donors must be prepared to support the costs of
plantations and forest management in order to reap the long-term benefits.
The costs of not supporting these efforts are  incalculable.   As time
progresses, OAPF will be able to cover their operating costs, which will
also decline with experience, but in the medium term they will continue to
be dependent on outside support for further investment planting. The
components to be carried out by DNEF do not require additional staff:
existing staff will be reassigned and retrained where necessary.   The
improved tax collection and increased fees envisaged under the project
should increase revenues from consumers and provide substantial incremental
resources to support forestry investment:   they will be used to provide
badly needed operating funds for DNEF.
K.   Benefits and Risks
3.32      The direct benefits of the project consist essentially of incre-
mental wood production from the semi-industrial plantations and management



- 23 -
of the natural woodlands.   These activities will result in an average
annual incremental production at full development in 2016 of approximately
79,200 stares of firewood, 240,000 building poles, and 12,000 m 3 of wood
for manufacturing. Details of production benefits are given in Annex 3-8.
The rural forestry activities should also result in higher productivity of
the forest cover over time, and hopefully provide answers as to how to
involve the rural population in the process of reforestation.  Given the
pilot nature of this component, no direct benefits have been imputed in the
economic calculation.  Indirect benefits will also accrue as a result of
employment in the rural areas, and substantial long-term ecological gains
may be expected through contributing to arresting the degradation of the
environment. The institutional reinforcement of DNEF, financed under the
project, is vital for the long term future of Mali, well beyond the
boundaries of the project area. By improving the department's ability to
coordinate, monitor and evaluate forestry projects, as well as to prepare
regional development plans, the project should give major medium-term
benefit to the country. The studies to be carried out ;ire fundamental to
the development of a coherent and comprehensive forestry and energy policy
for the years to come.
3.33      The calculation of an ERR has been limited to that item where
reasonable estimations of future benefits are possible, namely the OAPF
plantation component.  The ERR is estimated at 10.1Z, based on 40X of
project costs. This rate of return is consistent with those obtained in
similar  projects  in  other  countries  in  semi-arid  conditions.   Should
benefits fall 20%, the ERR would fall to 8%, and should costs rise 20%, the
ERR would also fall to 8%. Costs include 40% of technical assistance costs
directly connected to OAPF's production activities. Studies and institu-
tion building related costs have not been included.  Details of the ERR
calculations and Sensitivity Analysis can be found in Annex 3-9.
3.34      There are relatively few technical risks connected with the OAPF
components; the entity has been performing well under the First Forestry
Project, and the techniques have been mastered. However there is more of a
risk that the economic benefits may not be realized since, as shown in
para 3.33, the ERR is quite sensitive to slight changes in costs and
benefits.  Nonetheless the project represents a reasonable investment in
the light of the alternative uses of capital available in Mali.   The
natural forestry management is a new area and there is a risk that benefits
may be lower in the early years than expected.   The highest risk un-
doubtedly lies with the rural forestry activities, in particular the pilot
schemes of agrosylvopastoral management in the Second Region. These are in
many ways the most critical elements of the project as regards future
protection of the forest cover in Mali.  They are also the most problem-
atic, and a flexible and open approach must be maintained in the early
years of implementation.
IV. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
4.01      During negotiations, assurances were obtained that:



- 24 -
(a)  DNEF would carry out the programmed studies and pilot forestry
components in accordance with terms of reference and a timetable
acceptable to IDA, including a mid-term review (para 3.05(a) and
3.08(b)).
(b)  Government would cause OAPF, OPNBB, the Rural Forestry Unit and
the DPP to prepare annual work programs and budgets for project
related activities, to be submitted to IDA for approval two
months before the beginning of each financial year (para. 3.15).
(c) Government would, no later than six months after the closing
date, prepare a project completion report (para 3.17).
(d)  Government would cause DNEF to maintain separate accounts for all
project related activities and permit all disbursements to be
made through the Central Financial Management Unit (para 3.26).
Ce)  Government will further increase permit fees and forestry taxes
from their levels after credit effectiveness by 100% no later
than June 30, 1988 (para 3.29).
£f)  Government will:
(i) permit all additional tax and fine revenues to accrue to the
Forestry Fund; and
'ii) agree to at least maintain the real level of budgetary
support for forestry a-tivities regardless of any increased
tax revenues (para 3.30).
(g)  Not later than September 30, 1988, Government will review, with
IDA, progress under the project, in particular the taxation
component and should the wood price increases and tax revenues
not be as expected, will implement mutually agreed alternative
measures (para 3.30).
4.02      Conditions of credit effectiveness would be:
(a)  The fulfillment of all conditions precedent to the disbursement
of the CCCE loan (para 3.21).
(b)  Government  will  have  increased  permit  (stumpage)  fees  and
forestry fines by not less than 100% from their 1984 levels
(para 3.29).
4.03      Conditions of disbursement would be:
(a)  for the rural forestry component, that the DNEF will have entered
into arrangements satisfactory to IDA with the extension services
in the project area (para 3.05); and



- 25 -
(b) for the DNEF component, tbat DNEF will have recruited an
accountant with qualifications and experience acceptable to IDA
to prepare project related accounts (para 3.13).
4.04      With the indicated assurances and conditions, the project would
be suitable for an IDA credit of US$6.3 million to the Government of Mali.
WAPAC
December 1985



- 26 -
ANNEX 2-1
Page 1 of 3
REPUBLIC OF MALI
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
FORESTRY SECTOR RESOURCES
Table 1: 1982 Area and Population per Ecological Zone
Population in
Area                    (000 inhabitants)
Ecological Zone a/  (000 km2)       %      Rural      Urban    Total       X
DSD               712        (58)        328         -      398      (5)
WES                178       (14)        909        65      974    (13)
CES                40         (3)        869        72      941    (13)
SUD              *268        (22)      3763       1112     4538    (61)
SGU                42         (3)       565          -      565      (8)
Total            1240        (100)     6167       1249     7416   (100)
====   ====   a=-     a==-w    =C:=     e===
a/   DSD - Desertic and Sub-desertic
WES - Western and Eastern Sahelian & Sahelo-Sudanian
CES - Central Sahelian and Sahelo-Sudanian (Inner Delta)
SUD - Sudanian
SGU - Sudano-Guinean
Source:  FAO, 1982 -  Mory Keita.  TRANSENERG, 1984.



- 27 -
ANNEX 2-1
Page 2 of 3
Table 2:   1980 Natural Forest Cover per Ecological Zone
(in km2 and Z)
Total     DSD      WES      CES      SUD      SGU
(C      (%)      (2)      (2)      CX)      (2)
Dense forests                              5,000                     -            -    5,000
(IflO)                                     (100)
Woodlads                                  30,000                -        -   20,000   10,000
(100)                              (67)    (32)
Tre/Shr-J SavZambs                        36,000       -    5,000    2,000  24,000   5,000
(100)            (14)      (5)    (67)      (14)
Tree/Shiub Steppes                        58,000   6,000  31,000   10,000   11,000         -
(100)    (10)    (53)     (17)    (20)
Sub-total Natural Forest Stamds       129,OO0   6,000  36,000   12,000  55,000  20,000
(100)    (4)    (28)       (9)    (43)      (16)
Bushfallies                               25,000       -    3,000        -   18,000   4,000
(12)             (72)     (16)
Forest Parks                              20,000       -    1,000        -   16,000   3,000
(5)             (80)     (15)
Tree plantatiais (dense)                    p.m.   p.m.    p.m.    p.m.    p.m.    p.m.
Sub-total Man-induced Forest Staixs    45,000       -   4,000         -   34,000    7,000
(100)             (9)              (75)     (16)
CRAMD TUL                                 174,000  6,000  40,000   12,000  89,000   27,000
(100)    (3)    (23)       (7)    (51)      (16)
1/ 1 ki- = 100 ha
7 p.mnLr M,ire)= negigible
37 14% of total land surface of 1,240,000 lan.
Source: FAD, 1982



Table 3: 1980 Wood Production (Natural Growth) and Camticn per Ecolcgical Zoe
Arual Op iticv            Total Ahmal           Total           Tbtal
Total natural Total natural  Of which    Ratio          per C tl                                  Conmzzgtion / Camt
Ecologlcal  g h          rate ,)   accessible (A) Wf                   (in)               (O000 mn)            Accessible   Total natu-
Zone        nP/ha/year           /year             ar   (%)   Rural  Urban  Total  Rural  Urban  Total natucal growh   ral &rowth
D6D               0.04           54            3          6   0.42        -    0.42     138       -     138        46.0            2.6
WES               0.20          791           59           7   0.73   0.89   0.74    664         68    732         12.4            0.9
CES               0.40          480          120          25   0.52   0.73   0.54    453         53    506          4.2            1.1
SUD a/           0.40         3,550        1,953         55    1.04    0.89    1.08  3,913    990  4,903            2.5            1.4
vS                0.75        2,020         550          27   0.73        -   0.73    412         -    412          0.75           0.2         1
!MfALI            0.40        6.895        2 685               088   0.91        .0  5.580   1.111  6J691           2,.5
Project-related production inreases In this zone.
Scarc: FO, 1982; T            1984
WAPiC
July 1985
I1
w



- 29 -
ANNEX 2-2
Page 1 of 10
REPUBLIC OF MALI
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
MARKETS,PRICES AND FISCAL POLICY 1/
A. Market Structure
1.        The market for forest products is segmented, with the rural user
collecting his own wood,  while,  in urban areas,  woodfuels  and other
products are sold commercially. There are no government price controls at
any stage of the marketing process, and prices are freely determined by the
market. There are no formal associations of producers, transporters or
distributors.
2.        Personal use of forest products in rural areas is not subject to
any taxes or fees (therefore there are no realistic means to influence
rural woodfuel prices directly).
3.        The urban marketing process can be divided into four general
stages: villagers collect wood and sell it to transporters; these move it
to the market and sell to wholesalers; wholesalers sell to retailers
and/or to consumers; and, finally, retailers sell to final consumers.
Transporting and wholesaling may be. and often are, handled by the same
group. With the exception of some labourers, employed by transporters, and
the staff of OAPF, forestry does not constitute a full-time occupation for
any large group.  However, substantial numbers derive at least part of
their income from forestry activities.
4.        Taxes on wood are imposed as cutting fees:"Permis de coupe".  The
fee level is differentiated by type of forest product (Table 1).  Fee
levels have remained unchanged since 1981. The permit specifies a given
quantity and area of production, but since, in reality, these permits are
acquired by transporters, and enforcement occurs only when wood is already
en route to market, the control over the location of cutting is virtually
aiil. Multiple use of the same permit is common, since the current permit
form does not allow effective control. Less than 30Z of fuel wood used in
Mali is commercially traded, effectively defining the market share
susceptible to influence ty Government pricing policy. The other point of
intervention is the "transaction fee": this is a fine on illegal
woodcutting.   The forestry code specifies upper and lower limits of fines
for various  infretionc  (cutting,  burning etc.).   Current  legislation
allows 10% of the fine amount to go to the person who reports the offense,
5% to go to the agent who prepares the "proces verbal", and 10% to be
1/   This annex draws on the work of Bertrand: "Planification de l'Energie,
Annex III"; TRANSENERG, Paris 1984; and Shaikh, A: "Transitional Donor
Financial Support for Forestry Sector Reforms in Mali".



- 30 -
ANNEX 2-2
Page 2 of 10
distributed at management levels of the regional forestry service.   In
practice, it is the forestry agent himself who reports the offense in most
cases, and thereby collects a total of 15% of the fine. The remaining 75%
is put into the forestry fund. Transaction revenues are nearly twice as
high as permit fee revenues (Table 2).
5.        The current system is deficient in several respects:  only 20% of
wood reaching the Bamako market is actually taxed in any way;  the fining
system is open to abuse by the agent at the field level as well as
encouraging him to act as an agent of repression rather than a promoter of
reforestation or conservation; the incentive structure does not encourage
field agents to monitor each other.
6.        The  incentive  structure  is  currently  under  review  by  the
Government, and new arrangements may have been adopted by the time the
project is effective. The proposals, supported by IDA, are :
a)   that the bonus  for reporting of offenses will be paid only when
some-one  other  than a forestry agent reports   (thereby increasing
villager incentives to report offenses);
b)   the 10% of fines currently given to regional administration would be
spread more widely, giving other agents an incentive to pressure field
agents into reporting more fines, and increasing the income of purely
extension agents as well.  Since the reform lowers the incentive to
fine, it may have the effect of lowering revenues. For this reason, it
is important that the additional measures proposed under the project
are ux.dertaken (see below).
B.        Prices
7.        Fuelwaod prices have increased steadily in real terms in recent
years:  over 5% p.a. 1979-83.  Statistics are most readily available for
Bamako which accounts for about 10% of overall consumption: there is large
variation in seasonal prices, and the rate of price increases has declined
recently following the droughts of 1983 and 1984. Selling fuelwood is the
last resort of the drought-stricken farmer, and excess supply has depressed
prices. The price structure is shown in Table 3. Prices for other forest
products have increased, in real terms, about 1.4% p.a.: a large part of
demand is supplied by imports from the Ivory Coast.
8.        It is undisputed that current market prices do not reflect the
true cost to society of the exploitation of the natural forest cover.
Because wood is a "free good" to those who collect it, there is no
incentive on the supply side to establish rational management of the
resources; equally, the low market prices do not encourage efficient use
nor replanting. At current rates of growth and consumption, by 1992, the
population will  require 7.9 million m3  of  fuel-wood,  compared with an
estimated accessible annual average supply in 1980 of 2.7 million m3 (Annex
2-1).  At full production the proposed project would provide only some
43,000 m3 annually.   The population  is  steadily eroding  its  forestry
capital, with all the negative ecological effects that may ensue.



- 31 -
ANNEX 2-2
Page 3 of 10
C. Demand Management.
9.        Government policy should be directed to attempting to avert the
potential crisis that will ensue from the current imbalance in the market
between demand and supply, combined with continued growth in population.
On the supply side, the limits to action are obvious and well-known: lack
of technical packages for low-rainfall areas, poorly adapted species, and
the failure, to date, of rural forestry programs, mean that little progress
can be expected in this direction in the near future. The onus falls upon
the demand side of the equation.   What role can fiscal policy play in
directing demand? Higher prices for fuelwood would have the dual benefit
of encouraging more efficient  use  (e.g.  through  improved stoves),  and
better reflecting the long-term scarcity of the product.  Higher prices
might also encourage substitution by other fuels.  However, as Table 4
shows, at current comparative prices, wood is much cheaper than
alternatives and the scope for substitution is very limited.  The most
likely substitutes for cooking in urban areas are butane gas and kerosene.
To date, adoption of butane has been very limited: the necessary equipment
is expensive, and the fuel itself ill-adapted to traditional cooking
methods. As in other Sahelian countries, the social and cost constraints
on full-scale adoption of gas are tremendous: gas is unlikely to become a
major substitute for firewood  in the near : iture.  Similarly kerosene,
whilst expensive to use, presents major problems in Mali as a substitute -
uncertain supply, high cost and the difficulty of using it for cooking
means that its adoption is unlikely. Despite the increases in the price of
firewood, the relative prices of substitutes are so high that the cost of a
subsidy program to promote substitution would be exorbitant.  nd given the
constraints other than price, any such program is likely to fail,
expensively. However, should real prices continue to increase as they have
in the past (5% p.a.), the gap between wood and substitutes will rapidly
narrow.
10.       In rural areas, the only available and affordable substitutes are
crop  residues  and  animal  dung:   while  tha practice  of burning  these
residues is not widespread, households can be expected to turn to these
substitutes over time, as continued deforestation reduces available
fuelwood supplies. The long-term effect of burning animal fodder and dung
would be to cause further declines in soil fertility, and a significant
reduction in crop yields.
11.       In an attempt to reduce demand for firewood, the Government has
been actively encouraging the introduction of improved stcves. A number of
projects financed by bilateral and non-governmental organizations are
active in both urban and rural areas.  There is now a real awareness and
enthusiasm for such stoves and first results are promising.  Additional
stove projects are also in the preparation stage and are expected to begin
in the next few years. There is no lack of funding or expertise anxious to
promote improved woodstoves in Mali, but one must recognise the limitations
of the approach: the stoves in actual domestic use often yield energy
savings well below those found in laboratory conditions, and even after
large-scale distribution, the impact on overall fuelwood demand will be
limited.



- 32 -
ANNEX 2-2
Page 4 of 10
D.   Fiscal Policy.
12.       It is not desirable for Government to intervene in the market
directly: price controls would lead to evasion and distortion, and cannot
be   realistically  envisaged  (nor  should  they  be).   The  traditional
intervention point has been at the level of the "permis de coupe."  The
current cost is about 100 CFAF/stere, which represents 2% of the final
market price : 0.25 CFAF/kg. tax vs. 12.5 CFAF/kg price at consumer level
(using a measure of 40kg.per stere, an observed ratio for steres
transported by the major operators). Thus a ten-fold increase in permit
fees (to 1,000 CFAF/stere), would lead only to a 20% increase in market
price.   Such  a  large  increase,  to  be  acceptable,  would  have  to  be
introduced gradually, perhaps over 5 years, resulting in a 4% increase in
price per year.   To this should be added the 5Z real price increases
observed historically yielding a 9% overall rise. Under the current system
receipts show that less than 20% of estimated wood consumption in Bamako is
taxed, although this is expected to change as a result of the project.  One
would expect the price increases to start affecting demand in the near
future as real incomes stagnate. Household surveys in Bamako indicate that
the average low income family spends between 20%-30Z of income on fuelwood.
13.       Economic principles suggest that "price should equal the marginal
cost of supply",i.e. that the stumpage fee should equal society's cost of
reforestation. The long-term marginal cost of reforestation is not known,
nor has a viable method of achieving a widespread impact been proven:
existing data suggest the cost would be between 6,000 and 13,500 CFAF per
cubic meter, which translates into a fee of 1,500 CFAF and 6,500 ClAF per
stere  for  the  "permis  de  coupe."  As has been discussed  above,  the
possibility of achieving such an increase in the short term is low.
However increasing fees and, at the same time improving tax coverage, will
have some impact on market prices, and markedly increase the level of
revenues accruing to the Forestry Fund, for financing forestry activities.
Table 5 shows the impact on revenues and market price of varying levels of
permit fee and tax coverage.
14.       If, however, reforestation is to take place at village level on a
scale large enough to have any impact, the finan Kal returns to the
villager have to be sufficient to offset the marginal cost of planting
trees in addition to the institutional framework being satisfactory (land
tenure etc). Permit fees would have to rise until the fee + producer price
at least equalled the cost of regeneration, estimated by Bertrand at 15
CFAF/kg., implying a rise in consumer prices to 21.6 CFAF/kg. (Table 6).
This, in turn, implies a rise in permit fees to at least 3,500 CFAF/stere,
a level it is difficult to envisage being achieved in the short-term.
15.       Experience throughout Africa, and elsewhere, reinforced by the
analysis above, suggests that it will be extremely difficult to achieve
major changes in supply or demand through the price mechanism. The most
that can be expected is that prices should move in the desirable direction,
sending the right signals to the consumer, and that rural reforestation
efforts continue. Experience with improved stoves has proved favourable,
but there is little evidence that even widespread int.oduction will lead to



- 33 -
ANNEX 2-2
Page 5 of 10
a decline in overall demand, at current prices: the reduced cost of
preparing food may result only in a rise in family welfare as an additional
hot meal becomes financially feasible.
E.    Conclusions and Recommendations.
16.       The principal conclusions are;
(a) Substitution for fuelvood by other forms of energy is not
economically feasible given current relative prices, but will
become so if trends continue, by the mid 1990's.
(b) The scope for changing demand through raising permit fees is very
limited - fees would have to be raised well beyond politically
acceptable levels to have any significant impact, and this would
only affect urban demand, where wood is traded.
Cc) Improved stoves offer real benefits, and rapidly pay for
themselves, even at current fuel prices. One may expect rapid
increase in their use , but this may not reduce overall demand
for wood.
(d) There is great scope for increasing the currently low level of
tax coverage (as proposed in the project).
Ce)  The most that can be hoped for, in the medium term, is a slowing
down of the rate of deforestation.
17.       The actions to be taken are incremental in their impact, and
should be viewed as a package of measures:
(a) Permit fees should be raised immediately by 100%, and again in
PY3 and PY5, to move prices closer to the "real" value of
firewood.
(b) Tax collection rates should be increased.
(c) Farmers and others should be encouraged to view wood as the
scarce commodity it really is: this implies a major publicity
campaign.
(d) Efforts at rural reforestation should continue, combined with far
greater efforts to develop species suitably adapted to the
ecological conditions.



- 34 -
ANNEX 2-2
Page 6 of 10
Table 1: Taxes on Commercially Transacted Wood
(Law No 8'-04/AN-RM 3rd February 1981)
Timber/Bois d'Oeuvre                                CFAF/Tree/Pied
Range from: Cailcedrat                                   6,000
to: Unspecified woods                                      750
Building poles/Bois de Service
Ronier                                                   1,500
Doum                                                       500
Gaulettes et Perchettes                                 25-100
Bambou et Ban                                               25
Fuelwood/Bois de Feu
Wood/Bois                                               100/Stere
Charcoal/Charbon                                        125/100kg.
Source: DNEF 1984



- 35 -
ANNEX 2-2
Page 7 of 10
Table 2: Forestry Fund Revenues
(Malian Francs) a/
Year/Annees                    Exploitation              Transactions
(stumpage fees)               (fines)
1975                           61,667,190                64,594,520
1976                           67,884,545                70,567,925
1977                           74,656,215               101,746,815
1978                           72,676,310               117,051,350
1979                           71,881,690               141,987,335
1980                           88,509,045               191,961,165
1981                          107,624,755               308,631,388
1982                          138,446,700               378,616,030
a!  1 CFAF ~ 2 Malian Franc
Source: Rapport TRANSENERG, p. 275



- 36 -
ANNEX 2-2
Page 8 of 10
Table 3: Price Structure for Fuelvood, Bamako
(1983 CFA Francs)
Cost per Kg.  a/            Revenue per Kg.          Margin
Producers                 0.5                    6.19                 5.7
Transporters
PFPB  b/            10.8-13.9                   11.7              -2.2 to 0.9
GFPB  c/             7.9-11.0                   11.7               0.7 to 3.8
FBM   d/             9.0-10.6                 9-11.3              -1.6 to 2.3
Buches e/            6.5- 7.3                    8                 0.7 to 1.5
Retailers
PFPB                11.8                      14.1-15.3            2.3 to 3.5
GFPB                11.6-12.2                 12.5-14              0.3 to 2.4
FBM                  9.3-11.5                 10.7-15              1.4
Buches               7.7- 8.8                  9.3                 0.5 to 1.6
Notes:  a/  Costs shown are cumulative not incremental
./ PFPB- Petits Fagots, Petites Branches
cl GFPB= Grands Fagots, Petites Branches
d/  FBM = Fagots Branches Moyennes
e Buches = Fagots 3 Buches
Source: TRANSENERG Tables 511-513; Asif Shaikh, op.cit, Table 3.



- 37 -
ANNEX 2-2
Page 9 of 10
Table 4: Relative Price of Alternative Fuels
(1983 CFA Francs)
al
Energy Type (and Use)  Unit Price Calorific Price/therm  Average   Price/usable
(CFAF/kg)   Value    (CFAF/th.)  Thermal        therm
(Kcal/kg)                Yield      (CFAFtth).
(%)
Firewood
Traditional Stove           10.5      4,000      2.63          9         29.22
1st Generation: Improved   10.5      4,000       2.63         20         13.15
2nd C(neration: Pc-.,Rble   10.5      4,000      2.63         35          7.51
Charcoal                    50        7,500      6.67         15         44 47
Kerosene                   221       12,000     18.4          50         36.8
Butane                     340       12,500     27.2          40         68.0
60        45.33
a/ 1,000 Kcal    1 therm
Source: TRANSENERG, p 206.



- 38 -
ANNEX 2-2
Page 10 of 10
Table 5: Impact of Increased Tax Coverage and Levels on
Revenues and Urban Supply Price 1/
Revenue (millions CFAF)
Tax Level     Market Price   20% Coverage    40% Coverage    60% Coverage
(CFAF/Stere).    (CFAF/kg).
100            12.5           104,400         208,800          313,200
200             12.75         208,800         417,600          626,400
400             13.25         417,600         835,200        1,252,800
800             14.25         835,200       1,670,400        2,505,600
1,000             14.75       1,044,000       2,088,000        3,132,000
1,200             15.25       1,252,800       2,505,600        3,758,400
1,600             16.25       1,670,400       3,340,400        5,011,200
3,500            21           3,654,000       7,308,000       10,862,000
Note 1/: Assumes retail price varies only with tax level.
Source: Shaikh, Table 10.
WAPAC
July 1985



REPUBLIC OF MALI
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
CHART OF FORESTRY DEPARTMENT / ORGANIGHAMME DU SERVICE FORESTIER
MINISTER_ RESSOURCZS
NATURELLES ET ELEVAGE
DIVISIONS TECHNIQUES                                                  -OPERATIONS
.                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SEMI-AUTONOMrS
ENVIRONNEMENT   _                              ~~~~~~~DIRECTION NATIONALEOP
ENVI RONNEMENTOP
DES EAUX & FORETS (DNEF)
PROJETS PROGRAMDIES (DPP)                                                                                          ONBB
CONSERVATION EAUX DU SOL                                                                                            APF
AMENAGEMENT REBOISEMENT                                                                                             OARS
CIASSES PARCS NATIONAUX
PECHES PISCICULTURE
INSPECTIONS REGIONALES
KAYES        KOULIKORO   BAhAKO        SEGOU         MOPTI    TOMBOUCTOU        GAO



- 40 -
ANNEX 2-4
REPUBLIC OF MALI
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
RECENT PROJECTS IN FORESTRY SECTOR
(excludes First Forestry Project)
Title of Project       Amount       External     Date    Project Object:ive
(CFAF million) Financier
1) Sikasso Regional     2,300       Swiss     1980-8    Inventory, training,
Village level
plantations
2) Kayes "Green Belt"     325       RFA       1980-6    Nurseries,
plantations, forest
management
3) Village Forestry        149      FAC/CCCE  1981-5    Village plantations
Fana-Koulikoro
4) Mopti Reforestation    130       USAID      1980-5    Rural Forestry
in 5th Region
5) Irrigated Plantations  110       CRD1      1976       Planting in "Office
Canada              du Niger" floodlands
6) "Technologie bois        63      CRDI      1981       Research into
de savane"                                            species
7) Pilot project "labour  162       HIT       1981-8    Forestry protection/
intensive" forestry                                  Village planting
8) Village Forestry:       900      Dutch      1985-8    Fuel Wood, village
Segou                                                 Level interventions
9) Industrial and Village  90       UNSO      1984       Wood production, and
Plantations, Gao                                      erosion protection
WAPAC
June 1985



- 41 -
ANNEX 3-1
Page 1 of 3
REPUBLIC OF MALI
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
PILOT RURAL FORESTRY COMPONENT
1.        This  component  of  the project,  though  low  in  cost,  is  of
paramount importance in the long term effort to promote protection and
forest management on a large scale. Since the activities are "pilot", and
cannot be defined until the initial work of data gathering and inventory
(to be financed under the project) are completed, all that can be given is
an indication of the types of activity that will be undertaken.
2.        The project will finance the equipment and operation of a rural
forestry unit, made up of the regional staff of the Forestry Department,
reinforced with external technical assistance, which will operate in two
areas exhibiting different characteristics: the relatively well stocked and
under populated area of Mafeya, and the understocked and overpopulated area
of Dioila.  The objective of the exercise will be to develop schemes of
locally based management of the existing resources (agrosylvopastoral).
3.        The first step in the exercise is the identification of the
existing systems and conditions in the project areas. These can be divided
into three classes:
(a) Human (socio-ethnic structure, availability of labor, number of
families, seasonal migration, organization of the villages, level
of interest in the project itself, constraints resulting from
customs/religion, attitude towards the State etc.);
(b) Economic (analysis of farm budgets of the villagers including
revenues from forestry activities, analysis of the village lands
with a land use map, study of the relation between those involved
in forestry related activities and the remainder of the village,
including payments to the village, and division of benefits); and
(c) Biological (inventory of the existing vegetation by sampling).
4.        Based on the findings of the inventory a management plan will be
developed, specifying the areas to be protected, those that can be cut, by
how much and how often, and including p.oposals for the distribution aad
selling of the product.   In the protected areas, no cutting will be
allowed, but only "droits d'usage" (collection of deadwood, fruits, medical
products, etc.). The productive areas will be protected by firebreaks, to
be regularly maintained in the dry season, with manual labor. They will be
divided into lots which will be cut in rotation. As an example, let us
suppose the inventory had identified a land area belonging to the village
of some 1,200 ha of woodlands. Of these 300 ha are classified as protected
land, the remainder to be the object of a production plan. Based on a 25
year rotation pattern, the area would be divided into 25 lots of 36 ha
each, with a productive potential of about 1,800 stAres a year. The actual



- 42 -
ANNEX 3-1
Page 2 of 3
nature of the management systems cannot yet be defined, but several alter-
natives exist:
(a) they can be privately based and focused on fallows;
(b) communally based and focused on common lands belonging to
lineages, "quartiers" or villages, including fallows, pastures,
forest parks, and remaining natural forest land; or
(c) they can take the form of some mixed system dealing weith several
categories of land as part of an overall land management system.
5.        Only three to five villages will be selected in each zone as a
point of departure: the boundaries of their lands will be clearly marked,
along with those of the surrounding, contiguous villages. Thus a total of
some 10 to 15 villages will be affected, with three to five, in the center
of the zone, actually being organized and given responsibility for the
management of their land. It is this last point that is the key to the
whole operation, and upon which the success or failure of the operation
hangs: can the villagers be persuaded that they have definite rights (and
therefore responsibilities) concerning surrounding lands, not only in
relation to other villages (such rights are long standing and well
recognized), but also in relation to the State itself, and the Forestry
Department.
6.        While  previous  attempts  at  locally  run  resource  management
systems have not been noted for their success, this has been due mainly to
a very inadequate understanding of the local systems and institutions
already in place.  Providing time is taken to prepare the appropriate
systems we believe chances of developing some useful results are quite
high, for the following reasons:
(a) village residents already organize their land use systems
according to clearly defined sets of rules;
(b) residents are increasingly aware of the impending wood crisis;
(c) the economic benefits to be derived from better management of the
natural forest cover are clear to those who are already involved
in wood harvesting for commercial markets, as well as to those
harvesting  minor  forest  products  to  compensate  for  lost
agricultural income due to the recent severe droughts; and
(d) the Forestry Department has committed itself to authorizing and
supporting such local control schemes, even though this involves
relinquishing Forest Service control over the natural forest
cover in question.



- 43 -
ANNEX 3-1
Page 3 of 3
Staffing and Financing
7.        The component will be implemented by the Regional Inspectorate of
the DNEF at Koulikoro under the responsibility of the regional director.
He will be assisted by a full time expatriate forester with sociology
qualifications.  Two further expatriates  (VSN) will be assigned to the
project, one for each of the test zones. Malian counterpart staff will
consist of two "B" level foresters throughout the project life, three "C"
level, and seasonal labourers to help with creation of firebreaks, etc.
Four man-months of consultant time are allocated in the early years of the
project to assist in survey design and implementation. The core team will
be reinforced by the existing local staff of the DNEF as necessary.
8.        Total cost  is estimated  at  about US$0.5  million  equivalent
including support to the expatriates, transportation for the staff,
materials and equipment.
WAPAC
December 1985



- 44 -
ANNEX 3-2
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF MALI
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
STUDIES COMPONENT
1.        Three important studies will be financed under the project, to be
carried out by the DPP in the DNEF, with the support of consultants. The
context of the studies is described below:  detailed terms of reference
will be agreed with IDA prior to the work beginning. A timetable for the
studies was agreed at negotiations.
Forest Reserves and National Parks
2.        In order to obtain the information necessary for the development
of a management plan for the "domaine classe", the project will finance a
study of the existing reserved areas. The first step will be a mapping of
the forest reserves on the basis of aerial photography at 1/50,000 scale,
supplemented by infrared coverage at a scale of 1/45,000. This will permit
the establishment of soil and vegetation maps via photo interpretation at a
scale of 1/25,000.
3.        With the maps as a base, the team within the DPP will be able to
classify the land in one of three categor4es (after ground truthing):
(a) sites suitable for industrial plantation;
(b) sites suitable for improved natural production; and
(c) sites to be protected.
4.        The  next  step  will  be  the  planning  of  the  necessary
infrastructure for the development of the forest areas: buildings, rural
roads and firebreaks.  A study of the availabIlity of labor around the
forest reserves will give indications not only of the demographic pressure
upon the reserves but will also determine the scale of possible future
interventions. A survey of the current wood market in these areas would
complete the study.
Feasibility Study for Irrigated Plantations
5.        A small pilot project has been underway at Ndebougou, on the
fringe lands of the Office du Niger, to test the potential of irrigated
plantations.   This  has  been  carried  out  by  the  forestry  research
department, DNRZFH, with Canadian aid (IDRC). Results have been promising,
with production  reaching 30-40 steres per hectare annually.   However,
before launching a large scale project further studies are required: these
would be carried out under the proposed project.
6.        The studies to be carred out are:



- 45 -
ANNEX 3-2
Page 2 of 2
(a)  market survey of the demand for wood products along the
Niger;
(b) study of the transport possibilities and costs for wood to
their markets including the production and transport of
charcoal; and
(c) inventory of the areas suitable and zvailable for planting
(to be carried out with Office du Niger).
7.        The studies will be carried out by the DPP, with consultant
support  from an  economist/statistician  for  the market  studies  and  a
specialist in transport economics.
Study of the Market for Forestry Products
8.        With a view to improving the system of forestry fees and fines,
the division will carry out a survey of the structure of the market for
wood products including firewood, construction timber and imported timber.
The study will include household consumption surveys, will update the
information gathered for Bamako in 1982, and extend to the other major
centers of consumption: Segou, Mopti, Tombouctou and Gao. The DPP will be
supported by a consultant with experience in such surveys.
WAPAC
December 1985



UPALIC OF SALI
Sl001tD FORISY PTlOJCT
IHP1XhTATION SCHEDWU /PROGCRM   DE MISR Of OIWUM
1986                       1987                        1988                        1989                        1990                1991
Jan.         July          Jan.          July          Jan.          July          Jan.          July          Jan.          July    Jan.   March
A.  DNF  FDnal Delp_
1.  HQ/infrastructure                                      F
2.  a)  Study of Forestry Reeervem/                                             Preparatory  lppinu/                     j
Etude Aainageient Domaine Claes             e IsrpnT                                                                                                -
b)  IrriSated Forestry Study/Avent                                             _
projet eylvicuiture  IrriguAe
c) Wood Marketing Study/Etude
cercialie.tion prodults ligneux
3.  Aeelatance to DPP/Apput A DPP                                1               .                          -                                                            f                       -
4d  Support for Tax Enforcement/Appul               I                 _
controla taxation de bole
5. Training/Formation                                                               *                        .                             ,           I                                        -
8.  National Park: eocle du BaoulS/Apput              Equipent Procuramnt
Part National OPN6B                                                              -                                                                                           _
C. Rural Forestry Unit/Uniti Foreateris 9uruet
1.  Pilot Scheaee/Opdrations pilotes:  - Data                                               J                            I
Collection/Aauee.blaeent dee donndee s                                  .
-laplemntation/tiae en oeuvre                  I                                                                                                                                             _
2.  Tree Promotion/Promotion arbre en mIlieu
rural                                                   1-----**-
0.  OAPV                                                                                                                                                I.
I1  Plentetions (600ho/yr/An)/Plantations                                                                                      
27  Forest reserve management/Cestion gifnrale
du 4oe tne claeet 
3.  Improvemnt of stock/A.dlioration  ater(al                      4 __                                      _
..  Natural Forest Treatemnt/Trettenent
formatlone naturelles                                _                                                                                             f                          '              -
IAAPACI                                                                                                                     I
August 1985
I                          I                          I                           I                           I



- 47 -
ANNEX 3-4
Page 1 of 3
REPUBLIC OF MALI
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
EXPATRIATE AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE REQUIREMENTS
1.        The  project  requires  a  significant  amount  of  technical
assistance, much of which is already in place under the 1st Forestry
Project. Financing for the long term consultants is provided by FAC on a
grant basis. Each expatriate will have a training function specifically
noted in their Terms of Reference. The following staff are required under
the project:
(a) OAPF
(i) Forestry works specialist  (five years):   responsible for
organization of planting and clearing operations in the
field.  Direct Malian counterpart to be trained in this
task. The candidate should be a forester with at least five
years experience in plantation work in tropical areas,
preferably West Africa.
(ii) Mechanic and Assistant Mechanic (five years): Due to the
large amount of heavy machinery and equipment involved in
industrial plantation, skilled mechanics are required both
at HQ and on the field site. Training and keeping Malian
staff has proved difficult. For this reason two posts are
retained throughout project life. The mechanics, who should
have experience in their specialty under conditions similar
to those existing in the project area, would be responsible
for:
1.   ensuring   that   equipment   is  properly  maintained
according to schedules in order to obtain maximum
working life;
2.   defining requirements for equipment, material and spare
parts and ordering the latter on time;
3.   ensuring in liaison with the CMFU that proper records
are kept; and
4.   training local personnel in all aspects of equipment
maintenance  and  operation  as  well  as  workshop
management.
(iii) Researcher (five years): responsible for organizing the
program  in  improvement  of  stock  and  material.   It  is
intended that during the project period qualified staff from
the Research Institute (INRZFH) will be rotated for two year
periods to work with the unit and receive practical
training.   The candidate should be a forester/researcher
with advanced qualifications and with at least five years
experience in tropical forestry and research. He will be



- 48 -
ANNEX 3-4
Page 2 of 3
responsible for selecting the varieties to be tested, aad
the establishment and monitoring of the tests.
(b) Rural Forestry Unit
(i) Assistant Director (five years): Forester with sociological
background, preferably at least a masters degree in rural
sociology. He should have at least five years experience at
the village level in the tropical rural sector, preferably
in West Africa. He will be responsible for assisting the
current regional director with the management of the entire
component including surveys, development of management plans
and their execution.   In addition he will be required to
assist in the training of the Unit personnel in survey
tecbniques and in the participatory approach to forest
management.
(ii) Volunteers (five years): Foresters, they will work directly
with the participating villagers in the development of the
management plans, one in each of the two regions.
(c)  Central Financial Management Unit
Financial director (five years): He will be responsible for all
financial aspects of the project, including preparation and
monitoring of disbursement requests for all implementing units.
During the project period he will be responsible for training his
local counterpart in all aspects of the computerized cost
accounting system in order that, by Year 3, day-to-day operations
can be handled without his intervention. The candidate should
have at least five years experience in accounting and management,
with a general knowledge of economics. He should have experience
in development agency work, preferably in West Africa. He should
be fluent in spoken and written French.



- 49 -
ANNEX 3-4
Page 3 of 3
SCHEDULE
PYl       PY2        PY3       PY4        PY5  Total
(Man-Years)
Expatriates (in man-years)
. Rural Forest Unit
Assistant Director   1          1          1          1         1      5
Volunteer             -         -          2          2         2      6
2. OAPF
Fieldworks Spec.      1         1          1          1         1      5
Researcher            1         1          1          1         1      5
Mechanic              1         1          1          1         1       5
Asst.Mec              1         1          1          1         1      5
3. CMFU
Financial Director   1          1          1          1         1      5
6         6          8         8                36
Temporary Consultants (in man-months)                                  Total
Man-Months
1. DNEF
Programmer            1         1          -         -          -       2
Studies a/           -          5          5         2          2      14
Misc. Experts         1.5       1.5        1.5        1.0       0.5     6
2.  Rural Forestry Unit  3           1         -          -         1        5
3. OAPF
M&E specialist        1         1          1          1         1       5
4. Central Financial
Unit (Audit)        1          1          1          1         1       5
Total              6.5         9.5        8.5       5.0        5.5    35
a/  Studies: (man-months included in 1.above)
Forest Res?rves       -         2          4         -          -       (6)
Irrigated Plantations -         -         -          2          2       (4)
Wood Pricing          -         3          1         -          -       (4)
Total                -         5          5         2          2
Source: Appraisal estimate.
WAPAC
December 1985



- 50 -
ANNEX 3-5
Page 1 of 3
REPUBLIC OF MALI
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
PROJECT COSTS BY SUMMARY ACCOUNTS AND FINANCING
(CFfN NhIIlI               fuIs  *I                       I Ts1u
.I F'ama I.e
Lau   rFmei  Tuda       Lael Fci.m     Td.l         _dm      Cu
E   flS    Sas      *as  aSaJa           _Sa    .S_   ESS
0.           CumL
CIUL 1111,in                                     73.5  110.3  113.1   175.0   262.5   437.5              60        3
o1 N   unTIE                                     25.2   37.8   63. u       0.0    90.0    13.4           W         I
m1  RII .WM                                      21.0   31.5   52.5    s0.0    75.0    15.0              60        I
NMEOX fr *                                        7.4   11.0    1.4    17.5    26.3    43.5              60 
cini s                                            4.2    6.3   10.5    10.0    15.0    25.0              60        0
.J-T.  CIVIL 1                                     131-3   19.9  2N.1   312.5   418.5   M0.3                m0
016 103LE a" EMIPIIIT
1. LIUT  lEiIUAL
A111CM                                           -    26.3   26.3         -     Q.5    42.5          100        0
113.1DB                                  -    46.2   46.2         -    110.0   130.0         100        1
LTIUTS 01LI.E                                     -    33.6    3.6        -    00.0      U.0         100        I
tEOIS  Low                                       -    26.3   26.3         -    62.5    62.5          100        0
'30        vUaE                                  -    34.0   84.0         -    :00.0   210.0         108        2
CAM  low= ~3-    43.0    3.0                                              -     50.@0    3.4         100        1
CI-UAM  ARMI                                      -    21.0   21.0        -     50.0     50.0        100        0
CM11 EM                                          -    41.3   41.3         -     MA.    90.4          100        1
CA IM     iS                                    ,-   131.3  131.3         -    312.5   312.5         100        2
.      5 1UUES TM  -Usi                          -    Sl.F   53.0         -    140.0   140.0         100        1
IILTTU                                         -    5.3    5-3         -     12.5    12.5         100        0
I-Id    U? LG                                       -    3.   536.9          -  I.278.4  1.27B.4        100       10
2. lUMB        ta1n
CN*NfLM  20eo                                    -   16.0   10.0          -    400.0   400.0         100        3
CN04UAND 10  (                                    57.8   57.8         -    137.5   137.5         100        1
MLWLBE                                           -   t1.4   n1.4               217.5   217.5         100        2
TlCIS                                            -     30    63.0         -    150.0    1.0          100        I
1 11 UW          E 61-   52.5   52.5                                      -     25.0   175.0         100        I
CM3EE                                            -    0a.  s8.            -     21.0    21.0         100        0
4A1                                                   12.6   12.4         -     30.0    30.4         100        0
Cm     *                                         -    29.0   29.0         -     6.0    6.0           loe        I
PILK    3                                        -    13.2   13.2         -     31.5    31.5         lo        0
ME3LLDW E                                        -    14.7   14.7         -     35.1    35.1         100        0
U1111E                                           -    19.6   19.6         -    46.       46.0        100        0
ftuhmEIE                                          -    1.5     *.s        -     22.3    22.5         100        0
Sdi-Wl EIp3EIIT Ulm                                 -   540.1  540.1         -  1,205.9  1.2s.9         100      l3
3. MIESLErEIS
MII EL 0nUUM  *IEUEB                             -   1559   15.9          -    371.3   3n.3          100        3
EaUIE   3a1                                    0.2    1.9    2.1        0.5      !.5      5.0         *0        0
.rwueis                                          -    1.6    1.4          -      3.0      3.8        100        0
inSB ELECIE                                      -    12.6   12.6         -    30.0    30.0         IO         0
1TIIS  EMIK                                     0.2    1.9    2.1       e.-      4.5      5.0         10        0
3TEI1 Df_UTI                                     -   20.0   20.0          -    47.5    47.5          10O        0
tub-Ida mm   EUIMIS                               0.4   193.  194.3        1.0    41.5    4a2.5s        10         4
Sri        Meu aus1 C     b  nEIT                    0.4 1270.0 1.2.3         1.0  3.075.  3026.0          100       23
C. CWowuMZ                                          47.3  110.3  157.5   112.5   262.5   375.0              70        3
L T;U
.               10.1   23.5   33.6    24.0    56.0    00.0             70        1
9UCT*T1Ul  . VI S                                 4.6   10.7   15.2    10.9    25.4    36.3              70        0
SNuTO    Runs                                       14.6   34.2   40.0    34.9    1A.4    13                70        1
1Tal ZUESI  cU                                        19L& 3.61612.1 ute5.7    460.9  313 .4  4.2P9.1          i        33



- 51 -
ANNEX 3-5
Page 2 of 3
at. s can
amEs u mimi '
sA        US        2                     378- 0 c  3 O .O  -  9N.0    o.o    -   no.o                   7
UCVL SEWIS                                  6.7       -    6.1    15.9        -    15-.          -       0
ELSTA1Dh WES                               16.1       -   £6.1    3.4         -    3A.4         - 
W*T.l FIELM  INESTENS                        400.3      -  400.9   95.3I         -    54.3         -        1
2. MSDTuITS A  EITIII4TES
tSIUULTUIT EIIE FORS CA4S$                    -   21.1   21.1        -    50.3    50.3         1N        0
CO14 111 ETUIE SILVIC  Ul=l                   -   14.1   14.1        -    .3.5    33.5         INI       0
E1N111T ETITS  COMME 3Mg                      -   14.1   14.2        -    33.5    33.5         100       0
ESTLSUlN  F ID                                - 2 21.1   21           -    SO.      50.3       190       0
CSTJST FWT  It                                -   17.6   17.6        -    41.9    41.9         100       0
WSTUIT S1191 SUM                              -    17.6   17.6       -    41.9    41.9        I         0
65131  UIIIE fDET   *                   -     -  149.9  149.         -   356.7   356.7        1in        3
SP(CI&25TE MEL1TIEN                           -  149.9  149.3        -   356.7   356.7        l1O        3
SSISTT D TUN                                  -   149.1  149.9            356.7   356.7       IO        3
D 6AM"                                            AM4.8  149.8            356.7   3.7          M00       3
IKCSICIEUE                                    -  245.0  245.0        -   513.4   5U.4          100       4
£1919                                        -   17.6   17.6        -    41.9    41.9        I         0
41.aLI. IUEI  LIE                             -    2.9    2.8        -      6.      6.         IN        0
Tiu   ALItE  rEaUm   LIES                     -    1.4    1.4        -      3.3     3.3        1oo       6
s-Ttal  uIRTSTS MS EAnZWUITES                   -  971.6  971.6         - 2.313.3 2s323.3         10       16
3. GNR ACTVIY S
SMin.I.LS         Le I                      1.1      -    1.1       2.6       -     2.6         -        0
CIVIL SERUITS                             166.6       -  166.6   444.3        -   444.3          -       3
MNTLSCT   UAhS                            193.2       -  193.2   459.9        -   459.9          -       4
WUIIUES                                       -    0.1    0.1         -     0.2     0.2        1N        0
SiiL1TS                                       -   10.5   10.5        -    25.0    25.0        1IW        0
ALUS  PEflhDUL  LEESL                      53.7      -   53.7   127.9         -   127.          -        I
OM  SIIL I4CE  IEL. LIU.r                  43.1      -   43.2   102.6         -   102.4         -        I
O-TW    OllER AEIITIES                       477.6   10.6  40.2  1137.2    25.2  1p12.4          2        9
*-Total SOLES ET MISEIS                         878.4  9s2.2 1*660.6 2.091.5 2,339.5  4430.0         53       34
S. WItUE wIntw AM rAmT.a
I       E    U NO FIV  ClaaS                 327.7  52-6  110.3   780.3 13G7.I 2,167.4            64       17
OTM  SEOVL                                   155.8  277.0  432.9   371.0   0.5  1,030.5           *4        a
S-Tdal WUU          ATE 31  1 M I1 S    ITW1E   4t3.5  O9.6 1.34.1  1.151.2 2.4.6  34197.9           64       25
C. DIIIE  UUE                                  10.0    5.9   15.9    23.6    14.1    37.9          37        0
SSEIT  ETIK FMMS CAES                          4.1    4.1    B.2       9.1     9.3    19.5        50        0
UTSI1 EWE SiLIC 16                             2.7    2.7    5.5      6.5      6.5    13.0        so        0
7MTSIT  I EIUI  ME       S                    2.7    2.7    5.5      6.5      6.     123.0       50        0
W411u  FllitT M3M                              3.4    3.4    6.3       9.2     6.1    16.3        50        0
EU1LT  Smvi Eva                                3.4    3.4    8.8      8.1      3.1    16.3        sI        0
4551U  FIET aft                               14.5   14.5   29.0    34.5    34.5    69.1          50        1
WECIaJSiE  11131TI1U IW                        9.3    9.3   19.5    22.0    2.0    44.1           50        0
ASSSTSNT DIIECTI  WF                          14.5   14.5  23.0    34.5    34.5    69.1           50        1
UZECIM  11                                    14.5   14.5   29.0    34.5    34.5    69.1         5         1
IEMUA  B                                      29.0   29.0 2  5.0    69.1    69.1   139.1          5e        I
ADUTEl                                         3.4    3.;    6.9      6.1      3.1    16.3        50        e
EWRTIUTES                                      1.6    1.6    3.2      3.6      3.8     7.5        5S        0
itoa  W IIIT Ns EAT SI                          103.1  193.1  206.3   24.4   245.6   491.1           50        4
E. OIT WERATIf ENES
h1rIM S^MUS                                   46.9   46.9   93.6   121.7   111.7   223.4          50        2
FIu  S491ES                                   44.3   44.3    M.&   105.5   105.5   211.0          50        2
noR                                           21.5   21.5    G.1    51.3    51.3   102.5          50        1
Sub-btal OIER MUTING1  WDEES                    112.7  112.7  225.5   268.4   268.4   536.9          50        4
Totl K      T MMSIS                              1537J. 2.063.6 3S651.4 3J76.5 4.913.2  6,693.7          57      67
Tetl fSLUE 0EIS                                    1.1781.4 2425.7 S457.1 4,241.3 9.751.6 12.993.0        67     100
Psical Eants.n                                    192.6  26S.2  460.7   450.5   636.5 1097.0           5C       a
Prim CwAtmnsrz                                    413.2  706.6 1119.8J   93.7 112.4  2.66.1            63       21
Total "aEm  C1OST                                 2.3S7.1 4,650.5 7MD37.6 5.63.6 11,072.6 16,75.1               12
a-        0na    -    -stn   _Oe.         _s      _a         _-n



a Z
sc'sruKisvr mroJcr
Finammein Plan hw r,oje1 Cvwuuts
OD                                                                         4uss~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ '000
mum neR?w. CAsuS  aCMTRME
KWFLtPAMI -  CC0K(5612W        FW2O S AI  ET 6l 02 K1.EAI ET                                         amN         GMIN   OF
ASSOCIATION    ICCUI"2          CAUATIUN             FORET       GM  FOK1 5281   GM  WI         F~ftp2Sm1mjS   NM. l1011            Iot.1L.
.     . .    ...............   . ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~       ~      ~      ~     ~      ~     ~     ((al    Mff
A.A~t           A Mml    I      Ammt    I        McmL    I         AemmI    I    AMM,m    I        AMmm     Z    MAimS   I    Iu.mt    I    rot. Exb.  Tom)   Tam~
Z3ll*n          as..    n       n=s 1=3. x  giUl   flea    fsll   a...  *mfl2 at"    '112ts  =2                   00    aa   e*558*             s*aa*- -- 8
A. holfT TO DU
1IRATA1XIL1E ADS EQU2PMT                 653.0 70.1      13554  55.9    122.1  22.9                   -      -                                             1  0.4   2.1   974.9   1.1        523.3    441.2      10.4
572821s                                  212'.3 22.84    579.7  75.2                        6,0    0.5                                       1 .2   1.1     5.0  0.6      771.3   4.6        535. 1    211.2      5.0
NDNITNIN  O  RURALUM  FORSTRY            20f.:9 545       50.2  40 0                                                                                       1             0.6   5.3    200.7   1.2  162.6    27.  20.,
IJfRoW  TAX CoLLECTION                   123.6 42.1      159.1  35.2 I                                                -        -     -               -      62   2.1    205.9   1.7          290.0    92.7        6.2
1*6122221                                 95.0 48.5       38.3  MO.       65.7  32.5          -                                                               -     -     202.0   1.2        26l.2     40.91
kh-TaUl SLM TN 10 NhU                     It257.0 45.7    2,013.5  41.5     2921.5   7.9       6.0    0.?         -                              .2   0.3     32.    1.3   29437.9  14.5      1.572,2    533.6 A     2.1
It MUM. FOK1IRl
PILOT FPACT 65                           12561 53.3       73.0  32.4       0.3   0.2                         5.2    2.2         -            9.7   5.5      5.5   2.5     232.5   2.4        244.2     52.5       5.5 
[3TI2520                                  52.0 31.3       55.0  32.5          -                              9.9   27.0              -      22.4   5.3      2.5   0.7     259.0   2.5         52.7    274.        2.5                            L
mdNAGENr                                 387.6 26.4      442.2  30.2     48123  32.50                       30.4    2.21                    97.2   6.6     30,6   2.2    2a 49.4   5.5     I .041.2    197.5     30.6
SuAl-TaLa.l OA.K FOK5TiT                    597.2 30,5      600.2  30,6     452.6  24.6                       1  05.5    5.4                  1  34.1   7.1   35.2  M2.9 2160. 121.7    1.265,2    6934.            38.2
KMGEJNT OF rUST £ESUWS                   516.3 54.9      523.3  35.2                .                                        4.5  5,7          -62,7   4.1   2,450.2   U.L                   971,5    444.9      62.7
IIIsITSiM. PMTAUIIOS                   2.230.3 49.6    2,7122,  39.9         -                                        -    25.   5.9                      1955   4.6   4P294.4  25.6    2.370,7  I2.25.2        295.5
mT1181 ro51s  km mAi                     240.2 49.9      120.3  39.2         -                       -                       266  5.9                      1  3.9  5.0    2520   2.7         259.9     17.2      21.9
UIO"WMT U KWJI  STOCI                     76.3 11.4       97.1-24.5      481.3  71.7          -                            12.0  2,6           -     -      '.    0.5     671.2   4.0        519.0     76,7       5.4
£2E51  WAMN1                             726.4 27.4    2,077.9  25,8   2,i265.6  30.4                                      605.3 24.6      424.9  20.2    68.5   Ill  4,274.6  24.9    2.49J  1,606.2            65.5
60-loUD 065                               3#1589.5 35.7    3.522.?  32.3   2,749.9  16.0                                 -    971.4  5.9      424.9   3,     3U. I'  3.2  10.907.3  65.1      7,227.2  3.4321    3So.2I
5, CETM.P r2WA2. rAM(MNT UNIT               136,7 14.0      220.3  23,3     452.3  49.21                                       74.5  7,6       49.9   512      lo9   0.9    979.   5.5          745.6    225.0       9.9
E.  XM     U   MM IL   MATIW. MAK           450.2 95.7          -                -                                                                            23,4   4.3     470.6   2.0        359.5    P0.l       29.4       00 
total Shiuriommt                            6W260.37.4    5,362.7  32.0   2,054.7  17.3          6.0   0.0      205.5    0.6  11047.8  6,3     621.1   3,7    447#7  2.7  26d756,1 250,6    1h V.6 - i        .         ~
88505sa*   aal~  585   slOS  555   q5    *558   55858  5855   taSI  Sa   aaaaa  as.  sSa8  sa. .s.......                          aaaaaasa.aa .asa.L
.  . ........0I
keeMP 12i IM 14115~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f



REPUBLIC OF MALI
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENT PROFILE
(US$ million)
IDA FY    Quarter Ending         By Quarter Cumulative                               Second  For-estry  Pr-oject
Estimae  Ditursements
1986           III                   1.23      1.23                    7
IV                       0      1.23
1987            1                    0.20      1.43 S
II                   0.41       1.84
III                  0.41      2.25                                                                l en
IV                   0.34      2.59                   ag
1988            1                    0.35      2.94
11                   0.24      3.19              .5    4-
III                  0.24      3.42              _A                                                                   U
IV                   0.18      3.60              3     a
1969            1                    0.17      3.77
11                   0.16      3.93
III                  0.17      4.10                    2-
IV                   0.31      4.41
1990            I                    0.31      4.72                    1 .
II                   0.24      4.96
III                  0.23      5.19
IV                   0.43      5.62                    04
FY7   fYa8   flt9   FY60   FY91   FY92  FY'93  FY94
1991            I                    0.43      6.05
11                   0.25      6.30                                             FM =d Yeor
0  Reglan Prof.          +  For 2 Prof,          0  For I Prdf.
a/ Assumes credit effectiveness March 1986 and initial disbursement includes refinancing of PPF
(US$1,000,000) and initial deposit to special account (US$230,000).
Source:  World Bank data (historical profile).
WAPAC
December 1985



- 54 -
ANNEX 3-7
Page 1 of 4
REPUBLIC OF MALI
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
DNEF BUDGET AND RECURRENT COSTS
1.        DNEF suffers from a problem common to many if not all departments
of the Malian Civil Service: lack of resources. Currently over 90% of the
national budget allocation is devoted to paying salaries, leaving very
little for operating expenses.  There are examples of an entire district
having an annual operational budget of US$37 per quarter.
2.        The Forestry Fund, as described elsewhere, is made up of permit
revenues and 75Z of all fine revenues. This is deposited in a specific
aceount for use by the Forestry Service, subject to budget approval by the
National Assembly. It averages about US$480,000 a year and has largely
been used to date to support the DNEF policy of creating tree nurseries in
every forestry district.
3.        Under the project substantial increases are projected in the
revenues accruing to the Fund. Following the projections of revenue made
by the mission, by 1994 revenues could approach US$3.0 million, a six-fold
increase. These would thus permit a substantially increased program of
operations. Studies, to be financed under the project, will examine the
best use of the funds for:
(a) management of forestry reserves; and
(b) more effective traditional operations on the part of the Forestry
Service.
Covenants have been obtained to ensure that this resource is protected and
devoted to forestry investment.



I        I             C              t             E              F                                                                                      L 1  1  I  t  L  1
a MLI 3Com FIMITuy uwJty                                          "i pi                         1            993            FVI            iTS           pyj                          pieFf         FlYFiII18
3 USYI            I IUtCl A IJ A1E3 CAIN RN  1F                                                   I" 17          5t            1f"           1it"                          19            1993 I914                    Am
4.__    .  . .......................... ._ ........... . ..... . . . _...... -  ---------  ,, - - -- - -- - -----     -----------------    - --_ -@_ - -_
SA. CAN INF i  1 NIlrt CAIlTIl
1 t.F(ea.cIqI Fimecetl
I    I   Creilti  reitll                                            19 I' m92 IM1                                                              1?2            132
9      M     wt l Credit CtU                                        3,36I            113            311           440            NI            331            III
1t   tFC trull Idvuti  FAC                                           I'M              III            241           25             271           294            1532
II
It    *Atsal# S, total                                               6,292          1,34           1,40          2,141          1,*6            n26            653
Is
26 2.11eu.inom      tte
Is    lttcrems  too  1e4                                                                             M2            323            MII           M1             131           131            Ill           731            IJI            132
11   lmrlueettl I1ap  Iue elbreee,Pw                 de   COO      21 3I                             33            35             41           III            233           433            633          1f             its           la
It    lido  Cti  lil.                                                             1, m           1,544         1,396          I,1N6         1,153          1,411         1,14           I,IU          1,436          1,436         1,39
It    l*isl hi  ntrls I l)
It
I 1. CO. I1tUi 4lt5t 1KN CWPITN
II
22 1. Feu.t  Costiclt 9  Preljt                                                     2,141         1,415          1,710           ,234          ,293            Iez           1 U            li                           Ilr           In 
3f2. k6 l     Idelltwlrce i  la Mkt. 
n                 IMIC e         tF1 eel  l                           2,:n              I              S             3              2              1
24                              Ceelul.    d'eso"e stl 31
It               136  IFrilcipll * hr'UeVt  chrel                                        3             1                                                        16 II  It  II  12                                                        41
II                      Ieie enelt t at  u              itte E  tr  ill I1
2n                                                              5ZlSuill                11            12             13            Is             17            It             Il            II II                        I              41
S                                                Priucipal                                                                                                     226           I3            2in            22n            2             2
31                                                Interml             2,342             11            43            II             is            96             92            II             11            it             II             42
Si                                                              1.64.1. l21                          643             1             III            4            31           3107            297           251            271           261
34    fetal tCi  hUI.i                                                              3,269          1,610         2,104         I,3l          2,364            56            33             493           54"            Ul7           491
3n    Idtl  lutll    1192)
.. ..  .   .... _.X ...... __ ........................................................ .......... ......... ............... ... _....................... ....... ........... . .. ... ...... ............. . ..   , ... .... ...... ...... -..... _. -. _-_..........-__-___-
31 C. ibt tCi Fi a*fter kit twileDl
a      i  nltte  orm  serke              If 3.22                                     2471 I4                       92              41          469             "1           IN1            644          192             99            9114
n
Ie 3. tr litin  Cad  Fin  after kIt                                                  I413          16491          13111          12141         1I          1,011          1,11          2,603          3,331         6,4            1,2m
41    lrvickD  tNu l win           urt    er.is h   Is hil
.      -1-.              ....... .......      ............ .. ............................................................................................ ................... .  .......   . ......
I31 11ced us inrettil piuictiu Wn  low tam  ratn                                                                                                  .  
40s1261 so II NM    Cee to.u t fliit o0.52 us ,diehne   soit nQ
66 41 ikrvce s c tl   of 1.111n  diskrted    mt s at 
41    k .t   w       rl o     Ifin, 1 i priecipil 1w  II yru1   lfu  3I  4S yeg.                                                                                                                                                         N
6   It CMCC  term,  15 feaT lean at 4.51, 5 Few  grac  "  pftitIgal.                                                                                                                                                                    0      °
n,



I4
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
*oiii iii w   2*1uA J       l     l ' it Viet naA g, 1"aJa  3323 is II
sj#A j zo   1sousA .3 aj  3?1pJd zl 's*aA  ol Jopoli *d              4    LI
1wass  FWAISIP   t0    - jjo 1o aIa4  a12AA,  /91
1mMt  P064J111pN  0  ft'l It *Il  *fl111303 15031  il It so
'|iPJ oil ups Po  weu)nD@id  ,;w .J   w, W  915j It to
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. -, - - - - - ----......... -.................----   -----    ------------........................ .......................................................................... .. ... ... ......... ....................... It_, , ,,, ,,,,,_, 
all"  31 Ip opie"          peol e)MI  N   j*31 )3     It
1t919         *K'CI         11111         00911         Willi         lll          iC£'oi        flit'           ill        bioll          L9t'Y         SIb'S                           WI'    "' MIDIJ I13 IAIIIINW3 It 0
it
to,1          3           its            CiA           ZiA tOi'i                   oWtl Uo'i                  ALL          LAL           Hi            oil                         O)III '3 Sp D3IA*S site *lIV   5          I
/"183,11 lii -will "011  w1         I)t
. .................................................................................................................................................,.,.,.,..,...............,......... ,.,,,.,, ................ .,,,,, _
huh Ill  s! 10%          St
019           191          tIZ            fit          Ng1            A0l           oil           IllZg 15*                   £9C                        too  LIIn jM3lS   1f11  1                                             it
£1
911          fit           ill            llg                                                                   zt
of           et             It             1i3l5blM                                               It
Il            9fit          9u           lt1            I'dpIo'4                     IC 333)                   @1
11111                       lb            II            so            9*            9)            91t           9)                          I t           I                                                                     At
LA            so U                        to            so            It            to            tt            it            lb            li            LI                  JIlM4t  I23^Jis * ItdPliIJdl NI                  t1
it 116ab'loab.  8 tIi'l3                                  it
I"i 10011hI1031 ViI                  Cl
'us! " I *J  ~I Afl8IIee AJh1 19   -1 it
ft
39!           £9l           C!            lit           ziI           391           II1            Ll l                                     got          No                                   lillid *P 11  /113112I SrM  1  Is
it
IRIII3 3 5111111I           11if   1113 '501
61
lit'i         iti'1           il'l       6ti'I          iti'1         o1l1 $ll                    li' tsl'i                   "Ill         fnll          torl                                           /^|1|ol VIV3it°l    111
Ngl           off           lt            110i         oil           All            iLX          &Lt            Ill          RC            Its           zl                I   1JJ1111960  811ISJ l;}lpflJIl                   t1
tl
11.11 IBOJIM A9  151 1 5
3vi voilllEA*ll  1194  3v      0
M1313 14111  4 Mol 333 
V1II0110,13I    '3111,14Vol   I
Wio          Sb!           Nu            ORl            A9            low          ILl           I0l           Ill1         USI            im          iMo B                  NMS  SISAI iSSB3   MMd31   IIN3N"M    91
Ill          IlL          ILL           IeLL          I00L          IlL           I              IOOtI"                       I  AI        L1           ll                           D1JS13IRSI Jli 31           Mls fWI     t
tZU  UU   1N   VJ  &1S  11Ad        114           *1AJ         S1S           11            t114          11^^                              133N"^8153WJ" 1wt~91 SIIUSPI 1114 Vi  c
"  "  g  ^  I         "            Z             ^             ^             J             s             "            3             §             J              |   I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N 1J3JIJ 5



I        3             C              O              E             iAC           pi             AE             /F              6            AN             Al A1i                        A              A L 
2 Nil SKcN3 FOPISIRI PIOJiCT                                      P124          FY25           FY12           PV21           PW2I          FY29           P130           P131           P132           P133          PY34           P115
3 lOWE     NINT  PRiOCT RELATED CASH FLO1W                            2009           2010           2011          2012           2013           2014           2015           2010          2017           2011           2319           22
4................................................................... ........................................................................................... ........................... .............................  ....  ......
5 A. tIS  I1L0   / ENIRIAEE K  CAPITAL
7 I.FinAncla;I Figaucnat
I     IDA Credit/ Credit IDA
9    CCCE leanI  Creit CCCE
1i FAC Errnt/ Sobveistloa FAt
12    IueaIota    Sol%s total
Is
14 2.Mevene/ Racettes
15     Increue.tal tag revenues                                         731            1l3            131            131            131                          731    731                    731            731           731            M
It    IncrN  ntal Stse*a;e lIesltavAuues Pfrols de coup                 545            I"             424            267            337           337            449            449            449            21l           261
17    Total Cashi lIlowi                                              1,311          1,340          1,155            991         1,061          I,0m           1,110          1,110          Ilm              m             m292           131
IS     Total dig mitres 1121
19
20 3. CASH OUfI £0/ S111S K CAPIIAUI
21
221. PrOJKt CustiCout h  Frolit                                          Ill           194            232            201            215            21            207            213            2N             234            203            lI
23
24i2. kkt kvrwiclServuite i Ir ktte
25                ISA IEsailtset Fe,!
21                               Coulsslu  d'e"q;etut) 31
271                ISA IPriscipll * service char;!                        91             9              5                            94              4             93            92             92              t             I1 
23                      hilerur,eatat it ServIce dI credit) 4I
21                                                                        97             91            95             9              94            94             93             92             92            91             91
30                    CCCE SI                     Principal
31                                                Interest
32
33
34     Total Cash hik"lls                                                213            290            321           302            S09           332            SOO           31             300           321           294            241
35     total Iwtils 11421
....... ............ .... ........  . ................ ............................................. ................................................ .................................................................... ......
31 C. 1t Cash Fly lfter hit Service/
II    MA .m.ott  spresiso fv.t d           e Itkite                    1,041          1,050           323            696 1S                       736            no            33 uo                        Il            £
3,
403. Cumlatin  Cash Floe  after lOit                                 17,401         11,454        19,2U1         19,912         20,141        21,411         22,357        21,232         2t,112        24,11          25,417
41    kervIc! HU  cuiulfe .pres servIce de Is Ditto
12  .....................................................................................................  .........  .........................................
44 2/ lias on sncriseatal productiom and Ago tai rates
43 31 IDA TEIS, Couslthent Fee of 0.5t on uadlshursed aennt
41 4/ Service thare of 0.152 on disbursed iment
47 6race period of 10 years, It principal for 10 years, St for 30 years
43 5! CCCE teresa 15 year loan  at 4.52, 5 yeir trace on principal.
49
SO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
0
l-h.



- 58 -
ANNEX 3-8
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF MALI
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
PRODUCTION
Table 1: Projected Output Average Iha. Gmelina Plantation a/
Year             Building Poles       Firewood           Timber
(units)          (steres)
2
3
4
5
6                      36                  8
7                     184                 40
8
9                     254                 59
10
11
12
13                     56                 13
14                    260                 40
15
16                    192                 48
17                     48                 11                    2
18
19
20
21                    184                 40
22                     42                 10                    4
23                    204                 48
24
25
26
27
28                    176                 40
29
30                    226                 82                   20
Total               1,862                439                   26
a/   Assumes 80Z good soil yielding 14 m9/ha/year,
20Z poor soil yielding 10 m3/ha/year.



- 59 -
ANNEX 3-8
Page 2 of 2
Table 2: Projected Production 2nd Forestry Project a/
Year   Forest Reserves        Natural Forest                Plantations
Management            Management
T b/  BP c/   F d/       T     BP      F          T        BP       F
1985                2760                   5560
1986                2760                   5560                         26400
1987                2760                   5560                         26400
1988                2760                   5560                         26400
1989                2760                   5560                         26400
1990                                       4400
1991                                       4400                21600    4800
1992                                       4400               132000   28800
1993                                       4400               132000   28800
1994                                       4400                284400   64200
1995                                       4800               284000   64200
1996                                       4800               262800   59400
1997                                       4800                152400   35400
1998                                       4800                186000   43200
1999                                       4800                189600   31800
2000                                       5200                189600   31800
2001                                       5200                304800   60600
2002                                       5200       1200    333600   67200
2003                                       5200       1200    300000   59400
2004                                       5200       1200    144000   35400
2005                                       5600       1200    144000   35400
2006                                       5600       1200    139200   30600
2007                                       560U       2400    135600   30000
2008                                       5600       2400    258000   58800
2009                                       5600       2400    258000   58800
2010                                       6000       2400    258000   58800
2011                                       6000       2400    147600   34800
2012                                       6000                122400   28800
2013                                       6000                105600   24000
2014                                       6000                105600   24000
2015                                       6000      12000    241200   73200
2016                                       6000      12000    241200   73200
2017                                       6000      12000    241200   73200
2018                                       6000      12000    135600   49200
2019                                       6000      12000    135600   49200
a/   Includes land preparation financed under PPF.
b/   Timber (mi3).
c/   Building Poles (units).
d/   Firewood (steres)
WAPAC
December 1985



- 60 -
ANNEX 3-9
Page 1 of 4
REPUBLIC OF MALI
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
1.        Analysis  has been  limited  to  the  semi-industrial  plantation
component, the sole element for which reliable data are available.  The
component consists of the planting of 3,000 ha of Gmelina over the five
years of the project.
Without Project Situation
2.        Two alternative cases have been considered  for the "without
project" situation:
(a)  the existing woodland is left untouched, yielding one stere/
ha/year, without any formalized intervention; or
(b) the woodland is completely cleared, yielding 40 stares/ha, with
natural growth restoring the stock and permitting another cut,
yielding 30 stares/ha after 30 years.
All wood in these two cases is valued as fuelwood.
With Project Situation
3.        Costs include all directly related production costs during the
five years of the project, plus a portion of the general overhead of OAPF
equal to the proportion of total operating expenses (overhead excluded)
that the plantation component represents (62%). None of the costs of the
central financial management unit have been included, since this has no
direct impact on production. In addition, the costs of weeding the plots
during four years after planting, and maincaining the plantations
(firebreaks, watchmen, etc.) until they are logged, have been included.
Price estimates include physical contingencies.   The analysis has been
carried out for a 30 year period after project end.
4.        The calculation was made eliminating 60% of the cost of technical
assistance from the project component, on the grounds that this represents
the portion of time devoted to the training function, and therefore should
not be included: the benefits from this training are not included in the
benefit stream, but would be reflected in future OAPF activities.
5.        Benefits.  Only direct benefits have been included.  As stated in
the text, there are major long term ecological benefits that cannot be
realistically  evaluated.   Direct  benefits  consist  of  incremental wood
production, consisting of fuelvood, timber and building poles.



- 61 -
ANNEX 3-9
Page 2 of 4
Key Economic Assumptions
6.        The following assumptions have been made in calculating the costs
and benefits:
(a) Prices are border prices, and exclude all taxes and duties.
Local costs are converted to border prices by applying the
standard conversion factor, estimated for Mali at 0.95. Specific
conversion factors were derived for certain types of expenditure.
Category                          Conversion Factor
Civil works    .                         .980
Machinery, vehicles, general             .995
equipment
Forestry works                           .985
Local project staff                      .950
General operating expenses               .975
(b)  Labor.  Experience under the First Project has shown that labor
is scarce in the project area, and this has imposed a constraint
on project implementation in the past (for this reason, amongst
others, the physical targets have been reduced in the proposed
project).   In light of this an opportunity cost of 10% over
market price has been applied to the market price of seasonal
labor.  Converted into border prices, this makes the economic
price almost equal to the actual financial market price.  The
market price has been used, as a proxy for the economic price in
this case.
Economic Price of Wood Products
7.        Firewood.  All firewood produced by the project is expected to be
consumed on the Bamako market, which, by the time the project benefits
accrue, will be facing a severe supply problem. Demand is expected to grow
by 60,000 stares a year to the year 2000: the project will be able to meet
only a small portion of this increase (only one year's increment at full
production). As discussed in Annex 1-2, the current market price of wood
is far from representing its true economic value to the economy as a whole.
The incremental production has been valued at the price of the nearest,
readily available,  substitute  fuel,  namely,  kerosene.  'W.hile currently
kerosene is not a ready substitute, price projections indicate that by the
time the project produces significant benefits, the prices of fuelwood and
kerosene will be very close (by 1995).  Table 4, Annex 2-2, shows the
relative values of  fuels: currently, the price of kerosene, valued at its
import parity price in terms of energy equivalent, is 50% higher tihan the
retail market price of wood in Bamako.  This factor has been applied to the
end-1984 market price of 2,500 CFAF per stere, and a "stumpage" value for
plantation wood derived.  World Bank projections have the real price of
petroleum products increasing by 142, over the period 1985-1995.  This



- 62 -
ANNEX 3-9
Page 3 of 4
increase has been applied to the economic price of firewood. An additional
factor has been applied, to take account of the fact that the stere
currently produced by OAPF, with wood from the natural forest, weighs only
225 kg whereas the stere from the future plantations will have a weight of
350 kg (both on a dried basis), an increase of 55%. The price of a stere
of wood produced after Year 6 has been increased by this amount.
Financial Price      Adjustment    Economic Price
(1984 CFAF/sterre)      Factor      (1984 CFAF/stere)
Import parity price           2,500.0            1.500              3,750.0
Transport to Bamako          (  790.4)           0.951               ( 751.6)
Loading, unloading           (  46.1)            1.000               ( 46.1)
Felling, stacking            (  204.1)           1.000               ( 204.1)
Transport of labor           (  104.3)           0.956               ( 99.7)
Miscellaneous                 ( 286.2)           0.950               ( 271.9)
Stumpage value                1,068.9                               2,376.6
Adjusted stumpage value (plantation stere)       2,376.6 X 1.55 =  3,696.8
8.        Building Poles.  The project is expected to produce standardized
poles of 6 m x 8.7 cm.  OAPF currently sells smaller poles at 325 CFAF
each;   for the future production this translates into a price of 8,400
CFAF/m3. Prices have increased by 1.4% per annum in real terms in the past
ten years: there is no reason to believe this increase will not continue
in the future as dertand grows along with the expansion of Bamako.   In
addition a premium for quality has been added:  the 1995 price has been
evaluated at 50% over the 1984 market value (an annual increase in real
terms of 3.4% per annum).
Financial Price      Adjustment    Economic Price
(1984 CFAF/pole)       Factor     (1984 CFAF/pole)
Market price, Bamako           325.0              1.5x0.95          463.1
Transport to Bamako           ( 89.80)           0.951               (85.4)
Loading, unloading             ( 46.10)          '.000               (46.1)
Cutting and trimming          ( 9.10)            1.000               t 9.1)
Transport of labor             ( 5.20)           0.956               ( 9.9)
Miscellaneous                  ( 27.15)          0.950               (25.8)
Stumpage value                 147.70                               286.8
9.        Timber.   Approximately  80%  of  sawmill  demand  is  currently
satisfied by imports  from the Ivory Coast.   Th project production is
expected to replace this imported wood, and the economic price has been
established accordingly. World Bank standard projections indicate a 14%
increase in real terms in the price of tropical hardwoods by 1995. This
increase has been applied to the Gmelina production, as shown below. A



- 63 -
ANNEX 3-9
Page 4 of 4
test was done showing the sensitivity to using a price increase of 1% p.a.
in real terms: the impact on the ERR was not significant.
Adjustment
Financial Price        Factor        Economic Price
(1984 CFAF/m3)                    (in 2003, constant
1984 CFAF/ms)
Imported lumber market price  67,500.0
Quality Discount (20%)         (13,500.0)
Ex-sawmill: Gmelina             54,000.0
Sawing cost                    (25,000.0)
Gmelina log equivalent          17,400.0           1.320             22,968.0
(assumes 60% yield)
Transport to saw-mill           (5,652.8)          0.951            ( 5,375.5)
Cutting and trimming            (  153.5)          1.000            (   153.5)
Extraction                      (2,125.0)          0.950            ( 2,019.0)
Miscellaneous                   (1,983.0)          0.950            C 1,884.0)
Stumpage Value                                                       13,536.9
Results of Analysis
10.       The results of the analysis, based on the assumptions listed
above are shown in the table below:
Economic Rate of Return
(based on 10% OCC)
'X)
1. Project vs total clearing                          9.2
2. Project vs non-intervention                       10.2
Sensitivity tests were carried out, the results of which are shown below
for case 2.
ImL RnaTEs F MEM F Er SnMA
Benefits
up3 l0 V 26!  up sz  E i0  N  20  iam 501 LAS 1 IER LAS 2 YEW LAS 3 YEW
Costs                                                     37    921    890      .1
Or.        10.14S  11.109  12.034  14.63    9.1U6    8.069   4.3    9.2    8.S90   *.001
1P 16      9.Z30  10.14!  11.023  13.4X2   B.268   7.249   3.662   3.482   7.363    7.
IF 211     8.432   9.303  10.145  12.485   7.510   6.531   3.066   7.772   7.1    6.752
UP 5       6.531   7.319   8.069  10.145   5.697   4.07   1.612   6.061   5.660   5.314
101 x      11.214  12.236  13.220  16.002  10.145   9.020   5.111  10.22    9.4    l.756
= 201     12.485  13.I06  14.639  17.649  11.344  10.145   6.016  11.324  10.397   9.U33
110 501    13.610  20.119  21.599   3.940  17.042  15.463  10.145  16.413  14.737  13.514
LA6 I YEAR    -      -       -              -      -       -    10.145  9.21   8.50
LAG 2 YEARS   -      -       -       -      -       -      -       -   10.145  9.291
LAE 3 EARS    -      -       -      -       -       -      -       -      -    10.145
WAPAC
December 1985



r   j ~         11,200/                                                                  /QS' I|                                                                                           do 
MALNV.   " M'LI                                                                                                               DI-.'  -
eMA , -EURKINA    = '1 NIGERIA 1410 0A
MALI
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
SECOND PROJET FOREST/ER                                                                                                                                                                     \
RORET RESEES
OU NAEflOA . P RESA40A  RVE5EVE4
___     SRUAMfORS    PRCT AREA
ZON DUPrOJITA  CRE fRESTERIE                                                                                  / U RA_L_
_    OTHER FORESM RESERVES
SPECIRO PROJECT LOCATIONS)
LOCArOSSPECiOuEs C W PROJ/r
-   PAVED MAUN ROANS                                                                      (' UI E Ai
_2c0         ROWEOS PdRIClPALES PE,,,ANENT!S
-    StEMITrENT MAIN ROADS                                                                      /¶4A
ROUTES PRNCIPALES WTERJATTETS
---PAVED SECONDARY ROADS
ROLIES SECODAJRBl bUOl 
RAJLWA IS                                                                                  ,
CEMIDSCEFER                                                                                                             j
*  ATIONA CAPITAL                               mVRS M 
CAPrrItAL OAr                                RMERtES                                            -
REGIONA CAPITALS                             HTERNAT1ONAL BOUNDRIE
CHEP-UE OE REGION                            ARON 7 ERES iNTMRNA T?ONALES             ,                                                   '
CERCLS CAJffALS
CHRPF-U6U Off CSRC4E
L....                                             1SX.             ,                          /  MEO.JA/
-    EGIONsEr.A5
UWMDEREMM ~ ~ ~ ~  ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 100'                                                           iC
CEROL9 DOLNOAMS ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~     ~      ~     ~      ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ M 



