Doxument of
The World Bank
FOR OmCIAL USE ONLY
Rput No. P-4208-MLI
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
OF SDR 5.9 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF MALI
FOR A
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
December 17, 1985
Ths dacomet h  a ribEi dubIea  i  w be an by reciab ealy Is the pevf.n.ce if
dmraElAal jules lb esluinen my ma otherwise be dbdcandwiwtbeut Wld Buuk auhdwrzrinlIn 



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit  :   CFA Franc (CFAF)
US$1.00             CFAF 434
CFAF 1 million :   US$2,304.00
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 stere of fuelvood from
natural forest                     =  0.50 m3 or 225 Kg of dried wood
1 m3 of fuelwood from natural forest =  2 steres or 450 Kg of dried wood
1 stare of fuelvood from
plantation (Gmelina variety)       5  0.60 m  or 350 Kg of dried wood
1 m3 of fuelvood from
plantation (Gmelina variety)       =  1.67 steres or 583 Kg of dried wood
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CCCE          Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (French Aid
Agency)
DNEF           Direction Nationale des Eaux et Forets (National Directorate
of Water and Forests)
DPP            Division  des  Projets  et  des  Programmes  (Programs  and
Projects Directorate)
FAC            Fonds d'Aide et Cooperation (French Grant Aid Agency)
IER           Institut d'Economie Rurale (Rural Economics Institute)
MRE/CD         Ministare des Relations ExtErieuresICoopEration et
Developpement (Ministry of External Relations/Cooperation
and Development, France)
NRNE          Ministere charge des Ressources Naturelles et de l'Elevage
(Ministry of Natural Resources and Livestock)
OAPF          Operation Ameinagement et Productions Forestieres (Forestry
Management and Production Operation)
OPNBB         Operation Parc National de la Boucle de Baoule (Boucle
du Baoule National Park Operation)
FISCAL YEAR
IDA                 :   July 1 - June 30
Government          :   January 1 - December 31
OAPF                :   January 1 - December 31



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF NALI
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:           Government of Mali
Beneficiary:        National Directorate of Water and Forests (DkEF)
Amount:             SDR 5.9 million (US$6.3 million equivalent).
Terms:              Standard IDA Terms.
Flow of Credit
Proceeds:           Borrower to DNEF (US$5.3 million): grant
Project
Description:        The project addresses the increasingly real threat of
deforestation in many parts of Mali through a
combination of urban and rural initiatives. For the
urban market, tax reforms will influence demand by
increasing the consumer price of wood in Bamako and
elsewhere while wood supply will be improved through
the  plantation  component.   In  rural  areas  market
interventions are inappropriate and technical solutions
are scarce. Accordingly, the project will finance two
pilot schemes aimed at developing guidelines for
managing the national forest.  The project would also
provide technical assistance to the Forestry Department
and finance studies to improve knowledge of the sector.
IIi doaIt hs a rstikddi tibution and mny be ued by reipients oly in the performan  of
thder oirc  duies Its wotents may not otherwise be disclsed witbout Wod Bank autrimtion.



- ii -
Estimated Costs:    (Net of identifiable taxes and duties)
Local      Foreign      Total
US$ nillion-
Support to DNEF                           0.7          1.2         1.9
Rural Forestry Activities                 0.5          1.0         1.5
Semi Industrial Plantations               1.0          2.3         3.3
Other OAPF Activities                     1.8          3.3         5.1
Project Financial Management Unit         0.2          0.6         0.8
National Park Support                      -           0.3         0.3
Total Base Costs                          4.2          8.7        12.9
Physical Contingencies                    0.5          0.6         1.1
Price Contingencies                       1.0          1.7         2.7
Total Project Costss/                     5.7         11.0        16.7
Financing Plan:
IDA                                  1.9         4.4          6.3
CCCE                                 1.7         3.7          5.4
1HRE/CD/FAC                          0.1          2.8         2.9
Government/OAPF                      2.0         0.1          2.1
Total                                5.7         11.0        16.7
at     Includes US$1.0 million PPF advance.
Estimated Disbursements from IDA Credit:
FY86      FY87      FY88       FY89      FY90       FY91
US$ million
Annual         1.23       1.36      1.01       0.81      1.21      0.68
Cumulative     1.23       2.59      3.60      4.41       5.62      6.30
Economic Rate
of Return:          10% (calculated on 40Z of project costs).



- iii -
Benefits and Risks:
The most iz2mediate and easily quantifiable benefit is the
increased wood production from the semi-industrial plantations which, given
the experience acquired under the first project, have low associated
technical risks. Much more important, although much more difficult to
quantify, are the potential benefits from the pilot rural forestry schemes
(supported by efforts to strengthen the forestry department) in arresting
the process of deforestation and soil degradation. Since these are pilot
operations they have a relatively high risk which will be minimized by
ensuring village participation and through close supervision.
Staff Appraisal Report: No. 5787-MLI, dated December 6, 1985.
MapE: IBRD 18886
WAPAC
December 1985



INTERNTATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
IEPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT
CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF MALI FOR
A SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit for the equivalent of SDR 5.9 million (US$6.3 million
equivalent) on standard IDA terms to the Republic of Mali to help finance a
proposed Second Forestry Project. Additional external financing for the
project would be provided by loans from France (through the Caisse Centrale
de Cooperation Economique, CCCE) in the amount of US$5.4 million equivalent
and by grants and technical assistance from France (through the Minist4re
des Relations Ext6rieures/Cooperation et Developpement, MRE/CD, and the
Fonds d'Aide et Cooperation, FAC) amounting to US$2.9 equivalent. The CCCE
loan would be for a term of 30 years, at 2.5% interest with a grace period
of ten years.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        Two reports, entitled "Economic Memorandum on Mali" (3200-MLI)
and  'Kali-Special Economic Study-Planning Institutions and the 1974-78
Plan" (3333-MLI), were distributed to the Executive Directors on June 30,
1981. The following paragraphs are based on these reports and the findings
of recent World Bank and IHF economic missions. Annex I gives country
data.
Background
3.        Landlocked in Africa's Sahelian belt, most of Mali's 1.2 million
square kilometers is desert; only one-fourth is arable, and even this is
subject to the climatic vagaries of the semi-arid tropics. Over the last
15 years, average rainfall and length of growing season have significantly
diminished. Soils are shallow, lateritic, poor in phosphates, and easily
eroded. Agricultural technology is rudimentary, with low crop yields and
livestock offtake. Thus, Mali's 7 million people are among the poorest in
the world, with 1984 per capita income of only US$140 and life expectancy
at birth of only 45 years. Overall, the country's potential for long term
growth is severely limited by harsh resource constraints.
1/  Parts I and II are substantially the same as those contained inthe
President's Report for the Fifth Highway Project (P-3941-MLI) which
was approved by the Executive Directors on September 19,1985.



- 2-
Developments in the 1960s and 1970s
4.        The   first   post-colonial   Government   (1960-68)   intervened
extensively in the economy in an attempt to promote growth and alleviate
poverty.   It  established  numerous  public  enterprises  and  instituted
widespread  price  and  trade  controls.   Relatively  favorable  climatic
conditions allowed a modest growth in CDP per capita during the 1960s, but
fiscal and external account deficits increased sharply.
5.        The present Government, which came to power in 1968, gradually
began to introduce a series of modest economic reforms aimed at restoring
financial and economic equilibrium through liberalizing trade, restruc-
turing public enterprises and promoting agriculture. These efforts were
frustrated in the early 1970s by severe drought conditions and the oil
price increases. Conditions improved somewhat in the late 1970s. Good
rains and newly built irrigation networks raised grain output by 50% from
1972/73 to 1978/79. Cotton cultivation expanded by approximately 80% over
the same period. Both consumption and investment were, moreover, sustained
by inflows of official development assistance vhich quintupled between 1972
and 1980. The combined impact of these factors resulted in a 2.2% annual.
increase in GDP per capita between 1970 and 1980.
6.        Despite these improved conditions, Government's budgetary posi-
tion continued to deteriorate through the late 1970s.  Restrictions on
civil service recruitment were relaxed, and the roster of public employees
increased by almost 50Z between 1975 and 1980.  Between 1976 and 1980,
scholarship payments for higher education doubled. A number of costly
public investment projects with dubious justification and several equally
questionable new public enterprises were launched.  Public enterprises were
forced to operate with low or negative profit margins in an effort to
insulate the population from inflation. As a result, the sector's deficits
rose significantly. The combined effect of these policies was reflected in
dramatic increases in the consolidated budgetary deficit, and, in turn, in
foreign indebtedness. By 1980, total medium and long term external public
debt equalled 75% of GDP.
Progress Since the Early 1980s
7.        Since the early 1980s, the Government has undertaken a program of
gradual structural reform to counteract the mounting disequilibria arising
from excess consumption and uneconomic investments. A number of measures
have been introduced aimed at reducing budgetary deficits, operating losses
of public enterprises, and public sectoiL arrears (both foreign and domes-
tic).  In addition,  reforms have been introduced to improve resource
allocation.  These include market liberalization, improved price incen-
tives, greater emphasis on rehabilitation and maintenance, and more effi-
cient public investments. The Government's progress in these policy areas
has occurred despite the adverse effects of recent drought conditions on
production and incomes: much, however, remains to be done.
8.        Mali's commitment to structural reform has been met with commen-
surate support from the donor community. Mali has successfully implemented



-3-
two IMP Standby Arrangements and a third Standby was approved by the Fund
in November 1985. In close cooperation with the IMF, IDA has also actively
supported Mali's restructuring efforts. In 1982, IDA approved the Economic
Management and Training project which provides technical assistance and
training to improve Mali's ecor 3mic management and policy formulation
capabilities.  This has provided a basis for subsequent policy reforms
addressing cotton pricing and revenues, educational expenditures, cereals
marketing, public enterprises, and cost recovery for roads maintenance.
Many of these sectoral reforms are being supported by IDA lending opera-
tions. An informal consortium of food aid donors has been assisting a
Cereals Marketing Reform Project since 1981.  It has supported various
reform measures with the provision of some 250,000 tons of grain over the
past five years.  Finally, Mali's entry into the West African Monetary
Union in June 1984, included substantial financial aid and debt
consolidation from France.
9.        In spite of the policy improvements and the significant level of
donor assistance in recent years, many macroeconomic indicators have
remained depressed since  1980.  Average annual GDP growth in constant
prices has been stagnant and, recently, negative. Consecutive years of
severe drought from 1982-84 led to a 25X decline in cereals production. As
a result, total cereal imports in 1984 reached a record 320,000 tons or
almost 50 kilograms per capita. Moreover, significant livestock losses and
destocking  occurred  in  1984.   Despite  buoyant  cotton  export  revenues
resulting from unusually high international cotton prices, rising imports
of foodstuffs necessitated by the drought caused the 1984 current account
deficit to remain at some 19% of GDP (6.2Z of GDP including grants).
Moreover, in 1985, cereal imports have remained at their 1984 levels, while
export revenues have fallen due to a marked decline in international cotton
prices. GDP is projected to grow by 1.7% for 1985.
Economic and Financial Policy Issues
10.       If the Malian economy is to achieve its financial and economic
stabilization objectives, policy reforms must be broadened and deepened in
three priority areas: public finances, economic regulation and incentives,
and the efficient allocation of investment resources.
11.       Public Finances.  Although the budgetary situation in Mali has
improved considerably in recent years, largely in the context of three
successive IMF standbys, there remains considerable scope for improvement.
Public finances remain weak and recurrent expenditures must still be
supported by external budgetary assistance.   To safeguard the progress
already achieved, Government must make a concerted effort to continue to
cut subsidies and excessive personnel outlays.   Cost recovery measures
should be instituted to finance operation and maintenance costs wherever
beneficiaries can be clearly identified, and public debt service payments
should be reduced. In addition to containing future expenditures, efforts
to increase revenues will also have to be intensified.
12.       Regulation and Incentives.  As indicated above, the Government
has recently begun to reduce its intervention in economic affairs,



- 4 -
especially in the areas of price controls and trade restrictions. Perhaps
most notably, full liberalization of paddy marketing is planned for the
1986/87 growing season. This process has been assisted by the recent Mopti
Area Development Project and will also be supported by the forthcoming
Office du Niger Project. However, in the agricultural sector, additional
measures are necessary to allow private traders a greater role in the
delivery of agricultural services and inputs.  Moreover,  in the public
enterprise sector, the Government is committed to a major reform program
that will reduce the overall size of the sector, while permitting
individual enterprises a greater degree of autonomy in managing their
internal operations.  Import monopolies have already been eliminated for
the bulk of products handled by the state trading company as well as for
pharmaceuticals  and medical  supplies.   IDA  is  supporting  this  effort
through the preparation of a Public Enterprise Sector Reform Project. The
project focuses on policy and institutional reform, physical rehabilitation
o' viable enterprises and technical support for liquidating nonviable ones.
This program has been closely coordinated with the third IMF Standby,
especially with respect to-eliminating the financial losses of Air Mali and
the continued reduction in the size and scope of the state trading corpora-
tion, SOMIEX.
13.       Efficient Allocation of Investment Resources.   Promoting more
efficient use of investment resources, both foreign and domestic, and
public and private, is among the most important issues to be addressed. As
in much of sub-Saharan Africa, investment as a proportion of GDP has been
high (over 15% of GDP during the 1970s, the bulk of which was public
investment), but it has not yielded commensurate growth in output. Public
resources have not been used optimally and excessive regulation has
encouraged inefficient allocation of private investments. Together, these
have contributed to recurrent financial disequilibria, including levels of
debt servicing and Government subsidies which the economy is incapable of
sustaining. Remedial measures are urgently required. Investment resources
need to be channelled toward rehabilitating and maintaining existing
facilities before undertaking new investments. More stringent economic and
financial criteria for project selection should be devised and applied
rigorously.
Issues Affecting Long Term Growth
14.       Even with substantial improvements in resource reallocation and
financial policy reforms, concerted action will be required to redress the
long term resource constraints facing the economy.  Three areas of high
priority are:
(a) human resource development;
(b) agricultural development; and
(c) consolidation of economic infrastructure.
15.       Human Resource Development.  Population growth is the overriding
issue in the area of human resource development. Unless it can be slowed



-5-
from its projected rate of 2.8% per year, population growth will negate
even  the  most  substantial  development  efforts.   Population  growth  is
already weighing heavily on the country's scarce resources.   Population
pressure has contributed to the degradation of spils caused by shorter
fallow periods, deforestation to supply increased demand for fuelwood, and
overgrazing by larger cattle herds.  Moreover,  the rate of population
growth will be a major factor in improving the provision of basic needs,
including primary health care, clean water, and primary education. The
Government needs to focus on the interrelationship of population with Its
overall objectives for economic growth and development and should begin to
formulate a population strategy. In addition, education policy needs to be
redefined to provide broader access to better quality primary education, to
lower unit costs, and to promote greater participant financing. Literacy
and primary school enrollment are presently far too low to provide an
adequate foundation for strengthening human capital, Mali's primary
resource. Third, primary health services, including rural water supplies,
must  be  improved.   Otherwise,  low  life  expectancies  and  high  child
mortality will continue to sap the productive capacity of the population,
while fueling the demand for more children.  Donor assistance will be
required to expand public health programs, but these must be based on
affordable, replicable project designs, improved cost recovery, and greater
involvement by beneficiaries.
16.       Agricultural Development.  Agriculture is the country's dominant
sector, accounting for over 40Z of GDP. Cotton and livestock alone account
for 75% of exports. With no significant mineral deposits, overall future
growth will depend primarily on raising agricultural production, and,
relatedly, on improved agricultu:al practices and technology. Although
there is some scope to expand the area under cultivation, the greater
potential lies in increased yields, which in turn, are most likely where
rainfall is highest or where irrigation facilities exist. Equally impor-
tant to the sector's future development will be:
(a) better delivery of agricultural services, especially extension
and inputs;
(b) adequate maintenance of irrigation structures and access roads;
and
(c)  addressing the twin problems of deforestation and soil erosion
degradation which are posing an increasing threat to many are.,
of Mali.
In addition to consolidating agricultural infrastructure and strengthening
essential public institutions, measures are required to increase cost
recovery, expand beneficiary participation in operation and maintenance,
improve producer incentives, and liberalize input and output markets. At
the same time, more resources should be channelled into agricultural
resea-:ch to:
(a) improve crop varieties, with a particular focus on the needs of
rainfed agriculture on which the bulk of the population depends;



-6-
(b) develop new export crops; and
(c) further integrate livestock with crop cultivation.
17.       Consolidation of Economic Infrastructure.  Mali needs to devote
greater attention to better utilization of existing economic infra-
structure. Given a scarcity of investment resources, macro and sectoral
priorities need to emphasize efficient operation and improved maintenance
of existing  facilities  before  undertaking new  investments.   Decisions
regarding transport sector investments must be taken with particular care,
given Mali's vast  internal distances,  and its low population density.
Although roads in the western part of the country are poor, priority must
be first given to rehabilitating and maintaining existing roads in the
productive central and southern areas of the country. Similarly, in the
irrigation sector, existing capacity is often idle or deteriorating. The
rehabilitation of such facilities should be given priority in the alloca-
tion of investment funds.  In addition, local resource mobilization and
cost recovery need to be improved to enable adequate maintenance.
Foreign Assistance and Its Implications for External Debt
18.       In recent years, Mali has benefitted from considerable foreign
assistance, which has, in fact, financed virtually all development invest-
ments.   Following the  1972-73 drought,  there was a rapid increase in
foreign assistance, mostly grants and highly concessional loans. However,
even with a high degree of concessionality, a dramatic increase in debt
service obligations is now coming due on past borrowings which will have a
major impact on public finances.  Service on external public debt is
expected to reach about 27% of Government revenues in 1985.  The debt
service ratio, which was some 13% in 1984 (9.8Z excluding IMF repurchases),
will increase sharply to 19% in 1985 (13.8Z excluding IMF repurchases) and
increase further in 1986. The rise in external debt service obligations
has several implications.  Most fundamentally, it points to the need to
exercise gre.-t caution in contracting future public debt.  Recourse to
nonconcessional borrowing will have to be avoided. Public sector invest-
ments will have to be strictly controlled to ensure that scarce investment
resources are used solely for priority projects which meet rigorous selec-
tion standards based on stringent economic criteria. With external debt
cl'arges already at a level which strains the country's servicing capa-
bility, Mali will need to make every effort to mobilize additional domestic
resources. With this in mind, electricity tariffs, petroleum taxes and
road user fees have recently been raised to help service the sizeable
foreign loans of these sectors.   Despite these actions, external debt
rescheduling may be necessary in 1986.
19.       In the future, Mali will continue to require substantial donor
assistance to maintain a minimum level of output during the implementation
of its program of economic reform and structural adjustment. In particu-
lar, donor support is required for:



- 7 -
(a)  significantly higher levels of grant or IDA-type concessional
financing to improve the structure of the external debt in the
medium and long term;
(b) financing a major portion of local costs of projects, including
both investment and operation and maintenance, to reduce
budgetary presst&res; and
Cc) increased levels of non-project lending in order to refinance
existing debt and reduce current, unmanageable debt service
payments.
PART II - WORLD BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MALI
20.       The proposed  credit would be  the Association's  thirty-fifth
credit extended to Mali (including two supplementary credits), which would
bring total commitments of IDA funds to $395.6 million equivalent (in-
cluding IDA Special Funds totalling US$11.2 million equivalent).  Of the 34
operations already approved, 12 have been for agriculture and related
activities; nine for transport; three for education; two for telecommunica-
tions; two for energy; and one each for small scale industries, urban
development, power and water supply, technical assistance, rural water
supply, and health. Agriculture and transportation represent the largest
share of past commitments, accounting for 32Z and 33Z, respectively. In
addition, the International Finance Corporation has made two investments,
totalling US$3.2 million, one for a bleach and plastic products factory
and the other for a shea nut processing plant. Annex II gives a summary
statement of these credits as of Septeiber 30, 1985.
21.       In support of the Government's progress on policy issues, the
average level of IDA commitments to Mali has risen significantly in recent
years. The annual average for FY84-85 was $45 million, compared to an
annual average for FY82-83 of $27 million. In FT86, in addition to the
$48.6 million credit (the largest single credit to Mali to date) for the
Fifth Highway Project already approved by the Board, we intend to submit
several other projects with notable policy reform components for Board
approval in FY86.  These include the proposed Forestry Project and the
Public Enterprise Sector Reform Project. Project implementation in Mali
has been generally satisfactory. Despite difficulties and delays caused by
inadequate   Government   counterpart  financing,   the   rate   of   IDA's
disbursements to Mali through 1984 was roughly the same as for other West
African countries. More Importantly, project performance appears to have
improved, pari passu, in line with Government's attempts to solve its
financial problems and strengthen its economic management.
22.       IDA's lending strategy in Mali has two objectives:
(a) to nurture and support structural adjustment; and
(b) to lay the founlation for sound long term growth.



- 8 -
In support of needed policy reforms, the Association has financed a tech-
nical assistance project (Economic Management and Training Project,
Cr. 1307-MLI), designed in close collaboration with the IMF, to strengthen
management of the Malian economy by improving financial and economic
policies and public institutions and by providing training to Malian civil
servants.  This has been followed by a series of sectoral adjustment
projects which are addressing important reforms in specific sectors. For
example, the Second Mali-Sud Rural Development Project (Cr. 1415-MLI) is
supporting a comprehensive reform of the cotton sector while the Third
Education Project (Cr. 1442-MLI/SF10) and the recently approved Fifth
Highway Project (Cr. 1629-MLI) are designed to improve planning and
resource mobilization and allocation in their respective sectors.
23.       Building on these reforms, there is, over the next few years, a
solid project pipeline for Mali which will continue to address structural
issues. Moreover, in recognition of its commitment to a program of macro
policy reform, Mali is eligible for assistance under the Special African
Facility. Among the operations currently under preparation, two projects,
each with important policy reform components, are provisionally programmed
for such assistance. The first of these. the Public Enterprise Sector
Reform Project, is designed to introduce an appropriate policy framework
for the public enterprise sector and to put it on a sound financial
footing.   Second,  the  Office  du  Niger  Rehabilitation  Project  will
consolidate the pricing and marketing reform in the rice subsector
initiated under the recently approved Mopti Area Development Project
(Cr. 1597-MLI) and will also address the financial restructuring of this
important irrigation authority. When these sectoral policy reforms are
underway, IDA will begin discussions aimed at formulating a medium term
structural adjustment program to address macroeconomic issues of an
intersectoral nature which cannot be resolved in the context of sectoral
operations.
24.       Assuming the successful outcome over the medium term of these
reform programs, Mali's long term growth prospects will depend on the full
realization  of its natural and human potential.   The Associ2tion has
accordingly financed a wide range of projects designed to exploit and
augment that potential. Most projects in the agriculture and rural devel-
opment sector include research components aimed at developing appropriate
farming/cropping systems. The proposed Second Forestry Project has been
designed to combat the urgent problem of deforestation with a combination
of:
(a) fiscal and pricing measures appropriate for urban areas; and
(b) pilot schemes for managing rural forest resources.
Future infrastructure projects to be chosen on a very selective basis will
attempt to ensure that the benefits of past investments are fully realized
and that Mali's future growth is not constrained by inadequate capacity in
its transport, telecommunications or energy sectors.  To maximize IDA's
imp2ct whenever possible, these projects will reflect a sectoral



-9-
orientation in order to better focus on the issues of investment strategy
and institutional development.
25.       Previous operations in the health, water supply, shelter and
education sectors have been designed to develop Mali's human resources by
expanding the population's access to basic education and improving their
health and productivity. Future operations in each of these sectors are
planned. Finally, the Association will attempt to broaden its dialogue
with Government concerning the linkages between Mali's presently high
population growth rate, deterioration of its fragile resource base and
budgetary constraints which hinder the provision of basic needs.   In
addition to highlighting family planning efforts in the ongoing health
project, this dialogue will be pursued in economic and sector work with a
view to developing a future health/population project.
PART III - THE RURAL SECTOR
26.       Mali has a population of over 7 million inhabitants in an area of
1.24 million km2 in the middle of sub-Saharan Africa.  Over 80% of the
population lives in the rural areas and the country depends for its food
supply mainly on the wetter southern zones (800-1.200 mm rainfall) which
cover roughly 3 million hectares. Of these, some 2 million are cultivated.
A large portion of the country (58Z) lies in the Saharan zone (less than
200 mm rainfall); the rest is divided between the Sahelian (200-350 mm):
14%, Sudanian (600-800mm): 22%, and transitional zones: 61. The prin-
cipal crops are millet, sorghum, cotton, groundnuts and rice. Livestock
plays an important role in the agricultural system and in the national
economy.  The country has suffered from declining and increasingly erratic
rainfall over the last decade, culminating in three years of severe drought
which have exacerbated the difficult economic conditions.  The overall
potential for agricultural production is generally limited by low and
uncertain rainfall (with the exception of the southern zone), fragile soils
prone to exhaustion and erosion, and low yielding traditional crop and
livestock technologies with little scope for intensification. Nonetheless,
Malian farmers are among the most proficient in West Africa and there is
scope for further development in the south, especially in maize production.
In addition, with the Inner Delta of the Niger River, Mali has the largest
physical scope for expanding irrigation of all the Sahelian countries.
Major issues in the rural sector include the balance of investment between
irrigation and rainfed agriculture, reform of the cumbersome and over-
staffed Rural Development Operations (ODRs - Operations de Developpement
Rural), establishment of an effective agricultural research program, and
increased beneficiary contribution to costs and activities.
The Forestry Subsector
27.       Official statistics, which impute less than 2% of .GDP to the
forestry subsector, do not adequately reflect the important role it plays
in providing fuelvood, building poles,and other products. Fuelvood (fire-
wood and charcoal) accounts for a high proportion of both rural and urban



- 10 -
energy resources (about 95%) supplying basic needs for cooking and heating.
The forest cover is a significant dry weather grazing reserve and supplies
much of the fodder required for sustaining livestock. Subsidiary products
such ad gum, shea nuts, various fruits and nuts, as well as thatching and
weaving materials, are widely used by the rural population. In addition to
providing a habitat for a wide range of animals and plants, the forest
cover has a profound ecological impact. Trees, shrubs and bushes fix the
soil, protecting it against wind and rain erosion, and serve to regenerate
soil fertility, in the form of bush fallow, under the traditional system of
shifting cultivation.
28.       Natural forest vegetation covers some 17.4 million ha, 14X of
Mali's area, of which 12.9 million as natural forest stands, and 4.5
million as man-induced forests (bush fallows:   2.5 million, and forest
parks:  2 million).  Natural growth rates average 0.4 m3/ha/year and range
from 0.75 m3/ha/year in the well-watered Sudano-Guinean zone, to only 0.05
m3/ha/year in the northern desertic zones. Total growth is over 7 million
m3/year, but only some 30% of this is currently accessible and exploiitable,
given population distribution, marketing conditions, and endemic disease
problems.   The  accessible  proportion  can  and will  increase with  the
pressure of demand and resulting higher prices over time.
29.       Areas classified by Government and legally protected against
encroachment include forest and fauna reserves, national parks and
controlled forestry areas, and cover 25Z of the forested area, but owing to
limited government resources and growing population pressure, much of these
are "'reserved" only in name, and have no management plan. There are some
5,000 ha of dense tree plantations (mostly planted under the First
Project), and some village woodlots in the southern region of the country.
30.       For a population estimated at 7.4 million inhabitants in 1982,
total annual fuelwood consumption was some 6.7 million m3 (3,000,000 tons)
of dried wood, compared to an accessible supply estimated at 2.7 million
M3. Of this, about 80% was consumed in the rural area and 20% in the urban
areas. Wood is a traded commodity only in the urban areas: in the rural
areas each family collects directly what it needs for its own consumption
and, in some cases, for sale to the towns. By far the greater part of
fuelwood consumption is in the form of firewood, charcoal being used only
for ironing and making tea. Building poles and local timber amount to an
additional 5-10% of total wood consumption. Most demand for industrial and
construction wood is met by imports.
31.       Without a major shift in demand and supply patterns, Mali will
face a crisis in fuelwood supply in the next two decades. Already, in
areas of concentrated demand (around the towns), the effects of the deficit
are highly visible. While the bulk of the deficit is in rural areas, the
effects are spread over vast areas, and are not so obvious. The FAO has
estimated the current demand-supply situation, comparing consumption to
accessible (i.e., easily exploitable) natural production by ecological
zones. Not surprisingly, the balance is worst in the northern, arid areas,
where demand far outstrips natural growth, and where there is little that
can be done to improve the situation. The balance improves as one goes



- 11 -
south, but only in the well-watered Sudano-Guinean zone is there a satis-
factory ratio. For the country as a whole, annual consumption is over
twice the annual accessible natural growth.  Given the current overall
population increase of 2.8% p.a., and urban population increases of About
7% p.a., Mali's already depleted accessible forestry resources could be
irremediably disrupted within the next two decades. By 2000 annual demand
will reach 7.9 million m3 of fuelwood, compared with an accessible annual
supply of 2.7 million m 3. This assumes that there will be no increase in
accessibility, a pessimistic assumption since it can be expected. that
scarcity and higher prices will induce greater efforts to exploit wood
currently classified as inaccessible: what the impact on supply might be
is impossible to predict. By the year 2000, if current urbanization and
consumption patterns continue, annual fuelwood consumption in Bamako,
estimated at 0.330 million m3 in 1982, may reach 1.5 million mi3.
32.       Wood is currently viewed by the population as a free good, a
perception both reflected in, and encouraged by, the very low level of
permit fees for cutting (stumpage fees). Current prices do not encourage
individuals to plant trees for wood sales. The problem of wood capital
depletion is, by its very nature, a self-accelerating one. The ecological
impact of severe droughts encourages the spread of eroded and degraded
areas to engulf and obliterate what are often marginal environments of
limited productivity 2/. If, at a minimum, the process is at least to be
arrested, attention and resources must be focussed on the management of
renewable resources to give sustained yields.
33.       Policy Options.  In order to achieve a long term resolution of
the problem both sides of the demand/supply equation must be tackled.
However, a distinction must be made between the options available, and
policies to be pursued in the urban and rural areas, respectively. For the
urban areas, where wood is traded, the pricing mechanism offers the possi-
bility that raising  prices by ta;ation will encourage more efficient use
and substitution by other non-wood fuels, as well as providing resources
for increased investment. This option is not available in the rural areas,
where wood is not a traded commodity. Here demand can be influenced only
through self-regulation, itself the result of education concerning the very
real threat at hand, and part of the broader movement to place responsi-
bility for environmental management in the hands of the population living
in the area. The alternative of externally imposed controls, i.e., strict
enforcement in every village of a stringent Forestry Code, has been demon-
strated in many countr-ifes as unfeasible, being neither affordable nor
implementable. On the supply side, it is the rural population that offers
the only long term hope: wood supply can be increased by planting, whether
2/   The process and possible remedies have been the subject of a recent
Bank report entitled "Desertification in the Sahelian and Sudanian
Zones of West Africa" (Report No. 5210), and a Staff Working Paper
(No.704) "Fuelwoor! Consumption and Deforestation in African Countries"
(Anderson and Fishwick).



- 12 -
in state-managed schemes or privately at the rural level, but the costs of
industrial plantations makes them, at best, a very partial solution to the
problem. Supply can be increased in the short term by increasing acces-
sibility to existing forest, but this needs to be done after careful
planning (this will be studied under the proposed project). Much can be
done in the area of management of the existing natural forest, and there is
a need for a major effort in adaptive research.The impending crisis
regarding urban demand for energy is not capable of resolution by planting
alone: a combination of increased supply, reduced demand and fuel substi-
tution is the only answer. These actions all imply an immediate response
as well as long term commitment from the Government in addition to the
critical participation of the population as a whole.
Institutions
34.       The Forestry Department (Direction Nationale des Eaux et Fore^ts -
DNEF) is one of the technical departments of the Ministry of Natural
Resources and Livestock (Ministare charge des Ressources Naturelles et de
l'Elevage - MRNE).   It has seven divisions at its Bamako headquarters,
responsible for:
(a) environment;
(b) projects and programs;
(c) water and soil conservation;
(d) natural forest management and reforestation;
(e) hunting and national parks;
(f) inland fishing; and
(g) personnel and equipment.
Mali is organized into seven forestry "Regions" and the Department also
oversees five semi-autonomous "operations" (or parastatal agencies), of
which the Forestry Management and Production Operaticn (Operation
Amenagement et Productions Forestieres - OAPF) and the 'Boucle du Baoule"
National Park ("Operation Parc Nlational de la Boucle du Baoule" - OPNBB)
are  the  two  affected  by  the  proposed  project.   In  addition,  the
FAC/CCCE-assisted Rural Forestry Project in the Fana-Dioila-Koulikoro area
has recently started operating as a quasi-autonomous agency. This agency
would receive continued support and reinforcement as a component of the
proposed project.
35.       Unlike other Sahelian countries, Mali has a relatively large
forestry staff, mostly trained at the Polytechnic Institute of Katibougou
and at the field training center of Tabacoro. In 1983, total staff con-
sisted of 761 agents, an appropriate number for the country.  However,
given the magnitude of the forestry problems, the Forestry Department faces
huge difficulties, made worse by inadequate funding of operations. There



- 13 -
is little planning or monitoring of projects, and inventory control 3/ and
management of field operations are generally weak. The Forestry Department
is unable to provide the necessary surveillance and protection of the
forest cover against poaching, overgrazing, overclearing, and bushfires;
nor can it carry out the necessary reforestation, management of natural
forest cover and erosion control programs on a significant scale.  The
Department is supported by the national Budget, supplemented by the
receipts from stumpage fees and "transaction" payments, which are fines
imposed on illegal cutting. The latter have become far more important than
stumpage fees in recent years. The receipts replenish the Forestry Fund,'
which finances the bulk of the Forestry Department's investment program.
The overall level of funding must be increased if any sustained and
meaningful actions are to be undertaken. Extra resources can only come
from within the sector itself in view of the overall constraints on govern-
ment spending, implying a much greater degree of cost recovery and benefi-
ciary contribution: this is sought under the proposed project.
36.       Forestry research is the responsibility of the National Institute
for Zoological, Forestry, and Hydrobiological Research (Institut National
de la Recherche Zootechnique, Foresti5re, et Hydrobiologique) located at
Sotuba but formally linked to the Rural Economic Institute (Institut
d'Economie Rurale).  Due to the lack of personnel and funding, forestry
research is presently limited to small scale trials (with the exception of
promising Canadian-financed trials in the swamps of the Office du Niger
area). There is currently a grave lack of knowledge concerning species and
techniques suitable for arid and semi-arid zones throughout the region.
The effort required to put in place an appropriate research program lies
well beyond the resources of any individual country, and is now being
tackled at a regionwide level. Pending the development of such a program
the proposed project would limit its research support to providing funds to
carry out, within OAPF, applied research specifically oriented to
identifying and developing better planting stock for exotic and local
species, using already proven techniques.
37.       Government  Policy and Experience.   Starting with  the  severe
drought of 1972-1973 and throughout the subsequent dry decade, there has
been growing awareness on the part of both Government and donors of the
importance of an effective forestry program. In 1982, the Forestry Depart-
ment issued both a "Forestry Policy" document and an "Action Program",
within the context of its overall objectives for the rural sector. The
goals are broad and unobjectionable and form the foundation for the
proposed Government development program to be funded through both internal
and external financing. The main program elements include:
(a) institution building in the forestry subsector;
(b) forestry research;
3/   A  FAC-financed  project,  recently  started,  is  going  to  take  an
inventory of existing NFC and would build up an inventory control unit
within the Forestry Department.



- 14 -
(c) implementation of state-managed and rural forestry projects on a
large scale; and
(d) adoption of appropriate legislation (policy reform).
38.       Apart from the IDA/CCCE/FAC FLrst Forestry Project (para 41). a
number of other donors (Swiss, German, French, American, Canadian and
Dutch) have financed projects of various kinds throughout the country. The
overall results of this first generation of forestry projects have not been
encouraging: technical constraints in the Sahelian region are legion. A
major problem is the lack of technical packages well adapted to arid and
semi-arid conditions. Experience with semi-industrial plantation has shown
this to be an expensive method of reforestation, though technically
feasible; with time, unit costs will fall, and production will increase as
improved species are introduced.  Natural forest management has proved
elusive, as not enough is known of the natural growth patterns on which to
base a management plan. Rural reforestation has been even less successful
wherever the classic village woodlot approach has been tried. Farmers are
more interested in planting traditional species, including fruit trees, and
demand is high for such seedlings from nurseries.   The Swiss-financed
project in the Sikasso region has been quite successful, however, benefit-
ting from the high rainfall in the zone, but the replicability of the
technical approach (in the drier areas) and of its administrative set-up
(top-down) is limited. A FAC/CCCE-financed rural forestry project in the
Fana-Dioila-Koulikoro region has been badly affected by the most recent
drought. The lack of success should not be surprising - these are first
attempts at finding solutions in a very difficult sector, and village level
interventions in particular confront all kinds of institutional, political
and  traditional obstacles.   Because  of  this,  OAPF/Forestry Department
recently carried out a comprehensive study (financed under the first IDA
project), the conclusions of which are partially reflected in the proposed
project, to make proposals for more effective integration of forestry into
the rural sector. There are no instant panaceas, and progress can only be
gradual given Government's limited absorptive capacity. Forestry projects
must therefore be seen as long term investments:  the proposed project
represents part of a long term program spanning many years and several
projects.
39.       The overall strategy followed thus far by IDA in the forestry
subsector, falls into three main categories, broadly defined as follows:
(a) To reduce the gap between consumption and supply of forestry
products (both fuelwood and others).  This is to be attempted
through increased supply (management of natural forests, better
access, forestry plantations both state-managed and rural,
cultivation of fast growing species) while reducing demand
through the pricing mechanism, thereby inducing more efficient
use of wood (improved stoves, efficiency in harvesting) and
substitution (principally by commercial fuels).
(b)  To  improve  overall  knowledge  of  the  sector.   This  includes
further research into the role that forestry products play in



- 15 -
production systems, as well as research into improved traditional
species and adaptive techniques.
(c) To improve the policy environment. Given the limited impact of
direct demand and supply measures (see below), any large scale
intervention will, of necessity, involve the participation of the
rural population. To achieve such participation, the incentives
with regard to forestry and land utilization need to be improved
and made explicit; this involves questions of the forestry code
as well as price/taxation policy.
40.       It must be recognized that the scope for anything more than
marginal gains in all these areas remains very small in the medium term.
The technical constraints have already been discussed (para 38); to these
must be added the fact that pricing policy can only affect the small
portion of consumption that is commercially traded, and the major shift in
consciousness that has to take place not only on the part of the
farmer/consumer, but also by the forestry agent as well. Should rainfall
continue at recent levels, and population growth remain unchanged, it will
be difficult to arrest the process of degradation. Industrial plantation
offers at least some alleviation of the problem in the area of Bamako where
it is most critical.
41.       Experience  with  Past  Lending.   The  First  Forestry  Project
(Cr. 883-MLI) (at a total cost of US$9.4 million, of which US$4.0 million
came from IDA) had as its objectives:
Ca) the creation and management of 3,400 ha of semi-industrial
plantations and the improvement of 1,000 ha of natural forest
reserves to improve the supply of fuelvood and building poles in
the Bamako area;
(b) an experimental component of 60 ha of plantations and 200 ha
managed national forest reserve in the Segou Region;
(c) an experimental irrigated plantation at Mopti (70 ha);
(d) creation and management of rural tree nurseries at Bamako, Segou,
and Mopti, as well as the rehabilitation and management of a
nursery of San; and
(e) complementary studies of rural forestry and wood utilization.
42.       There were delays in implementing the natural forest components,
and the irrigated forestry component at Mopti was dropped because of the
difficulty of managing an experimental activity so far from project head-
quarters. For all other components, however, the project performed well,
despite higher than foreseen costs due to the oil price increases.  As
planned, 2,700 ha of semi-industrial rainfed tree plantations were estab-
lished, another 1,000 ha prepared for future plantings, and over 500,000
seedlings distributed to the rural population, although there was little
monitoring of the subsequent fate of the trees. The project has provided



- 16 -
on-the-job training for field and management staff, as well as developed an
impressive cost accounting, inventory control and fuelwood marketing
system.
43.       Major lessons  learned,  and reflected  in  the design of  the
proposed project, concern:
(a) the necessity of restricting the project area to that which can
be easily supervised by the project entity (para 48);
(b) practical experience in the establishment of semi-industrial tree
plantations and the harvesting and marketing of wood (para 53);
(c) practical experience in the management of large scale forestry
projects, in particular the accounting and monitoring aspects
(para 54).
IV - THE PROJECT
Background
44.       The proposed project was identified and prepared in 1983.  In
July 1985 a Project Preparation Facility was granted for US$1.0 million to
complete preparatory work. The project was appraised In January 1985.
Negotiations were held in Washington in November 1985, with a Malian
delegation led by H.E. Mady Diallo, Minister responsible for Natural
Resources and Livestock. The Staff Appraisal Report (No. 5787-MI) dated
December 6, 1985 contains further detailed description of the project. A
supplementary project data sheet is presented in Annex III.
n4e       Objectives.  The proposed project would be a continuation of the
first IDA/FAC/CCCE project (Credit 883-MLI), and would build on the the
experience of this first phase.  In the light of the diagnosis of the
sector's problems (para 38). this second phase project would aim to:
(a) prevent further degradation/disruption of the endangered natural
forest cover of the second region through implementation of pilot
schemes for management of the unreserved forest cover (including
bushfallows  and  forest  parks),  as  well  as  assistance  to
tree/shrub/bush plantation in the rural areas and support to the
"Boucle du Baoule" National Park area;
(b) effect changes in the policy environment, particularly price
policy;
(c) strengthen the national forestry department's ability to
identify, design, plan, implement and monitor its development and
control activities;



- 17 -
(d) improve supplies of local wood products for Bamako through the
expansion of state-managed semi-industrial tree plantations and
management of the forest reserves in the Bamako area; and
(e) improve the knowledge of the sector through a series of national
studies.
46.       The  project would achieve these objectives by financing the
following main components:
(a) pilot rural forestry activities in the Second Region;
(b) assistance to the "Boucle du Baoule" National Park (OPNBB);
(c) assistance to the Forestry Department Headquarters (DNEF);
(d) support to the Forestry Management and Production Operation
(OAPF) in the Bamako area;
(e) creation of and support of a Central Administrative and Financial
Management Unit, through expansion of the OAPF unit.
47.       Rationale  for Bank  Involvement.  IDA financing  is justified
primarily by the Association's unique position in being able to assist in
policy reform. In line with the Bankts publicly stated priority accorded
to forestry, the proposed project brings major new policy initiatives both
in rural forestry and in influencing demand. In addition it reinforces the
thrust of our dialogue with Government on the demographic pressure on
resources. From our own perspective there is a clear need to increase our
knowledge of techniques and gain further experience in the difficult
conditions of the sector.
48.       In light of the experience under the First Forestry Project, the
project area has been limited to the 2nd Region around Bamako, Fans, Dioila
and Koulikoro. This is a critical area owing to its proximity to Bamako,
and one where pressure on the existing forest cover is very high. All OAPF
activities would be located in the forest reserves of La Faya, Les Monts
Mandingaes. and Soussan, the first covering 80,000 ha, 50 km from Bamako,
the second 14,500 ha, situated 20 km away and the third 37,000 ha at 70 km
distance; planting will be confined to the first two reserves. The rural
forestry activities would be concentrated in the area of Fana-Dioila-
Koulikoro (see Map No. 18886). The areas in question, along with most of
the National Park (OPNBB), lie within the southern part of the Sudanian
Savannah zone. The climate is characterized by a seven month dry season
and a five month rainy season (June to October). with annual rainfall
averaging 1,100 mm. Land in the forest reserves is relatively flat, with
good access by all weather roads. Only about 30% of the surface area has
soils suitable for plantation activity, however. The Koulikoro region lies
further north and has lower rainfall. 600-800 mm per annum. The forest
cover throughout the project area consists mainly of woodlands and tree and
shrub savannahs. Productivity averages about 0.4 m3/ha/year, including
bush fallows and forest parks which provide a large part of the fuelwood



- 18 -
supplied to Bamako.  Agricultural uses take up about 252 of the land
surface, and population density is about 10 inhabitancs/km2.  The areas of
the forest reserves are lightly populated, however, and this has caused
some problems in the supply of seasonal labor. Following the erratic and
insufficient rainfall of recent years, numerous deteriorated patches have
occurred   in  some  overpopulated   areas:    this  could   trigger  the
erosion/degradation/desertification process if care is not exercised.
49.       Rural Forestry Activities.  Given the crucial need to limit the
increasing uncontrolled wood logging in the Fana-Dioila-Koulikoro area in
the 2nd Region and in order to build upon the ongoing FAC/CCCE rural
forestry project,  the proposed project would include a redesigned and
expanded rural forestry component.  This component would have two main
elements:
(a) Two pilot schemes of agrosylvopastoral management of the un-
reserved forest cover, in full liaison with the rural population
and the established extension services. The first scheme would
be implemented in the relatively well stocked and underpopulated
area of Mafeya, the second in the understocked and overpopulated
area of Dioila.   The pilot  schemes would attempt to devise
solutions to the urgent need to manage the forest cover in the
rural areas  (especially around urban centers)  with  the full
participation of the rural population. They would consist, in
essence,  of a transfer over  time of responsibility  for the
management of the village woodlands from the Forestry Department
to the villagers themselves. There is no doubt that this new
form of management would face many socio-economic and technical
problems, but it is only through such an approach that the heart
of the problem can be addressed. The pilot schemes will test
approaches that have shown promise elsewhere.  They will be
carried out in accordance with a timetable agreed at negotia-
tions, and a mid-term review of progress is programmed. It is a
condition of disbursement for this component that arrangements
satisfactory to IDA shall be made with the extension services in
the project area.
(b) Assistance to tree/shrub/bush plantations in the rural area of
Fana-Dioila-Koulikoro through provision of plants from the three
rural forestry nurseries established under the FAC/CCCE project.
The proposed project would promote the planting of mainly multi-
purpose trees wherever the farmer wishes to plant, with the
emphasis  on  individuals  rather  than  on  communities.   This
approach has been far more successful than the traditional
project community/village woodlot systems. Planting stock would
first be provided from the existing state-managed tree nurseries,
with the understanding that family or community-managed mini-
nurseries would replace the state management in the near future.
50.       Based on the results of these pilot schemes, in which respon-
sibility for the protection of their lands will be passed back to the
farmers, proposals would be developed by DNEF for the reform of land use



- 19 -
and tenure laws, forestry regulations and price incentives.  Such reforms
are a critical element in any long term, large scale development action,
whether in forestry or in other agricultural and livestock subsectors.
51.       Assistance to the "Boucie du Baoule" National Park (OPNBB).  At
the specific request of the Government, the proposed project would provide
support to OPNBB in protecting the "Boucle du Baoule" National Park area
which is under considerable pressure.  This is a vast massif of about 1
million ha of rich and diverse Sahelo-Sudanian vegetation, which lies on
the immediate outskirts of the overexploited Bamako area. This subcompo-
nent would finance a radio communication network and a rural road mainte-
nance unit.  Commitment has been obtained from Government concerning a
number of accompanying actions that need to be undertaken, including:
(a)  implementing the existing regional development plan for the park
area (the plan is acceptable to IDA); and
(b)  removing hamlets/villages situated within the park boundaries
over the life of the project. A plan has been drawn up for their
transfer,  which  provides  adequate  land  beyond  the  park
boundaries.
Transfer of the villages will be carried out in accordance with a plan to
be approved by IDA.  Formal assurances were obtained on these matters at
negotiations. This component is independent of the rest of the proposed
project, though complementary to it.  Should it not be implemented, the
rest of the project will not be affected.
52.       Assistance to Forestry Department Headquarters.  This component
would assist DNEF in its development and control activities - with special
emphasis on a considerably expanded rural participation in reforestation -
through several subcomponents:
(a)  Infrastructure and equipment.  The proposed project would finance
the extension and equipment of additional office facilities at
DNEF (700 m2 including a library, map room, meeting room), as
present facilities are inadequate.
(b)  Studies.   The proposed project would provide support to the
Project and Program Division of DNEF (Division des Projets et
Programmes - DPP) for four major national forestry studies:
(i) a general study of the forest and fauna reserves and
national parks in Mali, and development of a long term
national plan for the management of these reserves;
(ii) a feasibility study of the potential for expansion of
irrigated tree plantations in the uncultivated areas of the
"Office du Niger";
(iii) a study of the structure of the market for local



- 20 -
forest products, and their prices, in the towns other than
Bamako, with a view to produce recommendations on stumpage
fees and fiscal policy; and
(iv) a study of the potential for rational increase in access to
the forest cover in the critical areas.
These studies would improve the formulation of Mali's forestry
policy and investment program. Outline terms of reference and a
schedule for their execution were agreed with Government at the
time of negotiations.
(c)  Assistance  to  the DPP.   In  addition  to  its expanded rural
forestry component (para 49), the proposed project would assist
the special section within the DPP, dealing with rural forestry
activities in Mali on a national scale. The unit would monitor
and evaluate the numerous individual actions spread throughout
the country.  The proposed project would  finance  equipment,
training, consultant support and operating funds.
(d) Reinforcement of forestry tax collection.  The proposed project
would assist the forestry department district of Bamako in
setting up a more efficient control network around the urban area
of Bamako, in order to render more effective the preseut tax
collection system for domestic wood products. The project would
finAnce six toll posts on the main access roads to Bamako, and
two liaison vehicles. Staff would be provided by the forestry
district of Bamako. In addition, commitment by Government to
increase forestry taxes from the 1984 levels was obtained at
negotiations, with a view to bringing wood prices closer to the
price of substitutes (para 73).
Ce) Training.  The  proposed  project would  finance  supplementary
training of forestry officers, visits to similar projects in
neighboring countries, participation in forestry seminars, and
documentation.
53.       OAPF Activities.  Under the proposed project, OAPF would become
fully responsible for the forest reserves around Bamako (La Faya, Monts
Mandingues, and Soussan). The OAPF forestry component would have four main
elements:
(a) General management of the forest reserves: protection, general
management and development of the forest reserves of the Bamako
area. This would include, inter alia,
Ci) enforcement of forest policy;
(ii) inventory activities and elaboration of a sound management
plan;
(iii) maintenanLe and development of the road/track firebreak



- 21 -
network; and
(iv) maintenance and exploitation of the existing tree planta-
tions, totalling 4,100 hka.
(b) Semi-industrial plantations. Building on the experience acquired
under the First Forestry Project, OAPF would continue to estab-
lish semi-industrial tree plantations. Six hundred ha of tree
plantations per year would be realized over five years in the La
Faya and Monts Mandingues forest reserves. These plantations,
mainly of Gmelina arborea and Eucalyptus camaldulensis, would be
established under the same conditions as under the first project
with additional emphasis on protection from browsing and
uncontrolled bushfires. Unit costs are expected to continue to
fall as a result of the more efficient use of resources.
(c) Improvement of plantation stock and forestry techniques. Semi-
industrial tree planting is costly even under favorable soil and
rainfall conditions and there is crucial need for more productive
technical packages if this type of peri-urban tree plantation is
to be developed further. The proposed project would finance a
special unit with an expatriate technical assistant in order to
improve plantation stock and forestry techniques.
(d) Natural forest management. Six hundred ha per year of natural
forest would be exploited in the forest reserves of the Bamako
area. This activity, started under the first project, is experi-
mental:  little is known about feasible rotation patterns and
there is a dearth of research on the species and dynamics of
natural woodlands  in  semi-arid zones.  The component  should
provide valuable information in this area.
54.       Given the excellent administrative and financial performance of
OAPF under the first project, the OAPF financial section would become a
Central Unit, responsible for the financial management of the entire
project. The proposed project would provide additional staff, computing
equipment and operating funds. Funds would also be provided for regular
and independent audits.
55.       Project Implementation.  Overall responsibility for implementing
the project will lie with the Ministry of Natural Resources and Livestock,
which will oversee the activities of the key institutions involved. DNEF
will supervise the entire project, including OAPF's management of the
semi-industrial  plantation  components.   The  National  Park  and  rural
forestry components will be carried out by two existing semi-autonomous
entities under the tutelage of the DNEF.
56.       OAPF is well managed, with a strong financial team and reasonable
staffing levels. The project will continue to provide necessary external
support in the form of:
(a) an expatriate financial director;



- 22 -
(b) an expatriate mechanic and assistant; and
(c) an expert in forestry works.
This existing core team will be reinforced by the addition of two volun-
teers to assist with field works for the project period.  In addition,
there is provision for 16 man-months of short term consultants to assist
with audits, monitoring, etc. The bulk of the T.A. will be financed by the
French Government cooperative program.  Outline terms of reference were
agreed with Government at negotiations, and appointments will be made in
consultation with the cofinanciers.
57.       DNEF's  current headquarters  structure requires  reinforcement:
management and accounting skills are weak and with the exception of a few
key lead staff, the personnel are poorly trained in management activities.
The project aims to imp:ove this situation through logistical support,
training, and visits by outside experts. DNEF will employ, as a condition
of disbursement for their components, a trained accountant to prepare
project-related financial statements for the Central Financial Management
Unit. Within the DNEF, the studies will be carried out ay the Projects and
Programs Directorate (DPP), supported by short term consultant visits
totalling  14 man-months.   DPP will  monitor  rural  forestry  activities
throughout the country, and train personnel in this area. Field studies
will be carried out by Malian consultants who will be trained in survey
techniques during the early part of the project. The National Park compo-
nent will be handled by the existing operation: the component aims specif-
ically to improve the unit's capacity to carry out its responsibilities
through logistical support. Mechanical repairs for OPNBB will be carried
out on a cost basis, by the garage of OAPF.
58.       The pilot rural forestry schemes will be the responsibility of
the existing semi-autonomous Rural Forestry Unit, established under the
CCCE-financed project. This is managed by the regional director of DNEF.
based at Koulikoro: he will be assisted by an expatriate technical advisor
ana two volunteers throughout the duration of the project.
59.       Each of the executing agencies, OAPF, OPNBB, Rural Forestry Unit,
and DPP, would prepare annual work programs and budgets which would be
submitted to IDA for approval before the beginning of each financial year.
Assurances to this effect were obtained at negotiations.
60.       Present Status of Project.  All implementing agencies are already
in existence, and current facilities are adequate to initiate the project.
Terms cf reference for the additional consultants required, and outline
TOR's for the studies to be carried out under the project, have been
completed.   Recruitment  will  commence  prior  to  project  start-up  in
accordance with FAC procedures. Preparatory forestry works, begun under
the PPF, should permit project start-up in March 1986.
61.       Monitoring and Evaluation.  Each of the project implementation
units (OAPF, DPP, Rural Forestry Unit, OPNBB) would produce an annual
report on its activities and progress, to be submitted to the Malian



- 23 -
authorities and to IDA. Monitoring within OAPF is the responsibility of
the Forest Works Division: this will be reinforced by outside help in the
area of inventory and output quality measurement.   The rural forestry
section of the DPP is specifically designed to act as an M&E unit for all
such activities nationwide whether under the proposed project or not. Not
later than six months after the end of the project, OAPF will collaborate
with DNEF in producing a detailed completion report.
62.       Cost Estimates and Financing.  Total project costs are estimated
at US$16.7 million, with a foreign exchange component of 66%. A summary of
project costs is given in the Credit and Project Summary.
63.       Cost estimates are based on January 1985 prices adjusted to
November 1985, the date of negotiations; costs were calculated net of all
identifiable taxes and duties, and include contingencies amounting to
US$3.8 million,  or 31X of the base cost.  Physical contingencies were
calculated at 15% except for those items (staff, vehicles, equipment) where
quantities are clearly defined. In these cases, no physical contingencies
have been estimated. Total expected price increases during the projected
disbursement period amount to 16% of total project costs (21% of base
costs) based on the following projected inflation rates:
Assumed Local and Foreign Rates of Inflation (Z)
1986                7.0
1987                7.0
1988                7.5
1989                7.7
1990                7.6
1991                4.5
Differences between local and foreign rates of inflation are assumed to be
compensated by exchange rate adjustments.
64.       The proposed financing plan is based on a combination of parallel
and joint financing.  IDA and CCCE will jointly finance, throughout the
project implementation period:
(a)  90%  of OAPF  fieldworks  and other  operating  costs  excluding
salaries (US$2.2 million for IDA) declining to 80% over the
project period; and
(b)  95% of the operating costs of the rural forestry component at
DNEF (US$0.2 million).
All other items will be financed under parallel arrangements for which
detailed lists of equipment, specifying the source of financing, have been
prepared (Project File, Item C.2).
65.       The proposed IDA credit which is for SDR 5.9 million (US$6.3
million equivalent), will finance 38% of estimated project costs net of
taxes,  including US$1.9 million equivalent local costs financing.  The



- 24 -
remaining external financing will be by: CCCE (US$5.4 million equivalent),
and MER/CD/FAC (US$2.9 million equivalent). OAPF will finance a portion of
its operating costs out of wood sales, and the Malian Government will
provide the remaining necessary funds including all local salaries (total
of US$1.9 million equivalent). The proceeds of the IDA Credit and the CCCE
loan would be passed on by Government in grant form to DNEF and OAPF under
regular budgetary procedures.  Since OAPF has very limited revenues, it
would not be realistic to expect them to carry the burden of the credit.
The fulfillment of conditions precedent to the first disbursement by CCCE
is a condition of credit effectiveness.
66.       Procurement  and  Disbursements.   Procurement  arrangements  are
summarized in the table below, with the figures in parentheses showing the
respective amounts to be financed by IDA.
Procurement Arrangements
(US$millions)
Items to be procured                Procurement Method             Total Costs
ICB     LCB a/   Other b/    N.A.
Civil Works c/                ...        1.0        ...       ...       1.0
(0.8)                          (0.8)
Vehicles and Equipment d/   1.9          ...        1.5       ...       3.4
(1.9)                                     (1.4)
Consultant Services el        ...        ...       3.1        ...       3.1
(0.1)               (0.1)
Operating support, PPF,       ...        ...        ...       9.2       9.2
Special Accounts                                             (3.5)    (3.5)
Total                         1.9        1.0       4.6        9.2      16.7
(1. 9)    (2.8)      (0.1)                (6.3)
a/  Proarent will be subject to  Uerui3ent reompexsn enin oal  titiue
bi4ding, bicih are acetable to the Bank. ItB costig less thanlS$10,COO equiva]nt
will be proced byrient1 shopping.
b/  Items Usted iudr  Other', promt fm coriultant services, are firmnced by CCCE and
will be awarded tbrc   pe-drsacept able to then
c/  The I'Civil WIbrs"tomstd omtat  sizofm                                   less
than US$50,000 each,"W w tDrlfo
d/  Velicles and euipment will              e      dtent possibl in padckgs of US$100,000
eq&alent or more, to alacw ICE fotg DDA QdTdeliuss. Dmtces wiond
receive a preference in bid ev ti   n of 5, or the  mNst of castxs duie and other
iixort tmas which a nemmpt      r wd hae to  D  icever is lower.
e/  The tRs for alU expatria ate    lcal onmiltant staff           Prwocd by the Poject will be
agrWd with IDA. Ib qualficatios and exrience of cxiultnta to be fianced by IMA
would be subject to prir reviw and approal, along with dthi te as and condititS Of
eloyment.



- 25 -
67.       Disbursements.  The IDA Credit would be disbursed over 6 years
under the following categories:
Disbursement Categories of IDA Credit
Disbursements as
Category                                 Amount       Z of Expeuditures
(US$ million)
1) DNEF: a) Civil works                       0.50           95
b) Vehicles and equipment           0.10          100
c) Consultants' services
and training                    0.10         100
d) Operating costs                  0.20          35
e) Rural forestry unit              0.20          30
2)  OAPF: a) Civil works                      0.10           95
b) Vehicles aud equipment           1.00          100
c) Consultant services and
training                         0.20         100
d) Operating costs (excluding       1.80          45 to Dec. 31/87
civil servants salaries)                      42 to Dec. 31/89
40 thereafter
3) OPNBB  a) Equipment                        0.15          100
b) Rural roads maintenance          0.15           95
4)  Refunding of PPF                          1.00
5)  Unallocated                               0.80
6.30
68.       Disbursements  against the  IDA  Credit will be  made  against
certified statements of expenditure, with the exception of major contracts
for goods and services whose individual cost is more than US$20,000.
Documentation (SOEs) would not be submitted to IDA, but held by OAPF and
DNEF for review by IDA supervision missions and auditors.  IDA will not
accept any reimbursement application for a total of less than an estimated
US$20,000 equivalent. A Special Account will be opened by the Central
Financial Management Unit to prefinance expenditures to be reimbursed under
the IDA credit.
69.       The estimated disbursement period is shorter than that of the
standard African profile for Forestry projects reflecting:
(a) the fact that this is largely a repeater project; and
(b) the favorable disbursement experience of the First Forestry
Project.



- 26 -
Accounts and Audit
70.       OAPF currently maintains its accounting system in accordance with
sound and recognized accounting principles and practices acceptable to IDA.
IDA is in possession of an unqualified audit for the financial year ending
December 31. 1984.  The OAPF financial management team will extend their
coverage to all project components and become a Central Financial Manage-
ment Unit (CFMU). Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the CFMU
would maintain separate accounts for all project-related activities on
behalf of the DNEF, OPNBB, and the Rural Forestry Unit, and will handle all
disbursement requests. An external auditor's opinion and report satisfac-
tory to IDA on the financial statements would be provided within six months
of the closure of each financial year.
Markets and Prices
71.       All wood produced by the project is expected to be absorbed by
the domestic market. Even at full production, output would be less than
10X of overall demand for fuelwood on the Bamako market; accordingly, no
marketing difficulties are foreseen. The timber produced will supply the
construction industry, partly replacing wood now imported from the Ivory
Coast.
72.       OAPF presently sells fuelwood to wholesalers at an average price
of 1,850 CFAF per stere of 250 kg, equivalent to 7.4 CFAF per kg. Building
poles are sold at 360 CFAF per pole.  In order to secure OAPF's revenue
position it will continue to be free to fix their. own prices for wood
products, to reflect its real costs and market conditions. Since demand
will always outstrip supply throughout the project life, real price
increases for fuelwood are projected to follow those experienced in the'
past. (5% p.a.) until substitutes (butane, kerosene) become financially
attractlve (1995). The market for building poles is expected to increase
as Bamako continues to grow. For timber, prices for internationally traded
tropical hardwood logs are expected increase in real terms by 14% by 1995,
following IBRD projections. A similar increase has been assumed for timber
produced by the project, allowing for a quality discount.
73.      Despite the real increases in fuelwood retail prices in recent
years, the market price, while similar to that found in neighboring coun-
tries, is far from reflecting the replacement cost of wood, or the real
costs of increasing deforestation to the country. Current retail prices
are about 60% of those estimated to be required to encourage replanting.
The stumpage fees are far below the desirable level; again, this is true of
all countries in the region. Because of the extremely low effective rate
of taxation of forestry production, the potential impact of raising
stumpage fees in changing overall demand is very small.  Nonetheless,
something can be done in the urban areas, and in view of the gravity of the
situation, increases in taxes and therefore prices, must be sought to the
maximum tolerable levels, and with the maximum speed possible.  This is all
the more desirable since it serves to raise revenue to support forestry
department activities, which are critical if any significant impact is to
be made.  Accordingly it is a condition of credit effectiveness that



- 27 -
Government increase permit (stumpage) fees from their 1984 levels by 100%,
and assurances were obtained at negotiations that additional increases of
1002 would be applied by June 30, 1988.  These increases, while having
significant revenue raising implications, will produce in themselves only a
marginal rise in the consumer price of wood: to this, however, must be
added the expected continued real price increase of 5X p.a.
74.       In order to ensure that the new tax revenues are devoted to
forestry activities, commitment was obtained from Government that all such
revenues will accrue to the Forestry Fund and that the real amount of
budgetary support for forestry will remain at least at present levels
throughout the project period.  Government will review progress with IDA
not later than September 30, 1988 and should the new fees and tax collec-
tion measures not result in a significant increase in revenues, or should
actual prices not be moving toward the parity price of substitutes
(kerosene), additional measures will be agreed to achieve the project aims.
Recurrent Costs and Cost Recovery
75.       The project will do little to either increase or decrease the
recurrent cost burden upon Government from its present level. Increased
revenues from higher stumpage fees and tax coverage should be incremental
to current Goverment support which should, at the very least, be
maintained at present levels. Budgetary support at present amounts to some
US$550,000 equivalent annually, of which 90% goes toward salary costs.
Forestry is, by its very nature, a long term investment, and Government and
donors must be prepared to support the costs of plantations and forest
management in order to reap the long term benefits.  The costs of not
supporting these efforts are incalculable. As time progresses, OAPF will
be able to cover their operating costs, which will also decline wich
experience, but in the medium term they will continue to be dependent on
outside support for further investment planting.  The components to be
carried out by DNEF do not require additional staff: existing staff will
be reassigned and retrained where necessary. The improved tax collection
and increased fees envisaged under the project should increase revenues
from consumers and provide substantial incremental resources to support
forestry investment: they will be used to provide badly needed operating
funds for DNEF.
Benefits and Risks
76.       The direct benefits of the project consist essentially of incre-
mental wood production from the semi-industrial plantations and management
of the natural woodlands.   These activities will result in an average
annual incremental production at full development in 2016 of approximately
79,200 steres of firewood, 240,000 building poles, and 12,000 m3 of wood
for manufacturing.  The rural forestry activities should also result in
higher productivity of the forest cover over time, and hopefully provide
answers as to how to involve the rural population in the process of re-
forestation. Given the pilot nature of this component, no direct benefits
have been imputed in the economic calculation. Indirect benefits will also
accrue as a result of employment in the rural areas, and substantial long



- 28 -
term ecological gains may be expected through contributing to arresting the
degradation of the environment. The institutional reinforcement of DNEF,
financed under the project, is vital for the long term future of Mali, well
beyond the boundaries of the project area. By improving the department's
ability to coordinate, monitor and evaluate forestry projects, as well as
to prepare regional development plans, the project should give major medium
term benefit to the country. The studies to be carried out are fundamental
to the development of a coherent and comprehensive forestry and energy
policy for the years to come.
77.       The calculation of an ERR has been limited to that item where
reasonable estimations of future benefits are possible, namely the OAPF
plantation component.  The ERR is estimated at 10.1Z, based on 40% of
project costs. This rate of return is consistent with those obtained in
similar projects  in other  countries  in  semi-arid  conditions.   Should
benefits fall 20%, the ERR would fall to 8%, and should costs rise 20X, the
ERR would also fall to 8%. Costs include 40% of technical assistance costs
directly connected to OAPF's production activities. Studies and institu-
tion building related costs have not been included.
78.       There are relatively few technical risks connected with the OAPF
components; the entity has been performing well under the First Forestry
Project, and the techniques have been mastered. However there is more of a
risk that the economic benefits may not be realized since, as shown in
para 77, the ERR is quite sensitive to slight changes in costs and bene-
fits. Nonetheless the project represents a reasonable investment in the
light of the alternative uses of capital available in Mali. The natural
forestry management is a new area and there is a risk that benefits may be
lower in the early years than expected. The highest risk undoubtedly lies
with the rural forestry activities, in particular the pilot schemes of
agrosylvopastoral management in the Second Region. These are in many ways
the most critical elements of the project as regards future protection of
the forest cover in Mali.  They are also the most problematic, and a
flexible and open approach must be maintained in the early years of
implementation.



- 29 -
PART V - RECOMMENDATION
79.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association and recommend that the Executive
Directors approve the proposed credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
December 17, 1985



-6 -
.-~~~~ ~ ~ ~ w -



ARNEX I
-31-                                              Page 1
"AIU                  -    AL IICaOES ATA  3
WALI                                1      luou l (WI c  *n) I.
Me                      (WVur Br  UINAU  lb
LOSI IM    AFtA         WIDOL& L f
t&9ob      19701Lk   UINAtIL       SOM  oW S*MA        AICA S. or sAua
m    (a1sAM SQ. n0
TOTAL                            1240.0     1240.0      1240.0
- lIaILIUAL                       316.3      317.5       320.6
or   cua       (                       ..         .. W      10.0             2.1                     1063.8
CXu.oGanS or OtL QIUVALSIIS)       10.0       16.0       21.0              62.3                    5u1.5
POPULATIO A 1 L 1r18
VOPUIATIOSIV,-R CI1OOSON)   4040.0          S162.0     7175.0
UnU. PATION C2 OF rowj             11.0       14.9       19.1              20.1                     32.0
POUTION IN TEW 2000 (ILL)                               11.2
STATIONARY POWUALTOU CWILL                             37.0
PUAnor NNO                                               1.9
POPULATIM ON  66&3                                         .
U SQ. ML                          3J         4.2        5.1              33.2                     65.1
PU SQ. Ol. AI. LIAN              12.0       16.3        21.9             1125                     24;.8
POPULATUON AG SUCT3  CZ)
0-14 Rs                         43.7       4.7         46.8             46.0                     45.6
15-IS  US                        53.        52.3       50.8              50.5                    531.
65 AM1 A30                        2.4        2.5         3.5              2.9                      2.7
POPLATION C6U RS (Z)
-OTAL                             2.1        2.5        2.5                ZA                      2.9
on1."                             5.2        5.4        6.8                6.4                     5.1
cam  Ra    am   Pm  TOll)          30.5       50.0       48.1              47.2                     47.0
UIIZ O         am  (PM  lm)        20.8       25.0       21.0              17.5                     15.0
130SS fhS0_Iou am                   3.2        3.2        3.2               3.3                      3.2
7DNEmX PLAMUUI
ACCCFRS. ANNUAL ( C... 
uscas CZ ow  M      u             ..         ..          I.o              3J3                       .4
_m - muow
uaMM OIim MoM. in camr
C1949-71-100)                     103.0      100.0       31.0              S3.3                     82.9
U CIM .T BsUI  or
CAo5 (Z or amm umm_              92.0       9.0        77.0              G17.J7                   9.5
PUOtW( (C     ISMMIU)            61.0      62.0        35.0              51.9                     55.4
Of lilCS A1M      PAMMM         16.0       17.0        14.0 1c U          .7                     16.3
WID (Aes 1I4) 11T RAU              511.       42.6       31.0              23.1                     16.6
UzS  PwECT. AT U113 (tU )          35.7       40.2       ".9               47.8                     52.0
INFANT SIT. RATS (Pm 2ss)         194.5      174.3      145.0             119.5                    108.
ItOL.                             *.         ..         4.0 Jd           27.1                     62.4
613M                                        29.0       37:0k E63.5                                67.3
]NOWL                                         .                           9.                      35.8
ACW2M 0 =ClOll DISPN&M
(S or IOPULazo)
TOML                              ..         8.0       13.0 Id           26.3                     283.
6RU3*                             ..        63.0       79.0 7            65.4                     57 7
RURAL                             ..         ..         0.1              20.                      20.7
POPULATION Pm PRu!Zar           64130.0    42660.0    22100 Ii          2701.7                   1171.7
POP. m   3n3o.o P13              4710.0 &       2740.0  238W0.0 4        3306a                    2459.8
PO. PU  OSUITAL UD-
TOTAL                          1390.0     1420.0 lb  1760.0 J/,!i      173.3                     931.1
URSA                            350.0     1260.07i   570.0  /           42R.2                    363.8
UWAL                           250.0 /Eb 150. 7         *-             3292.5                   4372.9
ADWISSIONS Mm  5PP.L So..                     27.3       30.5 l             ..                      27.2
AS     OMSI     F  HOCQ
ZOTIL                             .,...8                                  ..'
Rua
mVuo  Smoruaum
RURAL
033,43                                       ..             ..                                     *
"MvBMI ic  Or PEmm/an  vce
USrAL                              .         ..
OIIUL                             ..         ....-'
WEl   .. _ 



-32-
ANNEX I
lADL.   1                              Page  2
- NOCUL IICAU   M 
-                        (366? 36K T   IThA E A        I
log=i          LOW USOEB Amtick          MhlI 1303
Igo&Lk     in . zsrTUTk             uoaR or sAAi.         AFMECA s.   SAMANA
AUSTMD UULLW   RATIOS
vMaY*   TOI-.L                    10.0       23.0        27.o               1 7.8                    95.7
WARE                   14.0        30.0       33.0               7 "A                     100.0
FEMLE                   4.0        14.0       20.0 4      f      54.9                     63.2
SKCOYDT: TOTAL                     1.0        5.0         9.0 /A           I3.S                      17.1
MALo 1.0                            4.0       13.07w             17.9                     25.0
PAZ                     0.3         2.0        S.O7       ;       9.1                     14.3
VATICOIAL (Z OF 3CODA1T)            14.         9.4         ..                13.2                      5.9
ItIPIL-TIAaI RATIO
IrDUM?                           43.0        30.0        41.0 IL           4.9                       41.1
99colmm                           17.0        5.0         ..               27VA                      25.5
PASUIICRK CASITUOS    PO            0.4         1.7         ..                3.                       20.8
RADIO fh_ URSITUUAD Pop              2.0       11.-        14.a              55.                      107.8
TV maciv= ousm 0?                    ..         *.          *-                2.4                      20.4
NUSAPEI Cf"AT COWL
DNTIasr) CIRCUTAXO
ILAOUSANDIopLATO                  0.2         oa o        OA                 5.0                     1.
ChNS ANUAL AQTINDAJJICM              1.9        0.5         ..                0.5                       0.4
T      -
TOTAL Lll0 70a  (T0AM)            2334.0     3453.0      3725.0
301. (PIRCUUZ3                   46.1        47.9        49.5              14.2                      3.2
AXCILI  OUCEE                    94.0        91.0        72.6              77.5 s4.
zDOSiMs CPEICA)                   3.0         4.0        11.7  f            9.                       1D.
PAMCIPATIIOR RA11 C Pr"n)
TOTAL                             57.5       55.3        51.2              39.3 3J.5
HALE !0.4                                    36.6        53.9               0.9                      47.1
F-LE                              34.5       532.0       49.               25.1                      27.2
PRHIC DUBUW   RATO                  0OJ         0.9         1.0               1.3                       1.3
. z_wu w
31- OP 36056038                ..         ..          ..                 .. .
hOME  205 O         3              ..         ..          *.....
ICEESI 205 or UUSEUOI86...
LO        40 OF USO..             ..          ..          ..                ..
-       - -     -0f GM*-
--TD(AT *36OL113013W imam
LEVEL CUS PU CAPTa)
13                                 ..         *-               IC         IS.5                      "9.7
RURL                              ..          ..          ..                5.0                     275.3
ESTIMATgD AnATI  7031W DITMU
LEVEL (USS      CAITTA)
..                                        *              61.0 /c          113.1                     355.4
0t3*                               ..         ..         37.0 T7.6                                  201.1.
EsTIOATED  P. MAW A0ow1
FOWLRIT 13009  UlmE CZ)
U                                  ..         ..          ..               3S.6
MORA.                              ..         ..          ..               61.3
Or AVLACULL
NOT APPLICASLEx 0    a 
/a  The goup aevaca  foc esc _h SIdn cate    popse2lacS_-4Ubtre  atr1 te sens. Cowag. of           t r
aeons the Iadica tor d p ndA - aweslabulty of dta Oan     Mc  sf at.
/b   Ums otharwia. soted  'Data ffO 194  vagt to my yr Ia M3 anA 1941; 'Data for 1970" bmt...
1969 ad 1971; ..d data fort "Mot macaw EatSmte botumu  1951 ad 1563.
/c  1977; /d 1960; /a 1978; It 1962;    Ce,ozit secnl;  lb Goutmat hospital  __?ab1.amt.
oely. 11 1976;   .1979; /1k 1972.
JUVE. 1965



-33-                                                                             ANNEX I
- i-mu. .ini-rn                                        Page   3
amm.. Sehees.TI l deli d.eem Urns  i-re.. e.cmll %M one ~iwweheemamh WeIeliilo. II -h"l .1h. b Wed lIwss hey aer smi l ee.eee.mleallev
MONAli  b CO at in. I.411 eq ecWeeeLum ael ai 66       Oad em.6el Abd OF dIrliCA4: aSMdleto. Ieelammim  lb dan.. *I... dM* aw     e. etabae. meAel M
demyli e.dft. as OInMl1. eslli.e. ofeem. We *.MM.feeie. ftnde .6W 1.6 dUd.... Oammom emml..
tbee ere jee.e.g (m feb up    e"mee pa       T- eq  m    ej.i. -wall.   (lI  emeScy &"C a .45  R. l NA   l.   i-ce  I m.a mbatem.vc..e  b
airee a       to l.6g  hiM-on     ft Okm  eel        doee..    pam..   re16m . tid .  etad   W e id dieb. " fo  mnilm i.e MOe also .e  .1s felm ...o I .6 ewtle "m lo
COerl I"Al.6. ftau.mU.. ATela AAA i.e. hheeruTO mexr pe.-lamlm angl awe,lm mmt hr Oeparns-4 "ela-e e eVAr 616twiffo ulC Imy eqAAS wit emere i.W
Sidl  r1.  el-r    31  bm-W    lIeCi- C.klee.dpe       i IWelallll t. WIe                                                 4e Cle ee  bele. .AWmr .1 Pme be
mrmW   C maml eeACCO  Ite      .Ade.e mA- d WOOLce  lb..V i-r . eu   epe.e  eMmeiLe  S. .6.6166 =               Leem.e`  eceeh a   me V  srher i-AmI.ca
lEft (licce.edcq.b.l  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~P2" "    tM- 9616 Pl.Cl-d.d - Imb6 wAft41 pli1tmel'
TimL   ...=..............   a-il. .Ar  kg. 1.4 a-             low.                  VA,Olms                           1 .hr1 .q.Ic.mmIIeeI
Nero ied muml dee..                                                                                              41*.i5   rieCelPea  - 'eeei-,dete   byme   q  eme
to.1910. d iIladate.                                                                    1* A     tI6e OV    12  .t.f~ %   ecie. edr cele.1  .peiamle.l (metaml
no          OEMiSU   -    p. mmicegem. em i.e.e.ew-      e.-ti.p pee.- *AA.e. -tL mAVim.  Ce pehima                   OL 6.4pelecace IVa ee epeddel1eed    Ily amlel6 1
16&Iicl-cid V"  m.ecem   ..me.cq - b        ssd e. iee w.  IqCr-la hem.)                 ,einw . ImAmrAA i.d..I- VaeeymmIc     caeablr ee  .ee.eeuh ov-aie.tfm
IW.lii W   46 e..ad                                                                        amSem m:    rldea          bin"mlmor  peuW"ldee, prl. Wii i-medIa
IvAO       A Em."144     -eI., ANbepml. .9   m .  .1bhim   6
VITAL ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~.L.  -i   e  emal  el.dh     heee Ie   raWee
IWA. MWe cue dam-     ok,                                                                 ulwhssm.  ."At.. ~jaL   MOTION W~   iit  leMr me 6. dleebeaee
*-M o"Atecomm t9m6 tqm  dw FARM do".li hi %AA*IAVdtew .fsehr   .e                                    e  beeCC .
Is                                                                   1,11M    AIL-BAe iiMSi.Wa Ii ilsad font.Emma Rush
MoOa pob"Aa eq   JCRAC OVA h"" meua    twolele           W7eee            -?c A    t Al..1
.d mieme.6. eApIr-11.. hdrerltoOwf eie.r. - a- Wee  .lrowma ma
m%Foenleem   eq.,.  610.    for Odemi.j                                          lb kmepte .   hrm  VAft*d  hiemmeree  e.'e.
wee.. ift ej.CNCAT pica-me..    r e.46k St-e 6-   le . eqmc.                         m.ep.Lai patin. M   VO  11g"AA& V,
PPAAA.      le   a ctla  meelet  m geae VTam  .e ptoe, iWal-
CAmN1mA         bAg 1I-tem A RAmms ag-2d .14A toea-Was,I Ie.iallma7CAIOcof                                                       zMPAANAF                   9
VAAC    -.1mOA1p e.eeLV.d am OMisIA.-f I.6I, COAL                                 rle.rR    dil-ue poe.1me.L     m .-It.lm  16.16(. thalArnl Apt a-I
cupit*eKle. remeell.  I. ceh 6 pephm .6W. do6 bUckb rem. to mMCSm                      ye.ce be  dIea  t  deihiuc bll.t et Iele.qp           .ehem  cm
WeV ".eL me c  4h.6 rell  em.. lb.. W  etc...-g. k ab   mom... Aed to.                 e.eci      6  vtPmeeaNl .demm.6 AArele..6 er -emedNA  leS p.Cemm
wri cof   m e.me. lie emacemp"g peeam am . emAgs  L.mme.e. uta                          lme ftq v   ha_1  emommodie6eb  ailei  e*              mi We.-INr
2=e. We lbre. ASt W ell.. 61 fi.miltr rale ma ceplaAOAAO  1ae. I.                      edc .m.cet.. em mm.  m  1..6 1              c.edy-   p~.v.c  statawAto
-1. g  tie  mw  tee 9.lm e..- Alee TV COmtt.                         preeld. m ~.6rL.ic.          OF ma-ic COALe..e.eemate
me. eWe  ach. 6-.cereeea  rer  hi re..ed  Weer. Ibs                                   A104.IFil  Aetlb.I.
AAACA eqf  -elAAAine  ma mu. Peer& A. OC-eeW  -  Aeaa Catt  eb cm               IMe.M  e.re11e.. Igeme a                Vecc OF eamae  .mm.me
dde...eme -ec.pad,            m m. peeamlem mcp   j   m.amci mec.mCh.                                     m.eeeiiIL,6..rdee-rm   Amc mieram
tm. o.Amp1-.Iece rhoermmme eeme a  cOH" Ailue.      le.  re. ger jd.0.deetLy W .6.  dtepmil eee ii e.aedel, 1ACetIe m.
m.Wd. L"66 dem.Pelral.iC   er,er  We i. -ee.,                                                                                           - ?..l  ibm. .11 .4
1mlaie e.eIe                                                                       pemae.e    c-ar   eea4.id 6y.m    .t OOslb.
p* mNme.re. m.lA1Amlaepr .leTOale &AAAtwm. (mLOW becer-el .9                 olarrep6dgmes lwrI..
ea-al 14.. 1619. WeA .l. dema.                                                 abpletmr.m fam  lecem2b  -              Ofee tiem   Uchl. me .m.d dA1 erIc.) M
rae -. 1.  lm..re  lead -   m.d    iee  eac           t-lccm.  d            a  eee. a  ammiTI Ppepalam  e. 0E  Is pm... Wea
.lArl  mIM- P  va . li
4aie.ei.emr.mem~  al cm   WeeARA,   .eemi-e eldper                             .-.r  e(.rlecea.i   me -                 baeWl.c  cereeW
I W.910  ign4m                                       AmU~~~~~~~~~.nIM..  reeLIe.rs . Be matrele  aW 1. V*me  lae. .oeu otim,e     of feel
d"M  PAN, Ommad et ad-7See. A                                              TVl   e    m..   e.e16  aeleem~m  lmm   16ft   goeme
4r62.                                                                               p.6ow11P."WItds  med erm acelmi. I.tgs  relefib. - eeeam e..  I t, -dee
ve~?5eemeqr.eecereeceee :te.i     -)d      ..wm    eq  Amea                    m.11  eetma.                                     VA-~  m~~    ia   et.a-ja *11m Am
p.eemem"CreA CAT l-eq Omeeemptee ma -1  e.re         m....eq,6 
Wl.113,1bee"me  We i-A o-email        Wed 15~49. aimbeul hi  Cmm                                             -A  -IOAl"lyms  pOrtAc. teemedieg .c..d
imnel.    Craoct.6AAI We Ia emu            otee am -  9 gem.                      "     i.       i m   lp    N1 go                     t6edW. erc.. c:A.erleAq
upel.ACAOA of all alQ- %VimtlelAt. LArIwe emree - VOL
tag. elreidPe I Fe  aldcp-sC6-ae.e   ecct.P caprl-?61. labw race-  se-CeemeWeq mae l".1Ie  ree.
AAAAAL WMI.  at.    Weeeale    ca. ..acl.de.  C  We- lab                                                               le ..i raremac. cii-.. %waclg We
-mm   amm Ad eq  e,.)6(c  em edle,db   WeR mamaAL  AlAe.e  (O.S.                                    SOINAN, eOvAkh   ii-. I. elel. AVAVeeMlae.  aei.6clag We
ee4i W   em   awa. ecld).  WerWepme pcdim. eq .e*   -Ain    .                                       S"llii7t   We  - .6 lee We eq cemL LANIAr f`aA: lies. Iwlo
u-emd W OuLi-IA ee.eNWep6.. me     ibeo P vca.m   41-   1916. Wed 16a                  We 1WI Wet.
aeeeu'0.9.61AC: a ANm  le .6ele   e.ele  A. i-AAT gor CANM. per                        Peeetcmw ac UK6. . eel . W  ti-.  mae.til ieee Ceipelelhr;
m.el.   We          .6I  -emee.  Wem-Ie.  aee   ee. tp          i-de                   I'lemlam.     ua%-dM   demsl. 61 lb AM    l.Ie. W VA  aw. mb PutmIi, C
qrmite. eledmu I aosa tWe  l-ee ce. I.e.-  av"metlme. DY .                             o-eie   i eftlei-e   i ur  (tu-l ovacee..
We W  em  ietlhtimee eq peIee~    eaIegI  eee   e 
momI  L .. AL                .m.1a f- Peeeea   else. meittA                                         eaim  fiec M      I EWiWeil    - COIa as Meavm. 
e.lde(ed7W mlt   W    .WeW   .ae.  6                                                  ecm   iil    emm   ee.    p.r-*nin    eMae""eUpe.ema
molemit. te   l   mml6emalee    NU& v-Kam.te lme                                        eeb
elim eq II gee.A af "Rede a-mt per Eq - M8 WeIS g.mL Wel W
Vol"6 preeeela of Wabh le gee.. abeftu be e.lae  g.mame. lb.6
aemc.~W   emC li-cT Sis lie. .1 75 pnm  eq ma.  pwesWe  Wed n eM-                         a         m                 MrAA1WO pe6eefin   m .9 Pl  -myl  1.6. We
atmm  id  emWe Mps  emiWe lee lb eeIs" daftee  hr i-Ia lb2!W.L a
46111661  bed bipIl   iI .65.1-1     We   l14604.6Ff..C __                          1f_a___  ts-1 _    -  ___  VOCAR_ A3  mv__ o__ TAAIWACAl_e,L. _"
MAP6.                                                                                  allacleIla.
iteeb 6.1.       -"M  Is     p"aer4_PCAAASCV   1  .                                                m        11 mcity.eefeal  frotb M. Cma"l
IaM-.16 tithe .03 .em  hi h1or -ae eF 1161t. I.eh   ad..
.-n      = 62 mi 6                 - dee      Amr.1 of .-~ eq inC t. eIle""A     ce   .   eeal.I6iW  .rl   1  6    Wk.
fm  e  teWA-  l9"6. 0191 We MR6 CLAR.
mee.11  (mecim  .cemI.eec- maa PAC. -A a-Ai-cad hilaq                                                                               - _ WeSIleMl.ebe
aWeee . lk   A. p-.Bqe.6..   mWmcd e.epeell  pp&Ashal.  1. -
flem A l-emy ,   eM Im4."  bam 11   dIce r.A qAA         Ca.e.e eq mh.
I-eAN.  I.  i-I- elmC Ce.-ee.ill.eAAA emit INAWV . lb "W h- . W6
GCNAO.. eqt %AAAlAld4.b OVA be.O ma eeWe * . eeee              pWee e
AWCO        C~  -                                           We
Jefm .q eq Che"  iabnpemeep.1(              tai-ma d161m  Mri &Acdef
lb.Ua6e We  epeeaL mAli.e~    eVOCam. . eq   m  .e.
We Vi hr  mighi1Iap       Aim         C l   em e 11: pn.6.1  WeI
ehamib. melec



-34-_                                                         ANNEX I
Page 4
scui lnzuDIU
_ ormL NB  IN ssu /I/                                                        IL           I OrE v Wm1 a a"Tf PII nt
3U  Ala.    I                              1067  1%7-76  197m-3  193
w  AT  ET  PRICE                             "Ls    100.0                                 L4       2.5      L2    -17.8
-SS _TmIC   .MmNIENT                          270.0    27.:2                                1i    -L2       37    -11.1
GM  36T13  SpinIIE                             W.       4.3                               -2.1      Ill      131
CIIIT RE           INE1  U                  -20L4   -23.3                                -15.5    -L&    -12    -im   151
UINfS OF 33133, IR                           221.5    22.3                                1.0    -L3       11.4    -.1  15
1115T1 WF      , IFS                         43.2    43.                                    7      4.9      62    -127  15
CUO99, LAUR FICE Al  MIIUCTIVITY 151 M  Il
VIIE Am                           LU   FPE                        V.L PER  EER
on 3HZ.    I                        HIB.      2                       0       ZETLJVE
IIRIELTUE                                    44.6    42.                          2.7    75.0                      115.0    5I
IW1W                                        107.7    10.3                        0.4    11.1                     29.3        7
CEIIIIB                                      "Lb    47.1                          0.5    15.9                      IL2    339.1
TOTAUJIE                                   104L9   100.0                        3.1   100.0                      29.5
51333 FIIIIIIC 17/
S9EI1IU sGwEIEIIT                *                 CETIUL g10339
CFAF    Z OF                                                CFF    T, DF
PD.   6SW                                                   FElN.    WP
194    1934  19-3                                           1984    1914   1901-83
OIUT RECEIPTS                                 64.9    14.7    14.5                                         0.6    10.5    11.4
'N_      EWIP T                               63.2    14.3    14.1                                         4.4    11.2    124
El53159 SWU15                                  1.7      0.4      0.4                                      -2.L    -0.6    -1.0
CITL  EWIEtTUNS                               3.0       l.       9.5
1711t  mIZirEW E 1/           .               9I5.6    19.4    1L3.
nE, CerIT MD PX            /t0/              1979    130       91      1912    199       1934             1932    193      19"
IIl.. CFu WMANKST U UW-PEI)                         OECEWER ECENMR  IECEMER
NMT  -   mlI-aEs                              10.1    &LB    64.7    7W          37.3   104.7              72.3    17.2   104.7
BAK CEIT To   w      r o-E                    55.1    W.         1.6    759    91.4    29.1                75.9    91.;    29.
CAEOIT U EaIH                             71.1    IL.4    37.4    95.0   101.7    70.1                95.0    11.7    70.1
IF IICR STAN ENTPIES)                        (44.6)   15L3)  (55.41    M4)   t59.21   (22.)                5.4)     9.2t   (22.4)
NS     I ttW-NM   CZ BP)39                    2L1      224    21.3    21.4    2Z.9    21.7
GElEIL NICE LE :111                            10     t2.0   134.3   14.1 1 !7.6
MG&W. PERCONTAIE CNIIE-a
lERIL WICE DINE  /11}                         10.3      9.2    11.0      O.3      7.9
11  REDIT To SOYIENIT                          32       1.1    10.0    2L3       29.4     2
DIE ClDIT T ECEIW                              15.7     7.3      6.1     3.7      7.0   -I0.6
CF 11C01 STATE ENTEPRISES)                   124.1   (17.3)   t5.,t   15.51    (1.3)  t-6L2)
MIBs  IIL C01D;N T193 AE  T TIE UERA6E E01K 31TE PRVALIM 9At5 THE PUQ0 CED.
MT mus IMDICAI n E ...
1/I    W  ESTI14E5  FUR 1912, 1933 AN  193 NO  U C1ENT 50r  WRM FPU  IV  3  1930 UP MAO  FEE WI OTI3L.
iCCUJITS DTA. MLL OMIE7R   IIS WE ESTIlES Fll IF STIFF rET, _rws 191M  IP, ED, CTEBR  1933, RED 13.
V   lW  6MCIFII RATE CAIUATEl IY TNE LE -im     MO, LL 01NE3t O M  R              5O13 END G MN0E.
1u   _ s AT=K w5e  THI   InTVE 111974,  1a16 mmunTI  w A    TN 3F 61E   IllE-
/4I    UIRT RITE ClCLuTED FMI    gcE rgW, NOT 03191   UXL    A I3TIE91     IUICATES A MIS NEFCIT.
15J  ClRIN IIITE CAIWTED U TIE 311  * CIETU  SkP FOR IL PBIUS
I&/ F1  FFM PWN MD  E19M     ROT r133 THESE FIQS    ETELL  WRESEUTIE 1930 LIEFORUE.
eP    SnE s OF V M            YE  T SECTOR WE  IT YET 4SIlL ELE  THESE FIE IEN  CUrLAE  T A35IN;
DOrT BETIIe 1931 AN  193 TI SECE 1331  1ML1T19. TO   E 1             ) AS   O IN TNE DI  STIFF Now.
- TtlE REAnvE OUS  M1 TI 11115A15  ICU  NOMA M  OM  TO SN TO sIW.
171  FI ll1f  D, OCT , 1933
I3    OF STWFF  IRT/ED, OCTE  19
i9/  ESINATES OF MT FUKM   1S111  FU  M1  M  OF           FITS    W  ID, NM, 1_93.
CRNTS BLCUE FUM UP, erW AMMIETER AlD.
/10   ML DATA FM  INF ITN RTIL FUCL STATCS VENOM
111/  UP  EFLATIOL   TIIS S    4 3 ITE WM11  51   11FIAIS FUR  EPD 6T111 ACC1NT  DATA UTL L9
MI THEREFER CLLTII INE :W10  H   11 PEM          IE   INSS   fi  IF STIFF    w  TO U    E O TE
DERLATOS COAIU        KI N O IT   ICMUJTU FIES   M.
lATh  7-145



-35--
ANIUE I
Page 5
TRAE PAVBETS       CAPITAL FLOM
BALMII  WF P    s II/                                                   Mg.           EN    IISE    Pls, r,D (AOERAE .91144) ill
:m11   ln        snm    1tu
-  -  -  -                                                                 CS1lERU. :
HELLION N
EWART FF  CCIS, 11                           206.2   117.7   204.3   221.5           CuTTm  An MlCT!                        64.9    46.2
LiMIT  IF GOODS, FS                         -44.   -30.4  -41.4  -40.2               UVESTE  A  PAI                         46.7    332
REUECe SrW (DEFICIT-)                       -24L.   -2027  -264.1  -201.7            UR 1ES a  FROSTS                        4.9     3S
FISN MDRIED MI 911 10)                 1.9     1.4
FACTE PAIWS TINET)                           -29.1   -29.5   -21.3   -LS.            IL onlER reEIITIES                     22.2    15.8
PRIVATE lNNFER! (IT)                          29.9    23.9    23.4    20.1
TOTL                                 160.6   10.0
LAME U   Sr    ReEx                         -245.9  -203.3  -207.0  -206.4
EITEI DEBT, CEC. 31, 19   121
E6EDIN  TRMFES aUET                           129.9    93.1   101.9   132.5                                                      USE NI.
ILT CAPIT AL 1NET)                            71.0    fl.2     34    55.6
PRIMT! DIET)                               0.4    -3.0       ...     5.7          PUC DBT, 6IlL.SWT                            130.0
McDUC    n                                70.6    61.2    83.4    49.9           :OF NEC DIS IS.ED
-   ULRSENT                               76.3    US.    95.        65.4
- PRINCIPAL                               -5.i    -1.7   -11.9   -:5.5            EBT SERVICE RATIO FIR 19  /21                   ;
SWR ALZCn.TIOU                                 1.7                                                                                  12.2
REFIf'JhIS OF CEBT                             2.9    23.'    17.3       6.4          PUREC DET, EEL GANTE                           6.4
- PR:INCIPIL                               2.5      0.9     0.5      !.4
- DEiTES                                   0.4    22        11.9     5.0
OVEAL PLICE                                  -23.4    -1.9       Lb    -11.9         :ThAI  LEN IN 45 'fF !  01 5 ISEILLION  SE)
CETL AEC                                        .2    17.7      5.2    19.7                                                 IBI      I
-  ETIOAS ACCUNT                         127.6;  (-7.91  1-6.8)    t ..                                                 -        --
- lIW [NET)                               L-2.I   tC.I)   !13.&l   20.11         E;UaTNIIII - 01USD (NIL. iSSi          0.0   218.7
- 0T1W   -1ET         t                    (4.91   (-1.23   1-1.6)    (...                     JISISZEB  (NIL JSB)    8.0   102.1
DlSIT    !  AIs                               -4.0    4.2    -7.3   -11.4
CHASES II AREARS                              ,1.;    -9.7      5.5    -4.8          TOTAL OUToSTAENEi (IL L.IE              0.0   321.3
rAUrATIOS ST SERVICED                          09       5.1    -b.0    -9.4
PEEDS SEITD
DROSS REVES                                   29.1    .:.4    30.b
ErT RESEE                                   -.5  -234.8  -22L6
5RTS CF PETROEU                               73.2    69.8    44.4    57.4
MARTS OF FOOD STUFS                           93.7    61.6    95.6   121.1
WRTE OF EOC1EE
iES :.0o -FAF                                :71.w   ;3.o   ;91.:   437.0  ttiJE. C3F. Tg
iRS 7  UGT  1994: IEt 1.00 a CF    443.1
CEFAF 100 2.35    0.26)
Ill  MEI:VE  FIlN IDE, RED, iPRIL iV7.
121 FR   IN TABLE 2.   MT SERVICE RATI IS THE RATID aF DBTSVIE TO EPORTS OF
6ODWS AND I-FCOR SERVICES.
DATE: 71-95



-36-
Annex II
Page I of 2
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN 'M.I
A. Statement of IDA Credits as of March 31, 1985
Borrower: Republic of Mali
Credit  IDA Fiscal                                          Amount (less cancellations)
Number     Year              Purpose                         IDA     Undisbursed
---US$ million-
Fifteen Credits fully disbursed                              107.34
538-MLI    1975    Livestock                                 13.3         0.29
669-MLI    1977    Mali-Sud Agricultural                     15.5         0.49
753-MLI    1978    Mopti Rice II                             15.0         0.26
883-MLI    1979    Forestry                                   4.5         0.14
943-NLI    1979    Urban Development                         12.0         1.92
986-MLI    1980    Industrial Sector Development              8.0 1      4.62
1104-MLI    1981    Road Maintenance                          17.0-       3.03
1134-MLI    1981    Petroleum Exploration Promotion            3.7         1.27
1174-1MLI    1982    ODIPAC Technical Assistance               6.5        2.66
1200-MLI    1982    Second Telecommunications                 13.5        9.37
1282-MLI    1983    Water/Power                               24.0       15.63
1307-XLI    1983    Economic Management and Training          10.4        6.46
1403-MLI    1984    Biomass Alcohol and Energy Efficiency    7.6          5.86
1415-MLI    1984    2nd Mali-Sud Rural Development            25.9       20.77
1422-MLI    1984    Health Development                        16.7       12.94
1431-IMLI    1984    Rural Water Supply                        4.6        3.50
1442-MLI    1984    Third Education                            4.6        3.69
F007-MLI    1984    Rural Water Supply                         6.3         5.33
FOIO-ML.    1984    Third Education                            4.9         6.42
Total    321.34      102.63
of which has been repaid       2.41
318.93
Total now held by IDA    318.93
Total undisbursed                    102.63
1/   Beginning with Credit 1104-MLI, credits have been denominated in Special
Draring Rights. The dollar amounts in these columns represent the dollar
equivalents at the time of credit negotiations for the IDA amounts and the
dollar equivalents as of Marcb 31, 1985, for the undisbursed amounts.



-37-
Pap 2 of 2
B. Statemen of IM Invesmis as at Match 31, 1985
Loan                                                     Amxm
Number   Year   BorrAr                   Prpoe            f Loai rmidt      Isbsei
4034I  1978   Socilt lmadou              B1eah and        0.6                 0.0
Sada Diallo et Fils     Pastic
6124(1  1982   Sodciite Tustrielle       Shemiut butter   1.8      .45        0.0
de YaritE du Mali, S.A.   for eCprt



-38-
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
MALI
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(A)  Dates of Project Preparation:            1983
(B)  Prepared by:                             Government of Mali
(C)  Project Preparation Mission:             October 1984
(D)  Appraisal Mission:                       January 1985
(E)  Date of Completion of Negotiations:      November 21, 1985
(F)  Planned Date of Effectiveness:           March 1986
Section II: Special IDA Implementation Action
None
Section III: Special Conditions
1.   DNEF Koulikoro  to  carry  out  pilot  rural  forestry  activities  in
accordance with a timetable acceptable to IDA and to have mid-term
review with IDA by September 30 1988 (see para 49), and DNEF to carry
out agreed studies in accordance with terms of reference and a
timetable acceptable to IDA (see para 52).
2.   For the OPNBB ccmponent, Government has taken steps to implement the
regional development plan and has agreed with IDA on a plan to remove
hamlets and villages situated within Park boundaries (see para 51).
3.   Government to cause OAPF, OPNBB, the Rural Forestry Unit and the DPP
to prepare annual work programs and budgets for project related
activities and to submit them for IDA's approval before the beginning
of each fiscal year (see para 59).
4.   CFMU to maintain separate accounts for all project related activities
on behalf of DNEF, OPNBB and the Rural Forestry Component and will
handle all disbursements; an external auditor report to be provided
six months after the close of each financial year (see para 70).
5.   Government to increase stumpage fees by 100% as a condition of credit
effectiveness, and, in addition, increase them again by 100% by June
30, 1988 (see para 73).
6.   Government to ensure all stumpage fees and forestry fines to accrue to
Forestry Fund and to provide budgetary support for forestry activities
of not less than present levels (see para 74).



-39-
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
7.   By September 30, [988 Government to review project progress with IDA,
in particular taxation measures (see para 74).
8. Condition of credit effectiveness would be (i) fulfillment of all
conditions for disbursing CCCE loan (see para 66); and (ii) initial
increase of stumpage fees (para 74).
9.   Condition of disbursement would be (i) for rural forestry component
DNEF will have made arrangements satisfactory to IDA with the
extension services oprating in the project area (CMDT and OHV)(see
para 49); and (ii) for DNEF component, DNEF will have recruited an
accountant satisfactory to IDA (see para 57).



E,~ ~ ~~~~a iro i
WAMAM      N MAL
FJ\       ''''''s~~N10MI z 141-                                        E? )                                                     
I MALI
,AAf--ST MS
//B   ONEtMlE (AIO&PW ANDADJACRENTREL   ERVE  S/)
4t". .s LTINA rS  DU P'OAt
iN  MAD    AVE MUN1 ROADfE 
fo,   ROUTES MIHUPALES11PERWENES          l                 _       _       _       Nr    //g 
MALINR
S_ AEDCONDP FORESRY PROAJEC
SCNPROJTSET FOREST/ER
RAf ORLWAYS   RESERVES
P30T CLASE                              -..CA                                             S   R,                                           X 
NATION   TAPIAL PVE A  A       RESERES
PREGINA  NATIOALS  I  IE  E AJCNEJ
__ W__RURL  OfRESTRIPOJETAE
COEWROJE CPTAL ORSIRILA
C___OHER IRUSOfRESERVE
SPMECIIROJEC LOAiN
COQIITOUNASWJMOUSD  R
PAVESDSECONDRYC RAD
R01J7185(XICWS~~~12100






