OFFICIAL        CREDIT NUMBER 1654 MLI
DOCUMENTS
Development Credit Agreement
(Second Forestry Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF MALI
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated     (   e      /            1986


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1654 MLI
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated        1L1                   , 1986, between
REPUBLIC OF MALI (the I rrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Associat on).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(B) the Borrower intends to contract from the French
Republic through the Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique
(CCCE) a loan (the CCCE Loan) in an amount of about forty-six
million French francs to assist in financing the Project on the
terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the CCCE Loan
Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and CCCE;
(C) the Borrower intends to receive from the French Repub-
lic through the Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (FAC) a grant (the
FAC Grant) consisting of, inter alia, an amount of twenty-two
million French francs and the provision of experts' services to
assist in financing the Project on the terms and conditions set
forth in an agreement (the FAC Grant Agreememt) to be entered
into between the Borrower and FAC; and
WREREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
rhe terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1,
i985, with the last sentence of Section 3,02 deleted (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the    context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:


﻿-2-
(a)  "Project Preparation Advance" means the project prepa-
ration advance granted by the Association to the Borrower pur-
suant to an exchange of letters dated June 11, 1985 and June 12,
1985 between the Borrower and the Association;
(b) "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(c) "Central Financial Management Unit" means the unit
referred to in paragraph 1 (b) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(d)  "DNEF" means the Direction Nationale des Eaux et Forets
of the Borrower's Ministry of Natural Resources and Livestock;
(e)  "OAPF" means the Operation Amenagement et Productions
Forestieres established pursuant to Decree No. 114 PG-RM, dated
September 16, 1972 of the Borrower and operating under the
supervision of the Ministry of Natural Resources and Livestock;
(f)  "OPNBB"  means   the  Op&ration   Ame-nagement  du  Parc
National de la Boucle du Baoul& established pursuant to Decree
No. 113 PG-RM, dated September 16, 1972 of the Borrower and
operating under the supervision     of  the Ministry of Natural
Resources and Livestock;
(g)  "DPP" means the Division des Projets et Programmes of
DNEF;
(h)  "Rural Forestry Unit" means the Unit responsible for
carrying out Part A (2) of the Project;
(i)  "Office du Niger" means an Etablissement Public of the
Borrower established by Ordinance No. 81-3/1-RM, dated April 28,
1981  of   the   Borrower  and   operating   pursuant  to   Decree
No. 217/PG-RM, dated August 31, 1981 of the Borrower, published
in the Official Journal of Mali No. 693, dated June 4, 1983;
(j)  "Forestry Fund" means the account referred to in Law
No. 82-12 AN-RM, dated February 27, 1982 of the Borrower;
(k)  "fiscal year" means the period from January 1 through
December 31 next following;
(1)  "CMDT" means the Compagnie Malienne pour le Developpe-
ment des Textiles, a corporation      (Societe d'Economie Mixte)


﻿-3 -
organized and operating under Statuts approved by Ordinance
No. 4/CMLN of the Borrower, dated January 30, 1975; and
(m)  "OHV" means Operation Hautes Vall6es established pur-
suant to Decree No. 117 PG-RM, dated September 16, 1975, of the
Borrower and operating under the supervision of the Ministry of
Agriculture.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in
the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to five million nine hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 5,900,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the
Association, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall
so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit.
(b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in CFA Francs a special account in a commercial
bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this
Agreement.
(c) Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
Account and pay to itself the amount required to repay the
principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges
thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the
Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1991 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Associa-
tion shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.


﻿- 4 -
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agree-
ment to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the Gener.al Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each April 15
and October 15 commencing April 15, 1996, and ending October 15,
2035. Each installment to and including the installment payable
on October 1., 2005 shall be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%)
of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall
be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of The French Republic is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
Section 2.09. The Chief, Central Financial Management Unit,
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the
provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this


﻿-5-
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out Part A of the
Project through DNEF, Part B through 0APF and Part C through
OPNBB with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, financial and forestry practices, and
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the Project.
(b) The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit
available to DNEF, OAPF and OPNBB as a grant.
(c) Without limitation upon the generality of paragraph (a)
above, the Borrower shall, during the execution of the Project,
ensure the funding of DNEF, OAPF and OPNBB at not less than their
1985 level in real terms.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3
to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall: (a) ensure that the
studies referred to under Part A (1) and the pilot schemes
referred to under Part A (2)(a) of the Project shall be carried
out in accordance with terms of reference and a timetable satis-
factory to the Association; and (b) no later than September 30,
1988, review with the Association the results reached in the
carrying out of Part A (2) of the Project and in the light of
such review, take such action as the Association shall consider
advisable, including the continuation, the reorientation or
cancellation of activities under said Part A (2).
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall ensure that mechanical
repairs to equipment used to carry out any Part of the Project
which are carried out by the garage of GAPF shall be charged on a
cost basis.
Section 3.05. For the purposes of carrying out Part C of the
Project, the Borrower shall:
(a) implement a regional development plan satisfactory to
the Association for the Boucle du Baoule National Park; and
(b) remove the hamlets and villages situated within the
boundaries of the Boucle du Baoule National Park in accordance
with a plan of action satisfactory to the Association.


﻿- 6 -
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall: (a) by September 30,
1988 review and consult with the Association on the progress
of all parts of the Project including the results of increases
in stumpage rates and forestry fines, and improved collection
efforts; and (b) if necessary take all measures required result-
ing from said review.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall ensure that DNEF make
arrangements, satisfactory to the Association, with CMDT and OHV,
respectively, on the modalities of the cooperation to be provided
by them for the carrying out of Part A (2) of the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause DNEF and the
Central Financial Management Unit to maintain separate records
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures
in respect of the Project of the departments or agencies of the
Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part
thereof.
(b) The Borrower shall:
(i) have the accounts referred to in paragraph (a)
of this Section, including the Special Account,
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
appropriate   auditing   principles   consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to
the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after
the end of each such year, a certified copy of the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested; and
(iii)  furnish to the Association such other information
concerning the said accounts and the audit thereof
and said records as the Association shall from
time to time reasonably request.


﻿-7-
(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i) maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
with paragraph (a) of this Section, separate
records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii) retain,   until  at   least  one  year  after  the
completion of the audit for the fiscal year in
which the last withdrawal from the Credit Account
was   made,   all  records   (contracts,   orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii) enable   the   Association's   representatives  to
examine such records; and
(iv) ensure that such separate accounts are included in
the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
this Section and that the report thereof contains,
in respect of such separate accounts, a separate
opinion by said auditors as to whether the pro-
ceeds of the Credit withdrawn in respect of such
expenditures were used for the purposes for which
they were provided.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall ensure that DNEF employ a
duly qualified accountant whose responsibilities shall include,
inter alia, to establish and maintain the separate account for
DNEF referred to in Section 4.01 (a) of this Agreement, and to
prepare annual financial statements on the basis of such
accounts.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall increase stumpage rates in
order to improve the economic management of its forestry re-
sources and in accordance with the provisions of Article 43 of
Law No. 68-8 AN-RM, dated February 17, 1968 (Forestry Code).
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall ensure that all revenues
from the collection of stumpage fees and forestry fines continue
to be deposited in the Forestry Fund.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall ensure that all revenues
from OAPF's sales are credited to OAPF's accounts for its
exclusive use.


﻿-8-
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. (a) Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the Gen-
eral Conditions, the following additional events are specified,
subject to paragraph (b) of this Section:
(i) the right of the Borrower to with( aw the proceeds
of the CCCE Loan or the FAC Grant shall have been
suspended, or terminated in whole or in part, pur-
suant to the terms of the CCCE Loan Agreement or
the FAC Grant Agreement, and
(ii) the CCCE Loan shall have become due and payable
prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(b) Paragraph (a) of this Section shall not apply if the
Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that:
(i) such suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is
not caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its
obligations under such agreement; and (ii) adequate funds for the
Project are available to the Borrower from other sources on terms
and conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower
under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely
that the event specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur, subject to the provisions of para-
graph (b) of that Section.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions: (a) the Association has been notified by CCCE that
all conditions precedent to the first disbursement of the CCCE
Loan, except for the effectiveness of this Agreement, have
been fulfilled; and (b) the Association has received evidence
satisfactory to it that the Borrower has increased the rates
of stumpage fees by 100% over the levels specified in Law No.
81-04-AN-RM of March 3, 1981.


﻿- 9 -
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower responsible for
Finance is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministere des Finances et du Commerce
Bamako
Republic of Mali
Cable address:                       Telex:
MINIFINANCES                        972559
Bamako
For the Association:
International DevoLupment Associatio
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 10 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their -espective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
REPUBLIC OF MALI
By                                   tcc
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By                     7zA4rA
Regional Vice President
Western Africa


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE I
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1) Part A of
the Project
(a) civil works            470,000         95%
(b) vehicles and            95,000         100%
equipment
(c) consultants'            95,000         100%
services and
training
(d) DNEF operat-           190,000         35%
ing costs
(e) Rural Forestry         190,000         30%
Unit operating
costs
(2) Part B of the Project:
(a) civil works             95,000         95%
(b) vehicles and           935,000         100%
equipment
(c) consultants'           190,000         100%
services and
training


﻿- 12 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(d) OAPF operating       1,680,000         45% up to
costs (exclud-                        December 31,
ing civil                              1987; 42% up to
servants' sala-                       December 31,
ries)                                  1989; and 40%
thereafter
(3) Part C of
the Project
(a) equipment              140,000          100%
(b) rural roads             140,000        95%
maintenance
(4) Refunding of                935,000         Amount due pur-
Project Prepara-                           suant to Section
tion Advance                                2.02 (c) of this
Agreement
(5) Unallocated                 745,000
TOTAL               5,900,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "operating
costs" means expenditures in respect of items such as office sup-
plies, fuel, travel and subsistence expenditures under Categories
(1), (d) and (e) and (2) (d) of the table set forth in paragraph
(1) of this Schedule.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of: (a) payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; (b) in respect
of Categories (1) and (3) until DNEF has employed the accountant
referred to in Section 4.02 of this Agreement; and (c) in respect
of Category (1) (e) until the Association has received evidence
satisfactory to it that the arrangements referred to in Section
3.07 of this Agreement have been made.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to improve the management
of forestry resources and to increase the supply of wood products
in Bamako.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   DNEF
(1)  Improvement of forestry policy and program formulation on
the basis of studies on:
(a) a   long-term  national  plan  for  the  management  of
classified forest and fauna reserves and national
parks;
(b) the feasibility of establishment of irrigated tree
plantations in uncultivated areas managed by the Office
du Niger; and
(c) the structure of the market and of price levels for
local   forest  products,   with  recommendations   for
appropriate stumpage fees and fiscal policy.
(2) Improvement of rural forestry management and formulation of
proposals for reform of land use and tenure laws, forestry
regulations and price incentives on the basis of experience with,
inter alia:
(a) pilot schemes of agro-silvopastoral management of the
unreserved forest cover at Mafeya and Dioila aimed at
involving the rural population in the management of the
forest cover; and
(b) assistance to individual tree/shrub/bush plantations in
the rural areas of Fana, Dioila and Koulikouro through
provision of plants from nurseries.
(3) Improvement of tax collection on domestic wood products
through, inter alia, construction and operation of six toll posts
on the main access roads to Bamako.


﻿- 14 -
(4)  Expansion and equipping of DNEF's office facilities and
supplementary training of forestry officers.
Part B:   Forestry Production and Management Unit (OAPF)
(1) Management of the classified forest of the Bamako area
through, inter alia:
(a) enforcement of forestry policy;
(b) elaboration and adoption of an appropriate management
plan;
(c) maintenance and development of the road/track firebreak
network; and
(d) maintenance and operation of existing tree plantations.
(2)   Establishment and management of semi-industrial tree plan-
tations at the rate of 600 ha per year in the classified forest
of La Faya and Monts Mandingue, with particular emphasis on pro-
tection ._om browsing and uncontrolled bushfires.
(3) Improvement of plantation stock and forestry techniques for
peri-urban tree plantations.
(4) Improvement in the management of natural forest in the
classified forests of the Bamako area.
Part C:   Boucle du Baoule National Park
Protection of the Boucle du Baoule National Park through,
inter alia, improvement and maintenance of the road and track
networks.
The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 1991.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consuiltants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A. International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the
Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.   Except as otherwise agreed with the Association, contracts
for vehicles   and  equipment  shall  be  bulked  into   packages
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more so as to
permit bulk procurement.
Part B. Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the proce-
dures described in Part A (1) hereof, goods manufactured in Mali
may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and
subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C.   Other Procurement Procedures
Contracts for vehicles and equipment estimated to cost less
than $100,000 equivalent and contracts for works may be procured
under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding,
advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to
the Association.
Part D. Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
(a) With respect to each contract for vehicles and
equipment estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more,
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to
the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are


﻿- 16 -
to c,e made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be
modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said
paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Association prior to
the making of the first payment out of the Special Account in
respect of such contract.
(b) With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed
copies of the contract together with the other information
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said
paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to
this Agreement.
(c) The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts on account of which the Associa-
tion has authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account on the
basis ot statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be
retained in accordance with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of this Agree-
ment.
2.   The figure of 10% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
In order to assist DNEF in carrying out part A of the
Project and OAPF in carrying out Part B of the Project, the
Borrower shall ensure that DNEF and OAPF employ consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall
be  selected  in   accordance  with  principles  and   procedures
satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the "Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the
World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August
1981.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation of the Project
1.   Overall Management and Coordination
(a) Overall technical management and coordination of the
Project will be carried out by DNEF.
(b) Financial management of the Project will be carried out
by the administrative and financial section of OAPF which will be
expanded and upgraded into a Central Financial Management Unit.
The Chief of this Unit shall have delegated responsibility to
engage funds on behalf of any department or agency responsible
for carrying out any Part of the Project.
2.   Management of Part A of the Project
(a) The studies under Part A (1) of the Project will be
carried out by DPP.
(b) The rural forestry activities under Part A (2) of the
Project will be carried out under the responsibility of DNEF's
Regional Director at Koulikouro.
(c) Part A (3) of the Project will be carried out under the
responsibility of DNEF's Regional Director for the District of
Bamako.
3.   Management of Part B of the Project
Day-to-day management and execution of Part B of the Project
will be assured by OAPF, reinforced by consultants in the areas
of finance (financial director), mechanics, works, and research.
4.   Management of Part C of the Project
Part C of the Project will be carried out by OPNBB under the
supervision of DNEF.
5.   Work Programs and Budgets
DPP, the Rural Forestry Unit, OAPF and OPNBB will carry out
their respective responsibilities under the Project on the basis
of annual work programs and budgets approved by the Association.


﻿- 18 -
For this purpose, drafts of the annual work programs and budgets
will be forwarded to the Association for its review two months
before the beginning of the Borrower's fiscal year so as to pro-
vide a meaningful opportunity for an exchange of views and the
modification, if necessary, of said draft programs and budgets.
6.   Monitoring and Evaluation
DPP, the Rural Forestry Unit, OAPF and OPNBB will each pro-
duce and forward to the Borrower's Ministry of Natural Resources
and Livestock and to the Association an annual report on the
progress achieved in the implementation of their respective Parts
or sub-Parts of the Project. The report referred to in Section
9.06 (c) of the General Conditions will be prepared by DNEF with
the collaboration of OAPF in respect of Part B of the Project.


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (3) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1
to thiF Agreement;
(b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
and
(c) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount of
one hundred million CFA Francs to be withdrawn from the Credit
Account and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to para-
graph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments
out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of
the respective Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals
to replenish the Special Account may be made as follows:
(a) On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which add up to the amount of the
Authorized Allocation, the Association shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit in the
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
for replenishment of the Special Account at such intervals as the
Association shall specify. On the basis of such requests, the
Association shall withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit
into the Special Account such amounts as shall be required to
replenish the Special Account with amounts not exceeding the
amount of payments made out of the Special Account for eligible


﻿- 20 -
expenditures. All   such  deposits shall   be withdrawn by    the
Association from the Credit Account under the respective eligible
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall
have oeen justified by the evidence supporting the request for
such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account for which the Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, prior to or at the time of such request, such
documents and other evidence as the Association shall reasonably
request, showing that such payment was made for eligible
expenditures.
5.   (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, no further deposit into the Special Account shall be
made by the Association when either of the following situations
first arises:
(i)  the Association shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made directly by the
Borrower from the Credit Account in accordance
with the provisions of paragraph (a) of Section
2.02 of this Agreement; or
(ii) the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allo-
cated to the respective eligible Categories, minus
the amount of any outstanding special commitment
entered into by the Association pursuant to
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions for the
Project shall be equal to the equivalent of twice
the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
(b) Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the
respective eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as
the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent
that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the
date of such notice have been or will be utilized in making
payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for


﻿- 21 -
any expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to para-
graph 2 of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the
evidence furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association deposit
into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so
request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justi-
fied. No further deposit by the Association into the Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has made such deposit or
refund.
(b) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount for crediting to the
Credit Account.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the   '        day of
198  4 -.
FOR SECRETARY


