                   103184




Republic of Sierra Leone

Youth Employment Support Project

                Redacted Report



                      Official Use Only
                                                                           Official Use Only


                            Statement of Use and Limitations

This Report was prepared by the World Bank Group (the WBG) Integrity Vice Presidency
(INT). It provides the findings of an INT administrative inquiry (the Investigation) into
allegations of corrupt, fraudulent, collusive, and/or coercive practices, as defined by the
WBG for purposes of its own policies, rules and procedures (the WBG’s Framework
regarding Anti-corruption), in relation to the WBG-supported activities. The purpose of
the Investigation was to allow the WBG to determine if the WBG’s Framework regarding
Anti-corruption has been violated.

This Report is being shared to ensure that its recipients are aware of the results of the INT
Investigation. However, in view of the specific and limited purpose of the Investigation
underlying this Report, this Report should not be used as the sole basis for initiating any
administrative, criminal, or civil proceedings. Moreover, this Report should not be cited
or otherwise referred to in the course of any investigation, in any investigation reports, or
in any administrative, civil, or criminal proceedings.

This Report is provided without prejudice to the privileges and immunities conferred on
the institutions comprising the WBG and their officers and employees by their respective
constituent documents and any other applicable sources of law. The WBG reserves the
right to invoke its privileges and immunities, including at any time during the course of an
investigation or a subsequent judicial, administrative or other proceeding pursued in
connection with this matter. The WBG’s privileges and immunities cannot be waived
without the prior express written authorization of the WBG.




                                             1
                                                                        Official Use Only



                                 Executive Summary

This report provides the findings of an administrative inquiry by the World Bank Group
Integrity Vice Presidency (INT) into allegations of misconduct in connection with the
Youth Employment Support Project (the Project) in Sierra Leone.

Part of the Project (Part I) was implemented by Agency A. At the time of INT’s
investigation, there were over 400 contracts under Part I. Those contracts were awarded
to approximately 400 contractors.

Evidence indicates that government employees solicited and received kickback payments
from contractors under Part I of the Project. Specifically, evidence indicates that
government employees instructed contractors to pay 10 percent of the contract value in
“commitment.” Evidence indicates that contractors made these payments as instructed.

Evidence also indicates that contractors, with the knowledge and assistance of government
employees, submitted documents with inflated expenditures to recover the kickback
payments they had made.

INT elected not to seek the imposition of World Bank Group administrative sanctions due
to witness confidentiality considerations.




                                           2
                                                                               Official Use Only

Background

The Youth Employment Support Project (the Project) in Sierra Leone aimed to increase
short-term employment opportunities and improve the employability and incomes of
targeted youth. The Project was financed by the International Development Association
(IDA).1 The World Bank Group Integrity Vice Presidency’s (INT’s) investigation focused
on a part of the Project (Part I), which was implemented by Agency A.

Allegations

INT received an allegation that government employees were taking kickbacks from
contractors under the Project. It was further alleged that these employees encouraged
contractors to falsify spreadsheets on sub-projects, submit false worker time sheets, and
alter amounts for labor costs.

Methodology

At the time of INT’s investigation, there were over 400 contracts under Part I. Those
contracts were awarded to approximately 400 contractors, who were geographically spread
throughout Sierra Leone in four regions. INT’s investigation involved reviewing relevant
documents and conducting interviews.

Findings

    1. Evidence indicates that government employees solicited and received kickback
       payments from contractors.

Evidence indicates that: (i) immediately after signing contracts, contractors would be
invited for briefing and training on the contract implementation procedures; (ii) at this time,
contractors as a group would be instructed to pay 10 percent in “commitment” to
government employees, in two tranches of five percent each; and (iii) contractors were told
that although the “commitment” was not mandatory, they would not win another contract
if they did not pay.

Evidence indicates that contractors delivered cash payments to several government
employees. Evidence further indicates that the practice of “commitment” payment had
existed throughout the life of the Project.

    2. Evidence indicates that the Coordinators and contractors submitted
       documents with inflated expenditures.

Evidence indicates that contractors, with the knowledge and assistance of the government
employees, submitted falsified timesheets when submitting Project Completion Reports.
Evidence further indicates that, to recover the funds used for kickback payments,

1
   IDA is one of five institutions comprising the World Bank Group. The International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development and IDA constitute the World Bank. IDA and the World Bank are used
interchangeably throughout this Report.

                                               3
                                                                           Official Use Only

contractors: (i) reduced the number of project beneficiaries that they hired to perform their
contracts’ works; and then (ii) used false names, signatures and fingerprints to
“authenticate” false claims that they had hired their required total number of beneficiaries.

Evidence also indicates that, as another means of recovering kickback payments,
contractors reduced the quantities of materials required to complete the contracts.
Evidence indicates that, at times, contractors did not finish the works as per the
specifications. Evidence further indicates that this heavily compromised the quality of the
work. Evidence also indicates that the government employees were well aware of this and,
at times, encouraged contractors to manipulate the Bills of Quantities to recover the lost 10
percent contractors had paid.

Evidence further indicates that the government employees altered Project Completion
Reports submitted by contractors to make it appear that contractors had paid more in labor
costs than planned. Some of these alterations were made by the government employees,
while others were made by contractors at the government employees’ direction. Evidence
indicates that, in some instances, the government employees destroyed the original reports
and receipts that contractors attached to the Project Completion Reports, and created new
ones.

Follow Up Action by the World Bank

INT elected not to seek the imposition of World Bank Group administrative sanctions due
to witness confidentiality considerations.




                                             4
