Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 11474-MOZ
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
MOZAMBIQUE
RURAL REHABILITATION PROJECT
FEBRUARY 25, 1993
Southern Africa Department
Agriculture Operations Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit           =       Mozambican Metical (MZM)
US$ 1.00                =       MZM  2,456 (September 30, 1992)
1,000 Meticais         =        One Conto
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
Government of Mozambique:   January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
Afl)B                   African Development Bank
AGRICOM                 Empresa de Comercializacio Agrfcola
(State Enterprise for Agricultural Marketing)
BCM                     Banco Comericial de Mocambique
(Commercial Bank of Mozambique)
BM                      Banco de Mocambique
(Bank of Mozambique)
BPD                     Banco Popular de Desenvolvimento
(People's Development Bank)
CCADR                   Caixa de Crddito Agrario e Desenvolvimento Rural
(Agricultural Credit and Rural Development Fund)
CENE                    Commissio Executivo Nacional de Emergencia
(National Emergency Commission)
CFA                     Centro de Formaqco Agraria
(Agricultural Training Center)
CNP                     Commissio Nacional de Plano
(National Planning Commission)
CPFA                    Centro Provincial de Formacao Agraria
(Provincial Agricultural Training Center)
CPP                     Commissao Provincial de Plano
(Provincial Planning Commission)
DANIDA                  Danish International Development Agency
DINAGECA                Direcc,o Nacional de Geografia e Cadastro
(National Directorate for Geography and Cadaster)
DNA                     Direccio Nacional de Agua
(National Directorate for Water)
DNO                     Direccio Nacional de Oreamento
(National Directorate of Budget)
DNP                     Direcc,o Nacional de Plano
(National Directorate for Planning)
DPA                     Direce,o Provinical de Agricultura
(Provincial Directorate of Agriculture)
DPF                     Direcc,o Provincial das Finanqas
(Provincial Directorate of Finance)
DPCA                    Direccio Provincial de Construqio e Aguas
(Provincial Directorate of Construction and Water)
DPCCN                   Departamento de Prevencio e Combate das Calamidades Naturais
(Department for the Prevention and Control of Natural Calamities)
EAR                     Estaleiro de Agua Rural



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
(Disrict Water Supply Workhop)
EC                     European Community
ECMEP                  EBnpreas de Construilo a Manutencio do Estradas e PoMtes
(Road and Bridp Construction and Maintnane Enteaprie)
EME                    Estado Major de Economia
(Provincial Technical Council)
EMOSE                  Empresa Mogambicana de Seguros
(Insurance Company of Mozambique)
EPAR                   Estair Provinical de Agua Rural
(Provinical Water Supply Workhop)
ERP                    Economic Recovery Program
ESRP                   Economic and Social Recovery Program
PAO/CP                 FAO/World Bank Coopertive Program
GDP                    Gross Domestic Product
GIS                    Geographic Information Systems
GOM                    Government of Mozambique
GPS                    Geographic Positioning System
IDA                    International Development Association
INDER                  Insttuto do Desenvovlimento Rural
(Insitut of Rural Development)
INIA                   Instituto Nacional de Investigaqio Agronomo
(National Institute for Agricukuml Research)
MCA                    Miniaterio do Construcio e Aguas
(Ministry for Construction and Water)
MOA                    Ministry of Agriculture
NGO                    Non-Governmental Organiztion
NRP                    National Reconstruction Program
O&M                    Operation and Maintenance
PAO                    Plano Anual de OperaqZe
(Annual Plan of Operations)
PDP                    Priority Ditricts' Program
PEC                    Progrumma do Educario Communitkrio
(Community Education Progrm)
PESU                   Progrma de Emergencia de Sementes aUtenilios Agricolas
(Emergency Seeds and Tools Program)
ePP                    Projeot Preparation Facility
PROpORGE               Projecto de Pormagao e Gestao
(Tmrining and Managemcnt Project)
PRONAR                 Programs Nacional de Agua Rural
(National Rural Water Supply Program)
PRONIP                 Programa Nacional do Irripa$o
National Small Scale Irrigation Program
PTIP                   Plano Trienal de Invetimuento Publioo
(Triennial Public Invedtment Program)
RDA                    Rurl Development Agent
RRP                    Rural Rehabilitation Project
ROCS                   Roads and Coutal Shipping Project
SEMOC                  Scmentes de Moc,ambique
(Mozambique Seeds Company)
SIDA                   Swedish International Development Agcy
UNDP                   United Nations Development Progrm
UNDRO                  United Naions Diuster Relief Organization
UNV                    United Nationr Volunteers
USAID                  U.S. Agency for International Development
VLOM                   Village Level Operation and Maintenance
WB                     World Bank
I This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






MOZAMBIOUE
RURAL REE[BIITATION1PROJEC
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Credit and Project Summary  .........................                                .                   I
L.BACKGROUND  ......................... ,    ,ee944G4*o    1
A. Introduction ..........................  1
B. Country Characteristics ..........................   I
General ..........................  1
Population and Security  .......................                              ...   2
Economic Context ........................... 2
Agricultural Sector ........................... 3
Financial Sector ..........................   4
C. Land, Resettlement and Rural Infrastructure  ......................  S
Land ..                                                               5
Resettlement of War-Displaced Households ....................  7
Rural Infrastructure ................................... 10
Rural Water Supply ................................... 10
D. Administrative Arrangements ............................... 12
Administrative Capacity  ................................ 12
Public Administration and Funding of Investments .. o.          ............ 12
District and Local Administration ............  -  ........... 13
Decentralization ............................... o ..... 13
Government Institutions in Rural Development ............... o.. 14
E. External and Non-Governmental Organizatio ............                                     16
F. Lessons Learned ....................................... 16
I. THE PROJECT ........................oooooo ....   1s
A. Rationale and Objectives ...............                      ....                         ........ ... 18
B. Design Considerations .................................... 19
Flexibility ......................                        ... o ........... 19
Technical Assistance and Training Requirements ................. 19
Phasing  ......................... .. ..........   19
The Project Area .................................... 20
Availability of Credit ......                                                        20
Rationale for IDA Involvement and Links with Conty Strategy ..                       20
Tlis report is bsed on the findings of an apprisal mission which viited Mozambique in June-July of 1992. Te
mission wu comprised of Messrs /Mesdames Daniel Cotlar (mision leadw and main aWbor of dhis rport), Jon
Olivars (Principal Economist/implementation specialist), Jacob Intator (turnd crd  spooia , Hanndo Clanon
(institutions specialist), Susana Lastarria (land information spcialist), Micheb MoNab (h    s rity speawist)
and Juan Estrada (Hydraulic Engineer). Mr. Francois PaUoux is lad advisor ad Msesrs. Alai Tobeim ad
Maurice Amo  are peer revicwver for this project. Mr. Chaim Helman and Mr. Stephe Demming am th
managing Division Chief and Depaitment Director, respoetively, for th opation.



C. Summary Project Description  ............................... 20
D. Detailed Description of Project Components ...................... 21
Support for Decentralization Component ...................... 21
Land Component  .................................... 27
Distribution of AgPacks Component  ........................ 29
Rural Water Supply Component ........................... 30
HI.  PROJECT IMPLEM               TATION   ............ ..                       ................   34
A. Overall Organizational Arrangements  .......................... 34
B. Management of Project Components ........................... 34
C. Programming of Activities ................................. 36
D. Project Implementation Review  .............................. 36
E. Monitoring, Evaluation and Beneficiary Assessment  ................. 37
F. Status of Project Implementation  ............................. 37
IV. COST ESTIMATES, FINANCING AND PROCUREMENT ............. 39
A. Cost Estimates  ........................................ 39
B. Financing   ...........................................  40
C. Procurement .......................................... 40
D. Disbursements  ........................................ 43
E. Accounts and Audits ..................................... 45
V. BENEFITS, RISKS AND ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS ............... 46
A. Benefits   .           ...........................................  46
B. Risks  ................... ..                      ......................... 46
C. Environmental Aspects  ................................... 47
D. Sustainability  .........................................  47
E. Gender Focus ......................................... 47
VI. ASSURANCES AND RECOMMIENDATIONS   ..................... .  48
U  of Annexes
I-1   Global Investments for 1992 - by Sector and Type .51
1-2   Executed Investments by Level of Government (Millions of MTs) .52
1-3      Investment Budget for 1991 -  Provincial Summary (Millions of MTs) .53
1-4   Provincial Planning Commission of Zambezia - Summary of Resources .54
I-S    Provincial Planning Commission of Sofala - Summary of Resources .55
1-6      Organization of Provincial Planning Commissions ..................... 56
I-7      Ongoing Investment Projects in Sofala Province  ...................... 57
I-8      Seed and Tool Distribution under the PESU  ......................... 58
1-9      Sample Composition of AgPacks for Various Zones in Zambezia Province   ... .. S8
1-10    Calendar for AgPack and VegPack Distribution  ...................... 59
I-11    Financial Intermediaries in the Project Area .........................                            60
I-12    The Center for Agrarian Training  .             ..............................  62
I-13    Donors Providing Support to the CFA   ..........                     ..................  66
1-14    Provision of Potable Water in Rural Areas  ........                     ................. 67
1-15    Main Donor Support to Land Services Institutions .....................  68



11-1    The Role of NGOs in the Rural Rehabilitation Project .................. 69
II-2    Examples of Possible Sub-Projects  .............................. 74
m-lI   Table of Contents for the Operations Manual ........................ 79
EII-2   Accounting and Auditing Guidelines  ............................. 80
IV-1   Terms of Reference for Program Advisor .......................... 90
IV-2   Terms of Reference for Financial Management Specialist ................ 91
IV-3   Terms of Reference for Project Planning and Appraisal Specialists ....  ....... 92
IV-4   Terms of Reference for Image Interpreter Expert ..................... 93
IV-5   Terms of Reference for Image Interpreter Cooperante  .................. 94
IV-6   Terms of Reference for Cartographer Cooperante ..................... 95
IV-7   Terms of Reference for Geographic Information Systems Specialist ....    ...... 96
IV-8   Terms of Reference for Water Supply Advisors ...................... 97
IV-9   Terms of Reference for Project Director ........................... 98
IV-10  Terms of Reference for Financial Controller .99
IV-11 Terms of Reference for Accounting and Finance Officers .100
IV-12  Terms of Reference for Rural Development Agents .101
IV-13  Terms of Reference for Training Coordinator .102
IV-14 Terms of Reference for Land Tenure Study .103
IV-15 Terms of Reference for Organization and Administration of the Rural Water Supply
Service Study .109
P1-16  Terms of Reference for the Inventory of Rural Water Supply Infrastructure .1 1 1
1V-17  Summary of Technical Assistance and Studies .114
V-i   Project Implementation Structure  .............................   117
V-2  Implementation Schedule . ............................. 118
V-3  Key Monitoring Indicators .............................. 119
V-4    Supervision Plan .............................  120
V-5    Lessons Learned in Project Implementation ......................... 123
V-6  Documents in Project File .............................. 125
VI-1   Project Costs by Expenditure Category ............................  127
VI-2   Estimated Duties  .............................  128
VI-3   Disbursement Schedule ..........              ...................  129
Maps  IBRD Nos. 24277, 24278, and 24279






-i-
Mozambique
Rural Rehabilitation Project
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:           Republic of Mozambique
Beneficiaies:      INDER, Provincial Planning Commissions, small-scale farmers.
Amount:             SDR 14.5 million (US$20 million equivalent)
Terms:              Standard, with 40 years maturity
Project Objectives:   The overall objective of the project is to undertake pilot activities to
support decentralized rural economic recovery, while simultaneously
creating the capacity and procedures necessary to respond to the
challenges of post-war national reconstruction. The project has four
specific objectives: i) to build capacity in the institutions that will be
responsible for post-war reconstruction and to develop procedures for
decentralized rural development; ii) to provide information about land
use and to develop policies to secure tenure security for smallholders; iii)
to help households that have been displaced by the war restart
agricultural production on their traditional lands; and iv) to improve the
health and quality of life of rural households by increasing the coverage
of the rural water supply.
ject Descripitin:   The project is a three-year pilot activity to be carried out in support of
the Government's National Reconstruction Program.  It has four
components. The Support for Decentralization Component includes
a pilot activity in two provinces to test procedures for identifying,
funding and implementing community-based investment subprojects. The
component focuses heavily on institution building and training
government officials, NGOs and community groups. The Lands
Component will improve land use information and will support the
development of policies to demarcate smallholder lands.   The
Distribution of Agpacks Component will provide seeds and hand tools
to smallholders returning to their traditional lands after the war. The
Rural Water Supply Component will increase the coverage of the rural
water supply in the two provinces, improve the organization and
management of provincial water supply institutions, and stimulate
community participation in the operation and maintenance of the systems.
Benefits and Risks:   The project will help Mozambique begin the enormous task of post-war
reconstruction. Smallholders in the project area will benefit directly
through increased investment in local infrastructure, and greater tenure
security. Smallholders who were displaced from their lands by the war
will benefit from seeds, tools and other support provided by NGOs. The
country as a whole will benefit from capacity building and training
activities.



-ii-
Security remains the greatest risk, even though a peace accord has been
signed. It is possible that law and order will not be fully restored for
years or that further unrest will erupt as demilitarization and the planned
elections proceed. Project activities will be concentrated in districts that
have been selected, in part, for their relative security. The districts can
be changed during project implementation if warranted. The second
major risk is the Government's weak implementation capacity.  The
project design addresses this weakness through its focus on pilot
activities, training and capacity building, as well as its inclusion of
technical assistance and NGO participation.
Mozambique
Rural Rehabilitation Project
Estimated Costs'
(US$ Millions)
Mflions of US Dolars              % Total
% Foreign
IAc      Foreign    Total       Exchange Base Cost
A. SUPPORT-DECENTRALIZATION
1. Courss and Seninar.                 0.36       0.23      0.59         38.3       3.1
2. Subprojec; Cap Bldg.                 1.69      4.13      5.82         71.0      30.9
Subtotal                                  2.06       4.36      6.41        68.0      34.1
B. LAND
1. Land Usc Mapping                    0.25       1.92      2.17        88.5       11.5
2. Land Study & Pilao Demarc.           0.34      0.35      0.69         50.8       3.7
Subtotal                                  0.59      2.27       2.87        79.3       15.2
C. DlSTRIBUTION OF AUPACKS                0.38      4.18       4.56        91.7      24.2
D. RURAL WATER SUPPLY
1. Sofula                              0.36       1.19      1.55        76.6        8.2
2. Zambdzia                             0.64      1.95      2.59         75.4      13.8
3. Support to Ccnter                    0.13      0.71      0.84         84.7       4.5
Subtotal                                  1.13      3.85       4.98        77.3      26.5
Total BASELINE COSTS                      4.16      14.67     18.82        77.9      100.0
Physical Contingencies                  0.55      1.69      2.24         75.6      11.9
Price Continencis                     0.93       1.03      1.96         52.4      10.4
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                       5.64     17.39      23.02        7S.S     1223
'Numbers may not add up due to rounding.



-iii-
Mozambique
Rural Rehabilitation Project
Financing Plan'
(US$ Millions)
Amount
IDA       Beneficiaries   Government     Total
I  Foreign              17.39          0.00           0.00        17.39
II Local (excl. taxes)   2.57           1.07          0.28         3.93
Ill Taxes                0.00          0.00           1.71         1.71
TOTAL PROJECT           19.96          1.07           1.99        23.02
'Numbers may not add up due to rounding.
Estimated Disbursements
(US$ Millions)
IDA FIscal Year   1994     199S     1996      1997      1998       1999
Annual          6.49     6.83      5.00      0.54       0.54       0.55
Cumulative      6.49     13.33    18.33     18.87      19.41      19.96






-I-
I. BACKGROUND
A. Introduction
1.01          More than a decade of conflict in Mozambique has resulted in the massive
displacement of rural populations and the destruction of rural infrastructure, including schools,
clinics, storage facilities, shops and roads. A peace accord was signed in October 1992 and
initial steps have been taken towards restoring peace. As a result of these positive developments,
the Government and donors have begun to plan post-war rehabilitation and resettlemente
activities. The Government is preparing a National Reconstruction Program (NRP), which will
identify and prioritize nationwide needs.
1.02          The implementation of any large-scale reconstruction program  faces major
obstacles, even if peace can be fully reinstated. In Mozambique, reconstruction will be a slow
process because of the scale of destruction and the possible movement of several million people,
years of inefficient central planning, and one of the world's lowest levels of literacy and technical
skill available. The Government and donors have recognized the urgent need to prepare for
national reconstruction through capacity building at all levels and through pilot activities designed
to test new approaches and build necessary skills.
1.03          The Rural Rehabilitation Project (RRP) has been designed to support the NRP.
It will be a three-year pilot project aimed at supporting rural economic recovery, while creating
the capacity and procedures to respond to the challenges of post-war national reconstruction. The
project will support the development of policy and capacity building at the central level. Field
activities will be concentrated in the provinces of Sofala and Zambezia in central Mozambique.
A follow-up Rural Rehabilitation II Project is expected to expand to additional areas of the
country, in line with the Government's National Reconstruction Plan, improved security and
experience gained in the pilot phase. The RRP has been designed to be flexible so it can respond
to the changes likely to occur during the life of the project.
B. Country Characteristics
General
1.04          Mozambique has a total land area of 786,380 square kilometers, with an
additional 13,000 square kilometers of inland waters including Lake Cahora Bassa and part of
Lake Malawi (Lake Niassa). Its predominant physiographic feature is a large, flat coastal plain,
wider in the southern part of the country, which rises steadily in elevation to the mountainous
areas in the west. The country's resource base is favorable for agricultural production. Land
is plentiful relative to population. Throughout most of the country, soils are fertile and rainfall
is usually adequate. The south, however, is characterized by a tropical dry climate with a low
'The term nresettlement" is used in this document to apply to households voluntarilv moving back to their
traditional lands after the war. Some of these households will be categorized as refugees returning from
neighboring countries (regresados), others will be those returning from camps for displaced persons
(deslocados), still others will be households whose agricultural production has been curtailed by the war
(hyfectados). Most are expected to spontaneously return to their lands; some refugees in Malawi and other
countries might receive international assistance for their return.



-2-
annual rainfall (400-800 mm) concentrated in a short rainy season, relatively light soils, and
average temperatures of 23-26°C.
Population and Security
1.05         The population of Mozambique is estimated to be 15 million people, of whom
4 million reside in and around the three largest cities of Maputo, Beira and Nampula. As a result
of widespread violence, looting and destruction in rural areas of the country during the past ten
years, more than one-third of the rural population has been displaced or otherwise affected by
the internal security situation. This situation was compounded by the drought of 1991. Today
at least 1.5 million people are displaced from their homes (deslocados) and more than 1 million
people are refugees (refugiados), mostly in Malawi. Countless others have sought security in and
around the three largest cities, as well as provincial and district capitals. Large parts of the
country are either inaccessible to regular transport and trade movements, or are accessible only
by air. Existing structures have been widely destroyed and, in many cases, the provision of
agricultural services such as extension, input supply, marketing, and credit is hampered by
ongoing security problems.
1.06         It is not yet clear how quickly the peace accord signed in October 1992 will result
in the full restoration of law and order. Similarly, it is not certain how many or how quickly
displaced people and refugees will return to their homes. There are reasons to expect large, rapid
movements of population, such as occurred in 1991 and 1992 with the newly-pacified areas of
Zamb6zia province. Anecdotal evidence and surveys conducted in refugee camps in Malawi
indicate that many people may return to their homes, with or without assistance, as soon as they
feel the area is secure. The pace of population movement is also expected to be influenced by
the occurrence of rain.
Economic Context
1.07         Economic Performance. From Independence in 1975 until 1987, Mozambique's
per capita Gross Domestic Product (GDP) fell consistently, despite the country's well-endowed
and diversified resource base. External imbalances, aggravated by an increasingly overvalued
exchange rate, led to the rapid accumulation of arrears on external debt service. Internally, large
fiscal deficits and unconstrained bank financing of public enterprise losses resulted in a tripling
of the money supply despite shrinking output. Administrative measures were used to control
prices and allocate resources. As shortages increased, barter, inflation, and parallel markets for
goods and foreign exchange became widespread. Between 1980 and 1986, overall production
fell by about 30% and exports by nearly 75%. In 1985, imports were down by nearly two-thirds
of their 1980 level.
1.08         The Economic Rehabilitation Program. To arrest economic deterioration, the
Government adopted a comprehensive Economic Rehabilitation Program (ERP) in January 1987.
Under this program and the subsequent Economic and Social Rehabilitation Program (ESRP) of
1989-90, economic reforms have been introduced to improve the exchange rate, foreign exchange
allocation, trade policies, pricing policy, the budget, and the structure and functions of the
financial sector. The ERP has succeeded in reversing the decline in GDP, which was especially
evident from 1982-85. From 1987 to 1989, real GDP growth averaged 5.4% per annum. Much
of this growth came from light industry, stimulated by improved access to foreign exchange and
imported inputs. In 1990-91, growth slowed to about 2%  p.a. on average, mainly as a



-3-
consequence of bad weather, renewed attacks on energy supply infrastructure, and a decline in
external assistance.
1.09         National Reconstruction Program. The peace agreement, signed in October
1992, now followed by the gradual re-establishment of law and order, should result in
opportunities for rehabilitating rural Mozambique. This will constitute an enormous challenge
for the Government and donors. To meet this challenge, the Government is designing a National
Reconstruction Program (NRP) that will identify and prioritize investment needs. The design and
implementation of this plan will incorporate decentralized procedures to overcome administrative
bottlenecks and increase beneficiary participation. Initially, activities will be concentrated in the
"priority districts," chosen for their productive potential and relative security, and in investments
designed to rehabilitate existing infrastructure. Activities are expected to be extended to other
areas of the country as security and resources permit.
1.10         The NRP is understood to be a plan for economic and social rehabilitation and
development consisting of two phases: short-term emergency/resettlement; and medium-term
reconstruction and development. The first phase focuses on rural resettlement and production
recovery. It includes the following programs: (i) the demobilization of armed forces and their
reintegration into civilian life; (ii) national parliamentary and presidential elections by the end of
1993; and (iii) resettlement of refugees, internally displaced people and affected households. The
latter stimulates agricultural recovery by providing basic inputs to households for agricultural
production, as well as simple infrastructure and social services to allow communities to function
again. The second phase of the NRP will consist of larger, integrated reconstruction and
developmental programs. Authorities will decide on these programs based on the geographical
distribution of population resulting from the resettlement process supported by the first phase.
A key component of the NRP will consist of redefining and reallocating resources among
projects. Substantial benefits are expected to result from the NRP. Over the short-term,
improved security and the resettlement of between 20% and 30%6 of Mozambique's population
would lead to increased agricultural output. This, in turn, is expected to promote economic
activities in other sectors.
Agricultural Sector
1.11         Agriculture is the most important sector in the Mozambican economy.
Traditionally it accounts for about 40-50% of GDP, employs over 80% of the labor force, and
generates most of the country's export earnings. Over the past fifteen years, however, the pattern
of agriculture has been completely disrupted, first by land reform and a policy of villagization
at the time of Independence, then by civil war. This disruption has been especially severe for
traditional smallholder farmers (known as the "family sector" in Mozambique). These farmers
are responsible for 100% of the cassava and cashew, over 95% of the sorghum, beans,
groundnuts and maize, and 60% of the rice produced in the country.2 The war also has halted
or severely constrained agricultural services such as extension, soil conservation, and research.
1.12         Sector Performance.  In addition to the war, agricultural production and
marketing have declined due to rigid pricing and marketing policies, central planning and
allocation of resources, and focus of government expenditures on large, capital-intensive state
farms. The decline was most pronounced during the late 1970s and 1980s, and has been
2World Bank, Agricultural Sector Survey, 1988; 1985/86 figures.



-4
compounded by external factors such as droughts and floods. As a result of these factors,
Mozambique now imports about 400,000 tons of food grains a year (in 1992, the drought pushed
imports up to 700,000 tons) and the marketed production of the six principal food crops is only
30% of its 1970 level.3
1.13         Agricultural Reform. Under the ERP, attention has focused on liberalizing
pricing and marketing policies to restore incentives for agricultural production and marketing,
reducing large-scale investments of doubtful profitability, and closing down inefficient state
farms. Controls on the price and movement of many products have been removed entirely.
Considerable progress has been made to restore domestic price incentives. For example,
domestic prices on foodcrops now average about 80% of international prices. A recent analysis
of official pricing data demonstrates two trends under the ERP since 1987 - an increase in the
real prices of all agricultural commodities, including foodcrops, and improvement in the
agricultural terms of trade for producers of export crops such as cashew, cotton, and copra.
Financial Sector
1.14         Structures and Institutions. Mozambique's financial system consists of a central
bank, three commercial banks, an insurance company, and an investment company. The Central
Bank (BM) was recently restructured to free it from commercial activities it used to undertake.
The commercial banks are the new Banco Comercial de Mozambique, created during the
separation of commercial banking activities from the Central Bank, the state-owned Banco
Popular de Desenvolvimento (BPD), and the privately-owned Banco Standard Totta. The
insurance company (EMOSE) is state-owned and has a monopoly in the market. The company
provides all types of insurance, including life insurance and pension services. The investment
company (SOCIEF) is owned by several public and private institutions, and handles government
bond issues.
1.15         To stimulate investment in the rural sector the Government created an agricultural
credit fund, the CCADR. This fund was designed to provide credit on preferential terms and at
subsidized interest rates (initially 6%, raised to 10% in September 1989). The fund started
operating in May 1988 and was administered by a separate lending department in BDP's head
office. Lending was financed from government budgetary allocations and local counterpart funds
generated by donor-financed projects. Contrary to stated intentions, state enterprises became the
principal beneficiaries of credit under the CCADR. Because of high loan arrears and a lack of
financial replenishment, CCADR was forced to drastically reduce its lending in 1990 and to cease
operations in 1991.
1.16         Credit Ceilings. Interest Rates and Financdal Sector Reform. Under the ERP,
the primary instrument of monetary control is the use of credit ceilings imposed on the
commercial banks. Several significant exclusions to the credit ceilings have been granted in the
past. For example, lending under the CCADR was not constrained, nor is lending from several
donor-financed projects. Under the ERP, interest rates have been increased seven times, moving
from highly negative real rates to the current level of 39 %, which is above the expected inflation
rate. In March of 1992, interest rates were unified. Additional measures required to reform the
financial sector in Mozambique are expected to be put in place with support from the proposed
Financial Sector Adjustment Operation, to be appraised by IDA in 1993.
3World Bank, Agricultural Sector Survey, 1988.



-5-
1.17         As part of the ERP, total credit in the economy has been reduced in real terms.
Credit for agriculture has been reduced by a large proportion, to 39% of its 1987 level. In 1991,
only 25 % of the net nominal increase in credit went to agriculture. A large portion of the new
credit continues to flow to state agricultural enterprises, leaving little room for the development
of the private sector. Once the financial sector has been fully reformed, no earmarking of credit
to specific sectors will be necessary. As a transitional measure, however, the Bank has approved
support for two lines of credit to promote agricultural development - one for SDR 2.3 million
(Credit 2175-MOZ) and another for SDR 5.2 million (Credit 2337-MOZ).
C. Land, Resettlement and Rural Infrastructure
Land
1.18         Approximately 45% of Mozambique's land is classified as tillable (36.1 at 78.6
million hectares). Compared to other African countries, Mozambique has a relatively low rural
population density (an average of more than 10 hectares of tillable land per rural family).
However, migration provoked by the war has reduced the area under cultivation to only 3.4
million hectares (9.4% of the total tillable land). Thus, a very large proportion of the agricultural
land resources of the country are unexploited or underexploited, and ownership rights over most
of this land are not clearly defined.
1.19         An estimated 3 million households are smallholders, accounting for over 97% of
the cultivated area (3,295,672 hectares of a total of 3,377,719). Only 82,047 hectares are
registered as being cultivated by the 'organized sector" (state/private joint ventures, state farms,
cooperatives and private individual farmers). However, some observers believe that large areas
of land have been absorbed recently by the organized sector and that much of the superior land
accessible to productive and marketing infrastructure is now controlled by that sector. Property
rights are becoming a source of conflict. It is likely that there is considerable overlap between
the customary rights exercised by the smallholder sector, lands allocated to state/private joint
venture companies, and land still believed to be part of non-operating state farms.
1.20         The quality of data regarding land use, geographical location, production and
yields is extremely questionable. Often, available data is based on extrapolations from pre-
Independence surveys, presenting an inaccurate picture of the current situation.
1.21         The legal framework for land rights and land use is complex and incomplete to
face the challenges presented to Mozambique in the aftermath of the war. The major problem,
however, is the lack of clarity concerning actions needed to provide land tenure security. In
recognition of these problems, the Government appointed a Land Commission in May 1992 under
the direction of the Ministry of Agriculture and INDER. This commission has the mandate to
produce a new Land Policy and draft new legislation for discussion by the Government.
1.22         In Mozambique, all land belongs to the state and cannot be sold, ceded, rented
or mortgaged. However, improvements on the land, such as buildings, trees, irrigation works,
etc., can be mortgaged or transferred. Various levels of government authorities are empowered
to allocate rights and give 'licenses' for exploitation of agricultural land, for up to 50 years, to
specific individuals or entities with a legal status. A license for up to 250 hectares can be granted
to private individuals by provincial authorities. Major land concessions involving as much as
200,000 hectares have been handled by specialized offices of the Government. "Family farmers"
(smallholders) do not require a license; for them the right to land derives from its mere use.



-6-
1.23          The existing law requires that rights to land and details of its use and capabilities
be recorded in a National Land Register. DINAGECA, the Ministry of Agriculture's National
Directorate for Geography and Cadastre, is responsible for conducting property surveys and for
maintaining the National Land Register. As of October 1992, private surveyors also are allowed
to operate. DINAGECA does not receive all information on land allocations made by provincial
governments or by the Ministry of Agriculture. As a result, there are no centralized records of
acquired rights. This creates an enormous potential for confusion and land tenure conflicts.
Additionally, no systematic information exists about land allocated to displaced persons' camps
or about the ownership and use of state farms.
1.24          There is a lack of transparency in the allocation of land currently being divested
from state farms which, presumably, includes some of the best land in the country. Divestiture
of the state farms also is often handled on an ad hoc basis. Many of the decisions made at the
district, provincial or national level are not systematically recorded or consolidated to detect
overlaps and inconsistencies.' Additional problems are likely to emerge from the large allocations
of land rights to state-private joint venture companies. These allocations include exclusive trading
rights over extensive zones cultivated by family farmers.'
1.25          Significant land tenure problems also have resulted from the security situation.
Displaced families have settled in the periphery of most important urban centers. Around
Maputo, a number of "temporary' camps for displaced families now appear to have become
permanent slums, imposing additional stresses on the already overburdened urban social
infrastructure. Overlapping land rights in these areas are likely to evolve into severe conflicts
if and when private property rights to land are legalized. Many of these displaced families have
lost their rural roots or customary right to land in their districts of origin. In spite of the legal
limitations and the associated uncertainty of tenure, a very active land market appears to have
developed, with the acquiescence of govermnent authorities. A large number of transactions have
been taking place among private owners in areas surrounding major urban centers. These
individuals expect market pressures eventually to force the government to begin formal
adjudication of property rights.
1.26          This process is likely to spread quickly into more distant rural areas. Widespread
"land grabbing' might be under way already, as non-farmers, attracted by the prospect of short-
term speculative capital gains, establish rights over land that at present could be regarded as
abandoned and therefore reverted to the State. "Family farmers" appear to be the least protected.
Unless there is a strong commitment to preserve their access to reasonably fertile land, they will
be displaced into marginal areas, perpetuating their dependency on aid.
1.27          Before a formal process of titling is initiated, a specific policy statement and plan
of action are needed to direct the allocation of land being divested from state farms or public
lands to family farmers. Defining the policies will be the job of the Land Commission, and
'A review of some issues related to the evolution of govemment policies and the legal framework for the
allocation of land tenure rights can be found in "Options for State Farm Divestiture and the Creation of
Secure Tenure,' a report by John Bruce to USAID/Mozambique, Dec. 1989, and subsequent papers.
'The Govemment is preparing a report including a description of the divestiture that has taken place to date
and a plan of action for future activities in this area. The report, to be finalized by March 1993, is a
condition for second tranche release of the Economic Recovery Credit (Credit 2384).



-7-
implementing the new policies will be the responsibility of DINAGECA. Both institutions need
a great deal of strengthening to carry out these functions. The Land Commission is receiving
support from USAID to undertake studies related to state farm divestiture and peri-urban areas.
It requires further support to undertake studies to produce recommendations for strengthening the
tenure rights of smallholders and to develop the results of all studies into a land policy designed
for the new circumstances of the country. DINAGECA also receives assistance from several
donors for work in some selected districts (see Annex I-15). However, it requires additional
support to design and test mechanisms for registering land in the family sector and develop land
use information at a national level for planning investments in rural infrastructure and to prepare
for the return migration of war-displaced households.
Resettlement of War-Displaced Households
1.28         The expected peacetime resettlement of tens of thousands of rural households
raises other problems in addition to those surrounding land rights. Many households will be
returning to their traditional lands without the seeds and tools they need to restart agricultural
production. Most will be severely decapitalized, incapable of purchasing the necessary inputs.
Even those with money available will find few commercial seed markets and very limited trade
in agricultural hand tools.  The marketing parastatal, AGRICOM, has supplied inputs
commercially in some limited areas, but its future is uncertain. Most of the seeds and tools
distributed in the country today are supplied to displaced people living in camps through free
distribution or concessional sales programs operated by the government and NGOs. Many of the
lessons learned during. these emergency programs can be adapted to supply seeds and tools to
households returning to their traditional lands.
1.29         In the emergency relief program, the government and NGOs recognized that
many households in camps for displaced people could meet a portion of their own food needs if
seeds and tools were provided, in combination with emergency food aid.  Since 1987,
approximately 50,000 tons of seeds and over six million hand tools have been supplied through
governmental and non-governmental channels (see Annex 1-8). This quantity of seed had the
potential to reduce food aid needs by 500,000 tons over the period.
1.30         Seed and tool distribution efforts are coordinated by PESU, the Emergency
Program for Seeds and Agricultural Tools (Programa de Emergencia de Sementes e Utensilios
Agricolas). PESU operates under the auspices of CENE in coordination with DPCCN, the
Ministry of Agriculture, and AGRICOM'. Some of the distribution of seeds and tools is
conducted by DPCCN through the same channels used for distributing emergency food aid.
Other distribution is carried out directly by non-governmental organizations working in
coordination with local authorities. Annex 1-8 describes donor support to PESU.
1.31         NGOs have developed and refined the concept of 'AgPacks' to eliminate many
initial problems with seed and tool distribution. Examples of these are households receiving
seeds and no tools, donors supplying varieties of seed unsuitable for various climatic zones, and
quality control problems with seed supplied by AGRICOM. An AgPack is a single package
including several types of improved seed and the essential tools for Mozambican farmers - hoes,
a machete and sometimes an ax. The diverse package of improved seed, including basic grains,
'CENE is the National Executive Committee for the Emergency and DPCCN is the Department for the
Prevention and Control of Natural Calamities.



-8-
legumes and vegetables, reduces both dependency on one crop and the risk of total crop failure.
The high quality seeds are tested and certified for purity and germination. The inclusion of
legumes compensates for the protein deficiency common in the grain-based diets of poor rural
households. Leguminous crops also help maintain soil fertility through nitrogen fixing.
1.32         The AgPack programs of some NGOs are well-established. In conjunction with
the Ministry of Agriculture, the National Institute for Agronomic Investigation (INIA) and the
national seed company (SEMOC), NGOs are conducting trials around the country to determine
the most suitable seeds for each agroclimatic zone. The AgPacks developed from these trials
contain up to ten types of improved cereal, pulse, and vegetable crops differentiated by zone, plus
tools and an illustrated instruction manual. Since less than 15% of farmers are literate, the
instruction manuals use graphics and pictures to demonstrate the best growing practices for each
crop and region. Follow-up extension is provided when possible. Each AgPack allows for
planting a family sector farm of three-quarters to one hectare, which can meet most of a
household's food needs.
1.33         Most improved seed in Mozambique is imported from Zimbabwe and other
neighboring countries. SEMOC is the only large national producer of seeds, but its prices are
often higher than imports. Most tools are imported from South Africa and other countries in the
region. Two Mozambican companies have recently started to manufacture agricultural hand
tools, but their production meets only a fraction of total demand. Historically, no commercial
seed market has existed in Mozambique, yet there is a general expectation that commercial seed
production will expand after the war. Local manufacture of tools, including possible artisanal
production, also is expected to increase. The Ministry of Agriculture, with support from ASDI,
is conducting a thorough evaluation of the post-war seed and input market.
1.34         NGOs have begun limited seed multiplication efforts in conjunction with their
AgPack programs. Varieties that proved promising in their trials on experimental farms are
given to private contract farmers for multiplication. Rice seed imports are prohibited under
Mozambican law and SEMOC seed often is unreliable, so one NGO has started to contract
private rice seed growers in one of the RRP districts, Nicoadala.
1.35         NGOs recently introduced "VegPacks' or "Horti-Packs," which provide
households with a more nutritionally balanced diet year-round and offer an opportunity for
income generation through the sale of produce. VegPacks allow households to produce food in
the cool, dry season (April-September) to supplement their cereal and pulse production during
the hot, rainy season (November-March). VegPacks have been designed by health experts to
provide key vitamins and minerals, including iron for anemia and parasites and vitamins A and
C for eye and skin problems. Vegetables such as cabbage, squash, tomatoes, carrots, green
beans, and cow peas are included in the packages.
1.36         The timing of AgPack distribution is crucial and requires careful planning. Tools
should arrive well before planting to allow for field preparation. In areas where land has been
fallow for years, tools need to arrive several months before the onset of the rainy season. Seeds
should arrive as close as possible to planting time to reduce the risk of consumption or sale7 (see
Annex 1-10).
7Some NOOs have found that direct distribution of AgPacks to women reduces the likelihood that the
components will be sold.



-9-
1.37         Seed and tool distribution was initially viewed as an emergency relief activity.
As a result, little attention was given to development goals or issues such as dependency on free
distribution. After several years, the government and NGOs recognized that dependency had
been created among some long-term residents of camps, who assumed they would receive a new
supply of seeds and tools with each harvest. In response, the government instituted a new policy
encouraging provincial and district level authorities to charge a 'symbolic price' for the seeds
and tools, depending on local conditions. Some donors were very reluctant to approve of this
new policy, preferring their donations to be distributed without charge, but as of 1992, all seed
and tool donors have accepted the concept of partial payment. The implementation of this policy
has been problematic, as each province institutes its own rules for payments, and there have been
many reports of financial irregularities.
1.38         AgPacks have proven to be very effective in helping thousands of households in
deslocados camps regain some self-sufficiency. The degree of self-sufficiency should be even
higher for households returning to their traditional lands after the war, as there will be greater
physical security, more land available, and less access to food aid. Two important issues arise,
however, when planning seed and tool distribution for this massive influx of people. These are
the need for supplemental sources of food for AgPack recipients and the problems of cost-
recovery in AgPack programs.
1.39         Supplemental rood needs. Even with a perfectly timed distribution of AgPacks,
all recipient households will require additional sources of food before the first harvest, and many
will continue to require supplemental food even after the first harvest. Households will be
reluctant to return to their lands in remote rural areas unless they know they will receive or be
able to purchase sufficient food while they prepare the land and await the first harvest. Without
this guarantee, households might be tempted to sell all or part of the AgPacks or if necessary,
save seeds for emergency consumption.  Treated and colored seeds reduce the risk of
consumption, but increase the market value and incentive for commercialization. Supplemental
food needs should not be expected to end completely with the first harvest. Some households will
not regain full self-sufficiency for at least one or two additional agricultural cycles. In a post-war
situation, land might be plentiful in some areas, but households might not have adequate time or
labor to prepare sufficient amounts of overgrown land for planting during their first season.
Returning households might require additional seeds in order to expand the area planted in their
second agricultural season, or additional support from food aid or food-for-work schemes until
they can secure sufficient land or off-farm employment.
1.40         Cost recvry. The government has attempted to reduce dependency on free
distribution by encouraging NGOs and local governments to institute "symbolic sales" of seeds
and tools. This form of cost-recovery has been largely unsuccessful for a number of reasons,
including: lack of cash among recipient households; high administrative costs in tracking mobile
families; absence of financial systems for controlling payments made over time; and a lack of
coordination among the many NGOs and government agencies involved in seed and tool
distribution. The last problem was evident in Nhamatanda, one of the districts included in the
Rural Rehabilitation Project. There riots broke out when one NGO attempted to sell seeds and
tools at a symbolic price while other NGOs were distributing inputs free in nearby areas. Other
means of cost-recovery might prove more successful, including beneficiary contribution through
labor, post-harvest repayment in seed, grain or cash, or traditional credit provided through private
traders. Experience with seed-for-work programs has been good in the past when programs have
been carefully organized, as they serve the double purpose of self-selecting people truly in need
of obtaining seed and they contribute to the rehabilitation of infrastructure. The organization of



-10-
these programs, however, is highly demanding of management skills and has only been effective
with relatively small programs.
Rural Infrastructure
1.41         Mozambique's rural infrastructure is in poor condition due to years of neglect and
war damage. Surface communication is poor and is made more difficult by the war because
many sections of the road network are unusable - either destroyed, unsafe or mined. Much of
the countryside is empty and schools, hospitals, stores and water facilities are abandoned. Some
of the major reconstruction activities, such as road rehabilitation, will be carried out under
coordinated national programs, while activities with largely local impacts will have to be defined
and implemented at a decentralized level.
1.42         Many different types of small-scale investments will be needed. These include
infrastructure for the rehabilitation of rural trade and agricultural production, investments in water
supply, and rural works designed to redress environmental damage from the war and over-
intensive use of agricultural land and forests in densely populated areas such as deslocados
camps. Examples of some of the possible investments are given in Annex 11-2.
Rural Water SuDDlY
1.43         Most of Mozambique's inhabited plain receives water at or near the surface from
the country's rainfall and system of rivers which drain from the mountains in the west toward the
Indian Ocean in the east. Therefore, there is no particular technical difficulty in locating water
or constructing village water points. In Zambezia, rainfall is 1,800 mm in the interior mountain
areas and 1,000 mm in the coastal area. Surface water from rivers is used by communities where
improved water systems do not exist, or where it is not possible to dig unprotected traditional
shallow wells. Surface water is also used for piped water supply systems in larger communities
and small towns; this water requires treatment.
1.44         A growing awareness of the impact of clean water on health and a recognition
of the convenience of a nearby water source have created a strong demand for village water
points among the rural population. At present only 20% of the rural population enjoys this
amenity. The Government has set a target of at least 1 point per 500 persons. Annex 1-14 shows
the number of rural water points by province compared with the requirements to reach the target.
The rural water program receives a significant amount of donor support and a construction
program of 1,000 new points per year is in progress. There has been a quantitative increase in
the capacity to construct village water supply points (from 250 in 1985 to 1066 in 1989),
although the geographic coverage of construction activities has been very limited due to poor
security. However, even at this pace, it would take another 20 years to satisfy the 1 in 500
target. The expansion in productive capacity also has led to increased operation and maintenance
problems.
1.45         The National Directorate of Water (DNA), a unit of the Ministry for Construction
and Water (MCA), is responsible for the water supply sector. The National Rural Water
Program (PRONAR) - with a central coordination unit in Maputo - is a special DNA program
responsible for the entire rural water supply sector. The PRONAR program is executed through
a network of provincial and district water supply workshops, known as EPARs (Provincial Water
Supply Workshops) and EARs (District Water Supply Workshops). There are currently two
EARs in Sofala and two in Zambezia, as well as one EPAR in each provincial capital.



-11-
1.46         Existing district production units are expected to carry out work in other districts,
even though transportation and logistical costs may be enormous. Most workshops do not have
sufficient local currency to pay the recurrent costs required to operate in remote districts. This
explains why many workshops had underutilized capacity in 1990 and 1991. Even when
sufficient local currency might exist, however, the current workshops still could not cover all
districts. For example, the priority districts of Gurue, Alto Mol6cub and Chinde in Zambezia
province could not be serviced from existing workshops. An increase in service for these areas
would only be practical if new workshops were established geographically closer to the new
wells.
1.47         Rural water supply in Sofala and Zambezia provinces also suffers from inadequate
manpower and equipment, and lack of security. For example, the Sofala Department of Water
and Sanitation (DAS) has only one mid-level technician. The Zambezia DAS has one mid-level
technician assisted, by an expatriate engineer who will complete his contract at the end of 1992.
The EPAR in Sofala has a total of five mid-level technicians and the Zambezia EPAR has two
mid-level technicians supported by one junior mechanical engineer and one expatriate junior
hydraulic engineer. The shortage of public funds has resulted in staffing cuts, so bricklayers and
well diggers are working only on temporary contracts.
1.48         In Sofala province, there is one central EPAR unit for provincial-level
administrative services in the city of Beira, and two district EARs in Dondo and Nhamatanda.
A team of diggers and hand well drillers, seconded from Dondo, is working in the Blzi district.
1.49         In Zambezia, there is a central provincial workshop based in the city of
Quelimane and district workshops in the Mocuba and Pebane districts. At present, the EPAR is
supported by a rural water supply development project financed by the European Community.
Although the EPAR is in reasonable technical condition, it lacks the managerial capacity needed
to coordinate works at the provincial level.
1.50         Rural water supply is funded by the Government and by donors. The internal
financing takes the form of State funds allocated through the provincial and central budgets.
Central funding is largely earmarked for logistics and the procurement of equipment on the local
market, but in some cases it is used to pay for the drilling of wells by the EPARs. Provincial
funds are used primarily for the construction of wells by the EPARs. They are the main source
of funds for this activity. External financing has been provided through special projects targeted
at the provinces and at strengthening the central capacity of PRONAR. It normally funds
equipment, supplies and technical assistance.
1.51         Beneficiary participation is accepted and is practiced at the construction stage.
Beneficiaries make contributions in-kind such as provision of sand and gravel, manual labor, and
lodging and feeding drilling crews. PRONAR supports the process of beneficiary participation
through the Community Education Program (PEC). This program trains local people (mainly
women) to organize beneficiary participation. New practices, such as contributions of money and
nomination of local persons as responsible for pump maintenance are being tested in different
areas of the country, including the project area. These practices include: a signed document of
agreement with the local community; a financial contribution - preferably the cost of the pump,
but at least the cost of a set of pump spares and a small annual levy per smallholder to cover
repairs and maintenance; and nomination of a local voluntary team including a chairman,
treasurer and two pump maintenance persons.  Repairs outside the scope of the village
maintenance team would continue being done by a provincial brigade financed by the provincial



-12-
government. Some of these practices are being reviewed in Nampula by a study financed by IDA
(under the Agricultural Services Rehabilitation Project). The recommendations of this study will
be tested in the project area.
1.52         The 'India Mk flU hand-pump has been extensively utilized in the Mozambique
rural water supply program. This pump is manufactured in Maputo by a recently privatized state
enterprise, mainly for export. The government has decided to replace this pump with the
AFRIDEV VLOM' type pumps, because of its simplified maintenance requirements. These
pumps were created through the World Bank pump development program and at present are being
imported. However, their production in Maputo will start towards the end of 1992. The use of
these simplified pumps is expected to increase community participation in the maintenance of
pumps and thereby to reduce costs.
1.53         PRONAR uses a standard set of criteria to prioritize villages and communities
for rural water development. These criteria take into account existing access to water, population
to be served, availability of a potable supply, and the willingness of the village or community to
participate in the construction, operation, and maintenance stages.
D. Administrative Arrangemrents
Administrative Capacity
1.54         Mozambique does not produce enough secondary and university graduates to meet
its needs for high-level manpower. Gross enrollment ratios for tertiary and secondary education
in the country (0.2% and 7.0%) are only a fraction of those for the rest of Africa. Low output
at these levels of the educational system is apparent in the educational profiles of public and
private sector employees. According to a 1990 survey of the top levels of the civil service, only
slightly more than half of the 247 Central Government department heads surveyed had completed
secondary school. Among local governments, only 74 of the 206 district directors surveyed had
gone beyond the primary level, and none had attended universities.
Public Administration and Funding of Investment
1.55         For administrative purposes, Mozambique is divided into 10 provinces and 128
districts. Government at the provincial level is effected by directorates of the line ministries
under authority of the Governor and the provincial assemblies.
1.56         In 1990, the Government introduced a system of three-year rolling plans for
investments (Plano Trienal de Investimento Publico - PTIP). This system was designed to
consolidate, evaluate, and rationalize investments in the public sector. The system lists all
investment projects under implementation, as well as those being considered for future financing.
At present, all public investments must be included in the PTIP before they can receive a
budgetary allocation. The PTIP for 1992 is presented in Annex I-1.
1.57         Most public investment is carried out through centralized projects controlled by
the central line ministries. Few resources are available to fund small local-level projects
(Projectos Territoriais). For example, from 1985-1990, investments executed directly by the
'VLOM = Village level operation and maintenance.



-13-
provinces ranged between 4.5% and 10% of total investments (see Annex I-2). The composition
of the Projectos Territoriais is determined by the Estado Major de Economia (EME) and
submitted to the Provincial Assembly for approval. The EME is a provincial technical council
comprising provincial directors of the main economic sectors (Agriculture, Construction and
Water, Commerce, Finance and Planning). The EME also is responsible for preparing the
consolidated physical planning targets of the Provincial Directorates. These targets then are
submitted to the Provincial Government and Provincial Assembly for approval and are transmitted
to Central Government institutions.
1.58         Among the ten provinces, Sofala and Zambezia rank first and third, respectively,
in volume of decentralized operations. They implemented 18.4% and 10.3% of the total
investmnent budget for all the provinces. In dollar values, this corresponds to US$2. 1 million and
US$1.2 million, respectively. Investments in the rural sector applied to small irrigation projects,
drinking water supply, rural sanitation, production of seedlings, and farmer training centers. This
experience in managing decentralized investments will provide a basis for expanding activities
under the National Reconstruction Program.
District and Local Administration
1.59         District administration is headed by the District Administrator, who operates
under the authority of the District Assembly. The latter is comprised of District Directorates and
delegations representing sectoral line ministries. Delegations are not always located in the
district, but make periodic visits from the provincial capital to the district when required. There
may be considerable variation among districts in the extent to which the provincial government
is replicated at the district level. Moreover, District Administrations have no planning entity.
Responsibility for overseeing economic affairs in the district is normally vested in the Assistant
Administrator, where one exists. Typically a district is composed of 2-5 Administrative Posts,
each of which contains a number of localities and corresponding villages. The political structure
under the new Constitution has yet to be defined in detail, but under the existing system, there
are elected assemblies at each level - village, locality, administrative post, and district.
1.60         The Ministry of State Administration is responsible for managing local
government personnel which are outside of the responsibility of line ministries. The appointment
of all local government officials has to be approved by a line ministry or by the Ministry of State
Administration in Maputo. The educational level of staff is low in relation to the roles they are
intended to fulfill. Salary levels, and working and living conditions also are suboptimal,
particularly at the district level.
Decentralization
1.61    Administrative, planning and budgeting systems are likely to be changing over the next
few years. The promulgation of a new Constitution in November 1990 implied fundamental
changes in the character of local government, including provisions for the future democratic
election of local governments. Since 1991, the Govermnent has also declared its desire to
decentralize some of its planning, management and financial functions. To this end the Ministry
of State Administration is reformulating the responsibilities of local administrations. Proposals
call for provinces and districts to retain a greater proportion of the revenues they collect and to
increase the total amount of revenues collected. In addition, a system of regional planning is
being studied. Decentralization is conceived as a process, not an event. The process is expected
to be long, and needs to proceed in stages.



-14-
1.62         The decentralization of some financial resources has given provincial governments
some flexibility in directing resources. The transfer of financial resources and decision-making
powers to the provincial governments is locally called deconcentration and is perceived as the
first stage in the process of decentralization. Further decentralization, i.e., down to the district
level, would have to wait until the managerial and implementation capacity of individual districts
is strengthened, a process that will require many years. At present it is more realistic to
strengthen the existing level of decentralization, giving the provinces a greater role in identifying
and executing investments.
Government Institutions in Rural Development
1.63         11NDER. Responsibility for rural development policies and programs falls to
INDER, the Institute for Rural Development, established in December 1990. Its President
reports to the Council of Ministers and has Ministerial rank.
1.64         INDER has three directorates (Economy and Rural Sociology; Rural Engineering;
and Regional Planning), two departments (Administration and Finance; and Human Resources)
and a Data and Documentation Center. With its Regional Planning Directorate, INDER is
expected to have a prominent role in coordinating land use planning and other land-related issues.
1.65         INDER has been given a leading role in coordinating the Priority District
Program. This program receives support from Danida Crete and Zambezia provinces), UNICEF
(Inhambane Province), GTZ and the Italian Government (Manica Province), and several other
donors through NGOs in the other districts and provinces. Ongoing and planned activities are
expected to be part of the National Reconstruction Plan. INDER is involved in this plan as a
member of the National Reconstruction Commission and is responsible for the technical group
on Agriculture and Rural Development.
1.66         As an institute rather than a ministry, INDER functions as a coordinator of the
line ministries involved in rural development. These ministries include especially the Ministry
of Agriculture, the Ministry of Construction and Water, the Ministry of Commerce, and social
sector ministries. INDER coordinates with the Ministry of Cooperation in organizing donor
support, with the Ministry of Finance in checking public investments and with the National
Planning Commission regarding fiscal and macroeconomic policies.
1.67         The Ministry of Agriculture (MOA). The Ministry is made up of five national
directorates and ten provincial directorates. The national directorates define policies and direct
programs for agriculture, livestock, forestry and wildlife, geography and cadastre, and rural
development. They also coordinate activities with the research institutes. The Provincial
Directorates for Agriculture (DPAs) under the guidance of the provincial Governors, control the
budgets and agricultural activities of the provinces.
1.68          M. The Center for Agrarian Training, is a well regarded institution. It was
created in 1984 by the Ministry of Agriculture to train rural development agents, mainly at the
provincial and district levels. It has 14 professional staff, including 2 expatriates, and 28
administrative and support staff. The CFA has excellent physical facilities, including one large
classroom seating 40 and four smaller classrooms seating 20. It is now in final negotiations with
DANIDA for the construction of a dormitory to house 24 persons. It has audio-visual equipment,
a program of producing training materials using personal computers, and the capacity to conduct
training by correspondence. The CFA supports and supervises Provincial Centers for Agrarian



-15-
Training (CPFAs), which exist in every province except Maputo. (Annex 1-12 provides
additional details on CFA and the CPFAs.)
1.69         DINAGECA.  The National Directorate for Geography and Cadastre, is
responsible for producing official maps, subdividing the national land into lots, issuing land titles,
and maintaining the national land registry (para 1.23). Its central offices are located in Maputo.
Provincial and district offices of DINAGECA report to the Provincial Directorates of Agriculture
(DPAs).
1.70         PRONAR. The National Program for Rural Water Supply, is a unit of the
National Directorate for Water in the Ministry of Construction and Water. It promotes the
development of rural water systems in the country, monitors rural water needs, and assists in
developing provincial water programs. PRONAR prepares and issues planning criteria and
design standards, and supervises program implementation. It also manages a program to train
individuals in the community to carry out light maintenance and repair work (PEC). Each
province has its owr Provincial Directorate for Construction and Water (DPCA). Through the
Department of Water and Sanitation, DPCAs manage the rural water supply, the construction,
operation and maintenance of water infrastructure, and the implementation of rural water
development activities. The DPCAs have their own budgets and prepare their own development
programs jointly with PRONAR.
1.71         Provincial Planning Commissions (CPPs) were created in 1979. They are in
charge of developing provincial investment plans for the PTIP, and coordinating and monitoring
the execution of the PTIP in the provinces. According to their charter, they are supposed to
appraise all projects submitted for inclusion in the investment plan. However, this seldom occurs
because of lack of specialized skills. CPPs also manage the collection of data to be used in
preparing statistics, and undertake social, economic and demographic studies. CPPs chair the
meetings of the Estado Maior de Economia (para 1.57) and provide technical guidance to the
planning units of the Provincial Directorates (see Annexes I-4 to 1-6 for details on the CPPs of
Sofala and Zambezia).
1.72         While preparing the National Reconstruction Program, the National Planning
Commission developed a program for decentralizing the planning system. This program,
developed in early 1992, seeks to strengthen CPPs in three ways. First, it defines their roles in
preparing the National Reconstruction Program. Second, it introduces new planning techniques
which involve the participation of beneficiaries. Third, it provides training for planning
technicians.  According to the program, CPPs will be responsible for formulating a
Reconstruction and Development Plan for the province, in collaboration with sectoral Directorates
and district authorities. The CPPs also will monitor the process of resettlement and rehabilitation
for the population of returnees.
1.73         In the past, donor assistance has tended to reinforce an already compartmentalized
planning system, rather than promote coordination among institutions. To redress this situation,
the Government has requested several donors to support the program for decentralizing the
planning system. UNDP is preparing a project which would support the CNP and coordinate
activities by the different CPPs; it also would support the CPPs of Maputo and Nampula.
NORAD is providing support for the CPP of Cabo Delgado, DANIDA for the CPP of Tete, GTZ
for Manica, and Acord for Niassa. This project would provide support for the CPPs of Sofala
and Zambezia.



-16-
E. External and Non-Governmental Agencies
1.74         There are about 150 foreign agencies active in Mozambique, including
multilaterals, bilaterals, and non-governmental organizations (NGOs). Many of these agencies
are engaged directly in rural development. Others have extended their activities from emergency
relief in rural areas to include support for economic undertakings by deslocados or locals.
Development projects frequently suffer from insufficient consultation between external agencies
and local administrations and a lack of consistency among the programs of different agencies.
The coverage of projects is patchy but normally is concentrated in areas which have been
relatively secure for some time.
1.75         Bilateral and Multilateral Agencies. Many countries and international institu-
tions have signed mutual cooperation and development assistance agreements with the
Government of Mozambique. Among them are the AfDB, DANIDA, FAO, FINNIDA, IFAD,
NORAD, SIDA, UNDP, UNICEF, USAID, the EEC and the Governments of France, Germany
Italy, and Spain. The assistance takes various forms, including relief for refugees, import
financing and technical assistance. The AfDB, EEC, IDA, IFAD, and USAID are involved in
rehabilitation of the agricultural and fisheries sectors. They are financing projects which include
the rehabilitation of highways and assistance to cashewnut, citrus, cotton, foodcrop, and forestry
production.
1.76         International NGOs. There are 49 international NGOs involved in disaster relief
and rehabilitation in Mozambique, according to a 1992 analysis by UNDRO. This includes 11
NGOs in the eight priority districts covered by the project (see Annex II-1). Although the NGOs
active in RRP districts vary in size, source of funding and programs, nearly all conduct activities
that can be categorized as "agricultural development." Many NGOs that have provided
emergency relief supplies are reformulating their programs to emphasize post-war rehabilitation
and development activities. These NGOs have experience in implementing projects for a variety
of donors and have accounting and auditing procedures which meet donor requirements. Brief
sketches of the activities of two of these NGOs are included in Annex II-1 to illustrate the typical
scope and administrative capacity of international NGOs.
1.77         Past Bank Group Operations. Since Mozambique joined the Bank in 1984, 17
projects involving IDA Credits of about US$870 million have been approved. About 46 percent
of Bank assistance has been provided through four adjustment operations in support of the
Government's ERP/ESRP.  The main focus of Bank investment projects has been on
rehabilitation of essential economic and social infrastructure, principally in urban areas due to the
insecurity in the countryside. In response to an increase in investor interest in Mozambique, IFC
plans to expand its activities in Mozambique. IFC activities continue to be limited to foreign
exchange earnings operations with offshore accounts to ensure foreign exchange is available for
debt service. In FY87, IFC approved a loan for the rehabilitation and privatization of a major
agricultural company, LOMACO, and in FY88, an investment for an oil exploration project. In
FY91, IFC approved a loan for a hotel project, which included the first public share issue in
Mozambique since independence.
F. Lessons Learned
1.78         Design of this project, especially its management and implementation
arrangements, has benefited from the experience of past projects in Mozambique, discussed
systematically at two country implementation reviews held in Maputo in spring 1991 and fall



-17-
1992. These CIRs brought up several generic issues (for which generic solutions are being
sought) in the areas of project management arrangements, procurement, financial management,
accounting and audits, and the public sector pay and employment issues. Annex V-5 discusses
these issues in some detail and, where necessary, explains how they relate to the design of the
present project.
1.79         Project design also takes into consideration the conclusions and recommendations
of OED's worldwide review of rural development projects, which indicated the need to
concentrate in higher potential areas and recommended against both an integrated approach and
centralized management. Projects in Zambia, Bolivia, Honduras, Mexico and Cameroon have
successfully utilized mechanisms to support community-based subprojects. An audit report for
one such project, the Emergency Social Fund in Bolivia', is positive and specifies the conditions
that led to success. These conditions, which are incorporated in the proposed project include:
i) the desirability of financing small, technologically simple projects with significant community
involvement; ii) the importance of involving both government agencies and NGOs in subproject
implementation; iii) the need to attract high-caliber staff; and iv) the need to protect the program
from political interference.
'Bolivia Emergency Social Fund Project (Credit No. 1829-BO) and the Project Performance Audit Report
(Report No. 8449), March 20, 1990.



-18-
II. THE PROJECT
A. Rationale and Objectives
2.01         Dramatic changes are expected in Mozambique over the next few years. A peace
agreement recently was signed. If followed by permanent peace, this agreement could permit the
initiation of rural reconstruction activities and allow hundreds of thousands of people to return
to their homes in rural areas. The Government, NGOs, and donors are planning to support this
massive undertaking. There are, however, several constraints to the execution of major
rehabilitation activities. These include the limited capacity of government services to absorb and
administer the offered aid, excessive centralization in resource allocation, and a lack of clear
direction on critical land use and land tenure issues.
2.02         The Government, donors and the Bank know that post-war rural rehabilitation will
require a significant modification in mechanisms for planning and implementing rural
development activities. A consultative mechanism must be developed so that communities can
become involved in the definition of interventions, based on local needs. An implementation
mechanism must be available at the provincial and district levels so that necessary funds can be
channeled directly to priority interventions, without the bureaucratic delays caused by excessive
centralized control. The creation of a new system for rural administration on a national scale will
be a time-consuming process requiring administrative reforms and extensive training. However,
given the growing urgency of rural needs, quick but sizable experimentation with decentralized
rural reconstruction must begin to test the effectiveness of such a system and introduce the
necessary adjustments before it can be extended country-wide. Therefore, the primary
objective of the Rural Rehabilitation Project is to undertake, on a pilot basis, activities to
support decentralized rural economic recovery while creating the capacity and procedures
necessary to address the broader post-war rehabilitation needs.
2.03         The project has the following specific objectives:
-    to strengthen the capacity of the provincial institutions that will plan,
implement and manage national reconstruction activities; and to develop
test and further improve the procedures for decentralized rural
development;
*    to provide information about land use to assist with planning future
infrastructure investments and to guide the resettlement of returnees; and
to support the development of land policies that will provide greater
tenure security for smallholders;
*    to help households returning to their traditional lands recover their self-
sufficiency, reducing the need for food imports and restoring the
country's productive capacity; and
*    to improve the living conditions and health of rural households by
providing accessible drinking water supply and to reduce the amount of
time and energy spent by women and children in collecting and carrying
water, thus increasing their opportunities for productive work, education
and social activities.



-19-
B. Design Considerations
Flexibility
2.04          It is impossible to accurately predict how the security situation will evolve in
Mozambique over the next few years. For this reason, any new project must be designed to
include a high degree of flexibility. Flexibility is especially necessary in the RRP, given its focus
on two issues that will be greatly influenced by the security situation: rural reconstruction and
resettlement. The project design is based on the premise that security will improve and that some
spontaneous resettlement will occur over the next three years. Although the districts selected for
the pilot operations (para 2.07) were secure even before the peace agreement was signed, the
selection of districts for field operations may have to be re-examined if the security conditions
worsen.
Technical Assistance and Training Requirements
2.05          The project has been designed to respond to another key characteristic of present-
day Mozambique: the limited skills of government personnel at all levels. Unlike many
developing countries where technical assistance needs are limited to senior-level experts in a few
highly specialized subject matters, these needs in Mozambique also include mid-level technicians
and administrators. The need for mid-level skills is likely to expand even further once
nationwide reconstruction begins. To fill this void, the RRP will draw on the skills of United
Nations Volunteers (UNVs), cooperantes,'0 doctoral students, NGOs, etc. The project also will
provide on-the-job and counterpart training to Mozambican staff and will offer 'internships for
four Mozambican university students, in addition to its training component. Terms of reference
for consultants have been designed, where possible, to progressively transfer skills and know-how
to local counterparts, and this will be taken into account in the evaluation of consultants. The
performance of the first year training program will be closely monitored and the findings will
serve as a basis for subsequent training.
Phasing
2.06          The project represents a three-year pilot phase of a program  for national
reconstruction and decentralized rural development."' It is expected to be followed by a national
Rural Rehabilitation project, which would build on the lessons learned during this project. The
pace of implementation will vary among project components and will be largely dependent on the
evolving security situation. For example, the pace of AgPack distribution (para 2.41) rests on
resettlement patterns; if large numbers of households resettle in the project area in the next few
months, most AgPacks could be distributed in the first or second year of project implementation.
At the other extreme, investments planned under the water component (para 2.44) assume a
relatively rapid improvement in security; if this is not achieved, implementation may be slower
than planned.
"'Cooperantes are ex-United Nations Volunteers or staff of various European aid agencies living in
Mozaunbique, who typically have between five and seven years of professional experience.
"While investments have been programmed for a period of three years, some delays may occur. For
this reason a disbursement period of five years is expected.



-20-
The Project Area
2.07         Field activities will be concentrated in the provinces of Sofala and Zambezia.
District-level efforts will take place in Bdzi, Dondo and Nhamatanda in Sofala, and in Alto
Mol6cue, Chinde, Gurue, Mocuba, and Nicoadala in Zambhzia. These provinces and districts
were selected because of their relative security and high potential. However, other provinces and
districts may be added during project implementation.
Availability of Credit
2.08         Although credit is essential for rehabilitating rural production and trade, the RRP
does not include a line of credit. Instead, credit resources for the project area will be made
available from two existing IDA-funded lines of credit for agricultural development (Credit 2337-
MOZ and Credit 2175-MOZ). Amendments, to be introduced in those projects, will creatw
uniform lines of credit with identical terms, conditions and interest rates. These lines will extend
to any viable private investment in agricultural production, trade and rural enterprises, without
restrictions on location or type of eligible beneficiary. BCM and BPD have well-staffed offices
in the capitals and in most districts of Sofala and Zambezia. The capacity of these offices to
provide loans has been appraised and is considered adequate (see Annex I-1 1).
Rationale for IDA Involvement and Links with Country Strategi
2.09         This project is designed in accordance with the main elements of IDA's country
strategy for Mozambique, the focus of which includes: (i) strengthening the Government's
capacity to plan and manage policies and prioritize public expenditures towards agriculture and
infrastructure, (ii) reducing food insecurity by increasing agricultural production, and (iii)
enhancing private sector opportunities through the rehabilitation of basic infrastructure. With
respect to strengthening the Government's capacity, the project provides support to the
Government's efforts to make effective its decentralization policy, developing channels to
prioritize expenditures in agriculture and infrastructure according to the needs of communities;
it also supports the Government in developing a land policy. With reference to reducing food
insecurity, the project includes investments focused on the poor and will increase food security
by providing seed, tools and other support to smallholders returning to their traditional lands after
the war. Opportunities for the private sector will be enhanced by the rehabilitation of rural
infrastructure which will allow private sector activities to develop in areas devastated by war.
C. Summary Project Description
2.10         The Rural Rehabilitation Project will test procedures for local participation in
consultative planning and will create a mechanism for funding small-scale, community-based rural
works. These small projects will help revive the rural economy by rehabilitating rural trade,
demonstrating small-scale irrigation, supporting agricultural recovery, protecting the environment
and reversing degradation, and financing related activities. During the life of the project, the
decentralized administrative procedures will be revised and disseminated. The project also will
improve land access for smallholder families, support post-war resettlement of rural households,
and construct water points.



-21-
2.11         The project includes the following four components:
(i)    Support for Decentralization Component. A pilot activity will be
undertaken in two provinces to test and refine procedures for financing
and implementing subprojects to benefit smallholder production, rural
trade, and the environment. The capacity of public institutions that will
implement these decentralized procedures nationwide under the National
Reconstruction Program will be strengthened. Courses and seminars will
be conducted to train government officials, NGO staff and community
leaders about the mechanisms for decentralized, community-based rural
development.
(ii)    Land Component. This component will support the development of
land policies which will provide greater tenure security for smallholders.
It also will design and test procedures for demarcating and registering
smallholder lands. It will provide information about land use at the
national level, as well as in high priority districts in Sofala and
Zambezia.
(iii)   Distribution of AgPacks Component. To assist with spontaneous post-
war resettlement,"2 the project will finance AgPacks for households
returning to their traditional lands in the project area. The packages of
improved seeds and agricultural hand tools will be procured and
distributed by NGOs active in the area.  Most beneficiaries will
contribute to the cost of the AgPacks through their participation in food-
for-work style activities.
(iv)   Rural Water Supply Component. This component will increase the
coverage of rural water supply in the project area and will improve the
organization and management of provincial water supply institutions. It
also will strengthen community participation in operation and
maintenance through support of the Community Education Program and
the purchase of easy-to-maintain hand pumps.
D. Detailed Description of Project Components
SuDport for Decentralization Component (Base cost: US$6.4 million)
2.12          Component Activities. Two related activities will be carried out under this
component: (i) capacity building and community-based investments; and (ii) training courses and
seminars.
2.13          Capacity Building and Community-Based Investments. The project will
develop capacities at the central, provincial and district levels to plan and carry out decentralized
development activities. This will be accomplished through technical assistance and support to key
institutions, and a pilot activity in two provinces to identify, appraise and implement small- and
medium-scale investments.
"2Resettlement refers to households voluntarily retuming to their lands after the war. See footnote #1.



-22-
2.14          The project will provide technical assistance and equipment to support INDER's
role in coordinating rural development activities for the project. Provincial government capacities
to identify, plan and implement the Provincial Plans for National Reconstruction will be
strengthened. Technical assistance personnel will assist districts in identifying investments and
CPPs in appraising subprojects. The project will also strengthen the financial management
capacity of the Provincial Directorates of Finance in Sofala and Zambezia.
2.15          The pilot nature of the community-based investment activity carries three
implications. First, the subcomponent initially will emphasize capacity-building rather than
Implementing a target number of projects or reaching a large number of beneficiaries. Second,
technical assistance and training will be required for implementation, and monitoring and
evaluation. Third, the progression in the number of subprojects will be gradual in order to test
procedures and identify successful activities.
2.16          A  number of categories of subprojects were investigated during project
preparation and are listed below (see Annex 11-2 for additional details). However, it is not
possible to define the exact type, number and timing of investments to be financed during the
project for several reasons. First, subproject ideas will be generated at the community level
based on locally perceived needs. Second, the rapidly changing security situation will have a
major effect on subproject investments. Finally, most donors and NGOs are redefining their
programs to respond to the changing situation.
2.17          Among the investment subprojects likely to be considered are:  small-scale
irrigation, community store repair/construction, spot road repair, market construction/
rehabilitation, woodfuel lots, reforestation, and soil conservation. The project design is flexible
enough to accommodate other types of community-generated investment ideas.
2.18          The procedures to be followed during the subproject cycle are described in the
Operations Manual for Decentralized Investments (the Operations Manual - see Annex II-1).
This manual was prepared by the Government during project preparations and was reviewed by
the Bank during negotiations. Approval of the final version of the Manual by the Bank will
constitute a condition of effectiveness.  At negotiations, the Government  provided
assurances that all subprojects will be processed according to the procedures described by
the Manual and that the Manual will not be modified without prior approval by the Bank.
2.19          Subprojects will be identified at the community level, by district and provincial
officials, traditional and local authorities, and NGOs operating in the area. Subproject ideas will
be formulated as formal project proposals by district officers, with the help and support of NGOs
or project-funded Rural Development Agents (para 2.32). The CPPs will appraise these
subproject proposals and submit them to the Estado Maior de Econom(a for review, clearance
and transmission to the Provincial Government for approval.
2.20          Subprojects are classified as small-scale (under $10,000), medium-scale (between
$10,000-$25,000); and large-scale (over $25,000 but not exceeding $200,000). Most of the
subprojects are expected to be small-scale and will be evaluated from a community development
perspective. Small- and medium-scale projects will be subject to technical analysis by the CPP
with support from the line agencies. Rate of return criteria will be applied to all large productive
and infrastructure projects; small infrastructure projects must minimize costs and appropriately



-23-
target the poor. Certain exclusion criteria apply."3 Medium-scale projects will require a non-
objection from INDER; large-scale projects will require non-objection from INDER and IDA.
The CPPs will consolidate the subprojects identified for implementation in the following year into
an Annual Operations Plan (Plano Anual de OperadCes - PAO) to be approved by the
Government and by IDA. The PAO would be incorporated into the Triennial Public Investment
Plan (para 1.56).
2.21          The funds earmarked for this activity are expected to be sufficient to cover all
eligible requests, however, if demand is higher than expected, a mechanism would be required
to assign priorities between projects. The following criteria will be utilized: (i) rehabilitation
will be preferred to new construction; and (ii) to avoid a concentration of resources in the
districts with higher capacity for the presentation of proposals, there will be a regional program
setting a ceiling to the resources that can be assigned to any specific district. The ceilings will
be estimated on the basis of population and income levels.
2.22          The Operations Manual will be tested throughout the life of the project and will
be given special attention in the annual reviews undertaken during project supervision. At
negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government that by the end of Year 3, the
Government will produce a revised Operations Manual, Incorporating lessons learned during
project implementation. This manual could be used as the basis for replicating the pilot during
a possible follow-on Rural Rehabilitation II project.
2.23          Investment costs and beneficiary contributions. The Operations Manual will
incorporate rules for beneficiary contributions. The following categories of subprojects could be
financed on a grant basis under the subcomponent, with communities providing labor and local
materials as required for construction.
(i)    Basic and public Infrastructure subprojects. Examples of these are
spot improvements to roads, rural water supply, and community storage
facilities.
ii)    Productive investment subprojects which may generate substantial
externalities. Examples are woodfuel lots, demonstration projects,
small-scale irrigation, and tree nurseries.
iii)   Investment subprojects with important environment protection
benefits. Examples include reforestation, erosion protection and range
rehabilitation.
iv)    Social sector subprojects. Subprojects to provide infrastructure for
health and education. Financing for these subprojects will only be
available where recurrent costs are secured by the relevant line
ministries. Proposals for health and education subprojects require the
preparation of health and education chapters for the Operations Manual
(para 2.18). These chapters will be prepared by the line ministries and
will detail a Development Program for the sector acceptable to IDA.
"For example, projects th have an adverse environmental impact or lead to involuntary reaettlement of
population would be excluded.



-24-
Approximately 10% of RRP funds earmarked for subprojects will be provided as start-up
financing for the operation of the investments described above, where loans from commercial
banks cannot be obtained (e.g., to finance seed to modify cropping patterns in areas where
irrigation has recently been established). These funds will be provided to individual beneficiaries
in exchange of their participation in public works.
2.24         Financing recurrent and operation and maintenance costs. Each subproject
proposal must include a plan for financing recurrent and operation and maintenance (O&M) costs
as part of the project file submitted to the provincial government. These budgetary agreements
and O&M plans are to be reviewed during the annual reviews. For O&M, the community or
group of beneficiaries will sign an agreement with the executing agency under which the
beneficiaries accept an obligation to recover operation and maintenance costs.
2.25         Training Courses and Seminars. The project will provide approximately 20
non-degree in-country training courses or seminars, with lengths ranging from 1X to 5 weeks, to
support implementation of the RRP and prepare for other reconstruction activities. The project
will train nearly 500 people over three years"4. Table 2 shows a preliminary list of courses,
although the exact courses and their contents and lengths will be determined by CFA and INDER
based on an assessment of training needs. Some of these activities will be executed at CFA
headquarters; others will be conducted either at the CPFAs or other training centers, under
agreements with CFA (see Annex 1-12 for additional information on CFA and CPFAs).
2.26         During the first two years of the project, training courses and seminars will focus
on individuals implementing the RRP at the central, provincial and district levels and those
involved in planning for national reconstruction activities. The courses offered in Year 3 will
be aimed at preparation for Phase I of the Rural Rehabilitation Project. These courses and
seminars will serve as pilots for developing training curricula and other materials for expanding
rural development activities under the National Reconstruction Program. The impact of the
courses will be evaluated during the annual implementation reviews (para 3.15) and monitored
at the provincial level.
"4Somo project implementation staff may participate in more than one cours during the life of the project,
so the actual number of individuals trained may be lower thn the number of pauticipants.



-25-
Table 11-1. Preliminary List of Training Courses and Seminar.
Categorv of Trainee        No. of        Year 1             Year 2            Year 3
Course                   Weeks   Trainees/ C|        Tmi      Cou|rse  Tmineu/| Courses
Cour_e___Coure                      CounC e
Senior Government Officials
Policy Seminars           0-1        iS       3        15        1       1S        2
RRP Implementation Stah
Basic Course-Projects      5         20       2                          20        1
Basic CoursBudget          5         20       1
Accounting Seminars        2         25       2                          20        1
Management Seminars        3         20       1        20        1       20        1
Technical Seminars         1         20       2        20        2       20        2
NGO Staff Members
NGO Seminars               1         20       1                          20        1
Community Leaders
Participatory Rural        1        20        1        20       1        20       2
Development"I
2.27           Potential trainees can be divided into four broad categories:  (a) Senior
Government Officials; (b) Project Implementation Staff; (c) NGO Staff; and (d) Community
Leaders.
2.28           Senior Government Officials. Seminars conducted for this group will cover
discussion of the new rural development and decentralization policy and practice. The format
will be short seminars led by nationally and internationally recognized authorities on the subject.
The seminars will provide a forum for open discussion of: rural rehabilitation and development
policy; the National Reconstruction Program; fiscal decentralization and its implications,
environmental issues; gender issues; and land issues.
2.29           Project Implementation Staff. This group includes operational civil servants at
the national, provincial, and district levels. At the national level are INDER, the Ministry of
Agriculture, the Ministry of Planning, and the Ministry of Finance. At the provincial level are
local representatives of the line ministries and the Provincial Planning Commission. At the
district level are local government staff. Courses for this group will focus on technical subjects
related to subproject planning, implementation and supervision, and on developing appropriate
financial systems.
2.30           NGO  Sta    NGOs are expected to play a key role in the project, so a special
seminar for them will be offered in the first and third years. The seminars will explain the RRP
procedures for subproject appraisal and implementation to NGOs active in the provinces. In
addition to these special courses, NGO staff also will participate in the courses for RRP
implementation staff.
2.31           Community Leaders. The new participatory rural development strategy reflected
in the RRP allows community leaders an important role in project implementation. These
individuals will need to receive training to carry out their new functions, as training opportunities
'T-is course will be designed, executed and funded on a pallel basis by UNICEF in support of he RRP.



-26-
for them in the past have been limited. Furthermore, the prolonged civil war has fundamentally
disrupted many communities. UNICEF has begun to design and test courses for community
leaders in the province of Zambezia, utilizing its worldwide experience and recent work in
Zimbabwe. A UNICEF officer in Zimbabwe travels periodically to Mozambique for this
purpose.
2.32         Component Inputs. To implement the Support for Decentralization component,
the following inputs will be required:
International Technical Assistance (Terms of References provided in Annex IV):
Program Advisor. The Advisor, based at INDER, will support the Project
Director in setting up the project's management and monitoring and evaluation
systems, and carrying out managerial functions (12 months followed by short-
term visits).
Project Planning and Appraisal Specialists. The Specialists, one in Sofala and
one in Zambezia, will support the CPPs in preparing the Provincial Plan for
National Reconstruction. They will assist the district-based Rural Development
Agents in writing subproject proposals and will participate in subproject
appraisal, monitoring and evaluation (2@36 months).
Short-Term  Consultants.   Short-term  consultants will include Financial
Management and Accounting Specialists for the first twelve months, followed by
periodic support from a financial management firm for three months in Years 2
and 3; a Procurement Advisor, for short periods totalling about six months
during Year 1; a Legal Advisor and a Public Administration Specialist for about
six months each during Years 2 and 3 of project implementation; and short-term
consultants to help the Project Director and Program Advisor monitor and
evaluate project implementation. Short-term training consultants will be hired as
needed to prepare training materials, develop courses, and give seminars.
Incremental Long-Term Mozambican Staff (Terms of Reference provided in Annex IV):
Project Director. The Director, based at INDER, will report directly to the
President of INDER and will be responsible for guiding project implementation
(36 months).
Financial Controller. The Controller, based at INDER, will report to the Project
Director and will handle project budgeting, management of funds, accounting,
and internal controls for project implementation (36 months).
Accounting and Financial Officers. The Officers, based in the Provincial
Directorates of Finance in Sofala and Zambezia, will strengthen the management
of financial transactions and accounts related to the project (2@36 months).
Rural Development Agents (animadores ruraisL). Eight RDAs, one in each
priority district capital, will support the District Administration and District
Directors in contacting communities, identifying and preparing subprojects, and



-27-
following up on implementation. At least four of the RDA positions will be
filled by women (8@36 months).
Training Program Coordinator. CFA will recruit a full-time Training Program
Coordinator to oversee all training conducted under this component. This person
will identify Course Directors and Lecturers and finalize course content and
design (36 months).
Course Directors and Lecturers (short-term). CFA will select one of its training
staff or an external candidate to serve as Course Director for each course or
seminar it implements. External lecturers will be hired by CFA for some
courses; internal staff will be used where they have expertise in the topic.
Other Inputs:
Other supor. Additional personnel will be provided in the form of secretary,
drivers, and other support staff. Also to be provided are vehicles; office
equipment; classroom rental; training materials; renovation of houses and offices
in the provinces and districts"6; and air transport and subsistence for Trainees and
Trainers.
lAnd Component (Base cost: US$2.9 million)
2.33          Com _onent Activities. The Land Component includes two subcomponents: i)
a land study and pilot demarcation of smallholder lands; and ii) national land use mapping and
institutional strengthening.
2.34          Land Study and Pilot Demarcation of Smallholder Lands. This subcomponent
will improve smallholder access to land and will help to secure tenure rights. It will assist the
Land Commission in developing policies and in designing and testing procedures for registering
smallholder lands.
2.35          Four in-depth case studies, two in each province, will be carried out over an
eighteen-month period. The studies will identify: (i) local patterns of land use management
(including interactions between smallholder farms, patterns of fallow and management of common
resources including forests, grazing and water); (ii) the organization of social groups that benefit
from particular lands; (iii) the structure of authority and procedures used to resolve resource
conflicts; and (iv) the potential impact of new land policies on women.  Based on this
information, the Land Commission will define a methodology for identifying and demarcating
areas of smallholder land. Annex IV-14 contains the Terms of Reference for this study.
2.36          The Land Commission and DINAGECA, as a pilot exercise, will then apply this
methodology to demarcate smallholder sector lands in selected areas of Sofala and Zambezia,
using maps produced under the project (para 2.37). Individual plots will not be demarcated, the
exercise will consist of demarcating areas that belong to communities or ethnic groups and need
"A large percentage of the housing stock in districts has been destroyed or has severely degraded after
15 years of war. Reconstruction of buildings at the district level is normally necessary; rehabilitation
of offices and homes in the provincial capitals might also be required.



-28-
to be protected from outsiders. These activities will be carried out in consultation with
communities to assure that: (i) traditional boundaries are taken into account, (ii) community
structures and authorities are not disregarded, (iii) sufficient land and other resources are
allocated to permit for population growth, and (iv) land registration does not negatively affect the
rights of women. On-the-job training of DINAGECA personnel will be undertaken as part of the
exercise. At negotiations, assurances were given by the Government that a report
summarizing the results of this exercise will be produced, Including recommendations on a
methodology to demarcate smallholder sector lands, by the end of Year 3 of the project.
Institutional responsibilities for implementing this methodology and a work plan for DINAGECA
will be described in this report.
2.37         Land Use Mapping. This activity will generate updated information and maps
on land use patterns at the national level and in selected priority districts. This information is
needed to assess the demographic and land use changes in rural areas caused by the war, to plan
for sustainable resettlement of refugees, and to set national priorities for rehabilitating areas
destroyed by the war. The satellite imagery and maps produced will be used in planning
activities for different sectors. DINAGECA will contract an institution with experience in Africa
to provide technical assistance for the data analysis, purchase of satellite images and specialized
software, sub-contracting of data processing, and printing of final maps. The cartographic work
will be done by DINAGECA. The following specific activities are to be carried out:
a)    Revision of national topographic map and estimation of land use patterns.
The existing topographic map with a scale of 1:250,000 will be updated
and a topographic map and a land use map will be produced." Five
hundred color copies of these maps (102 sheets) will be printed.
Estimates will be obtained on the acreage of cropland, forest land and
grassland, and population settlement patterns will be identified. These
results will be compared with similar results from 1975 to estimate
deforestation and changes in crop acreage and settlement patterns.
b)    Detailed Mapping in RRP Districts.  This activity will develop
instruments and detailed maps for priority districts of Sofala and
Zambezia. The maps will be used to design conservation zoning,
develop resettlement programs, and demarcate land. The outputs of this
subcomponent include: (i) land use maps with a scale of 1:50,000 in the
districts of the project area, (ii) an estimation of the area of each land-use
class, (iii) identification and zoning of appropriate areas for resettling
returning refugees and deslocados, and (4) identification of ecologically
fragile areas.
c)    Compilation of GIS data. This activity will provide DINAGECA with
a geographic information system (GIS), software programs and manuals
adapted to its needs, and personnel trained in operating and using the
GIS. These data will enhance DINAGECA's capacity to update land
cover mapping and provide accurate information using modern
technology.
'InU forest cover and biomm inventory being prepared by the National Forestry and Wildlife Directorate
with support from the Urban Household Energy Project will be used as input for the land use map.



-29-
d)    Training. Maps must be updated periodically to remain valid and useful.
To facilitate this updating, DINAGECA officers will receive on-the-job
training in interpreting satellite images. Provincial and district officers
will also receive on-the-job training in interpreting remote sensing data
and using Geographic Positioning Systems (GPS) equipment.  In
addition, two upper-level Mozambican university students will receive
long-term training at DINAGECA. The training will cover remote
sensing, image interpretation, and other technology used by geographic
information systems. Workshops to disseminate results will be held at
the end of each year of project implementation.
2.38         Inputs for Land Component. For Subcomponent 1, the project will provide
technical staff, incremental administrative staff, equipment, transportation, and in-country travel
allowances. A land tenure specialist will be contracted for 2 years through an international
consulting institution. This person will work under the Land Commission Coordinator in
designing and implementing case studies in the two provinces and supporting the development
of land policy. S/he will be supported by a junior land tenure specialist (UNV or doctoral
student), a part-time national social scientist and a part-time national lawyer (24 person months
each). The Government will provide office space and furniture, and administrative and logistical
support.
2.39         The inputs needed to carry out Subcomponent 2 include technical and
administrative staff, satellite imagery and data tapes, other equipment, training, transportation and
in-country travel allowances. The technical staff funded by this subcomponent will be drawn
from a specialized international institution. The costs of the component have been estimated
assuming the following team composition: two image interpreters (an expatriate and a UNV, for
24 months each); one cartographer (a UNV, for 24 months); a GIS specialist (an expatriate, for
24 months); and eight months of specialized short-term consultants. The satellite imagery and
data will be developed at a scale of 1:250,000 for the whole country and 1:50,000 for sample
verification areas and priority districts. Processing of the satellite imagery data and color printing
of the finalized land cover maps will be sub-contracted. Equipment to be provided include: two
computers, GIS and word processing software and peripherals, cartographic equipment, GPS
equipment, and two vehicles each for Maputo, Sofala and Zambezia. Funding for repairing and
upgrading equipment at DINAGECA will be provided also. In-service training will be given to
provincial and district DINAGECA officers, group training in imagery interpretation will be
given to national DINAGECA officers, and long-term training will be given to two university
students. Transportation to provincial centers and per diem allowances are needed for ground-
truth verification and for the priority districts. Workshops will be organized to present the
topographic and land cover mapping to the Ministry of Agriculture and other interested agencies.
Distribution of Ag&acks Component (Base cost: US$4.6 million)
2.40         Component Activities. Over the life of the project, approximately 200,000
households will receive packages containing improved seed and simple agricultural hand tools,
known as AgPacks. Beneficiaries will include households spontaneously resettling in Sofala and
Zambezia provinces, as well as households returning from neighboring countries, cities and
towns, isolated rural areas, and camps for displaced people and captives.
2.41         It is impossible to predict the timing or pattern of peacetime population
movements. There are an estimated 4 million Mozambicans who have been displaced or severely



-30-
affected by the war, including nearly one million in Zambezia and 250,000 in Sofala. In general,
Zambnzia is expected to be a net 'importer' and Sofala a net 'exporter' of people at the end of
the war. This is because most people displaced from Zambezia have left the province and camps
of people displaced from other provinces are now located in the Beira corridor in Sofala. In
addition, large inta-provincial shifts in population are certain to occur. Provisionally, 50,000
AgPacks will be distributed in Zambezia and 17,000 AgPacks in Sofala each year. These
numbers are merely indicative and will be revised according to actual resettlement patterns.
2.42         AgPack distribution will be targeted to women to reduce the risk of households
selling the inputs. NGOs report that this has been effective in the past with AgPacks and other
types of commodity distribution programs.
2.43         Many households returning to their home districts will be severely decapitalized,
especially those who have spent months or years living in deslocados camps, in the bush, or in
neighboring countries. The full delivered cost of an AgPack, estimated at US$25 (approximately
75,000 MT), will be well beyond the means of these households. Organizing food-for-work
schemes for such a large number of beneficiaries will be extremely difficult. To provide these
critical inputs while reducing dependency on free distribution, the following scheme will be
utilized: during the first year, all inputs will be distributed without charge, to make a massive
distribution feasible and to allow the NGOs to focus on the effective distribution of inputs, rather
than struggle with the administration of symbolic payments. Beneficiaries requiring inputs during
the second year will be required to participate in seed-for-work programs to ensure a process of
self-selection where only the households truly in need of additional seed will participate." The
labor provided through seed-for-work programs will benefit district rehabilitation efforts.
2.44         Inputs tor Component. The inputs required for the Support to Resettlement
component include the purchase of approximately 200,000 AgPacks (seeds, tools and manuals)
plus logistics and distribution services to be provided or coordinated by NGOs. The purchase
of AgPacks accounts for 80% of the component's cost; NGO logistics and distribution services
account for the remaining 20%. The World Food Program has offered to provide food aid to
the project area during implementation of this component; details of this collaboration are being
discussed with INDER.
Rural Water Supplv Component (Base cost: US$4.9 million)
2.45         Component Activities.   The Rural Water Component includes three
subcomponents: i) water supply development; ii) improvement of EPAR management and
organization; and iii) strengthening of operation and maintenance schemes.
2.46         Water Supply Development. This subcomponent will rehabilitate and improve
capacity for supplying water to rural areas in Sofala and Zambezia.
'T*s type of input distribution activity has a precedent in the drought relief progrnm implemented in
Zimbabwe this year with IDA support (Emergency Drought Recovery and Mitigation Project.) In
Zimbabwe, the government developed a plan to distribute Crop-Packs (including seeds, fertilizer and
crop chemicals) to drought-affected households. The goverment concluded that full cost recovery was
not practical given the emergency situation and the need to rapidly restore the self-sufficiency of small
farmers.



-31-
(a)    DeveloDment of additional capacity.  District workshops will be
established in Bizi in Sofala province and in Chinde and Alto Mol6cue
in Zambezia province. Each workshop will produce 50 new wells per
year by the third year of operation and will be able to repair existing
wells at the district level.
(b)   Increasing the use of present capaciq. To strengthen existing capacity,
the equipment in workshops will be upgraded and new equipment will be
provided to improve logistics and transportation.
(c)    Construction of water sources (wells and boreholes). The project will
finance the construction of about 40 water sources in Sofala and 60 water
sources in Zambezia per year. This will permit full use of existing
capacity and allow the production units to operate with maximum
autonomy.
2.47         Improving EPAR Management and Organization. This subcomponent will
strengthen EPAR's capacity to coordinate administrative, logistical and technical assistance
activities at the provincial level. This will include the development of procurement procedures
for the use of private contractors for the implementation of civil works. The subcomponent also
is intended to promote technical and financial autonomy in the production units. The following
activities will be included:
(a)   Improvement of Management. The aim is to establish systems for
monitoring and programming the activities of provincial EPARs and
district workshops. The areas of management slated for improvement
include the accounting systems, the estimation of cost structures, and the
introduction of procurement procedures for the use of private contractors
for the implementation of civil works.
(b)   Improvement of Organization. The goal is to develop an effective
network of workshops that will operate in a coordinated manner, i.e.,
allowing works, logistics and community education activities to be
coordinated at the provincial level.
(c)    Organization and Management Study. A study will be carried out to
help design (i) a model for provincial-level organization, (ii) structuring
of production units, (iii) updating of cost studies, (iv) an easily updated
data base, and (v) specific procedures for the use of private contractors
for the implementation of civil works. The study will be carried out by
a local team with assistance from a short-term expert on organization and
management (Annex IV-15).  At negotiations, assurances were
provided by the Government that the Study on Organization and
Management of the Provincial Water Supply will be completed
during the first year of the project.
2.48         Development of Operation and Maintenance. This subcomponent will develop
a scheme for operating and maintaining water supply systems based on commlunity participation
and technological change. The activities planned include the following:



-32-
(a)    Community Participation. The Community Pardcipation and Education
Program (PEC) will be amended to achieve greater community
participation in constructing and operating water supply systems. The
Community Mobilization and Participation Plan and the Operation and
Maintenance Plan that are being prepared based on a study conducted
under the World Bank-financed Agricultural Services Rehabilitation and
Development Project in Nampula Province will be extended to the
project areas.  Civil works will only be executed in sites where
communities sign an implementation agreement for the management and
operation of the water supply system. This agreement will specify: a
contribution in cash or kind for the initial investment, annual
contributions for repairs and maintenance, and nomination of a local
voluntary team including a chairman, treasurer and two pump
maintenance persons. At negotiations, assurances were provided by
the Government that civil works for rural water supply will only be
executed in sites where communities sign an implementation
agreement with the CPPs.
(b)    Supply of AFRIDEV Hand Pumps. The gradual replacement of the
INDIA MARK II pumps is part of the strategy to introduce pumps that
are easy and inexpensive to maintain. In this way the pumps allow for
greater community involvement in Operations and Maintenance.
(c)   Inventory of Rural Water Supply Infrastructure.  PRONAR will
undertake a survey to indicate the location, condition, and operation and
maintenance requirements of existing water supply facilities in Sofala and
Zambezia (Annex IV-16). Data gathered during the survey will be used
to help upgrade rural water development plans for each province to
include a five-year perspective. Community involvement in the O&M
of water supply systems will be reviewed and a plan to improve
community involvement will be formulated."9   At negotiations,
assurances were provided by the Government that the Inventory of
Rural Water Supply Infrastructure for Sofala and Zambezia will be
completed during the first year of the project.
2.49         Inputs for Component.  The Rural Water Supply component will require
technical assistance, training, civil works and equipment. The technical assistance to be provided
by the RRP will consist of the following:
Water Supply Advisers (UNVs) will be assigned for 36 months to help
with production and O&M activities in the EPARs of Zambezia and
Sofala. The Terms of Reference for these advisers are detailed in Annex
IV-8.
*     Short-term consultancies in Community Education (9 months) will help
the EPARs strengthen the Community Education Program over the life
'Experience gained in Nampula province under the water supply component of the Agricultural Services
Rehabilitation and Development project will be incorporated into the survey.



-33-
of the project. A Management and Organization consultant will direct
the study (para 2.47) and will assist the EPARs in implementing the
study's recommendations (18 months over 3 years). A consultant will
be in charge of organizing the Inventory of Infrastructure in Sofala and
Zambezia (3 months).
2.50         Training in the management of production units will be emphasized. Training
in maintenance and community education will be provided for PEC managers, extension agents,
and users responsible for maintaining water points. Civil works will include financing for the
construction of three EAR production units, one in Sofala and two in Zambdzia.
2.51         The project will provide vehicles, equipment, and hand pumps. The equipment
will be used for construction, water supply, maintenance, training, and furnishing of offices.
Lists of equipment are included in the cost tables (available in the project file). The 1,000 new
AFRIDEV hand pumps to be supplied through the project will equip the new wells.



-34-
III. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Overall Organizational Arrangernents
3.01         No new institutions will be created under the project. Overall coordination will
be carried out by INDER under the guidance of a Steering Committee (see Annex V-1). Field
activities will be carried out by the respective line Ministries, supported by the provincial and
district governments.
3.02         The Steering Committee will be chaired by the President of INDER. It will
include the directors of DINAGECA, CFA, PESU, PRONAR, DNP, the Land Commission, and
the directors of the CPPs in Sofala and Zambdzia. The committee will meet twice a year to: (i)
provide guidance on project implementation; (ii) approve the Annual Operations Plan (Plano
Anual de Operagoes - PAO) and recommend project investments for the next year; (iii) approve
semi-annual project monitoring and evaluation reports; and (iv) provide other support as
requested by the President of INDER. The Project Director will be the Secretary to the Steering
Committee.
3.03         INDER will coordinate project implementation and manage all project funds. In
this capacity it will have numerous responsibilities. It will lead preparation of the PAO, propose
a budget allocation for each agency involved in project implementation, and submit the annual
investment budget and three-year rolling investment plan (para 1.56) to CNP and the Ministry
of Finance. It will supervise and monitor project implementation and keep a data base on all
project-related activities. It will produce quarterly and annual progress reports on project
implementation. It will identify constraints to project implementation and take steps to remove
them. It will monitor the timing of budget allocations and releases. It will ensure that required
reports are prepared and submitted to the Bank on time and will serve as the main counterpart
for Bank supervision missions. INDER's management of funds will include: (i) maintaining the
special account and consolidated project accounts; (ii) preparing and submitting applications for
the withdrawal of credit funds; (iii) ensuring that the project and special accounts are audited
annually; and (iv) signing all contracts and making all payments (except for subprojects - see
para 4.24).
3.04         Under the guidance of its President, INDER has appointed a Project Director and
a Financial Controller. The Project Director will actually carry out the duties listed in the
previous paragraph. S/he will be assisted by an internationally-recruited Program Advisor
experienced in implementing small-scale projects. The Advisor, in collaboration with a
Mozambican economist or social scientist from INDER's staff, will set up the project monitoring
system. The Financial Controller will be assisted in the first project year by an internationally-
recruited Financial Management and Accounting Specialist. Afterwards, it will receive periodic
support from an international accounting/auditing firm.
B. Management of Project Components
3.05         CFA will be in charge of training activities (para 3.06). DINAGECA and the
Lands Commission will manage land activities (para 3. 11). PRONAR will manage water supply
activities (para 3.13). Each of these agencies has appointed a Component Coordinator. The
agencies will implement their components as part of their normal activities, according to
implementation agreements signed with INDER. The agreements will specify the activities to be
executed, timetables, expected costs, disbursement procedures, and required procurement,



-35-
reporting and accounting procedures. Signature of implementation agreements with CFA and
DINAGECA will be a condition for Effectiveness; signature of the implementation agreement
with PRONAR will be a condition of disbursernent for the civil works for rural water
supply.
3.06         Training. The training component will be managed by a Training Program
Coordinator under the direction of the CFA Director. S/he will prepare the Annual Plan of
Operations (PAO) for training, including an estimate of costs and will prepare every six months,
a report evaluating the component. These documents will be submitted to INDER, who will
transmit them to the RRP Steering Committee for approval.
3.07         The implementation agreement signed between INDER and CFA will detail lhe
training courses to be conducted and the responsibilities of each institution. The agreement also
will specify timetables for the activities to be executed and the required procurement, reporting
and accounting procedures. The CFA will use its own staff to organize and implement the
training courses, identifying any technical assistance required. INDER will be in charge of final
procurement, signing contracts and making payments.
3.08         One staff member from the CPFA in Sofala and Zambezia will monitor the
training needs and execution of training activities at the provincial and district level. These
CPFA staff will coordinate a training strategy and program with the CFA in each province.
3.09         Training priorities and course contents will be guided by the needs project
management identifies at the national, provincial, and district levels.
3.10         Community-Based Subprojects. The Directors of the CPPs in Sofala and
Zambezia will coordinate RRP activities in their provinces. Subprojects will be identified at the
community level, by district and provincial officials, and NGOs. These subproject ideas will be
formulated as formal project proposals by district officers, with the support of NGOs, project-
funded Rural Development Agents (RDAs), and Project Planning and Appraisal Specialists. The
CPPs will appraise these subproject proposals and submit them to the Estado Malor de Economfa
for clearance and transmission to the Provincial Govermnent. This is the same procedure used
for approving district and provincial level investment projects. Each CPP will be reinforced
with: (i) an intemationally-recruited Planning and Project Appraisal Specialist and (ii) short-term
Monitoring and Evaluation assistance (para 2.32). Each Director of CPP will prepare, with
support of the Planning and Project Appraisal Specialist, semi-annual progress reports to submit
to INDER.
3.11         Land Activities. The land cover mapping activities will be carried out by
DINAGECA and the provincial services of Geography and Cadastre in Sofala and Zambezia.
An intemationally recruited institution will assist them by (i) providing specialized technical
assistance and (ii) organizing the procurement of equipment and materials, data processing
services, and the printing of maps. The Land Commission will organize and implement the
proposed land policy study with technical assistance from an internationally recruited institution.
3.12         Distribution of AgPacks. NGOs with experience in AgPack distribution from
the Emergency Program will carry out this component, in close cooperation with provincial and
district governments. The NGOs will work with INIA to develop combinations of crop and seed
varieties suitable for each zone. The NGOs will procure the seeds and tools and will be
responsible for inland logistics. The NGOs will work with local governments to develop lists of



-36-
households that have recently resettled in the project area. After the first round of input
distribution, which will be done on a non-reimbursable basis, costs will be recovered through
recipient contributions of labor or in-kind payment, such as modified food-for-work schemes.
C. Programming of Activities
3.13         An Annual Plan of Operations (Plano Anual de OperaCoes - PAO), compiled
by the Project Director, will be used to organize implementation and monitor progress of the
project. The PAO will utilize the methodology developed by the Institutional Capacity Analysis
and Development System (ICADS). This methodology is widely utilized in Bank projects in the
LAC region.' The PAO will include: (i) a review of implementation during the past year; (ii)
a detailed description of work for the upcoming year covering objectives, staff training,
monitoring and evaluation activities, deployment of staff and equipment, construction plans, and
procurement schedules; (iii) requirements for additional staff and inputs; (iv) requirements for
technical assistance, and local and foreign training; and (v) a budget and financing plan depicting
local and foreign currency requirements. Adoption of an Annual Plan of Operations
acceptable to IDA Is a condition of effectiveness.
3.14         Preparation of the PAO will be a bottom-up exercise. Sections for each project
component will be prepared by the component coordinators in the participating institutions (CFA,
PRONAR, DINAGECA and the CPP.) The plans for the individual components will be
integrated into the PAO by INDER. To formalize the PAO and to reinforce accountability, each
year an agreement will be signed defining the actions to be undertaken by each of the
implementing institudons and quantitative goals to be achieved. The agreement also will define
the resources institutions may assign to their components during the coming year. The PAO
should be ready by September of each year to fit into the PTIP cycle. To help establish
procedures for using the PAO, LATPS will be requested to provide technical support during the
Project Launch Workshops and initial project supervision missions (Annex V4).
D. Project Implementation Review
3.15         Given the pilot nature of the project and its short implementation period, the
Government and IDA will carry out joint implementation reviews at the end of each project year.
These reviews will take into consideration data compiled by the project Monitoring and
Evaluation System (para 3.18). The reviews will cover problems and progress in processing and
implementing subprojects; in defining policies out of the land study; and in producing land use
maps. The reviews also will evaluate the number of wells produced and improvements in their
operation, and progress in the distribution of AgPacks. Special attention will be given to the
effectiveness of transferring technical assistance skills to local counterparts and the effectiveness
of the training program. At negotiations, assurances were provided by the Government that
joint IDA/Government project Implementation reviews will be held at the end of each
project year. The results of these reviews will be used to improve project implementation, and
if appropriate, to prepare the way for a follow-up Rural Rehabilitation II project.
*IU ICADS opeational manual was published by LAT7PS in July 1992. It is being used, amog othr
prqocts, by the Brazil-Minas  ais Forstry (SAR 9138-AR), Mexico Delizion and Rgiood
Developmt for the Disadvantaged States (SAR 8786-ME), Boivia - Second Public Financial
Managem_t Opeaon (SAR 9558) and Ecuador - Rual Development (SAR 9437). The Opeaional
Manual is included in the Project File.



-37-
3.16         The project will require substantial resources for supervision. The budget for the
project includes funds earmarked for consultants who will prepare background documents for
annual reviews and accompany IDA supervision missions. A summary of IDA requirements for
the supervision of this project is included in Annex V-4.
E. Monitoring, Evaluation and Beneficiary Assessment
3.17         The Project Director will prepare semi-annual progress reports based on the
information produced by each component coordinator (para 3.05). The progress reports will
describe the physical and financial progress of the project, its impact, and flow of funds. These
reports will reach IDA no later than three months after the end of each semester. In addition,
within six months of the end of the project, INDER will deliver to IDA a Project Completion
Report describing all aspects of the project's benefits to farmers and to the country.
3.18         Data required for the above reports will be generated by a Monitoring and
Evaluations System (MES). This system will compare the targets described in the PAO (para
3.13) with impact evaluation data (IED).
3.19         The PAO will generate the data needed for day-to-day management of project
activities, review of the previous year's activities, and identification of needed changes. The
PAO was specifically designed to: provide central and regional staff with up-to-date information
on the project to enhance decision-making; improve communication between agencies
implementing different components; and provide a benchmark for periodic evaluations of the
project's impact.  The system  will track management interventions to ensure that key
implementation targets are met, particularly those pertaining to staffing and training, recruitment
of consultants, procurement activities, record-keeping, and reporting schedules.
3.20         The IED will include rapid field surveys of randomly selected communities,
including a baseline survey and end-of-project evaluations. INDER is initiating a series of
beneficiary assessments in several areas of the country, including Zambezia; this exercise will
provide useful data for the IED. The IED is expected to generate data needed to assess the
project's impact, institution building achievements, and cost-effectiveness relative to the objectives
described in the PAOs. The IED will track benchmarks such as the completion of training
programs, the implementation of subprojects, and the completion and acceptance by the
Government of major policy studies and recommendations. It will assess performance against
the annual work program and budget, and identify constraints and solutions. The system also will
compare the staff retention and morale levels of the project with those of other government
agencies, and survey community reactions to subproject activities and farmer reactions to input
delivery and improvements in supporting services. In addition, the IED (i) will assess women's
involvement in project components and the impact of components on their welfare, and (ii) will
evaluate the environmental effects of the community based subprojects.
F. Status of Project Implementation
3.21         The Project Director, the Financial Controller, and the Component Coordinators
for CFA, DINAGECA and PRONAR have been appointed and are conducting preparations for
project implementation. IDA has granted a PPF of US$650,000; funds are being used to
complete preparation of the first PAO and to initiate preparation of procurement documentation.
The draft PAO for the first year was presented to IDA before negotiations. It was prepared on
the basis of: (i) a work program prepared by CFA staff and consultants; (ii) a work program



-38-
proposed by DINAGECA for the land mapping component; (iii) a work program prepared by
PRONAR for water activities in Sofala and Zambezia and (iv) inputs provided by the CPPs
derived from field work undertaken for the preparation of the National Reconstruction Program.
The schedules and targets were reviewed during technical discussions at credit negotiations.
3.22         Detailed terms of reference for the technical assistance were prepared during
appraisal and discussed with Government in a mission following appraisal. Procurement of the
technical assistance for the land use mapping activities will be complex, and a consultant has been
selected to prepare the technical specifications in April of 1993. Short lists of consultants for
each of the long term positions will be prepared between credit negotiations and effectiveness.
To facilitate prompt recruitment of necessary consultants once final selection has been made,
standard contracts for technical assistance (both individual and institutional) have been prepared
and agreed with the Ministry of Finance.



-39-
IV. COST ESIMlATES, FINANCING AND PROCUREMENT
A. Cost Estimates
4.01          The total cost of the project is estimated at MT49.5 billion (US$23.0 million),
including physical and price contingencies. The foreign exchange component is US$17.4 million,
or 76% of project costs. Operating costs account for about US$1.1 million. Taxes account for
approximately 7% of total project costs, or US$1.7 million. Base costs are calculated using
prices obtained during appraisal (July 1992).
4.02          The total project costs include an allowance of US$4.2 million for contingencies.
Physical contingencies are 10% for civil works, vehicles, equipment, and agricultural inputs; and
20% for technical assistance and training comprising US$2.2 million. Price contingencies have
been based on the Bank's projected foreign inflation rates of 3.9% for project years 1 and 2 and
3.8% for the final project year and local rates of 25% for project year 1 and 15% for all other
project years. Specific project costs are presented in Annex VI-1 and are summarized in Table
IV-1 below.
Mozambique
Table IV-1: Project Cost Sumnary'
Millions of US Dollars           % Total
% Foreig
Local   Foreig     Total      Exchange Base Costs
A. SUPPORT-DECENTRALIZATION
1. Courses and Seminan                0.36     0.23      0.59        38.3      3.1
2. Subprojects; Cap Bldg.             1.69     4.13      5.82        71.0      30.9
Subtotal                                2.06      4.36      6.41        68.0     34.1
B. LAND
1. Land U cMapping                    0.25     1.92      2.17        88.5      11.5
2. Land Study & Pilot Demarc.         0.34     0.3S      0.69        50.8       3.7
Subtotal                                0.59      2.27      2.87       79.3      15.2
C. DISTRIBUTION OF AGPACKS              0.38      4.18      4.56       91.7      24.2
D. RURAL WATER SUPPLY
1. Sofala                            0.36      1.19      1.55        76.6      8.2
2. Zamnb&z                            0.64      1.95     2.59        75.4      13.8
3. Support to Center                  0.13     0.71      0.84        84.7       4.5
Subtotal                                1.13      3.85      4.98        77.3     26.5
Total BASELINE COSTS                    4.16     14.67     18.82        77.9    100.0
Physical Contingencies                0.55      1.69     2.24        75.6      11.9
Price Contingencies                   0.93     1.03       1.96       52.4      10.4
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                     5.64     17.39     23.02        75.5    1223
'Numbers may not add up due to rounding.



-40-
B. Financing
4.03         Financing of the project will be shared among IDA, the Government of
Mozambique and beneficiaries, as shown in Table IV-2. The IDA credit, in the amount of
US$20 million equivalent, will cover 86% of total project costs. IDA will finance 100% of
foreign costs and about two-thirds of local costs. The beneficiaries of subprojects will contribute
to civil works with their labor (estimated at about 10% of the cost of each subproject).
Government will contribute 30% of the local costs of civil works. Government will contribute
20% of the incremental salaries beginning in Year 2 of the project and 50% beginning in Year
4. All taxes associated with the project (about US$1.7 million) will be paid by the Government.
4.04         To help prepare the project, a Project Preparation Facility (PPF) of US %650,000
was approved by IDA. Funds from the facility were used to hire consultants and pay for related
expenses, and to purchase vehicles and other goods to be used by the project preparation team.
The PPF will be repaid when the project becomes effective.
Mozambique
Table IV-2: Financing Plan'
(US$ Millions)
Amount
IDA       Beneficiaries    Government       Total
I  Foreign                17.39           0.00           0.00         17.39
II Local (excl. taxes)     2.57           1.07           0.28          3.93
III Taxes                  0.00           0.00            1.71          1.71
TOTAL PROJECT             19.96           1.07           1.99         23.02
'Numbers may not add up due to rounding
C. Procurement
4.05         Procurement arrangements for the project are outlined in Table IV-3 and are
described in the following paragraphs. INDER (para 3.03) will be in charge of all major
procurement activities. INDER has been involved in procurement for activities funded by other
donors and has used the proceeds of the PPF for this project. Both functions have been carried
out effectively. Members of its staff have been involved in procurement for large African
Development Bank projects, and in the selection of technical assistance for IDA-financed projects.
However, its staff has requested additional support and training in IDA procedures. This will
be provided by a short-term consultant with expertise in IDA procurement procedures (para
2.32). The consultant will train the staff at INDER and will organize procurement for the larger,
more complex packages. A condition of effectiveness Is the preparation of standard bidding
documents for the procurement of goods and works and of standard letters of Invitation for
the selection of consultants acceptable to IDA.



-41-
Mozambique
Table IV-3: Procurement Schedule
(US$ MilUons)
Expenditure Category              ICB        LCB        Other        NA          Total
Civil Works:
* Rural Water Supply                                     2.2                      2.2
(1.9)                    (1.9)
* Building Renovation                                    0.3                      0.3
(houses and offices)                                  (0.2)                     (0.2)
Community-Based Sub2rojects:
* Goods for Subprojects           0.3                    0.8                      1.1
(0.3)                 (0.8)                     (1.1)
* Civil Works for Subprojects                 0.7        0.7          1.1         2.5
(0.7)      (0.7)        -           (1.4)
* Vehicles and Equipment          2.3                    0.4                      2.7
(2.3)                 (0.4)                     (2.7)
* Seeds and Tools                 4.7                    0.1                      4.8
(4.7)                 (0.1)                     (4.8)
Consultancies:
* Land Use Mapping Contracts      1.4                                             1.4
(1.4)                                           (1.4)
* Technical Assistance'                                  4.8                      4.8
(3.4)                    (3.4)
* Training                                               0.9                      0.9
(0.9)                    (0.9)
* NGOs                                                   0.8                      0.8
(0.8)                    (0.8)
Incremental Operating Costs:                              1.5                      1.5
(1.4)                    (1.4)
TOTAL                              8.7        0.7        12.5          1.1        23.0
(8.7)      (0.7)     (10.6)        -           (20.0)
'Includes refinancing of PPF.
Note: Amounts in parentheses represent IDA financing.
4.06          Civil Works. These will consist of construction or rehabilitation of (i) offices
and houses, (ii) community-based subprojects and (iii) drinking water infrastructure. Olfices and
Houses. Contracts for the construction and rehabilitation of physical facilites financed under the
IDA credit (para 2.32) will be awarded after three price quotes are obtained from local firms.
The renovation of each office and house is expected to cost about US$8,500, totaling
US$300,000. These works will be located in eight districts and two provincl capitals. Because
of the small scale and dispersed nature of these works, neither international nor large local firms
are expected to be interested in them.



-42-
4.07         Community-based subproiects. The procurement of civil works under this
component remains unidentified, since the mix of subprojects will be determined based on the
proposals presented by district and community leaders and NGOs. Therefore, distribution within
this category is tentative and is based on an estimate by the appraisal mission. Disbursements
for subprojects are described in para 4.23.
Materials. Purchases of materials, mainly cement and roofing material, are envisaged
totalling $1.1 million. The provincial governments will assist with logistics and bulk
purchases of materials, where such purchases will improve cost-efficiency. For large
subprojects (with a cost of over $25,000 - see para 2.20) ICB will be utilized; it is
envisaged that no more than 25% of the funds will be utilized for large subprojects,
hence it is estimated that materials with a total cost of $300,000 will be purchased using
ICB procedures. For subprojects with a cost of less than $25,000, materials will be
purchased by local shopping.
Execution, For large subprojects (over $25,000), private contractors will be hired using
LCB procedures, with an estimated total value of $700,000. For subprojects with a total
value of less than $25,000, civil works will be implemented either by contractors or
directly by communities supported by NGOs. Private contractors may be hired based on
three price quotations. NGOs may be hired based on a short-list. Works performed by
communities will employ self-help procedures in which the communities provide unskilled
labor, with an estimated total value of $1.1 million or 30% of the total cost of the
subprojects. The project will reimburse the provincial government for payment of skilled
labor obtained through prudent local shopping arrangements satisfactory to IDA.
Independent agencies will conduct regular technical audits to evaluate these procedures.
4.08         Drinking Water Civil works for drinking water supply will be handled by force
account procedures acceptable to IDA, and will be carried out by the EPARs of the Provincial
Directorates of Construction and Water in Sofala and Zambezia. These civil works, amounting
to US$2.2 million, involve small-scale, labor-intensive rehabilitation and construction of water
facilities in widely dispersed remote areas. Therefore, they cannot profitably be handled by
private contractors. The EPARs of the Provincial Directorates of Construction and Water in
Sofala and Zambezia have successfully carried out this type of operation (paras 1.45 to 1.50) in
projects supported by donors and subject to periodic audits. IDA is financing the construction
of wells in Nampula province using force account procedures, through the Agricultural Services
Rehabilitation and Development Project. Payments for project works carried outby force account
will be based on pre-estimated unit costs for works with a ceiling of US$3,000 per well,
disbursements will be against documented expenditures.
4.09         IDA-financed contracts which have civil works components exceeding US$50,000
will require prior review by IDA.
4.10         Goods. Equipment and vehicles will be procured in groups whenever possible.
Purchases over US$100,000 (totaling US$7 million) will be procured using ICB procedures.
Items costing less than US$20,000 each and needed immediately for project implementation, may
be purchased by international or local shopping by securing at least three price quotations. These
items include office supplies up to a maximum of US$200,000. For proprietary spare parts,
direct purchasing will be allowed up to a maximum of $200,000. Purchases of less than



-43-
US$1,000 (mainly office supplies) may be made off the shelf up to an aggregated amount of
US$50,000.
4.11         IDA will review bidding documents and evaluation reports before any contacts
are awarded for vehicle and equipment purchases exceeding US$100,000. Pre-shipment
inspection of goods for quantity, quality and price is mandatory in Mozambique. In the case of
ICB purchases, pre-shipment inspections will be limited to quality and quantity; price inspection
will not be done.
4.12         Consultancies and Technical Assistance.  The tezhnical assistance to be
provided under the project and the method of selecting consultants is described in Annex IV-17.
Technical assistance and studies will be awarded to one or several consulting firms through
competitive selection. The firms will be selected in accordance with the Guidelines for the Use
of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and using already agreed upon terms of reference
(Annex IV).  All contracts with a value of over US$100,000 will be subject to prior review.
All taxes levied on consultant remuneration will be borne by the Government of Mozambique.
Four models of standard contracts have been approved by the Ministry of Finance for use in
IDA-financed projects.
4.13         Mapping activities will be awarded to one consulting firm as a package. The
package will include the provision of technical assistance, purchase of satellite imagery, purchase
of specialized software, and subcontracting of data processing and printing of final maps. These
activities will be subject to ICB; a specialized consultant will be hired by sole source to write the
detailed technical specifications for the competitive bidding.
4.14         The NGOs that will serve as contractors, managers, and advisors for project
implementation will be chosen by shortlisting. Direct contracting of NGOs must be approved in
advance by IDA and only will be permitted when an NGO is the only entity capable of carrying
out the intended activity. In cases where NGOs are invited to act on behalf of the Borrower or
any of the project's implementing agencies, the standard accounting and auditing requirements
acceptable to IDA will apply.
4.15         Arrangements for training will be subject to IDA approval.
4.16         Misellaneous. Other project expenditures such as for incremental staffing and
operating costs will follow GOM procedures.
4.17         Prior Review. More than 75 % of IDA-fmianced purchases of goods and services
will be subject to prior review.
D. Disbursements
4.18         The proceeds of the credit are expected to be disbursed over a five-year period,
and major investments have been programmed for a three-year period. The project completion
date is June 30, 1998 and the closing date is December 31, 1998.
4.19         Disbursements of the IDA credit are shown in Table IV-4.



44-
Mozambique
Table IV4: Disbursements'
Category                              US$ Mion
A. Civil Work:
*Rural Water Supply                   1.5     70% of local expenditues; 100% of
foreign expenditure.
eBuilding Rehabilitation              0.1     70% of local expenditure.; 100% of
foreign expenditures
B. Community-based Subprojects            2.3     90% of local expenditures;
100% of foreign expenditures
C. Goods:
oVehicles and Equipment               2.0     100% of total expaditure
*Seeds and Tools                      4.5     100% of total expenditure.
D. Consltacies:
*Mapping Contra                       1.0    100% of total expenditue.
*Technical Assistance                 2.5     100% of total expenditure.
oTraining                             0.5     100% of total expenditure.
oServices from NGOs                   0.8     100% of tota expenditures
E. Incremntal Operting Costs:             1.1     See note below.
F. PPF Repayment                          0.5      100% of totd expenditures
0. Unallocated                            3.2
TOTAL                                    20.0
Note: % IDA participatio in opeating cost: year 1, 100%; yar  2-3, 80%; yea  4-5, 50%.
' Al taxes will be paid by the Government
4.20          To be eligible for IDA funding, subprojects costing US$25,000 or more must be
cleared by IDA before any contracts are signed (para 2.20). All other subproject files are subject
to review by IDA. Civil works for rural water supply will only be eligible in sites where
communities have signed implementation agreements with the provincial governments (para 2.48).
INDER will keep subproject files available for IDA review.
4.21          S    l Acun  The Government will establish a Special Account to facilitate
project implementation. The account will be set up under terms and conditions satisfactory to
IDA. It will be opened in foreign currency in a commercial bank acceptable to IDA. The
maximum value for the account has been set at US$1.5 million, based on three months of
expenditures during the highest disbursing semester. However, experience shows that such a high
value is not necessary during the first year of the project. Therefore, an initial amount of
US$0.75 million will be deposited by IDA after it approves withdrawal applications; this amount
is equal to one-half the maximum value allowed in the account. The Special Account will be
operated by INDER. INDER may request replenishment from IDA after presenting statements
of expenditure and other required documents. The minimum value of individual withdrawal
applications to be submitted to the Bank for direct disbursement, by passing the special account,
would be the equivalent of US$50,000 or more.
4.22          Statenents of Expediture.  Disbursements would be made on the basis of
statements of expenditures against contracts for goods costing less than US$100,000, works
costing less than US$50,000, subprojects valued at under US$25,000, and all operating costs



-45-
expenditures and consultant contracts with firms costing less than US$100,000. All other
expenditures would be fully documented. The statements would be subject to independent audits
and would be made available for review by Bank missions (para 4.26).
4.23         Disbursements for Subprojects. The Director of the CPP in each of the two
provinces will open and manage a project account. This account will be established in local
currency and will be used to fund expenditures for the subprojects. The Government will make
an initial deposit equivalent to US$50,000 in each of the project accounts. INDER will replenish
the accounts against statements of expenses presented by the CPP. The CPP will make direct
payments to suppliers of goods and services for the subprojects. The US$50,000 equivalent
deposit into each project account will be a condition of disbursement for the community-
based subprojects.
4.24         INDER's Financial Controller will be supported by an accounting/auditing firm.
This firm will provide a full-time Financial Management and Accounting Specialist during the
first year of the project and periodic backstopping during the remainder of the project. The
project will finance an accounting officer in each of the provinces for the DPF. This person will
strengthen the management of the financial transactions and accounts related to the project, and
will ensure that all accounting and auditing requirements are met.
E. Accounts and Audits
4.25         Project Accounts. INDER and the Provincial Governments of Sofala and
Zambezia will maintain separate project accounts. These accounts will be consolidated into
Annual Financial Statements by INDER. The statements will contain a summary of the sources
and uses of funds, a summary of the special account, and a recapitulation of reimbursements and
replenishments claimed under statements of expenditures (SOEs). At negotiations, agreement
was reached that the guidelines for project accounting outlined in Annex m-2 will be
followed during project implementation.
4.26         Project Audi. An independent auditing firm acceptable to IDA will perform
fimancial audits every twelve months. The auditor will also prepare a separate opinion on the
SOE. Audits for each financial statement will be submitted to IDA within nine months of the end
of the fiscal year. To facilitate the hiring of private independent auditors acceptable to IDA and
the rendering of audited accounts and audit reports within the stipulated time limit, the Credit will
finance reasonable audit fees. At negotiations, the Government provided assurances that an
Independent audit will be conducted every twelve months and submitted to IDA within nine
months of the end of each fiscal year.



-46-
V. BENEFITS, RISKS AND ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS
A. Benefits
5.01         The project is expected to provide benefits at four levels. First, it will prepare
the conditions for large-scale implementation of the National Reconstruction Program. It will do
this by: (i) developing a decentralized system for identifying investments based on the needs of
beneficiaries (nearly 500 people will be trained to use this system during the project); (i)
rehabilitating critical agricultural infrastructure and the rural trade network in two provinces; and
(iii) preparing the Provincial Reconstruction Programs for two of the provinces with the highest
productive potential in Mozambique.
5.02         Second, the project will develop an institutional capacity for developing and
implementing land policy by: (i) implementing studies designed to make recommendations to
strengthen the property rights of Mozambican smallholders; (ii) malking available information on
land use by preparing national and district-level land use maps; and (iii) developing procedures
for demarcating smallholder lands.
5.03         Third, smallholders who were displaced from their lands by the war will benefit
from seeds, tools and other support provided by the NGOs. Approximately 200,000 households,
or one million people, will receive improved food security and higher self-sufficiency in
agricultural production. The country will benefit by substituting domestic production for
imported foods and by upgrading the genetic stock via the introduction of improved seeds.
5.04         Fourth, support provided by the project for developing the rural water supply will
improve the health of about half a million people in Sofala and Zambezia. By spending less time
collecting water, these people will have more time available for productive activities. As their
health improves, they will be able to work more intensely. The availability of water also will
facilitate resettlement activities.
5.05         A quantitative simulation of the expected benefits from the community-based
subprojects was carried out during appraisal. This simulation covered four different farm models.
The results varied widely depending on the assumptions used about the composition of the
subprojects. One estimate suggests a 39% financial internal rate of return for investments in
productive subprojects (see Annex II-2 and Working Paper on the Financial Analysis of Possible
Subprojects).
B. Risks
5.06         The security situation continues to create risks for all rural projects in
Mozambique. The recent cease-fire agreement might not be honored by all armed groups in the
country. Rural infrastructure often has been the target of attacks in the past; if hostilities
continue or resume, any infrastructure provided under this project could be subject to attack.
Initially, all subprojects will take place in the eight priority districts of Sofala and Zambezia.
These districts have been selected, in part, for their relative security. The flexibility of reducing
or redirecting investments in any district with an unacceptable level of insecurity partially
mitigates against the security risk.
5.07         Another major risk is that the weak capacity of the Mozambican govermnent will
constrain implementation. The project addresses this wealness through its flexibility and



47-
emphasis on pilot activities, training, and capacity building. Significant amounts of training will
be provided through the project in order to prepare staff for the reconstruction work involved.
The skills and experience of the NGOs will be utilized to enhance implementation.
5.08         The risk that other donors will fund conflicting activities does not appear
significant at present. However, this risk must be monitored continuously during project
implementation. Donors consulted during the development of this project have stated that they
will continue to give priority to donor coordination.
5.09         Training and capacity building efforts could be undermined by low motivation
and professionalism in the civil service. These attitudes stem from a weak public sector incentive
structure. The Government, the Bank and other donors are addressing this issue through the
FY93 Capacity Building Project, which aims to improve pay scales and promotion structures
throughout the Mozambican civil service.
C. Environmental Aspects
5.10         An Environmental Assessment of this category B project was completed by the
Government and sent to the Bank. The report concluded that the project will have no negative
impact on the environment. Some of the community-based subproject investments will be
designed with specific environmental objectives.
D. Sustainability
5.11         Incremental recurrent costs of the project will be small (para 4.01) and the
project's long-term impact on the recurrent cost budget will not be significant. The project will
affect the structure rather than the level of the budget. If the pilot is successful, the Government
may decide to assign a greater proportion of the investment budget to decentralized investments,
reducing the share of centrally implemented investments. To assure institutional sustainablity,
the project will provide skills and an institutional capacity for continued investment in rural areas.
The project does not create new institutional structures but strengthens existing ones. The project
also strengthens, through technological change and training, community operation and
maintenance of rural water systems.
E. Gender Focus
5.12         The project is designed to have a positive effect on rural women. Half of the
rural development agents selected will be women. This will help to ensure that the gender focus
is maintained. The Land Component will pay special attention to strengthening women's tenure
rights in the design of new policies. The provision of addidonal water sources through the Water
Supply Component will reduce the time and effort required for water collection, an activity
normally undertaken by women.  Afforestation activities through the Community-Based
Investments subcomponent will reduce the time required for fuelwood collection, another task
normally performed by women. NGOs will target AgPack distribution to women when practical,
to reduce the possibility of households selling the seed.



-48-
VI. ASSURANCES AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01             During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government that:
(a) All subprojects will be processed according to the procedures described
by the Manual and that the Manual will not be modified without prior
approval by IDA (para 2.18);
(b) By the end of Year 3 of project implementation, the Government will
produce a revised Operations Manual incorporating lessons learned
during project implementation (para 2.22);
(c) A report of the Land Study containing methodology for demarcating
smallholder sector lands will be produced by the end of Year 3 (para
2.36);
(d) The Study on the Organization and Management of Provincial Water
Supply will be completed during the first year of project implementation
(para 2.47);
(e) Civil works for rural water supply will only be executed in sites where
communities sign an implementation agreement with the CPPs (para
2.48).
(f) The Inventory of Rural Water Supply Infrastructure for Sofala and
Zambezia will be completed during the first year of project
implementation (para 2.48).
(g) The guidelines for project accounting outlined in Annex III-2 will be
followed during project implementation (para 4.25);
(b) Audits will be carried out every 12 months by independent auditing firms
acceptable to IDA and will be submitted to IDA within nine months of
the end of each fiscal year (para 4.26);
(i) The Project Completion Report, describing the Project's benefits for
farmers and to the country, will be delivered to IDA within six months
of the end of the project (para 3.17); and
(j) The procedures described in the Guidelines for the Use of Consultants bry
World Bank Borrowers will be followed (para 4.12).
6.02             The following will be conditions of credit effectiveness:
(a) Approval by IDA of the final version of the Operations Manual (para
2.18);
(b) Signing of an agreement between INDER and CFA for implementation
of the project's training component (para 3.05);



-49-
(c) Signing of an agreement between INDER and DINAGECA for
implementation of the project's land component (para 3.05);
(d) Adoption of an Annual Plan of Operations acceptable to IDA for the first
project year (para 3.13);
(e) Preparation of standard bidding documents and letter of invitation
package acceptable to IDA (para 4.05); and
(f) Appointment of an auditing firm (para 4.26).
6.03             The following will be a condition of disbursement for the community-based
subprojects:
* The deposit of US$50,000 equivalent into a project account in Sofala and
a project account in Zambdzia (para 4.24).
6.04             The following will be a condition of disbursement for the Civil Works for
Rural Water Supply:
* Signing of an agreement between INDER and PRONAR for
implementation of the project's water component (para 3.05).






-51-                                 Annex I-1
Mozambique
Rural Rehabilitation Project
Global Investments for 1992
by Sector and TWpe
Investment (nifoions of conto)              Investment (%)
by Sector       i  by Type of Investor
Sector         Entity  Enterprises Global    Entiy Enterprses  Global I Entiy Enterprises Gbbal
Agicukue        215.6      61.8   277.5      9.7       2.8   12.4 ' 77.7      22.3  100.0
isheries         42.0      -        42.0     1.9      -        1.9 '100.0     -    100.0
inilung        12.7       4.4    17.1      0.6       0.2    0.8 ' 74.2       25.8  100.0
Transfoming       4.8      22.2    27.0      0.2       1.0    1.2 a 17.7      82.3  100.0
dwmics
lectricity       84.2      27.6   111.8      3.8       1.2    S.0  75.3       24.7  100.0
atersupply    203.1      -       203.1     9.1       -       9.1 '100.0      -    100.0
Constuction     226.0      18.8   244.7    10.1        0.8   11.0 1 92.3       7.7  100.0
Commerce         15.1      64.4    79.5      0.7       2.9    3.6 ' 19.0      81.0  100.0
Trnspoit and    151.7     431.4   583.0      6.8      19.3   26.1 a 26.0      74.0  100.0
storage
Communications    4.4     17S.4   179.8      0.2       7.9    8.1 ' 2.5       97.5  100.0
Public           46.7      -        46.7     2.1      -        2.1 j100.0      -    100.0
dministratdon                                                      I
Education       233.8      -       233.8    10.5      -       10.5  100.0      -    100.0
Heakh           168.6      -       168.6     7.6      -        7.6 '100.0      -    100.0
ure and       16.6      -       16.6      0.7      -        0.7 1100.0     -    100.0
cukur.
TOTAL         1,42S.2     805.9  2,231.1    63.9      36.1   100.0 a 63.9     36.1  100.0



-52-                                   Annex 1-2
Mozambiqu
Rural Rehabilitation Prolect
Executed Investments by Level of Government
(Millions of MTs)
LAed of Governmedt          198S      1986       1987       191       199      1i99      1991]
Ceantr  Governnnat(CG)     8,118    11,600     98,000   158,900  230,900   341,300        n.e.
TrAhnsf  PrOVinci GOvt       0n..    1,319-     5,844-    9,872       n1..  15,746-    19,100
Funance M.                 n.a.      226      4,720     5,922       na.    7,886       9,38
Secton'                    n.a.      820      1,124      2,079      n.e.    4,536      5,394
DPCCN                      n.a.        0          0      1,281      n.'.   3,473       3,322
Amnesty                    na..        0          0       500       n.a.      160       n.e.
Emcrgency                  n.a.        0          0         0       n.A.        0       n.S.
TOTAL                        n.a.   12,918    103,844   168,683       n.e.  357,046       n.e.
PG us a   of TOTAL           n.a.       lu5.6                 5.8    n1..                  ..
Source: CNP, *Anuarto Patzitco 1990" and computations for this reporL
Budgeted Fie
Trotal Exeawed
'Degpated Projecs ('Proyecto Nombializados").



-53-                           Annex 1-3
Mozambique
Rural Rehabilitation Project
Investment Budget for 1991
Provincial Summary
(Millions of MTs)
Centrally Designated Investments
Delegated     DPCCN-        PR.   Decentralized
Provinces          Projects        FUN. INVEMER   Investments  TOTAL
Maputo City          814.6         0.0         0.0       1,128.0   1,942.6
Maputo               318.9       203.2       140.0       1,276.0   1,938.1
Gaza                 439.0       312.1        65.0        638.0   1,454.1
Inhambane            435.1        306.3       35.0        464.0   1,240.4
Sofala               722.2      1,635.2       35.0       1,776.0   4,168.4
Manica               603.3        218.5        0.0        580.0   1,401.8
Tete               1,095.1        521.4       41.0        505.8   2,163.3
Zambezia             648.2        773.7       50.0        870.0   2,341.9
Nampula             1,378.8      717.2       100.0        554.0   2,750.0
Cabo Delgado         809.4       214.5         0.0        754.0   1,777.9
Niassa               290.6       214.3         0.0        928.0   1,432.9
TOTAL              7,555.2      5,116.4      466.0       9,473.8  22,611.4



Mozambique
Rural Rehabilitation Project
Provincial Planning Commission of Zambezia
Summary of Resources
Number                                                                                    Computers
of Staff in     Professional      Staff in      Professional      Total                       and
Unit             Province       Qualification      District    Qualification       Staff       Vehicles      Copiers
Direction            2       I Middle Technician                                     2       Icar
I Secretary
Planning             5       4 Middle                                                5       I motorcycle
Department                   Technicians
I Basic Technician
Statistics           5       4 Middle                                                5       1 car          I computer
Department                   Technicians                                                    2               I copier           L.
I Basic Technician                                             motorcycles
Administrative       8       1 Accountant                                            8      2               1 copier
Department                   6 Assistants                                                   motorcycles
I Driver                                                       I bicycle
Physical            14       8 Middle                 4      2 Basic                18                      1 copier
Planning                     Technicians                     Technicians
3 Basic Technicians             2 Assistants
3 Assistants
>x



Mozambigue
Rural Rehabilitation Project
Provincial Planning Commission of Sofala
Summary of Resources
Number of |                       l          l                                            Computers
Staff in       Professional        Staff in      Professional      Total                    and
Unit                Province        Qualification      District      Qualification      Staff    Vehicles     Copiers
Direction              3       1 Professional                                             3   2 motorcycles I computer
I Secretary
I Driver
Planning               7       1 Professional             2      1 Middle Technician      9   1 motorcycle
Department                     6 Middle Technicians              I Basic Technician
Statistics             7       1 Professional                                             7
Department                     5 Middle Technicians
I Basic Technician
Administrative         8       1 Middle Technician                                        8   1 motorcycle
Department                     7 Assistants
Physical Planning      15      1 Middle Technician        5      3 Basic Technicians     20   2 motorcycles
4 Computer Operators              2 Assistants
3 Assistants
Data Processing        13      1 Middle Technician                                       13   1 car         4 desktop
Center                         4 Computer Operators                                                         computers
8 Assistants
Ut



Mozambigue
Rural Rehabilitation Project
Organization of Provincial Planning Commissions
|DIRECTION|
PLA                ADMINISTRATIVE             STATISTICS           DIRECTORATE                DATA 
DEPARTMENT  DEPARMENT        DEPARTMENTOF PHYSICAL                         PROCESSING
DEPARTMENT  DEPARTMENT       DEPARTMENT             ~PLANNING'               CENTER'
'The Directorate of Physical Planning is autonomous.
'The Data Processing Center exists only in Sofala and is autonomous (has a separate budget).
7) .



-57-                                     Annex I-7
Mozambique
Rural Rehabilitation Project
Ongoing Investment Projects In Sofala Province
Date of
Description of Project                    Distrlct    Source of Funding   Value (USD)   Initiation
Rural water                             Nhamatanda       UNICEF            48,000        1988
Maintenance of welsl                                      UNICEF            12,000       1986
upport to build schools                             Fund. Ed. Modlane      5,270    Jan. 30, 1988
onstruction of 20 classrooms                      Pod. Mundial Lutemna     n.a.         1990
Perforations in Sofala 2nd Phase            *            UNICEF            700,000       1990
Expansion of Sanitary Workshop              a                              620,000       1989
xpansion of Workshop PSAA                  *                              23,000        1991
Rehabilitation of small water system        p                              257,000       1991
upport to Center of Displaced People/Jasse                ASDI            128,029        n.a.
upport communal viDage/Rarumua                                            128,029        n.a.
upport to communal village/Nharichonga                                    128,000        n.a.
Construction/communal vilage               n.a.            n.a.             n.a.         n.a.
Agriculturml productions P/250 families  Nhamatanda        ASDI             9,000        n.a.
ursl hospital                                      Medicin. de Monde e     n.a.         n.a.
Hospital */Pronteira
Construction of S classrooms in Jasw               Ped. Mundial Luterna      n.a.         n.S.
Small-scale industry                                    CD/CIDAC             n.a.         n.a.
fficeofCMO                                Dondo            URSS             18,605     Dec. 19S8
ehabilitation of secondary schools                  Ar de Pao e Poixe    1,078,000      1987
ural water                                   *           UNICEF            120,000    Jan. 1, 1988
Construction of wels                                     UNICEF            30,000         1986
Cooperation Educational Center                      Ped. Mundial Luteran    122,250       n.a.
Construction of 4 classrooms                         P.S.T.H. e Children    210,000       1989
UNESCO Project                                             ARO             178,100        1988
upply of water to school                           Ped. Mundial Lutomna    13,000        1988
Casa Agraria                                       Pundacao Contra Pome      n.a.         1991
Women in Green Zones                               Ped. Mundial Lutxmna      n.a.
ural extension in Mandruzi                            OXPAM-Canada         142,850
School construction                                      UNESCO              n.a.
nstruction of 4 classroom,                             UNESCO             nA..         1990
Construction of 3 classrooms in Mafaimbisse        Pundacao Contre Pome      na..
Construction of 3 classrooms in Machar.   Dondo              *               n.a.
Construction of 3 classrooms in Savane and              Redd Barna           n.a.
Mapinhana
mall-scale industry                                    CD/CIDAC             n.a.         n.a.
Reforestation                                           Redd Barna           na..         n.a.
Construction of 10 classroom,              B(zi    Fed. Mundial Lutenna      n.a.         1990
Purchase of construction material           a       Com. Crista Catolica     u.a.         n.a.
nstitutional support                        *           CD/CIDAC                         n.a.
upport to women in Green Zones             *      Ped. Mundial Luteran      n.a.         1991
Small-scale industry                         a            Danida             n.a.         n.a.
Note: 'N.a.' denotes data not available.



-58-                             Annex I-8
Mzambi
Rural Rehabilitation Prolect
Seed and Tool Distribution Under the PESU'
Year             Seeds (tons)        Hand Tools
1987                10,287            1,650,000
1988                 7,450            1,734,000
1989                 9,749            1,225,000
1990                 9,397              696,000
1991                12,965              714,000
Annex I-9
Sample Composition of AgPacks for Various Zones In Zambezia Province1
Upland         Lowland         Zambezi
Zambezla       Zambdzia         Valley
Crop           Variety            (kg/pack)      O(g/pack)        (kg/pack)
Rice           ITA-312                               10.00
Maize          Manica
Kalihari               8.00
Matuba                 4.00           2.00            6.00
Sorghum        SV-2                   0.50                            2.00
WSV387
Millet         RMP-1                                                  0.50
Cow Pea        IT-l8                   1.00                           1.00
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ L ocal_ _  _ _   _  _  _ _  _ _  _ _
Peanut         Natal Common            1.50                           1.50
_____ ____  RM P-12__            _   _  __    _  _  _  _ _
Pig. Pea       Local                  0.50            0.50            0.50
Squash         Butternut              0.02            0.02            0.00
______________   ______________                      ~~ ~~2.00
Okra           Local                  0.01            0.01            0.00
_ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _   ~~ ~~~~1.00
TOTAL KILOGRAMS                      15.53           12.53           11.50
'Source: Ministry of Agriculture and AGRICOM, 'PESU e Programa Adicional da Seca
Campanha Agricola 1992/93," May 1992.
2Developed for the 1992 agricultural season by World Vision.



-59-                                    Annex 1-10
Mozambique
Rural Rehabilitation Project
Calendar for AgPack and VegPack Distribution'
J  F      |M     |A   |M   J     J  IA       S    O       N      |D
AGPACKS
Estimate needs              =     =
Procure bids
Sign contract with supplier
Prepare beneficiary lists
Distribute hand tools
Distribute AgPaclo
VEG-PACKS
Estate needs
Procure bids
Sign contract with supplier
Prepar beneficiary lists   -                                    _
Distribute VegPack                                  _ -
"The calendar is based on World Vision's AgPack programs in Zawb6zia, Tete and Nampula. The calendar for
Sofala and other provinces would be slightly different.



Annex I-lI
Page 1 of 2
Mozamhbiue
Rural Rehabilitation Project
Finandal Intermedlaries In the Project Area
1.           Both the Commercial Bank of Mozambique (BCM) and the People's Development
Bank (BPD) maintain branch offices (filial) in the provincial capitals - Beira in Sofala province
and Quelimane in Zambezia province.
2.           I2. BDP has 16 deposit offices (delegacao) in Beira, one sub-branch (agencda)
in Dondo and four PCPs (savings collection posts), two of which are located in the project
districts of Bbzi and Nhamatanda. The BCM sub-branch in BNzi provides the services for BPD's
PCP; BPD plans to take over the BCM agency and, by December of this year, to upgrade the
status of the PCP in Nhamatanda to a deposit office. The main branch in Beira has about 90
staff, including 13 credit technicians. The sub-branch in Dondo has a staff of 17, including 1
credit technician.
3.          In 1991, total loan disbursements by BPD in Sofala amounted to MT 784 million
for short-term loans (MT 708 million for commerce and 2.7 million for agriculture), and MT 858
million for medium-term loans. The latter include MT 178 million (8 loans) for agriculture and
MT 578 million (55 loans) for transport equipment. At the end of April 1992, the BPD's
outstanding balance of loans (including non-performing loans) in Sofala was about MT 7.0 billion
(including MT 2.9 billion from state enterprises).
4.           BLM. BCM has one office in Bbzi and two deposit offices in Namanga and
Muniava (which are not in the project area). In addition to the provincial head office in Beira,
BCM plans to open an agency in Nhamatanda. BCM has about 200 staff in the province, 170
of whom are employed in the provincial head office. The loan portfolio in April 1992 amounted
about MT 53.0 billion, consisting mostly of short-term loans (45% to commerce, 30% to
industry, and 13% to agriculture).
Zamrnbda
5.           BPD. BPD has a main branch in Quelimane, four deposit offices in the
provincial capital, and five sub-branches in the province. Four of the latter are in the project
area (Gurue, Alto Mol6cub, Mocuba and Chinde.) Because of credit ceilings and BPD lending
policy for the province, only the main branch in Quelimane provides credit services. It employs
a staff of about 50, including 9 credit technicians. The deposit offices employ about 20 staff in
total, and each agency employs about 10 staff.
6.           The outstanding loans for the province amounted to about MT 9.3 billion as of
June 30, 1992. Of these, MT 3.2 billion were non-performing loans to state enterprises. Total
loan disbursements in the first semester of 1992 were MT 3.0 billion (48 loans - AU short-term
commercial credits). At end-December 1991, the portfolio totaled MT 8.9 billion. During 1991,
loan disbursements amounted to MT 11.6 billion for short-term credits (MT 9.2 billion for



-61-                            Annex I-ll
Page 2 of 2
commerce and MT 1.7 billion for agriculture). Total term-lending for 1991 consisted of Lw
kQa= for vehicles, amounting to MT 48 million.
7.           B_M. BCM has its provincial head office in Quelimane and two agencies in the
project areas of Mocuba and Gurue. An agency in Milange (outside of the project area) is not
in operation because of poor security. BCM was separated from BM in April 1992, and BM's
local office no longer is located in the same building. BCM employs about 210 staff in the
province (170 in Quelimane, 22 in Mocuba and 18 in Gurue), with 4 credit technicians at the
head office and 2 in each of the agencies.
8.           Loan disbursements during the first quarter of 1992 amounted to MT 7.0 billion.
They consisted of MT 4.6 billion carrying maturities of up to 90 days, MT2. 1 billion carrying
up to 180 days, MTO. 10 billion carrying up to one year, and MT 0.18 billion carrying more than
one year. The outstanding portfolio at the end of March 1992 was about MT 35.7 billion.
9.           The existing network of BPD and BCM branches and staff is considered adequate
to provide the credit services required in the project area. At the local level, both bankls
expressed interest in lending operations partially refinanced from lines of credit under existing
IDA projects. The deficiencies in portfolio management observed by the mission are not specific
to these two provinces but are general in nature and apply equally to both banks. To address the
deficiencies, the restructuring programs for the two banks will need to allow for separation of
non-performing loans from the banks' portfolio, establishment of an internal review process to
monitor the performance of the portfolio, and development of an appropriate management
information system.



-62-                             Annex I-12
Page 1 of 4
Mm|m
Rural Rehabilitation Project
The Center for Agrarian Training
(Centro de Forma,Ao  graria - CFA)
General
The need to provide specific training to staff of the various agencies and
ministries serving the rural sector inspired the creation of the Centro de Formac&o Agraria (CFA)
in 1984. Today, CFA is the leading non-formal training institution for rural development.
During its relatively short history it has built excellent physical facilities and has received
financial support from bilateral and multilateral institutions. Currently, the FAQ is financing two
expatriates for the CFA: one architect/physical planner and one educational specialist.
Physical Faclities. The CFA is located in Maputo. Its facilities consist of 14
unites - all in excellent condition. In addition to offices for professional and administrative
staff, the facilities include:
* one large classroom seating 40 people
* four smaller classrooms seating 20 people
* a library seating 10 people
* an audio visual room.
Currently, CFA is negotiating with the Danish Cooperation Agency (DANIDA)
for the construction of a dormitory to house 24 people. The building will be located adjacent to
CFA installations. The cost of the structure plus furnishings is estimated at USS 1 million and
completion is set for mid-1993. This dormitory will solve a serious problem CFA faces in
housing participants. (CFA currently accommodates participants in a Ministry of Agriculture
Guest House located 45 minutes away.)
EguiDmenlt. CFA is extremely well equipped with audio-visual gear, computers,
printing facilities, and vehicles.
&taW. CFA has 14 professional staff and 28 administrative and support staff.
Its professional staff include two expatriates. The number of professionals by major fields is:
4 Teaching Specialists; 4 Agronomists/Veterinarians; 3 Architects/Physical Planners; 1
Economist; 1 Geographer; and 1 Documentation Specialist.
Administrative Structure
CFA is organized into three major departments: Training, Communication, and
Administration.
The Department of Training covers the following major fields:



-63-                             Annex 1-12
Page 2 of 4
* instruction for trainers (from CPFAS and other training centers)
* district administration
* rural physical planning
* social action and rural extension
The Department of Communication has an extensive program which includes:
* Publications
-     Buletim de Informacao (quarterly)
-     Buletim Interno CFA (weekly)
-     Revista "EXTRA" (high quality magazine devoted to rural
development and extension in Mozambique. It is published
every 4 months.)
* Radio Program
"Aldeia Comunal" (5 minutes twice weekly.)
* Production of Training Material
This unit supports all CFA needs for editing and printing training
materials.
The samples inspected were of high production quality and excellent
layout and presentation.
* Distance Learning
A course entitled "Repensando o seu Distrito' (Rethinking your District)
has been developed and tested.
The Administration DeRartment performs the usual functions of overall
management, procurement, accounting, etc. It also is responsible for monitoring and supervising
the CPFAs.
Activities: 1991 and 1992
The Mission reviewed the activities carried out during calendar year 1991 and
those programmed for calendar year 1992 to determine whether CFA had the capacity to assume
responsibility for the training component without negatively affecting its ongoing activities. It
concluded that CFA does have the capacity to handle the training component. The activities
reviewed for each year were as follows:
1991 Activities. A total of 17 activities were executed with an average duration
of 2 weeks. The major courses were:
* Physical Planning (3 short courses averaging one week),
* Rural Sociology (1 week),
* Training of Trainers - Level 1 (4 weeks),
* Audio-Visual Communication (1 week),
* Computer Software Operation: DOS/WordPerfect (1 week),
* Instruction for District Agricultural Directors (2 weeks),
* Instruction for District Leaders (5 weeks, repeated 3 times).



-64-                             Annex I-12
Page 3 of 4
12M  Activitim. This has been an atypical year. A new CFA Director was
appointed early in the year and traditional training activities were curtailed sharply (as compared
to 1991).
CFA is analyzing its role and the best strategy to follow in the future. The new
Director intends to allocate more resources to socioeconomic research than in the past.
Another major consideration for the future is that the official CFA budgetary
allocations are diminishing and will likely continue to do so. This will place CFA, according to
its Director, in the position of working almost like an NGO. That is, selling its services through
contractual agreements with programs and/or projects that will need to conduct important training
activities.
Overall Assessment of CFA for Implementation of Training Component
The Mission is satisfied, and agrees with the CFA management view, that the
RRP training component will not in any way jeopardize current or future CFA activities. On the
contrary, CFA will gain experience in managing specific and operationally-oriented training
programs. This experience could become a valuable asset CFA in its future contributions to
development of the rural sector in Mozambique. Ten training activities will be required by the
RRP in the first year, plus three in the second and six in the third year.
The training component will provide CFA with the financial resources to hire
outside staff to run the RRP Implementation Unit. One position that probably will be filled from
within CFA is the Coordinator of the Implementation Unit. CFA will also have resources to
contract consultants as course directors and/or lecturers.
Centros Provindais de Formagio Agraria (CPFAs)
The CPFAs are provincial-level organizations which conduct training related to
family sector production and rural development. The existing CPFAs are in various stages of
development and receive financial support from the UNDP (Agricultural Training Project) and
the World Bank. It is expected that the CPFAs soon will be capable of responding to training
requests from a variety of projects. A brief summary of current conditions in the CPFAs
follows:
iaza.  Established in 1986.  Installations in good condition, with basic
equipment for classrooms, offices, lodging and toilets. Plans exist for the
construction of a kitchen, dining room, houses for professors, and for the
acquisition of additional equipment including beds and tables. Trainers include
1 mid-level technician and 4 basic-level technicians.
Inhambane. Established in 1988. Installations in poor condition, with some
basic office equipment, classrooms, a kitchen, dining room, offices and a house
for professors. Toilet facilities are needed; classrooms must be completed and
new equipment acquired. Trainers include 4 basic-level technicians.
TdS. Established in 1989. Has excellent conditions, including classrooms,
lodging and equipment. Trainers include 5 mid-level technicians.



-65-                             Annex I-12
Page 4 of 4
Manica. Established in 1989. Has classrooms and lodging rooms. It is being
equipped with assistance from local projects. Trainers include 1 university-level
technician, 1 mid-level and 1 basic-level.
Zambhzla. Established in 1989. A new center is being constructed. Trainers
include 3 basic-level.
Sofia. Established in 1989. Conditions are fair, lacking improvements to
classrooms, rooms, offices and dining area. Trainers usually come from other
sectors of the DPA or other institutions.
Cabo Delgado. Established in 1989. Installations need rehabilitation. Includes
classrooms, rooms and toilets. Plans exist for the construction of houses for
professors and the acquisition of diverse equipment. Trainers include: 1 basic-
level and 1 elementary-level.
Nampula. Recently established. No trainers.
Miassa.  Established in 1989.  Rehabilitation financed by the UNDP.
Classrooms, rooms and equipment in good shape. Construction of permanent
installations has started at the Escola Agraria de Matama.



-66-                               Annex I-13
Mozambiku
Rural Rehabilitation Project
Donors Providing Support to the CFA
Donor             I                        Area of Intention           Duration
PNUD/FAO               MOZ/86/008       Suppor to CPFAs in Gan,  Due to finalize in
nhmbbm, Nampula,    Decmber 1992; will
Cabo Delgado and Niam    be extended through
the aPamily Sector
Pro-progruam
DANIDA                  104.MOZ.1         Strengthening of CFA's      1992 to 1996
capacity to support CPFAs
ASDI                'Fundos de Pessoal-      Provision of TA
MINAG'
Terre des Hommes                         Funding for study toura in
eth region
JICA                                     Production of audio-visual    1990-1994
I _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  m aterial
UNICEF               Desenvolvimenta       Support for training in     1992-1995
Comunitario       community development
activities
World Bank             Food Security      Training in food security    1993-2001
-__________    Capacity Building                 activities



-67-                                  Annex 1-14
Mozambihue
Rural Rehabilitation Project
Provision of Potable Water In Rural Areas
January 1990                            January 1993
Shallow Well          Tubwelb           Shallow Walk           Tubweti
Province        Required' Buit    Required' Bult    Required' Buit    Required' Bult
Maputo             650      61         270      30         700     100         280      100
Gaza             1,510     666         600     145        1,630   1,100         640    280
Inhambane        1,510     568         650     179        1,630   1,140         700    390
Manica           1,000     237         390     102        1,080    550          420     250
Sofaa            1,820     189         370      42        1,960    500          400     200
Tete             1,310     245         460     127        1,410    550          500     240
Zambdzia         4,890     311         600      12        5,250    830          650       7
Nampula          4,540     385         730      86        4,870    740          790     220
Nicasa             880      77         230       7         950     230          250       0
Capo Dclgado     1,410   1,080         460     137        1,500   1,480         500    280
TOTAL           19,520   3,819       4,760     867       20,980   7,220       5,130   1,967
Total required                 24,280                                   26,110
Total edsting                   4,686                                   9,187
1 exIding                        19                                       35
'Requirenents to reach the target of 1 per 500 people.



Mozsmbigue
Rural Rehabiltation Projecd
Main Donor Support to lAnd Services Institutions
Govemuen t
Agecy                   Doorw              Duration                           Adivities and Observations
DINAGECA                SIDA                10 years     Tehnical support for developing mapping methods. The objective is to
strengthen DINAGECA's capacity to carry out cadastral activities and
topographic mapping. Activities include the introduction of a computer-based
system for land registration and a pilot in Boane district (Maputo province).
Training includes support for DINAGECA's training school.
DINAGECA            World Bank -           until 2000    Project area: Nampula and Cabo Delgado. Activities include aerial
and INIA         Agricultural Services                   photography, ground verification, cadastral mapping, formulation of
Rehabilitation and                    appropriate land use and management practices, emphasizing soil conservation
Development Project                    needs. The project includes a study, in 1996, on the impact of individual
titling and registration of land use rights; this study will be coordinated with
the activities financed by the RRP.
Lands                   FAO            I year beginning in The MOA has requested support from FAO to classify land according to its
Commission                                   1993        agronomic characteristics. The scope and exact time-frane are under         0
negotiations.
Lands                  USAID           2 years until mid-  Studies dealing with divestiture of state farms. The Land Tenure Center at
Commission                                   1993       the University of Wisconsin is executing the project. An extension of the
project is being negotiated; the scope of the extension is unknown.
CENACARTA               CCCE              1989 to 1993    Technical assistance, equipment and training for remote sensing and satellite
imagery interpretation. Main activities have taken place in Maputo and Tete.
DNFFB            World Bank - Urban        until 1993    Preparation of a biomass inventory using remote sensing techniques for
Household Energy                      updating the available information required for forestry management. Forest
Project and UNDP                      cover mnps at a scale of 1:1,000,000 and 1:250,000 will be produced.
Institutional Support for
the Rehabilitation of
Foresry and Wood
Procelsing___1411_                                                                     __                        >
INIA                    FAO                              To ppare land evaluaion maps identifying the approprate geographical       3
areas for the production of major agriculturd crops. The proect is using   X
geographic information sytems ILWIS for land evaluation at scales of
1:250,000 and 1:50,000.                                                   U'



-69-                             Annex II-1
Page 1 of 5
Mozambique
Rural Rehabilitation Project
The Role of NGOs in the Rural Rehabilitation Project
1.           This annex will describe the role that national and international non-governmental
organizations can play in the Rural Rehabilitation Project. NGOs often have unique abilities to
work with local communities, identifying local needs, mobilizing community participation in
activities, and implementing and monitoring small projects. National and international NGOs
might perform slightly different functions under the project. International NGOs are more likely
to be involved in actual implementation. National NGOs are expected to be involved mainly in
developing community support for the project, since most (although not all) have been created
recently and lack the financial and administrative systems to implement project components.
There are eleven registered international NGOs in the RRP's eight districts, with at least one
active in each district (see the following table).
2.           NGO contributions will be concentrated in two project areas: (i) subproject
identification and execution within the Agricultural Development and Rural Trade Rehabilitation
component and (ii) AgPack distribution under the Support to Resettlement component.
3.           Subproject identirication and execution.  The subprojects to be carried out
under the Agricultural Development and Rural Trade Rehabilitation component will be designed
to increase smallholders' productive capacity, enhance food security, generate employment and
income, and protect the environment. NGOs active in Sofala and Zambezia are currently
implementing projects with similar objectives. In Zambezia, World Vision initiated an
Agricultural Recovery Program in 1989 targeted at small-scale farmers, which includes
development of applied on-farm technology, training of extensionists, crop improvement, and
seed multiplication. Food for the Hungry, operating in Sofala, plans to expand its activities in
agricultural credit and finance and has hired a full-time staff member with expertise in rural
credit. At least two NGOs are involved in the rehabilitation of small-scale irrigation systems in
project districts.
4.           NGOs can be involved with subprojects in the following capacities:
a)    assisting communities to identify suborojects by providing them with
information on the project and helping them prepare proposals for
funding.
b)    assisting communities to implement subprojects by providing technical
assistance, including management of funds and procurement of goods and
services.
c)    developing joint national-international NGO activities. International
NGOs could co-sponsor subprojects with indigenous NGOs, helping
strengthen the capacity of national NGOs in project preparation,
implementation, administration and accounting;



-70-                                         Annex II-1
Page 2 of 5
Mozambique
Rural Rehabilitation Project
International Non-Governmental Organizations Active in RRP Districts
Name    Project Distrkts       J A    l   [Source o
Nante                 Sofill       | 7mWaW            Budget   ludng             ReWsmst f-ivfi
AFRICARE              Dondo                          $700,000  Private, US       1)amall scale irrigation
Nhanmtanda                                Gov't            2)animal traction
CARE International    Many          Many             $9.5       CARE, CIDA,   I)logistics
million    ODA, USAID,   2)road rehabilitation
EEC
CARffAS               Many          Many                        CARrrAS          1)food distnbution
Mocambicana                                                     Int'l.           2)agrc. rehabilitation
Conselho Cristao de    Dondo        Nicoadala         $6        World Council   I)food. aeed distribution
Mocambique            Nhanutanda                     million    of Churches      2)agric. rehab. and training
3)training community
*motivators
Food for the Hungry    Dondo                          $2.9      USAID, ODA,   1)agric. rehb. extension, credit,
Intemational          Nhamatanda                     million    EEC, UNHCR    irrigation
2)food, eed distribution
IBIS                                Nicoadala        $1.3       DANIDA           1)gric. reab., extension,
Alto Moloeub     million                    credit,irrgation
2)food, eed distribution
Luthermn World       Bzi                            $4         LWF              I)small-scale irrigation
Federation            Nhamtanda                      million                     2)integrated rurnl development
3)food, eed distribution
Medecine Sane                       Alto Molocub      $1.8      EEC, MSF         I)pubtic health
Frontibres                          Chinde           million                     2)rehab. of displaced people in
Mocuba                                      A. Mol6cue
OXFAMIUK                            Alto Mol6cue     $2.3       private, Britibh   I)rural extension
Gurud            million    gov't           2)relief
Mocuba                                      3)cottage indutries
Redd Barns            Dondo                          $5.6       Scandinavian     I)training Animadore (socisl
million    gov'te, SCF     workers)
2)water & sanitation
______________  _________                   __________      3)seds  and   tools
World Relief                        Alto Mol6cub     $1.5       Nat'l Assoc. of   I)facilitator for communities
Intenational                        Gurue            million    Evangeieals      2)pgdic, water projects
Mocuba                                      3)weeds and tools
World Vision                        Chinde            $7        AIDAB, CIDA,  I)sceds and tools
IntematiorAl                        Guru4            million    ODA, USAID    2)wster wels
Nicoadala                                   3)agdic. development and rehab.
NGOr active in other districts in Sofala and Zambdzia include:
22&I: Adventi tDevelopmnt nd ReliefAgencylinteraetional(Beirs),CanadianUniveratyServie OverseasCUSO/SUCO(Beir),
Development Aid from People to People (Beira), Eduardo Mondlane Foundaton (Beirs), German AgroAction, HIVOS Foundatin
(Beirs), Danish Volunteer Service (Beirs), Save the Childrn-US, SkillShare Africa (Beir).
ZrmW   : Adventist Development and Relief Agency International (Quelimane), ActionAid (Pebane, Magaajc da Cost), Friedrich
Ebert Foundation (Quelimane), Eduardo Mondlane Foundation (Quelimae).



-71-                            Annex 11-1
Page 3 of 5
d)    submitting NGO-initiated projects for financing. In some cases, project
financing would complement other NGO resources.
5.           AgPack component. NGOs are fully qualified to carry out the entire AgPack
component. Several NGOs have experience in all phases of the activity envisaged under the
RRP's AgPack component. This activity includes:
* identification of appropriate commodities and seed varieties for each district;
* national and international procurement of seeds and tools;
* logistics, including storage and transport services from port to district;
* recipient targeting and actual distribution;
* follow-up extension and monitoring;
* implementation of food-for-work schemes.
NGOs also carry out related activities, which will assist with the AgPack component. These
activities include seed improvement and variety testing on experimental farms and seed
multiplication through contract farmers.
6.           Among the NGOs and other international organizations that have been involved
in AgPack and seed and tool distribution are: Conselho Cristao de Mocambique, World Vision,
Food for the Hungry, Redd Barna, German Agro-Action, OXFAM/UK, ADRA, Project
Nhamatanda, CONCERN, Swedish International Development Agency, NORAD, DANIDA,
USAID and UNICEF.
7.           NGOs involved in the RRP's AgPack component are expected to develop
modified food-for-work programs with payment for labor made in food, cash and AgPacks.
These combination food-for-work, cash-for-work and seed-for-work activities will help resolve
the two major issues surrounding AgPacks: (i) identifying a means of cost recovery to lessen
dependency, and (ii) establishing a mechanism to guarantee access to food before the first harvest.
8.           NGOs have been implementing various food-for-work and cash-for-work activities
throughout the country, and some have plans to expand these efforts as part of their post-war
rehabilitation and development programs. The NGOs likely to implement the AgPack component
have been active in the emergency food aid programs of bilateral and multilateral donors and
should be able to obtain sufficient supplies of food and local currency to complement the AgPack
distribution.
9.           International NGOs. The eleven registered international NGOs active in the
RRP districts vary in size, programs, and sources of funding. However, nearly all conduct
activities that can be categorized broadly as "agricultural development." NGOs which have been
heavily involved in the distribution of emergency relief supplies are reformulating their programs
to emphasize post-war rehabilitation and development activities. Brief sketches of the activities
of two of these NGOs are included to illustrate the typical scope and administrative capacity of
international NGOs.
10.          Lutheran World Federation, a humanitarian relief organization funded mainly by
the Lutheran Church, spends approximately US$4 million per year in Mozambique on emergency
relief and integrated development projects in five provinces, including Sofala. LWF has 87



-72-                             Annex U-1
Page 4 of 5
employees on its direct payroll, including 6 international staff. It also runms local currency
generating activities, which support additional employees. LWF projects relevant to the RRP
include: rehabilitation of two small-scale irrigation systems in Bizi and the community-based
operation of income-generating grain mills.
11.          The accounting system operated by LWF Is based on monthly expenditure reports
prepared by field financial officers. Maputo-based financial officers compile program-wide
expenditure reports each month. Separate accounts are kept for funds provided by different
donors, when required. At the end of each year, an external audit is conducted by Coopers and
Lybrand from Swaziland.
12.          OXFAMIUK has a staff of 25 and is active in four provinces in the country,
including Zambezia. Its program in Mozambique is in a state of transition from emergency relief
to more development-oriented activities. In 1991/92, OXFAMIUK spent US$2 million on
emergency relief and US$285,000 on its development program, although this ratio is expected
to change significantly in the near future. Funding was provided from the British public, through
OXFAM and the British government. Development activities included rural extension, income
generation through cottage industries, and adult education and training.
13.          OXFAM  financial officers in each province prepare monthly reports on
expenditures which are forwarded to OXFAM headquarters in the UK for compilation. All
provincial financial officers attend a detailed training course in the UK on financial systems, and
monitoring and evaluation prior to starting their jobs. Independent external audits are conducted
annually, in accordance with UK laws for charitable organizations. Site visits for donors are
arranged periodically.
14.          Several of the "international" NGOs included in the above table are actually
national affiliates of international organizations, staffed by Mozambicans. These include
CARITAS Monambicana (affiliated with CARITAS Internationalis and Catholic Relief Services)
and the Conselho Cristlo de Mocambique (affiliated with the World Council of Churches). These
two church-based groups have a significant presence at the district and aldia level throughout
the country, and could perform a unique role in the project'. They have had long-term
involvement in communities that have been considered too insecure for other 'international'
NGOs and, unlike most Mozambican NGOs, they have experience working with external sources
of financing. CCM, through a network of 20 Mozambican churches, uses local motivators
('animadores") to help the local community define its needs and identify sources of support.
CCM has been involved with the distribution of emergency relief supplies, including seeds and
tools, in all ten provinces. It provides support and training to the agriculture, health and
education sectors.
15.          Indigenous NGOs. There has been a dramatic increase in the number of national
NGOs over the past several years. According to a directory published in June 1992, nearly 90
national NGOs exist at present, although not all have been registered with central authorities.
Many of these NGOs have very small staffs and limited geographic scope. Others have high
'Ther an lo two national NOOs with ties to th Muslim community: Consho Ilimico do
Mogambique and Solidariedade Islimics do Mogambique. It is not known whether thes groups are
ave in the project districts.



73-                              Annex 1-1
Page S of 5
political visbility, such u the Community Development Foundation, or large memberships, such
as the formerly pwty-bad Orgaizati  of Mozambican Women (700,000 members) andt 
Ornizatio of Mozmbican Youth (1,700,000 members).



-74-                              Annex 11-2
Page 1 of 5
Mozambique
Rural Rehabilitation ProJect
Examples of Possible Subprojects
1.           Guidelines for the selection of subprojects are summarized in Annex E-1. These
guidelines describe the types of eligible subprojects in some detail, although the final
determination about the types of subprojects will be made at the community-level. The following
paragraphs describe the potential types of subprojects identified during project preparation
missions; more complete descriptions are provided in documents in the project file. This list is
not meant to be all-encompassing but rather indicative of the types of activities that could be
financed under the project.
2.           The following possible investments have been identified: (i) development of
small-scale irrigation and drainage facilities to take advantage of existing bottom-lands that are
used for vegetable production; (ii) spot repairs to tertiary roads, bridges and footpaths; (iii) repair
or reconstruction of small community grain stores; (iv) development of community seed farms
for improved seed varieties; and (v) development of community plantations of fruit trees and fast
growing trees for fuel and building poles.
Small-Scale Irrigation
3.           Irrigation systems existed in a few areas of Sofala and Zambezia prior to
Independence, but the infrastructure has been damaged and the necessary technical expertise has
been lost. Numerous proposals exist to rehabilitate the infrastructure of small-scale irrigation
schemes and to introduce micro-irrigation schemes. Several NGOs have been providing support
to small farmers in peri-urban areas of re-introducing traditional irrigation techniques and
initiating labor-intensive micro-irrigation schemes. The provincial governments are looking for
financial support to extend support for micro-irrigation schemes and to step up the rehabilitation
of infrastructure for small-scale irrigation.
4.           One scheme that the project might finance is the development of bottom-lands.
These are commonly found throughout the country, and are an important food source for the farm
economy of communities during the lean season. Bottom-lands also provide cash income during
the crop season. The development work to be carried out would involve excavation of drainage
channels and delivery canals: the total command areas of such schemes are generally below 20
ha. Technical assistance in designing the scheme would be drawn from NGOs, PRONIP, or the
Nucleos de Hidraulica Agricola at the Provincial Directorates of Agriculture. Assistance also
could be obtained from other irrigation projects in the districts. These agencies would provide
technical assistance in engineering, procurement of goods and services, specialized labor, and
community training in management and maintenance. The estimated cost of such works is about
US$400/hectare, and the average size of the schemes is expected to be about 10 hectares. The
benefits of the investment would be increased vegetable production and more secure production
of basic food-grains during dry conditions.



-75-                              Annex 11-2
Page 2 of 5
Spot Road Repair
5.   Most secondary and tertiary roads in Mozambique have deteriorated or been completely
destroyed by the war. In many cases, large stretches of road have disappeared entirely.
Consequently, at least 50% of the nearly 20,000 km of rural roads are impassible at any time of
the year. If maximum access to farming areas and markets is to be achieved, a large-scale effort
must be mounted at the local level to repair roads. IDA's Roads and Coastal Shipping Project
(ROCS) proposes to rehabilitate 2,400 km of these feeder roads, or just over 12% of the total,
within four years.
6.           Within the national program, spot repairs to tertiary roads are likely to receive
a lower priority than full-scale rehabilitation of important secondary roads. This prioritization
is necessary given the scale of the destruction. However, for communities affected by tertiary
roads, small-scale repairs are essential. Many tertiary roads are closed due to the collapse of
minor bridges, damage from flooding, other localized problems. These roads often do not
require full-scale rehabilitation to make them passable.
Rehabilitation of Storage Facilities
7.           Many rural shops and storage facilities have been destroyed in the war, making
it difficult for traders to reach small-scale producers. About 50% of the rural stores in Zambezia
and Sofala have been destroyed or severely damaged. There is a need to rehabilitate numerous
small storage facilities in order to allow for the growth of rural trade. The most effective way
to do this would be for private traders to build the necessary storage. This is not likely to occur
quickly because of the low level of capitalization of traders and the scarcity of commercial credit.
Local governments plan to rehabilitate existing facilities for rental to private traders in order to
stimulate rural trade.
Community Seed Farms
8.           In areas where a particular seed variety has been found to perform well, and the
supply of it through commercial channels is weak or nonexistent, a community could submit a
subproject to build the infrastructure necessary to set up a small seed farm. The farm could
produce seed for the participating members of the community, and the surplus could be sold to
other farmers. The items required might include fencing, land terracing and drainage, a threshing
floor, and a store for the seed. The cost would depend on the structures to be financed, but
should not amount to more than US$ 2,000. The benefits would come from the increase in crop
yields resulting from more widespread use of improved seeds.
Treel Plantation
9.           Tree planting is being encouraged as a matter of national policy, and Mozambique
in former times demonstrated its potential as a producer of tropical fruits. Mango, citrus and
papaya are already grown by individuals in the family sector, and other fruit can be developed
over time in the appropriate climatic zones. Plantations of fast-growing trees for timber and fuel
should be included in the efforts since the demand for these products is rising rapidly as natural
supplies close to centers of habitation are exhausted.  Because experience in developing
community-owned plantations is limited, this element represents only a pilot scheme to be
followed up in a later phase of the project. At that stage, when a better marketing structure is



-76-                             Ann1  -2
Pagp 3 of S
in place, the appeal of creatng tree plantations could be widenoe by allowg paymet i kind.
In this early stage, the community plantations would cost about US$750 sch and would not be
more than one hectu in size. Benefits would be realized from th sale of ft and firwood.
Other Invstments
10.          During project implementation, communities will be   ourgd to mak odtr
proposals for investments that are In line with the objectives of the projcL    s might Include
soil conservation or watershed protection measur. Lat  In ti projoct, If communiSt  find
extension savices helpful, they may want to invest in the construction of *Cs  Agrarils, or
centers for extension, adaptive research, and input supply. The  centers ar envisaged in the
UNDP scheme for Integrated Agricultural Production.



-77-                                  Annex 11-2
Page 4 of 5
Mozambique
Rural Rehabilitation Project
Characteristics of Farm Models
Faidn  In
Net CaL                          Prior.
Farming              Crop Area  Net ReL    Sold       Yield   Lab. Returns Cash ReL  Dtbicis
Typology     Model    (Ha)    Sold (Ml) Prod. (%) (C&l//day) (MT/wda        (ldy)     ('000)
Precarious     1        0.20      79,906     4.6       477       4,099   -14,228        48.5
subsistence
Stable         U        0.90     166,615     17.8     1.041      6,791     8,929        66.3
subsistence
Wetland pen-   m        0.30     212,314    17.5      1,088      4,270     -432         79.0
urban
Semi-         IV        0.90     350,717    21.4      2,064      5,016    34,178        129.0
comnmercial
'Cal/c/day - Calories p  capita per day.
2MTIw/day   Meticais per work-day
Compaison of Major Farm Indicators'
Without and With Project
Without or                                    Net CaL
Fanming         With    Crop Ar   Nit Ret. Sold Sold Prod.    Yed    LAb. Returns Cash RtL
Typology       Project     (Ha)       (ml')       (%)    (Cadday)2 (Mf/Widay?    (Nil)
Precarious     Without     0.20        79,906      4.6          477       4,099     -14,228
subsistence     With       0.30       173,715      8.0        1,065       5,922        -81
Stable         Without     0.90       166,615      17.8       1,041       3,061       6,117
subsistence     With        1.35      329,551      15.7       2,254       6,791       8,929
Wetland per-   Without     0.30       212,314      17.5       1,088       4,270        -832
urban           With       0.45       482,383     31.3        2,292       9,890      97,679
Semi-          Without     0.90       350.717      21.4       2.064       5,016      34,178
commercial      With        1.35      713,322     20.8        4,365       6,635      55,212
'Assumt2on : (i) 1,200 hectares will be irrigtd, incresing yields in rice and vegtables by 40%; sal  will also
incrae; (ii) 80 hectares of seed fam will produce 100 toas of improved seed, incrasing avepge yields by 30%;
(iii) grin stores for about 1,000 tons will rodue stomp los, allowing a 30% increae in are cropped.
2Cal/c/day - Calories per capita per day.
3MTIw/day - Meticais per work-day.



Mozambique
Rural Rehabililation Project
Benefrl/Cost Analysis Farm Models
Aggreg.
Farm  iodd I         Nd         Farm Modd 2        Net        Farm Model 3        Net       Farm Model 4       NEt      Net
Project                       BefeeCs                        Benefits                       Benefits                     Benerits  Bend.
Years  To. Cost lmer. Bee.  Stream    Tot. Cost Incr. Bee. Stream   Tot. Cost  Incr. Ben. Stream  lot. Cost Incr. KIen. Stream   Stream
1       198.6                -198.6      106.8            -106.8      275.0              -275.0       99.9               99 9   -680.3
2         17.2      42.4       25.2       20.0      73.6   53.6        22.7       122.0    99.3       25.4     163 9    138 4    316 6
3         17.2      42.4       25.2       20.0      73.6   53.6        22.7       122.0    99.3       25.4     163.9    138 4    316.6
4         17.2      42.4       25.2       20.0      73.6   53 6        22.7       122.0    99.3       25.4     163.9   138 4    316 6
5         17.2      42.4       25.2       20.0       73.6   53.6       22.7       122.0    99.3       25 4     103 9    138 4    316.6
6         17.2      82.1       64.9       20.0      95.0   75.0        22.7       177.0   154.3       25.4     183 8    I58 4    452 6
IRR %                              -5.0                         43.3                           26.7                         1370     39 1
90
vQ :1
o  _
LAI.



-79-                           Annex I-1
Mozamnbique
Rural Rehabilitation Project
Table of Contents for the Operations Manual
1.   Introduction
2.   Institute of Rural Development (INDER)
3.   Type of Eligible Projects
4.   Project Cycle
4.1    Promotion
4.2    Preparation
4.3    Reception, Registration, and Coding
4.4    Methodologies of Selection and Appraisal
4.5    Approval
4.6    Selection of Executing Agencies
4.7    Procurement of Goods and Services
4.8    Supervision
5.   General Criteria of Project Selection by Type of Project
5.1    Markets
5.2    Roads
5.3    Small-scale Irrigation
5.4    Storage
5.5    Afforestation
5.6    Erosion Control
5.7    Other Infrastructure
6.   Administrative and Financial Procedures
Annex I:     Diagram for the Processing of Projects
Annex II:    Form to Request Financing for Infrastructural Projects
Annex III:    Form to Request Financing for Productive Projects



-80-                            Annex m-2
Page 1 of 10
Mozamk1uue
Rural Rehabilitation Project
Accounting and Auditing Guidelines
1. General
The following entities will be involved in project implementation: INDER, CFA,
DINAGECA, DNA, NGOs, and the DPCAs and CPPs of Sofala and Zambdzia provinces. The
management functions of the participating entities will include annual planning, budgeting,
implementation, and accounting and reporting for their specific project components. INDER will
be responsible for centralized procurement, channelling of funds, maintenance of project
accounting records and preparation of financial statements for the annual audit.  The
responsibilities of INDER will be periodically reviewed during implementation and will be
modified according to evolving circumstances. Similar guidelines have been prepared for the
Accounting Unit of the MOA in implementing the Agricultural Services Rehabilitation and
Development Project. INDER is advised to consult with MOA's Accounting Unit to improve the
system further.
2. Proect Accounts
Except for the NGOs, all the other implementing agencies are government units.
Therefore, accounting will be done on a single entry cash basis in accordance with government
regulations. Project accounting also will be maintained on a cash basis, and project accounts will
be integral to the accounting systems of the respective units. However, all records and statements
of project transactions would be accounted for under a unique subheading, 'RRP." To facilitate
identification, vouchers pertaining to project expenditures will be rubber-stamped 'RRP - IDA.'
NGOs also will maintain separate accounts for all funds received under the project. At the end
of the month, each agency will prepare a summary of project expenditures and will forward it
to INDER with supporting vouchers/statements. The summary will be organized using the
following headings and will provide physical data whenever possible:
Civil Works
Housing Construction
Building Rehabilitation
Construction of Wells
Construction of Boreholes
Vehicles and Equipment
Technical Assistance
Consultancy Services
Training
Studies
Sub-loans (Line of Credit)



41-                             Annex M-2
Page 2 of 10
Operating Costs
Staff Salaries
Other Operating Costs (Specify)
INDER will review the summary statements and consolidate them with its own project summary.
3.           The summarized Accounts of the Project will be presented as a Sources and
Application of Funds' (SAP) (Table 1) statement. This statement will be prepared from the
consolidated project expenditure summary and books maintained by INDER, a described below.
4. IlA Disbursents
INDER will be responsible for procuring goods and sevices required for the
project and maling withdrawals from the IDA Credit Account. INDER also will establish and
operate the Special Account. An IDA Credit Withdrawal Register and a Spocil Account cash
book will be maintained, based on the formats given in Tables 4 and S. Thes bools will be used
to record all withdrawals from the IDA Credit and transactions routed thrug  the Special
Account.
5. Subsidiara Books and Records
Subsidiary books and records will be mainaned by all the agencies. Specific
minimum requirements are given in Table 6.
6. Withdrawals from the IDA Credit Based on Statenents o E    diture (SOEu}
Under the IDA Development Credit Agreement, SOEs will be used for
disbursement on the following items:
a     Incremental recurrent expenditures comprisig staff salries, office
expenses, and the cost of operating ad maintainin equipment, vehicles
and buildings used in project execution;
*     Civil works comprising building rehabilitation, site prepaation, and
borehole/well construction performed on force acount;
*     Training expenses;
*     All contracts for goods costing less than $20,000.
INDER will be responsible for providing adequate intel controls for payments covered by the
SOEs throughout the project. Under this system, SOE should be trceable to the project
accounts, and the supporting vouchers and all data should be avalable at headquarters for review
by IDA supervision missions and the independent auditor.



-82-                            Annex E1-2
Page 3 of 10
7. Annual Accounts, Audit and Audit Reports
At the end of each fiscal year, INDER will prepare the following financial
statements for examination by the independent auditor:
*     Project Accounts -  Sources and Application of Funds' (Table 1).
*     Summary of the Special Account (Table 2).
*     Summary of withdrawals made from IDA Credit on the basis of
Statements of Expenditure (SOEs) (Table 3).
INDER will be responsible for submitting the above financial statements to the independent
auditors on time and for sending the audit reports on the three statements within nine months of
the end of each fiscal year. Terms for the latter are specified in the Development Credit
Agreement and are detailed in the tables below.



-83-                                Annex 111-2
Page 4 of 10
Mombi
Rural Rehabilitation ProJect
Sources and Application of Funds for FY 19..
(Thousands of MTs)
Cumulative for
Project Period
Note Ref.      This Year      Last Year           To Date
Sources of Funds
Government
IDA
(Cumulative to date in USD/
SDR equivalent for IDA
Credit)
Application of Funds
Civil Works:
Housing
Building Rehab.
Wells/Boreholes
Vehicles and Equipment:
Technical Assistance:
Consultants
Training
Studies
Incremental Operating Costs:
Staff Salaries
Other Operating Costs
PPF Repayment
Special Account Balance



84-                              Annex m-2
Page 5 of 10
Mozmbivue
RUral Rehabilitation Project
Summary of Spelal Account for Fisal Year Ending
December 31, 19..
On US Dollars)
Roceipts                                      Payments
Original Imprest/Balance b/f
Replenishment on...     Amount               Description    Category    Amount
*                                                B
Bsalance c/f



-85-                             Annex m-2
Page 6 of 10
Mozambique
Rural Rehabilitation Project
Summary of Withdrawals Made from IDA Credit
During Flscal Year Ending
December 31, 19xx
W/A # and          Brief         Expenditures      Amount       SDR       Analysis by
Date          Description        Total          Claimed      Equiv.     Category
'Al withdrawals are basd on certified statements of expenditur.



Mozambique
Rural Rehabilitation Project
Cash Book for Special Account
Location ....... Account #......             .   Imprest (USD) .
Reoeipt                                                 Paymenis
Cost and IDA                      Amount in                      IDA
W/A Ref.                              Cr. Categories                      Currency  Exchange            Credit
and Date     Description    Amount       Debited      Date  Description  or Request   Rate     USD   Category
oo
0s
-Oa ),



Mozambique
Rural Rehabilitation Proiect
Withdrawal Register for IDA Credit
Analysts
W/A Ref.       Brief Description of    Total                                                                               of Credit
and Date         Goods/Services       Amount             IDA's Share Paid Direct (by IDA) or Ironi Spetial Account         Category
Financing  Category  Amount'   Exchange    USD    SDR          MT
%                               Rate
oo
00
00 
'In Currency of Claim.



-88-                             Annex m-2
Page 9 of 10
Mozambique
Rural Rehabilitation Project
Subsidiary Books and Records
DPA and PRONAR'
Cash Book
Project Expenditure Analysis Book
Fixed Assets Register
Payroll
Vehicle Log Book
Stock Book
Costing Book
Costing records for civil works, specifically for wells & boreholes
INDER
Special Account Cash Book
Withdrawal Register for IDA Credit
Register for Procurement Follow-up
Cash Book
Project Expenditure Analysis and Amalgamation Book
Fixed Assets Register
Vehicle Log Book
Stock Book
Payroll
Vouchers/Statements for SOEs
'Each of the DPFs in Sofada and Zumb6zia also will keep sepaste records.



-89-                            Annex m-2
Page 10 of 10
Mozambique
Rural Rehabilitation Project
Compliance with Audit Covenants
A. Target date for appointing independent
auditor with proper terms of reference   July 30, 1993
B. Audit of PPF                                September 31, 1993
C. Audited accounts and reports to be submitted
for each fiscal year commencing year
ending                                   December 31, 1993
(a) Accounts/Statements
Project accounts (Table 1)
Special account Summary (Table 2)
SOEs summary (Table 3)
(b) Audit Rep[rts
Audit Reports (short form) on each
of the above, together with a long-form
audit report commenting on managerial
practices and internal controls
D. Due date for submitting the first set of
Audited Statements and Audit Reports     September 30, 1994
E. Due date for submitting Audited Statements  September 30,
and Audit Reports in subsequent years,   following the
until the end of the project             end of each
fiscal year.



-90-                            Annex IV-I
Mozambiue
Rural Rehabilitation Project
Terms of Reference for Long-Term Expatriate Technical Assistance,
Project Implementation Staff and Project-Funded Studies
I. Long-Term Expatriate Technical Assistance
Position:                  PROGRAM ADVISOR (International)
Location:                  INDER, Maputo
Duration of Assignment:    12 months, followed by 8 months of short-term support over 2
years
Qualifications:            An advanced degree in rural development, management,
economics or a related field. At least ten years of experience in
project management, monitoring and evaluation, and rural
development. Fluency in spoken and written Portuguese (or
Spanish) and English required.
Duties and
Responsibilities:          The Program Advisor will work under the direction of the
President of INDER, in close cooperation with the National
Project Director. His/her specific duties will include:
1.   Advising the Project Director in the preparation of the Annual Operations Plan (PAO) and
necessary reports using the methodology developed by the Institutional Capacity Analysis
and Development System (ICADS).
2.   Supporting the technical assistants in the provinces and districts, especially with the
monitoring and evaluation of subprojects. Developing a plan for monitoring and
evaluation with the Provincial Planning and Appraisal Specialists and training Rural
Development Agents on data collection and M&E.
3.   Supervising the creation of the database on RRP subprojects and other community-based
rural development initiatives; supporting the operation and management of the database.
4.   Supporting the establishment of INDER's General Directorate of Economics and Rural
Sociology.
5.   Supporting the defnition of methodologies and work programs for the project.
6.   Assisting with the definition of norms, regulations and management systems for the project
and subprojects; developing forms for planning, monitoring and control.
7.   Training project implementation personnel, especially the National Project Director.
8.   Preparing Terms of References for studies and short-term consultancies; overseeing
implementation of studies and consultancies.
9.   Executing other activities as requested by the President of INDER.



-91-                            Annex IV-2
Position:                 FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT SPECIALIST (International)
Location:                 INDER, Maputo
Duration of Assignment:    12 months in year 1, followed by 6 months over years 2 and 3
Qualifications:           Advanced degree in Accounting or similar field, with at least ten
years of experience working in financial management in
developing countries. Fluency in spoken and written Portuguese
(or Spanish) and English required.
Duties and
Responsibilities:         The consultant will assist the Financial Controller in establishing
and operating a financial accounting and control system for the
project.  The system should satisfy project needs and the
requirements of IDA and the Government. Specific duties will
include:
1.   Analyzing project requirements for financial control and accounting, refining the necessary
systems and procedures, including the manuals and guidelines for financial planning and
budgeting, disbursements, accounting, internal controls and audits, and the preparation of
financial reports.
2.   Selecting appropriate software and customizing it for project needs.
3.   Training central and provincial staff in the use of the financial control and accounting
systems and in the procedures for preparing financial reports.
4.   Monitoring the use and application of the systems, revising the procedures where
necessary.



-92-                            Annex IV-3
Podtion:                   PROJECr PLANNING AND APPRAISAL SPECIAUS
(Two Internationals)
LAtion:                    Comissao Provincial do Plano, Zambhzia (1)
Comissao Provincial do Plano, Sofala (1)
Duration of Assignment:    36 months
Qualnfications:            A graduate degree in management, economics or a related field
with at least five years of experience in rural development ad
micro-project planning, appraisal and management. Fluency in
written Portuguese (or Spanish) required, plus working
knowledge of spoken and written English.
Duties and
Ruponslbillties:           Under the direction of the Provincial Director of Planning, the
Specialists will:
1.   Support the CPP in preparing the provincial sections of the National Reconstruction Plan
NRP).
2.   Support the establishment of the provincial system for subproject preparation and
implementation; support the Director of the CPP in preparing the PAO and support the
Director of the Planning Department in all monitoring and evaluation activities.
3.   Train and monitor the Rural Development Agents in districts.
4.   Review  the experience with subproject development and implementation; sugest
modifications to procedures and the Manual of Operations as required.
S.   Participate in the training of project implementation personnel.
6.   Represent the RRP in meetings for the Estado Maior de Economia (EME) and the
Provincial Government, as required.
7.   Prepare and present to the Director of the CPP for submission to the EME and Provincial
Government reports on the appraisal of the subprojects.
8.   Establish and maintain linkages between INDER and the district Rural Development
Agents.
9.   Analyze socioeconomic development studies carried out in the province and in the RRP
districts.



-93-                            Annex IV
Position:                 IMAGE INTERPRETER EXPERT (International)
Location:                 DINAGECA, Maputo
Duration of Assignment:    24 months
Qualifications:           University degree in related discipline with five years technical
experience in land cover and land use interpretation from satellite
images and aerial photographs. Working knowledge of English
and Portuguese.
Duties and
Responsibilities:         The Image Interpreter Expert will have primary responsibility for
interpreting satellite remote sensing images and aerial
photographs. His/her specific duties will include:
1.   Preparing guidelines and providing on-the-job training to national counterpart officers and
APO in the updating of topographic maps at a scale of 1:250 000 based on new satellite
images;
2.   Updating topographic maps at a scale of 1:250 000 based on the interpretation of new
satellite images;
3.   Preparing guidelines and providing on-the-job training to national counterpart officers and
APO in interpreting land cover and land use classes from satellite images and auxiliary
data;
4.   Initiating and providing major input to the interpretation of land cover and land use classes
from satellite images and auxiliary data;



-94-                            Annex IV-5
Position:                 IMAGE INTERPRETER COOPERANTE (UNV)
Location:                 DINAGECA, Maputo
Duration of Assignment:    24 months
Qualifications:           University degree in related discipline.  Interest in remote
sensing and working knowledge of English and Portuguese.
Duties and
Responsibilities:         The Image Interpreter Cooperante will participate in all technical
activities of the sub-component. His or her specific duties will
include:
1.   Participating in the selection and procurement of data, equipment and supplies for the sub-
component;
2.   Participating in training organized by the sub-component;
3.   Participating in the updating of topographic maps at a scale of 1:250 000 based on an
interpretation of changes from recent satellite images;
4.   Participating in the interpretation of land cover and land use classes from satellite images
and auxiliary data;
4.   Participating in cartographic and reprographic work for preparing new land cover and land
use map overlays at a scale of 1:2500 000, based on a revised topographic base map and
an interpretation of recent satellite images.



-95-                           Annex IV-6
Position:                 CARTOGRAPHER COOPERANTE (UNV)
Location:                 DINAGECA, Maputo
Duration of Assignment:    24 months
Qualifications:           University degree and five years experience in cartographic work
related to thematic mapping. Experience should include practical
experience with the cartographic processing of map overlays
based on satellite images. Experience in using GPS technology
for surveying purposes. Working knowledge of English and
Portuguese.
Duties and
Responsibilities:         The Cartographer Cooperante will have primary responsibility
for the cartographic and reprographic tasks of preparing the land
cover and land use overlays.  His/her specific duties and
activities will include:
1.   Providing training to national counterpart officers and APO staff in cartographic drafting,
preparing the map sheet frame and its annotation, and reprographic tasks related to
preparing the land cover and land use overlay for the revised topographic map;
2.   Preparing the cartographic design for the land cover and land use map overlay;
3.   Completing the cartographic and reprographic work for the new land cover and land use
map overlay for the whole country, with the assistance of one full-time national
counterpart officer (cartographic draftsperson) and APO (part-time involvement);
4.   Training provincial officers in GIS technology.



-96-                           Annex IV-7
Position:                 GEOGRAPHIC INFORMATION SYSFEMS SPECIALIST
(International)
Location:                 DINAGECA, Maputo
Duration of Assignment:    24 months
Qualifications:           University degree in related discipline with five years of
technical experience in digital cartography or image processing.
Working knowledge of English and Portuguese.
Duties and
Responsibilities:         The GIS expert will have primary responsibility for establishing
the geographic information system (GIS) and training nationals
on the subject. His/her specific activities will include:
1.   Participating in the selection and procurement of hardware and software for the GIS;
2.   Establishing the GIS system on the site (DINAGECA);
3.   Providing on-the-job training to nationals in handling, processing, and analyzing the data;
4.   Digitalizing, processing, analyzing, and presenting the 1:250 000 national land cover map
and the 1:50 000 district land cover maps;
5.   Training provincial officers in GIS technology.



-97-                            Annex IV-8
Position:                  WATER SUPPLY ADVISORS (Two UNVs)
LocAtion:                  Department of Water of DPCA in Zambezia or Sofala provinces.
Duration of Assignment:    36 months
Qualications:             A Bsc or Msc in engineering. A minimum of 5 years experience
in water supply with emphasis on rural water supply; experience
in planning, supervising, operating and maintaining rural water
supplies and constructing of point source water systems.
Experience working in water supply in underdeveloped countries
and in training will be additional advantages. Knowledge of
Portuguese or Spanish required.
Duties and
Responsibilities:          The Water Supply Adviser will assist the Department of Water
and the EPAR in their duties, particularly those related to
construction, rehabilitation and operation of rural water supplies.
His/her specific duties will include but not be limited to:
1.   Preparing, together with the staff of EPAR and DAS, the Operation and Maintenance Plan
and assisting in its implementation;
2.   Assisting in the implementation of the Community Education Program;
3.   Assisting EPAR improve its management and operational arrangements, methods and
procedures;
4.   Assisting EPAR plan and implement components related to the rehabilitation of existing
water supplies and construction of new point source water supplies;
5.   Assessing the training needs for operation and maintenance and organizing and conducting
training courses; and
6.   Training counterpart personnel.



-98-                            Annex IV-9
II. ProJect Implemntation Staff (Nationals)
Position:                  PROJECT DIRECTOR (National)
Location:                  INDER, Maputo
Duration of Assignment:    36 months
Qualifications:            A university-level degree or higher, and ten years of experience
in project management. Fluency in Portuguese and English
required.
Duties and
Responsibilities:          The  Project Director will be  responsible  for overall
implementation of the RRP. S/he will work under the guidance
of the President of INDER and in cooperation with the Program
Coordinator. Specific duties will include:
1.   With the support of the Program Advisor, directing the preparation of the Piano Operativo
Anual, proposing a budget allocation for each of the agencies involved in project
implementation, and submitting the annual investment budget proposal and the three-year
rolling proposal to CNP and the Ministerio das Finangas;
2.   Supervising and monitoring project implementation, and keeping a data base on all project-
related activities;
3.   Producing semi-annual reports describing the physical and financial progress of the project
to date;
4.   Identifying as early as possible the main constraints to project implementation and
proposing (and following up on) solutions for overcoming them;
5.   Checking on the smoothness and punctuality of budget allocations and releases;
6.   Ensuring that all procurement, accounting and audit procedures are carried out as agreed
with IDA;
7.   Ensuring that all required reports are prepared and submitted to the Bank punctually, and
serving as the main counterpart for Bank supervision missions,
8.   Preparing agreements with project implementing agencies;
9.   Managing the special account and maintaining the consolidated project accounts; preparing
and submitting applications for the withdrawal of credit funds; and ensuring that the
project and special accounts are audited annually;
10.  Regularly visiting provinces and subproject sites;
11.  Carrying out other tasks as required by the President of INDER.



-99-                           Annex IV-10
Position:                 FINANCIAL CONTROLLER (National)
Location:                 INDER, Maputo
Duration of Assignment:    36 months
Qualifications:           A degree in accounting or a related field, with at least five years
of experience in accounting, financial management, or auditing.
Experience in project management desirable. Experience with
using computers for project management, accounting, and
reporting required. Fluency in spoken and written Portuguese
plus working knowledge of written and spoken English required.
Duties and
Responsibilities:         The Financial Controller will report to the Project Director.
During the initial months of the assignment, he/she will be
assisted by the Financial Management Specialist in establishing
necessary systems and procedures, preparing accounting
manuals, and training accounting and financial staff in INDER
and other implementing institutions. Specific duties will include:
1.   Developing the necessary systems and procedures for budgeting, fund management,
disbursements, accounting and internal controls for INDER and all other agencies
participating in project implementation.
2.   Preparing and maintaining the consolidated project accounts, and quarterly and annual
financial plans and reports in accordance with INDER, GOM and IDA requirements,
including the financial performance indicators required for project components.
3.   Supervising and ensuring that all participating agencies follow the prescribed systems for
budgeting, fund management, disbursements, accounting and internal controls.
4.   Annually preparing a budget to be included in the PTIP.
5.   Ensuring appropriate compilation and maintenance of project documentation and files at
INDER and participating agencies.
6.   Coordinating and preparing applications for withdrawal of funds from the IDA credit and
the Government, reconciling periodically with the MOF and Banco de Mocambique all
accounts relating to the project.
7.   With support of the short-term procurement specialist, organizing procurement procedures
for all contracts to be financed by the project. Ensuring that established procurement
procedures are being used by all agencies implementing the project, and that they adhere
to the prescribed reporting and accounting procedures;
8.   Training and supervising the financial and accounting staff at INDER, and the Provincial
Accounting and Finance Officers based in Quelimane and Beira.
9.   Carrying out other tasks as required by the President of INDER.



-100-                          Annex IV-1l
Position:                 ACCOUNTING AND FINANCE OFICERS (Two Nationals)
Location:                 Direcao Provincial das Financas, Zambezia (1)
Direcao Provincial das Financas, Sofala (1)
Duration of Assignment:    36 months
Quaflications:            A degree in Accounting or a related field with at least five years
of experience in accounting, financial management or auditing.
Fluency in spoken and written Portuguese plus working
knowledge of spoken and written English required.
Duties and
Responsibilities:         The Accounting and Finance Officers will work with the
Provincial Directorates of Finance to strengthen their ability to
manage financial transactions related to the RRP. Specific duties
will include:
1.   Implementing appropriate systems for tracking project funds at the provincial level.
2.   Maintaining all accounts related to the project and providing information to the Financial
Controller at INDER as requested.
3.   Ensuring that all accounting, auditing and reporting requirements are met in accordance
with INDER, GOM and IDA regulations.
4.   Strengthening procedures for transferring funds to the provinces.
S.   Assisting CFA by teaching accounting seminars for project implementation staff and the
participants in subprojects.



-101-                           Annex IV-12
Position:                  RURAL DEVELOPMENT AGENTS (Eight Nationals - at
least four of which would be women)
Location:                  One in each priority district:  Bizi, Dondo, Nhamatanda in
Sofala; Chinde, Gurue, Mocuba, Nicoadala and Alto Mol6cub in
Zambdzia.
Duration of Assignment:    36 months
Qualifications:            Training at the 'tecnico medio' level.
Duties and
Responsibilities:          Under the supervision of the Project Planning and Appraisal
Specialist and in collaboration with the District Administrator
and District Directors or Delegations from relevant line
ministries, the Agents will:
1.   Promote the goals and objectives of the project throughout the district; explain procedures
for subproject development and implementation to community groups and leaders.
2.   Encourage community participation in the project's activities and serve as an intermediary
between community groups and government and project implementation staff.
3.   Organize studies and surveys to increase understanding of community needs and the impact
of development activities.
4.   Assist the district administration with the preparation, elaboration, implementation and
appraisal of development activities in the district in general, and with the subprojects
specifically.
5.   Maintain files on each subproject and supply necessary information to project staff.



-102-                           Annex IV-13
Position:                  TRAIMNG COORDINATOR (National)
Location:                  CFA, Maputo
Duration of Assignment:    36 months
Qualifications:            A university degree with at least five years experience in
education and training.   Fluency in spoken and written
Portuguese and English essential.
Duties and
Responsibilities:          The RRP Training Component Coordinator will work under the
supervision of the Director of CFA. His/her specific duties will
include but not be limited to:
1.   Prioritizing (and revising when necessary) training needs in line with project objectives
and constraints and actual project implementation;
2.   Programming activities annually within the available financial, technical, administrative
and human resources capacity;
3.   Appointing Course Directors for each activity;
4.   Participating, with Course Directors and project staff, in defining the objectives, content,
and duration of courses and selecting trainees;
5.   Advertising the courses and criteria for selecting participants;
6.   Executing the proposed courses, including providing administrative/logistic support;
7.   Monitoring and evaluating each activity;
8.   Following up on trainees after they return to their jobs;
9.   Writing periodic reports (every 6 months) on the achievements and problems faced by the
Program;
10.  Preparing a yearly financial report indicating the cost per course, per participant/week,
and an analysis of cost trends.



-103-                           Annex IV-14
Page 1 of 6
III. Terms of Reference for Land Tenure Study
Background
The most important agricultural sector in Mozambique is the family sector. It
is important not only in terms of the proportion of land and population it encompasses, but also
in terms of production. Recent estimates put the smallholder sector at 80% of the population and
over 90% of the cultivated area, with an average of between 1 and 1.5 hectares per family.
Crops are grown mainly for the family's own consumption, so there is a minimum of cash crops.
Labor is supplied by the family; wage labor is not used, although some non-family labor
arrangements are made. Traditionally, shifting agriculture has been practiced. However, on land
located close to water sources such as river valleys, population density is increasing and farmers
are changing their slash-and-burn cultivation practices for a more permanent agriculture.
Access to land by family sector households is primarily based on customary law.
A family member gains access to a particular parcel by either occupying a piece of unclaimed
land within his/her community or through distribution by local authorities. Transactions are used
increasingly as a means of access to land use rights. A land law and regulations were put in
place in 1979 and 1987, respectively. Statutory land rights in Mozambique are not clearly
defined, particularly the land rights of the family sector. Over the years, people have occupied
and acquired rights to land under very different circumstances and regimes. Often, these rights
overlap. In the present context of changing rules, ideology and practices, confusion over who
has rights to what land will most likely increase.
Customary tenure systems have suffered many disruptions over the years as a
result of colonial land policy, the creation of state farms and cooperatives, and the war. These
indigenous land tenure systems may no longer be strictly customary. A better understanding of
the dynamics of family sector agriculture is needed in order to design informed policies vis-a-vis
smallholder agriculture. There is also growing evidence that cropping patterns in the family
sector are rapidly changing, that the well-being of family sector households is precarious at best,
and that access to land by family sector households is limited.
Rationale
To address the scarcity of information on the family sector and the wrenching
changes that the war and past policies have wrought on the rural sector, the Land Commission
will contract a series of studies on the structure of the family sector, its internal dynamics, land
tenure systems, and relationships with other sectors of society and the economy. This type of
understanding is crucial for informing policy design, implementing programs, and legislating
guaranteed access to land and other resources.



-104-                           Annex IV-14
Page 2 of 6
The National Rural Development Institute, INDER2 will contract technical
assistance in land tenure issues to assist the Land Commission Chief in implementing this activity.
The research team will prepare a proposal and methodology for a series of case studies on family
sector land, will implement the research, will analyze the data, and will report on the results and
their policy implications.
Methodoloa
The principal cultural and social difference with regard to land tenure rules and
practices is whether a community is matrilineal or patrilineal. The project area contains both
matrilineal and patrilineal communities3 and is therefore an ideal area for conducting a study on
customary tenure rights in Mozambique. Four in-depth case studies, two in each province, will
be carried out over an eighteen-month period. These studies will highlight how customary tenure
systems for the family sector function in Mozambique.
An understanding of how family sector communities' land tenure systems work
requires a research methodology that allows for relating individuals and groups within a
community and for understanding outside influences on that commrunity. Gender is an important
factor in the allocation, use, and management of land. An understanding of gender differences
in regard to access to land and other resources, responsiblities for providing food, and
relationships with family members and others in the community are crucial to the development
of policies that will ensure the sustainability of family sector agriculture. An appropriate research
method for examining these complex factors and relations is the case study method.
Specifically, the case studies will identify: (i) the patterns and local regulations
of land use management (including interactions among smallholder farms, patterns of fallow, and
management of common resources including village forests, grazing and water resources; (ii) the
forms of organization of social groups that benefit from particular lands; (iii) the local authority
structure and procedures for resolving resource conflicts; (iv) the potential impact of new land
policies on women.  Based on this information and that of other institutions, the Land
Commission will define a methodology for identifying and demarcating smallholder lands and
assist DINAGECA in undertaling a pilot exercise.
The Land Commission will organize a seminar to present the methodology and
findings of the family sector case studies toward the end of the second year. The seminar will
be given to senior officials in the Ministry of Agriculture and related agencies and researchers
and other professionals from universities and research centers.
2nAstituto Nacional do Desavolvimento Rural.
3As a matter of fact, the Zambezi River, which runs between the two provinces, is considered the
dividing line between patrilineal and matrilineal Mozambique.



-105-                           Annex IV-14
Page 3 of 6
Inguts Needed for the Study
The principal inputs needed to carry out this sub-component are technical staff,
research equipment, transportation and in-country travel allowances, and administrative staff.
The technical staff funded by this project consist of:
Land Tenure Specialist - 24 months
Junior Land Tenure Specialist - 18 months
Two Social Scientists - 12 months each
The internationally-recruited Land Tenure Specialist will direct the case study
activities, working closely with the Land Commission Chief. The junior Land Tenure Specialist
(internationally recruited, likely to be a graduate student researching land issues) and two national
social scientists are also needed to assist in implementation of the case studies. Terms of
Reference for the project-financed research team are attached.
One of the outputs of this sub-component will be to provide Mozambican social
scientists with much-needed training in research and policy evaluation. Thus, a significant
amount of the time of the Land Tenure Specialist and Land Commission Chief will be spent in
this training effort.
A sedan-type vehicle and driver for Maputo and an administrtve secretary also
will be needed. In-country travel allowances (air travel and per diem) will be needed for the
research team (five persons) conducting the case studies. At least eight trips to the project area
are foreseen over the two-year period. The vehicles purchased for the land mapping activities
in Sofala and Zambezia are expected to be utilized by the research team. Basic supplies and
research equipment such as computers and recorders will also be needed, as well as support for
preparing, translating, and printing reports, and organizing the seminar.
Government inputs include the part-time participation of the Land Commission
Chief and provincial and district officers as well as office space, furniture and supplies, ad
administrative and logistical support.
APPENDIX
Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance
Family Sector Land Tenure Study
Position:                  LAND TENURE SPECIALIST (Internationa)
Location:                  Land Commission, Maputo
Duration of Assignment:    24 months



-106-                           Annex IV-14
Page 4 of 6
Qualifications:            The land tenure specialist should be a qualified sociologist,
agricultural economist, or geographer and should have a post-
graduate degree in one of these fields. S/he should have at least
five years experience in land tenure research programs, and at
least two years experience in sub-Sahara Africa project work.
Fluency in spoken and written Portuguese or Spanish is required.
Duties and Responsibilities:  The land tenure specialist will direct and implement the family
sector sub-component. S/he will advise the Land Commission
Chief on all matters related to the sub-component. The land
tenure specialist's specific responsibilities are to:
1.   Prepare the work plan for the family sector sub-component in consultation with the Land
Commission Chief;
2.   In consultation with the Land Commission Chief, design the methodology and research
instruments for this component;
3.   Direct training for the research team in the methodology and data collection instruments;
4.   Direct the research teams in data collection; direct the processing and analysis of the data
with the assistance of the Social Scientists and Research Assistant.
5.   Assist the Land Commission Chief and DINAGECA in selecting criteria for and designing
the methodology for determining Land Area Types A and B and for demarcating family
sector land;
6.   Coordinate sub-component activities with the different government agencies involved:
INDER, DINAGECA, CENACARTA, INIA, DNFFB;
7.   Prepare reports describing the case study results at the end of year 2;
8.   Use the research results to assist the Land Commission Chief in preparing policy
recommendations on land tenure and land use issues;
9.   Jointly with DINAGECA, prepare and implement workshops on the sub-component results
and policy recommendations for national and provincial officials;
10. Prepare a final report on the results of the Land Area Types methodology and family
sector demarcation.



-107-                           Annex IV-14
Page 5 of 6
Position:                  JUNIOR LAND TENURE SPECIALIST (INV)
Location:                  Land Commission, Maputo
Duration of Assignment:    18 months
Qualifications:            The junior land tenure specialist should be a graduate-level
student conducting research in land tenure issues. Field research
experience and ability to speak Portuguese or Spanish are
required.
Duties and Responsibilities:  The Junior Land Tenure Specialist will form part of the research
team carrying out case studies in four districts. S/he will work
under the direct supervision of the Land Tenure Specialist.
His/her specific responsibilities will include:
1.   Assisting the land tenure specialist and the Land Commission Chief in developing the
methodology for the case studies;
2.   Collecting basic socioeconomic and land tenure information from four family sector
communities;
3.   Interviewing in-depth a reduced sample of households to obtain socioeconomic and land
tenure information;
4.   Analyzing with the land tenure specialist;
5.   Assisting the land tenure specialist in preparing case study reports;
6.   Assisting the Land Commission and DINAGECA in developing the criteria for the Land
Area Types;
7.   Assisting the Land Commission and DINAGECA in the exercise of demarcating family
sector lands;
8.   Assisting the land tenure specialist in organizing and implementing the workshop.



-108-                           Annex IV-14
Page 6 of 6
I!osition:                 SOCIAL SCIENTLSTS (Two Nationals)
Lcation:                   Land Commission, Maputo
Duration of Assigrunent:    12 months each
Qualifications:            The Social Scientists should hold undergraduate degrees in
Sociology, Anthropology or Geography, or at least be close to
finishing their undergraduate training.  They should have
experience in field research field, preferably in the rural sector,
and should be able to speak the language(s) spoken in Sofala and
Zambezia provinces.
Duti, and Responsibilities:  The two social scientists are part of the research team that will
carry out the case studies in the project area. These social
scientists will be contracted locally. The research team will visit
family sector communities in four districts. The social scientists
specific responsibilities are to:
1.   Assist the land tenure specialist and the Land Commission Chief in developing the
methodology for the case studies;
2.   Collect basic socioeconomic and land tenure information from  four family sector
communities;
3.   Interview in-depth a reduced sample of households to obtain socioeconomic and land
tenure information;
4.   Analyze with the land tenure specialist;
S.   Prepare case study reports with the land tenure specialist;
6.   Assist the Land Commission and DINAGECA in developing criteria for the Land Area
Types;
7.   Assist the Land Commission and DINAGECA in demarcating family sector lands;
S.   Assist the land tenure specialist in organizing and implementing the workshop.



-109-                          Annex IV-15
Page 1 of 2
IV. TOR for Organization and Administration of the Rural Water Supply Service Study
Backaround and Objectives
The rural water service is expanding both in its geographical coverage and in the
number of boreholes and wells produced each year. Several organizational problems persist and
have become more complex as the service expands. These lead to problems in managing
individual workshops and coordinating logistics and technical assistance in each province.
All civil works for rural water are implemented by government workshops. This
is a consequence of the war, which makes it too risky for private firms to compete in the remote
areas where the activities are undertaken. In the future, it will be important to develop ways for
the private sector to enter this market. One obstacle to their participation is the existence of
subsidies channeled through the EPARs and EARs. The Government considers these subsidies
to be necessary in the medium-term. If the subsidies were extended to competing private firms
the private sector could still compete in this market. One difficulty with this approach is that the
cost structure for producing wells and boreholes is not known because many of the subsidies are
hidden and channeled through a wide variety of means. Also, there is a need to develop
procurement procedures that would allow the hiring of private sector contractors.
The proposed study will identify problems in managing individual workshops and
coordinating activities at the provincial level. The study will also analyze the real costs of
producing wells and boreholes and suggest a methodology to make subsidies transparent.
Procurement procedures will be developed for hiring private sector contractors.
Contents of the Study
The study will be carried out mainly in Zambezia and Sofala provinces. It will
identify management and operational problems in the EPAR and in the district level EARs.
Problems in coordination between the provinces and the districts also will be analyzed.
The study will help to establish the real costs of the different units of production
and the channels through which the subsidies are provided. The study will propose a scheme to
improve the organization and management of the rural water supply system. This scheme will
include the development of a transparent system of budgeting for subsidies provided by the state.
An action plan will be put into place to improve management of the system. This plan will
address the scheduling of civil works and the provision of materials and technical assistance to
the districts, and the development of procurement procedures for hiring private sector contractors.
Methodology
The study will be carried out by a team of Mozambicans in coordination with a
consultant in Organization and Management and the project-financed advisors in the provinces
of Zambezia and Sofala.



-110-                          Annex IV-15
Page 2 of 2
The study will be carried out under the supervision of PRONAR, taking into
account PRONAR's experience in the field and the available information on organization and
costs. The duration of the study will be 10 weeks. The field work will take place in the
provincial capitals and in the EAR districts. The team will spend 3 of the 10 weeks visiting the
districts.
Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance
Study on Organization and Administration of Rural Water Supply Service
Position:                  ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT CONSULTANT
(International)
Location:                  PRONAR
Duration of Assignment:    6 months
Qualifications:            The consultant should have a degree in business administration,
economics or in industrial engineering and at least five years
experience with organization and management in a developing
country. Experience in rural water supply systems is essential.
S/he should be fluent in spoken and written English and
Portuguese or Spanish.
Duties and
Responsibilities:          The Organization and Management Consultant will work closely
with PRONAR in developing tools for the EPAR network and
district workshops. S/he will be part of the team carrying out
the study on Organization and Management of the Rural Water
Service. S/he will detail the medium-term steps required for
EPAR to attain cost recovery. The term of the consultancy will
be 6 months divided into two periods.
1.   Establish procedures for ground-level planning and budgeting and for consolidating plan
budgets. This includes participating in the selection of computer software and training on
its application and use.
2.   Carry out the study on Organization and Administration of Rural Water Supply.
3.   Help staff to use the monitoring system and analyze information in order to identify and
solve existing problems.
4.   Participate in the training activities of the project
5.   Monitor the management and organization schemes used and revise procedures where
indicated.



-111-                            Annex IV-16
Page 1 of 3
V. Terms of Reference for the Inventory of Rural Water Supply Infrastructure
Introduction
The water supply situation in the provinces of Zambezia and Sofala is alarming.
Infrastructure exits, but the population has abandoned much of it due to insecurity in the area.
Some of the infrastructure has been destroyed.
1.0          Purpose of the Inventory. Information on the rural water supply in Zambdzia
and Sofala provinces is limited and out of date. This makes it difficult to prepare realistic
programs for developing new water systems or maintaining and improving existing systems. The
inventory will assist in planning and managing the water supply system and will form the basis
for further activities.
2.0           Contents of the Inventory. The inventory should define the location, condition,
and operation of each water supply system.  It also should identify the administrative
arrangements related to management and maintenance.
2.1           Location. The location of the water supply system should indicate: district
(distrito); locality (localidade); administrative post (posto administratvo); village (aldeia); suburb
(bairro); map reference, map sketch of the location with distances from distinguishable
landmarks; and other relevant details of the area.
2.2           Water SUpDDy. The following should be identified for the water supply: the type
(shallow well, deep well or small piped system); type of source; intake structure (well, borehole,
protected spring, dam, etc.); intake (depth, dimensions, material, yield, water quality, year of
construction, etc.); age and make of the equipment, hand pump, motorized pump, other; type of
water treatment, if any; type of reticulation system, and dimensions.
2.3           Condition of the Water SuDplY. The following conditions of the water supply
should be identified: source (sufficiency of yield, quality); intake structure; equipment; other
parts of the water supply.
The above information can be used to determine whether the water source is
sufficient to supply all the beneficiaries for an entire year, and if not, what alternate sources can
be used by the population.
2.4           Nee frRehabilitation. A short description of the measures required for putting
the system into good working condition is required, as well as a description of the need for a
possible expansion of the. system, work required, and estimated costs.
2.5           Qperational Situation. The following should be identified: present operational
status; operational history; responsible body (bodies) for operation and maintenance; person(s)
responsible for operating the system; person(s) responsible for maintaining the system; estimated
operation and maintenance costs.



Mozambique
Rural Rehabilitalion Project
Long-Term' Expatriate Technical Assistance
C   Duration  | Months in Project Year I   Recruitment     l.iisution and
Categ ory                               (months per         1                                      Imiuro  and 
Position                                person)   Year I [Year 2 Year 3  Firm   Individual         lAwcation
Internationally Recruited Consultants
Program Advisor                            20        12       4      4                 x      IND[R, Maputo
Project Planning & Appraisal Spec.         36        12      12      12                x      C'PP. Solala
(2@)                                                                                          (PP. Zaihnzia
United Nations Volunteers (or Cooperantes)
Water Supply Advisors (2@)                 36        12      12      12       x               EPAR, Sotala
[PAR. Zarnh6-zia
'More than 12 months.
Studies
Duration    Months in Project Year I   Recruitment   I
Calegory                           (months per         1        1       t                        Institution and
Position                           person)    Year I  Year 2 | Year 3  Firm   Individual ILocation
Studies
Mapping                               24        48       48              x                DINAGECA, Maputo              >
Land Tenure Study                     24        24       48              x         x      Lands Commission,          _ 
Maputo
Inventory of Rural Water Supply       3          3                       x                PRONAR, Maputo 



Long-Term' Project-Financed Mozambican Staff
Duration       Months in Project Year
(months per                                             hinsilulion and
Position                                           person)      Year I j Year 2    Year 3                   Lhwalion
Projct Director                                      36           12        12        12    INDER, Mapulo
Financial Controller                                 36           12        12        12    INDER, Mapulo
Financial and Accounting Officers (20)               36           12        12        12     DPF, Sofala and Zanh&zja
Rural Development Agents (80)                        36           12        12        12     Prolect Dnsaricts'
Training Coordinator                                 36           12        12         12    CFA, Maputo
'More than 12 months.
21n Sofala: Buzi, Dondo and Nhamatanda and in Zambezia: Alto Mol6&ue, Chinde, Gurue, Mocuha and Nicoadala.
o0<
_>
wQQ



-116-                             Annex IV-17
Page 3 of 3
Short-Term Technical Assistance
_            I                 B Person Months Per Year
Position                       Location      Source        Year 1   Year 2   Year 3
Financial Management Specialist  INDER       International   12        3         3
Procurement Advisor            INDER         International    6        0         0
Legal Advisor                  INDER         Intemnational    0        6         6
Public Administration Specialist   INDER     International    0        6         6
Project Implementation Specialist  INDER     International    2        2         2
Monitoring and Evaluation      INDER and   International      4        4         4
Specialists                    CPPs
Course Director                CFA           National        24        12        24
Course Lecturerm               CFA           National        24        12       24
Specialist Traners             CFA           National        10        10        10
Specialist Trainens            CFA           Interational     4        4         4
Land Use Consultant            DINAGECA   Internationl        4        4         4
Community Education Specialist   EPAR-       International   1.5       1.5       1.5
Sofa
Community Education Specialist   EPAR-       International   1.5       1.5       1.5
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   ~Zambdziaa 
Management Consultant          PRONAR        International    6        3         3
Management nd Orgation         PRONAR        Intenational     3        3         0
Specialist



Mrzambilue
Rural Rehabilitation ProjeSt
Project Implementatitin Schedule
STEERING COMMITTEE
INDER
CFA                 DINAGECA &                    PRONAR
(TRAINING           LANDS COMMISSION              (WATER COMPONENT)
SUBCOMPONENT)        (LANDS COMPONENT)
} CPFAs |      | PROV. GEOGRAPHIC  ||Ps
:|& CADASTRE SERVICE
DPF    CPP                    NGOs
(COMMUNITY-BASED              (AgPACK
INVESTMENT                    DISTRIBUTION)
SUBCOMPONENT)
-I  '-A- CONSULTATIVE ROLE
RURAL                      - DISTRICT GOV'T
DEVELOPMENT                - PROVINCIAL GOV'T               COORDINATION &
AGENTS                     - PESU                              GUIDANCE
- INIA
4                    - DPCCN
NGOS                         - SEMOC
COMMUNITY LEADERS              AGRICOM
DISTRICT OFFICIALS
* Comprised of the President of INDER (chair), the Directors of DINAGECA. thAands Commission, CFA, PRONAR. DNP,
DNO, PESU, and the CPP in Sofala and Zambeza. The ProjecDirector will be Secretary.



-118-                                      Annex V-2
MozmbLque
Rural Rehabilitation Project
Implemnentation Schedule
1993         1994         1995         1996
Activity                                 1  2  3  4  1  2  3  4  1  2  3  4  1  2  3  4
Decentralization and Proiect Coordination
Completion of operations manual             _
Procurement of equipment                               _
Appointment of planning specialists                _
Appointment of RDAs                                    _
Inventory of ongoing small-scale investments 
Identification of proposed subprojects
Formulation of subprojects 
Implementation of subprojects
Preparation of Plano Anual de Operacoes                _             _
Training
Land Study and Pilot Demarcation
Selection of technical assistance                  _
Procurement of equipment                           _
Study in first province
Study in second province
Pilot demarcation of land
On-the-job training
Workshops                                                 _              _
Final report                                                              _          _
Land Use Mavoines
Selection of TA                                    _
Procurement of equipment and goods
Selection of trainees                              _
Procurement of satellite images
Revision of topographic map
Analysis                                                   -
Cartographic work                                               -
Printing of national map                                             -
Printing of priority district maps                                       _
Distribution of AaPacks
Identification/estimation of beneficaries
Quantification of food needs                                  _
Selection of NGOs                                  _
Food-for-work and soed-for-work programs                           _
Procurement of AgPacks
Preparation of lists of beneficiaries
Distribution of hand tools                                        _
Distribution of AgPacks                                              _
Evaluation of impact                                                     _             _
Water Surolv Comwonent
Selection of technical assistance                  _
Procurement of equipment                            _                _
Inventory of water supply infrastructure            _
Study of organization and management                   _
Support to PEC                                         _             _              _
Construction of estaleiros in Sofala
Construction of estaleirox in Zambezia



-119-                                     Annex V-3
Mozambigue
Rural Rehabilitation Project
Key Monitoring Indicators
Kev Monitorin2 Indicators for Decentralization Comoonent
Appointment of Program Advisor                                 September 1993
Appointment of Planning Specialists                           September 1993
Appointment of RDAs                                            November 1993
Production of revised opermtions manual                        March 1996
Initiation of Annual Implementation Reviews                    Sept. 1994, Sept. 1995., Sept. 1996
Finltion of PAO                                                Nov. 1993, Nov. 1994, Nov. 1995
Completion of Annual Implementations Reviews                   Dec. 1994, Dec. 1995, Dec. 1996
Key Monitorin2 Indicators for Land Study and Pilot Demarcation
Initiation of procurement for TA and equipment                 March 1993
Selection of TA                                                October 1993
Studies:     Land Study Proposl - to be approved by IDA        December 1993
Field work begins in fint province               April 1994
Interim Report on fint province                  December 1994
Field work begins in seond province              July 1994
Interim Report on econd province                 March 1995
Workshops:  To present study proposal                          March 1994
To present Interim Reports 1 and 2               March 1995
To present Final Report                          March 1996
Kev Monitoring Indicators for Land Use Mawoin2
Production of technical specifications for maps                April 1993
Selection of TA                                                October 1993
Selection of Trinees                                           October 1993
Initiation of procurement for satellite images                 November 1993
Initiation of analysis                                        January 1994
Finaization of cartognphic work for National Map               October 1994
Finalization of cartogrphic work for Priority Distncts         December 1994
Printing of National Map                                       December 1994
Printing of Priority District maps                             March 1995
Key Monitoring Indicators for Distribution of A2Paceb
Selection of NGOs in each district                             October 1993
Statement of cost-recovery policy for district                 October 1993
Identification of beneficiaries                                July 1993-June 1993
Procurement of seed                                            Aug. 1993 (20,000); Aug. 1994 (80,000);
Aug. 1995 (100,000)
Procurement of tools                                           Jan. 1994 (20,000); Jan. 1995 (80,000);
Jan. 1995 (100,000)
Distribution of AgPacks                                        June 1994 (20,000); June 1995 (S0,000);
June 1996 (100,000)
Evaluation of impact                                           January 1996
Key Monitoring Indicators for Water SuDolv Comoonent
Selection of Technical Assistance                              October 1993
Completion of inventory of water supply infrastructure         November 1993
Completion of study of organization and management             December 1993
Number of Poros                                                1993 (40); 1994 (80); 1995 (120)
Number of Furos                                                1993 (20); 1994 (40); 1995 (60)
Pumps Installed                                                1993 (150); 1994 (210); 1995 (270)
Completion of estaleiros in Bdzi and Alto-Mol6cut              December 1994
Completion of estaleiro in Chinde                              June 1995



-120-                               Annex V-4
Page 1 of 3
Mozambioue
Rural Rehabilitation Project
Supervision Plan
1.            Significant multi-disciplinary resources will be required to supervise this project.
These diverse resources are needed because of the complex institution building activities, policy
studies, and civil works that will be undertaken through the project. In addition, much of the
policy dialogue concerning the National Rehabilitation Program and implementation of
decentralization activities will take place during the supervision of this project. As a result, IDA
will need to commit significant resources to supervision and donor coordination activities. To
support the annual reviews planned for the project, the project incorporates funds that will allow
the government to hire consultants.
2.            IDA supervision input: Bank staff or consultant input into the supervision of the
project will amount to about 30 staff weeks per year. This required input will take the following
form:
(a)    Portfolio  Management Operations:   The review  of procurement
documents, progress reports, correspondence and the internal reporting
related to these activities are expected to require about 10 staff weeks per
year.
(b)    Field Supervision: It is planned to undertake field supervision on a semi-
annual basis: once a year (in November/December) to hold the annual
implementation reviews; and once a year (in March/April) for normal
supervision.
3.            IDA Field Supervision Requirements: See the following table.



-12 1-                             Annex V-4
Page 2 of 3
Nlozambigue
Rural Rehabilitation Project
IDA Field Supervision Requirements
Approx. Dates [                              |Staff Input
(Nio/Yr)                  Activity           jExpected Skill Requirementsj  (SW)
5/93          Project Launch Workshops        Micro-Project Specialist        10
Geographer
Procurement Specialist
Capacity Building Specialist
AgPack Specialist
11/93         Review PAO                      Micro-Project Specialist        10
Land Study TORs                Land Specialist
Water Inventory and O&M        AgPack Specialist
Water Specialist
Procurement/Disbursement
3/94          AgPack Distribution             AgPack Specialist               5
Land Policy Workshop           Land Specialist
Disbursements
11/94         Annual Implementation Review    Micro-Project Specialist        12
Review Guidelines              Land Specialist
Land Study & Mapping           AgPack Specialist
Water Specialist
Disbursements
3/95          Land Study & Mapping            Micro-Project Specialist        5
Workshops                      Land Specialist
Estaleiros in Bbzi & Alto Mol6cue Water Engineers
11/95         Annual Implementation Review    Micro-Project Specialist        15
Land Specialist
AgPack Specialist
Disbursement/Accounting
Water Specialist
3/96          Subproject Review               Micro-Project Specialist        4
Water Investments              Water Engineer
11/96         Annual Implementation Review    Micro-Project Specialist        18
New Operations Manual          Land Specialist
Land Study Final Report        AgPack Specialist
Evaluation of Impact of AgPacks Agronomist
Initiate preparations, RRP 11  Water Engineer
Water Investments              Disbursements
8/97          Water Investments               Economist                       4
Subprojects                    Water Engineer
Micro-Project Specialist
(continued on next page)



-122-                              Annex V-4
Page 3 of 3
IDA Field Supervision Requirements (continued)
Approx. Dates                                                             Staff Inpu
(Mo/Yr)                    Activity          |Expected Skill Requirements  (SW)
3/98          Water Investments               Economist                        5
Subprojects                    Water Engineer
Micro-Project Specialist
11/98         Project Completion              Micro-Project Specialist         14
Land Specialist
AgPack Specialist
Agronomist
Water Engineer
Disbursements
4/99           PCR Writing and Workshop                                        14
The supervision requirements by IDA fiscal year are:
1993       1994       1995      1996        1997        1998
SW in field          10         15         17         19          22          11
Document Review      10         10         10         10          10          10
TOTAL SW             20         25         27         29          32          21



-123-                              Annex V-5
Page I of 2
Mozambique
Rural Rehabilitation Project
Lessons Learned in Project Implementation
1.            A review of the portfolio and the lessons learned since GOM started to borrow
from IDA (1986) was carried out at the first Country Implementation Review (CIR) held in
February 1991. This CIR focused on four areas: the use of project implementation units; delays
in procurement and disbursements; compliance with audit requirements; and public administration
salaries and incentive structures. For each of the areas, a short description will be given of the
problems encountered, the recommendations of the CIR, the progress made in carrying out the
recommendations and how these lessons learned have been taken into account in the Rural
Rehabilitation Project.
Project Implementation Arrangements
2.            Earlier projects in the portfolio have established separate Project Implementation
Units (PIUs). PIU staff questioned the merit of establishing ad hoc PlUs versus strengthening
implementing agencies as part of a sustainable institutional development strategy. PIUs do not
fit in the Mozambique public administration stnicture: their levels of autonomy and authority
with the sectors are ill-defined and they often are expected to coordinate activities of institutions
for which they have no clearly defined supervision, rules or procedures. For the financiers, such
as IDA, PIUs facilitate project implementation because they bring all the necessary information
together for monitoring. In the newer projects in the portfolio, attempts have been made to
strengthen existing institutions, but the results of this newer strategy are not evident yet.
3.            The Rural Rehabilitation Project by its very nature is trying to avoid creating new
institutions and procedures. Instead it attempts to strengthen the implementation capacity of
existing institutions.
Delays in Procurement. Disbursements and Audit Requirements
4.            Procurement. Three major problems were identified with procurement: delays
in approvals within Mozambique; delays in obtaining no-objections from IDA; and the absence
of a review of local procurement procedures.  Within Mozambique, procedures could be
streamlined by adopting standard contracts and training staff in MINFIN. Standard contracts
have been prepared for consultants (individual and firms) and have been approved by MINFIN.
IDA's standard contract for civil works of December 1991 also has been analyzed and translated.
While this contract has been used up to now without major problems, it actually contradicts
Mozambican laws. A reworking of the contract to adapt it to Mozambican laws has been planned
for FY93, as part of the review of the local procurement. All recommendations for streamlining
approval procedures will have to be implemented as a condition for releasing the second tranche
of the ERC.



-124-                              Annex V-5
Page 2 of 2
5.            Disbursements. Disbursements are lagging by about 50% compared to SAR
estimates for the overall portfolio. The Financial Management Action Program (FMAP) to be
implemented before the second tranche release of ERC recommends the decentralization of
disbursement authority from the Banco de Mozambique to the PlUs and implementing agencies
as well as the streamlining of procedures authorizing payments within the Ministry of Finance.
It has been agreed that disbursement authority for this project will be given to INDER.
6.            Audit Requirements.  Audit reports for the whole portfolio of 1990 were
received late in 1992. The recommendations of the auditors for the rehabilitation credits are
being implemented as part of the FMAP.  For most projects, the auditors only had minor
comments and these are being taken into account.
7.            Within the Rural Rehabilitation Project there will be many technical assistance
contracts.  The streamlined procedures should contribute to rapid project implementation.
Contracting an agent for procuring goods also would alleviate pressure on the implementing units.
Acknowledging the experience in the portfolio, the disbursement period for this project has been
set at five years for a three-year investment program.
Public Administration Salaries and Incentive Structure
8.            The salary incentive fund that is being implemented as part of the Capacity
Building Project should remove many of the problems in retaining staff to implement projects.
The fund gives weights for level of education, years of experience, and level of responsibility.
these weights will be applicable to all higher level staff as well as higher level technicians. As
clear criteria are now available, it also will be possible to apply them in a transparent way to staff
working in project implementation agencies.



-125-                             Annex V-6
Page 1 of 2
Niozambigue
Rural Rehabilitation Project
Documents in Project File
1.    Mozambique -Rural Rehabilitation Project. Environmental Assessment. Scanteam/
Tule (Consultant). January 1991.
2.     Mozambique -  Rural Rehabilitation Project.  Project Brief.  FAO/World Bank
Cooperative Programme. April 1991.
3.     Land Cover Mapping Based on Satellite Remote Sensing. Draft Project Document.
UNDP. May 1991.
4.    Asistencia para la Preparacion del Proyecto sobre Rehabilitaci6n Rural. Acceso y
Tenencia de Tierras en Los Distritos Prioritarios Mozambique. FAO. September 1991.
5.    Asistencia para la Preparacion de un Proyecto de Rehabilitaci6n Rural. Informe General
de la Misi6n. FAO. September 1991.
6.    Asistencia para la Preparacion de un Proyecto de Rehabilitaci6n Rural. Informe T'cnico
sobre los Aspecros de Abastecimiento de Insumos y Credito. FAO. September 1991.
7.    Asistencia para la Preparacion del Proyecto sobre Rehabilitaci6n Rural. Participacion
Comunitaria en el Desarrollo Rural. FAO. September 1991.
8.     Mozambique - Rural Rehabilitation Project. Overview of Current Public Investment
Practice and Proposal of a Mechanism for Project Funding Operations and Management.
FAO. September 1991.
9.     Mozambique - Roads and Coastal Shipping Project. Agricultural Specialist (Consultant)
Draft Report. Appraisal Mission. World Bank. October 1991.
10.    Mozambique - Assistance for Preparation of the Rural Rehabilitation Project. Land Use
Regularization Component. FAO. December 1991
11.    Mozambique - Rural Rehabilitation Project. Preparation Mission Report. FAO/World
Bank Cooperative Programme. December 1991.
12.    Mozambique - Rural Rehabilitation Project. Financial Analysis of the Agricultural
Development and Trade Rehabilitation Component. Pre-Appraisal Mission Working
Paper. Consultant Report. May 1992.
13.    Mozambique - Rural Rehabilitation Project. Agricultural Development. Pre-Appraisal
Mission Working Paper. Robin Le Breton (Consultant). World Bank. May 1992.



-126-                             Annex V-6
Page 2 of 2
14.   Mozambique - Rural Rehabilitation Project. Project Related Training (PRT). Pre-
Appraisal Mission Working Paper. Orlando Espadas. World Bank. May 1992.
15.   Mozambique - Rural Rehabilitation Project. Final Executive Project Summary. World
Bank. June 1992.
16.   Mozambique -  Rural Rehabilitation Project.  Land and the Family Sector and
Nongovernmental Organizations (NGOs) and the Project. Appraisal Mission Working
Paper. Susana Lastarria (Consultant - Land Tenure Center, University of Wisconsin).
World Bank. June 1992.
17.   Mozambique - Rural Rehabilitation Project. White Cover Staff Appraisal Report.
World Bank. June 1992.
18.   Mozambique - Rural Rehabilitation Project. Appraisal Mission Working Paper. Jacob
Intrator (Consultant). September 1992.
19.   Mozambique - Rural Rehabilitation Project. Report on the Possible Impact on the
Status of Rural Women in Zambezia and Sofala Provinces. Appraisal Mission Working
Paper. Gloria Liberman (Consultant). World Bank. September 1992.
20.   Mozambique - Rural Rehabilitation Project. Institutional Background and Organization
and Management - Decentralized Components. Appraisal Mission Working Paper.
Hernando Garzon (Consultant). World Bank. September 1992.
21.   Mozambique - Rural Rehabilitation Project. AgPacks. Appraisal Mission Working
Paper. Michele McNabb (Consultant). World Bank. October 1992.
22.   Mozambique -  Rural Rehabilitation Project.  Project Related Training (PRT)
Component. World Bank. October 1992.
23.    Mozambique - Rural Rehabilitation Project. Extension Background Paper. Robin Le
Breton (Consultant). World Bank. October 1992.
24.    Mozambique - Rural Rehabilitation Project.  Notes on Irrigation in Mozambique.
World Bank. October 1992.
25.   Mozamnbique -  Rural Rehabilitation Project.  The Role of NGOs in the Rural
Rehabilitation Project. Appraisal Mission Working Paper. World Bank. October 1992.
26.   Mozambique -  Rural Rehabilitation Project.  Rural Water Supply Component.
Appraisal Mission Working Paper. Juan Estrada (Consultant). World Bank. October
1992.



Mozambique
Rural Rehabilitation Project
Project Costs by Expenditure Category
Thousands of Metais                    Thousands of US I)ollars           % Total
Foreign
Local        Foreign        Total          Local    Foreign     Total      Exchange Base Costs
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. Vehicles                      52,126.8      990,409.2    1,042,536.0       26.4      501 6      528.0        95.0       2.8
B. Equipmnent                    185,306.8    3,520,829.7    3,706,136 5      93.9    1,783.1    1,877.0        95 0      10 0
C. Training                     816,515.0      518,562.9    1.335,077.9      413.5      262.6      676 2        38 8       3 6
D. Technical assistance        2,642,058.7    6,164,803.6    8,806,862.3    1,338.1    3,122.2    4,460 3       70 0      23 7
E. Office furniture & equip.     24,483.8      220,354.2     244,838.0        12 4      III 6      124 0        900        0.7
F. Civil works                 1,095.847.5    2,556,977.5    3,652,825 0     555.0    1,295.0    1,850 0        70 0       9 8
G. Subcontracts                       0.0    2,598,442.0    2,598,442.0        0.0    1,3160    1,316 0        100 0       7 0
H. Community-based invest.     1,497,460.8    3,494,075.2    4,991,536 0     758.4    1,769.6    2,528 0        70 0      13.4
1.  Materials                   391,173.1    7,432,289.5    7,823,462.6      198.1    3,764 1    3,962 2        95 0      21 I
J.  Other services               355,410.0     829,290.0    1,184,700 0       180 0     420.0      600.0        70 0       3 2
Total INVESTMENT COSTS            7,063,382.5   28,326,033.8   35,386,416.4    3,5758    14,345.9   17,921 7       800       95.2
11. RECURRENT COSTS
A.  Increfintal slaries          306,718.8           0.0      306,718.8       155.3        0.0     155.3          0 0      0 8
B.  Vehicle O&M                   28,620.4     543,787.2      572,407.5        14.5      275.4     289.9         95.0       1.5
C.  Offac O&M                     48,019.8       12,005.0      60,024.8        24.3       6.1       30.4         20.0      0 2
D.  Othcroperatingexpcnscs       760,379.9      76,413.1      836,793.1       385.1       38.7     423.8          9.1      2.3
Total RECURRENTCOSTS              1,143,739.0    632,205.3    1,775,944.3       579.3      320.2     899.4         35.6      4.8
Total BASELINE COSTS              8,204,121.5   28,958,239.1   37,162,360.7   4,155.0   14,666.1   18,821.1        77.9     100.0
Physical contingcncies     1,080,955.3    3,346,598.3    4,427,553.6     547.5    1,694.9    2,242.4        75.6      11 9
Price contingcncics        2,840,121.1    5,101.825.3    7,941,946.4     933.7    1,026.9    1,960.6        52.4      10.4
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS              12,125,198.0   37,406,662.7   49,531,860.7   5,636.2   17,387.9   23,024.2        75.5     122.3
X



-128-                                  Annex VI-2
Mozambique
Rural Rehabilitation Project
Estimated Duties
(USS Thousands)
Year I    Year 2     Year 3     Year 4      Year S     TOTAL
Duties by Component
Support for Decentralization    394.2       53.5         0.0        0.0         0.0      447.7
Land                            383.8       36.8       36.8         0.0         0.0      457.3
Support for Resettlement        838.6      838.6      838.6         0.0         0.0    2,515.9
Rural Water Supply              138.2   1,044.5       230.3        98.7        98.7    1,610.4
TOTAL                          1,754.8   1,973.4     1,105.7       98.7        98.7    5,031.3
Duties by TY2e of ExDenditure
Civil Works                      188.8     123.7       98.7        98.7        98.7      608.7
Equipment                       266.1      962.9       168.3        0.0         0.0    1,397.2
Vehicles                        461.3       48.3         0.0        0.0         0.0      509.5
Materials                       838.6      838.6      838.6         0.0         0.0    2,515.9
TOTAL                          1,754.8   1,973.4     1,105.7       98.7        98.7    5,031.3



-129-                             Annex VI-3
Mozambique
Rural Rehabilitation Projed
Disbursements Schedule
(USS Millions)
IDA Fiscal Year
1994       1995        1996       1997       1998        1999
Annual           6.49        6.83        5.00       0.54        0.54      0.55
Cumulative       6.49       13.33       18.33      18.87       19.41     19.96
Cumulative (%)   33         67          92         94          97       100






IBRD 2427
GOb 1F-) ' ) i ~~~~~~~~~~~T  A N Z A N I A O t
, <,!?)  f /'S1JA-                                                       'o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AJA
ZAMIE    AANZANIA XBIA
~~~~~~~~~~~d.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
T     , T E&                                      Io    .
c   m-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7
_ ~ 11 C-~,                    N. o   . L A W I, 0
HAPAR                                                                 ELME               MOABIU                                 IA  ,'9\ Ctr Se  
S~~~~~~~~UA  RHBLITATONGWROECT\</r   
W      --d-AND          Ny                                              PROJECTo h lgo *SRE&nS0.0
oon, A                                                                                 2roondgno;o.Uof.A h  / ondoo..
\0                                       34'oro E               .         =          38                   40'.  E   ROADS
f/   <   t   )t  g  pE9XoGa RURAL  INTEREHABATIONALAIRPT                    1
}~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Pir oF REIOA IMPOUANCE
t>sCHtOIO Fr  .~~~~~~~~~~~~~UCA FORSKTAES
A ~ ~ ~ ~~          n F, R  I C 
~~ Inhooofo                      *      ~~~~~~~~~INTERNATIONAL BOUNDATS
1ctoF 3o /   T         J        X ~~LT  ip
2    } Chmuoltuob      I l       se          l~~~~~~~~~~~~.     "
\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-l I= 0    'OIME  vERIER
t   ;Wi: I  l   f3 ItJHAMEIANE           i)   F11OVINCE CAFITAUS                         wr.FEBRURY 199






IBRD 24278
,CCHI#>R'                                   ~    ~    ~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OG O 't',Sr
v  MILANGE       /             }    J          ML=Ut                 Alto Ligonho    \
.      msJNAMA~~~RROI\t                                  L                             r
}  ()      @       \q ~~~Socone           L Ul,
0            MO~~~~
v -   . -   *     XMu~~~~abcgnaoma AMARROI                                              GILE        
AC) Majoua     MILANGE       t      LGL                      L         L      
IL~~~~~~GL
0~~~~~ O   LUGELAak*
. \Mongue                    !   Tcuone   *                >0                                 GILE         
w ~~~~~~~~~Munhomadelo ueva  
0                     Mulevola
- OChirre                       No tri                          Mueo                 t      
0 t   O      \                                 >             PEBANE
Derre               MO gOUA *\Mcubela   |9
Megaza   MORRUMBALA                                                         N              Muolamo                 Nbobri
+                  t)               ,_/             ~~~~~~~DA COSTA                          r    
MAGANJA         Bojone0  PEBNE              /
,  MORRUMBALA                <;                        DA COSTA  Vbjn                  BN   
4-   \             x /           rNAMACU~~~~~~~~RRA 
6   \~~~~~)            >          *\~~~~~~NAMACURR \anie
MOPEIA C'm6o                 NICOADALA   X                                               MOZAMBIQUE
' -  UEOPEIA   Gonha>NE                   RURAL REHABILITATION
MOPEIA  Gonha                                                      ~~~~PROJECT
\   1°  fASSuNGE                      Project Supported Districts In Zambezia
>L0 Lbo         0Me
'        PROJECT AREAS
*     PROVINCE CAPITAL
)             11  t~~~4!CHINDE
t    /'                                                            *      DISTRICT CAPITALS
o     ADMINISTRATIVE POSTS
-        DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
-   REGION BOUNDARIES
-        INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
This map hos been prepared
by The World Bank's staff
e.dusirely for the convenience
ot readers and  is for the
8niemal use of The Worid Bn
roup.Te denominations I=                                  0              50             100           150             200           250
and  the  boundaries shown
on this map do not imply, on the
part of The World Bank Group.
any judgment on the bK Ml
status ot any terntory or ony                                                                  KILOMETERS
endorsement or acceptance of
such boundaries.                                                                        Approximate Scale
FEBRUARY 1 993






IBRD 24279
MOZAMBIQUE
RURAL REHABILITATION PROJECT
Project Supported Districts In Sofala
't t    1  stAsveoND                   -   ~~~~~~~CHEMBA      *                                      PROJECT AREAS|
T <1map                                            '.j               CHEMBA    -.                         ®+     PROVINCE CAPITAL
_          F        \       O            '          9               *~~~~0    DISTRICT CAPITALS
+   \     -tf             y               O~~~~~~~~~ ADMINISTRATIVE POSTS
This map has been  prepared                             ixCaneI
by The  World  Bank's  staff                          o                         Murrao -a                            DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
exclusively for the convenience                     -
of readers  and  is for  the                                                             CAAA    PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
internal use of The World Bank                                                           CAIA~-
Group.The denominations used                              MARINGUE                CAIA                     __-_ INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
and  the  boundaries  shown
on this mop do not imply, on the
port of The World Bank Group,                              ARINGUE
any judgment on the legal                                  *
status o any territory or anv
endorsement or acceptance of                                                                      hupanga
such boundaries.                                        '
Subue                    Inhomitonga                      t o-
0          MARROMEU
Nhamadzi       Vd                                                    MARROMEU\
o          Vunduzi 
.f                   J INHAM~~~~INGA             \4 
\GOROGORONGOSA
CHIBABAVACHERINGOMA
XGORONGOSA                                          /                                        \/ 
|         >            ~~~MIUANZA                     5
I                                 /~~~~~~~~~~~~~NHAMATANIDA  Ma  Jb
} NHAlATANA  DODONDO,J
2 Goon:)            ~~~BUZI  <         BEIRA                      I N  D  I A  N
t            (Esbq~~~uinha       
-N     CHIBABAVA   \Sfh
$    CHIBABAVA
Muxungue                                                                   O
|             z         r                    ~~~~~~~~~~MACHA.NGA
|                    t^? r/  ~MACHANGA, .<
0              50               100              150               200               250
KILOMETERS
Approximate Scale
FEBRUARY 1993



