Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 22446
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-24790)
ONA
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$20 MILLION
TO THE
MOZAMBIQUE
FOR A
RURAL REHABILITATION PROJECT
June 12, 2001
Rural Development Operations
Eastern and Southern Africa
Africa Region
|This document has a restricted-distribution and may be used-by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective )
Currency Unit = Mozambique Metical
At appraisal Mt. 1,450 = US$ 1
US$ 1 = Mt. 16,600 At Completion
FISCAL YEAR
January 1  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ARDP         Agricultural Rehabilitation and Development Project
ASRDP         Agricultural Services Rehabilitation and Development Project
BPD           People's Development Bank
DINAGECA   National Directorate for Geography and Cadaster
DNER         National Directorate of Rural Extension
FM/Fl        Farmer-Managed/Farmer-Implemented
FSR          Farning Systems Research
INIA         National Institute for Agricultural Research
IPM          Integrated Pest Management
JC           Joint-Venture Company
M&E          Monitoring and Evaluation
MADER         Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development
PROAGRI    Agricultural Sector Public Expenditure Program
QAG           Quality Assurance Group
RRP           Rural Rehabilitation Project
T&V          Training and Visit Extension
Vice President:    Callisto Madavo
Country Manager/Director:    Darius Mans
Sector Manager/Director:    Sushma Ganguly
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Miriarn Brandao/David Nielson



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MOZAMBIQUE
RURAL REHABILITATION
CONTENTS
Page No.
I. Project Data                                                              1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                              1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry   2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                      4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                        10
6. Sustainability                                                            12
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                             13
8. Lessons Learned                                                           14
9. Partner Comments                                                          16
Annexes
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                         17
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                         19
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                        21
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                        22
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components        24
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Perforrnance                          24
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                       25
Annex 8. Government of Mozambique Implementation Completion Report          30
MAP (S)
Map of Mozambique                                                           43
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






1. PROJECT DATA
Name.  RURAL REHABILITATION                                    L/C/TF  IDA-24790
Number:
Country/Department:  MOZAMBIQUE                                            Region:  Africa Regional
Office
Sector/subsector.  AG - Agency Reform; VM - Natural Resources
Management; WR - Rural Water Supply &
Sanitation
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD.   11/16/90                                 Effective:  09/01/93            12/08/93
Appraisal:  06/21/92                                   MTR:
Approval:  03/30/93                                  Closing:  12/31/98             12/31/2000
Borrower/Implementing 4gency.   Government of Mozanibique (GoM)/National Institute for Rural Development
(INDER) originally - and then, the National Directorate for Rural Development
(DNDR) under the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development (MADER)
Other Partners:   National Directorate for Water (DNA) and National Directorate for Geography and
Cadaster (DINAGECA)
STAFF                 Current                                     At Appraisal
Vice President:       Callisto Madavo                            E. Jaycox
Country Manager:      Darius Mans                                 S. Denning
Sector Manager:       Karen Brooks                                C. Helman
Team Leader at ICR.    David Nielson                              D. Cotlear
ICR Primary Author:   FAO
2. PRINCIPAL PERFORMANCE RATINGS
(HS=Highly Satisfactory. S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely, HU=Highly
Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: M
Bank Performance: S
Borrowver Performance: S
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry:                          U
Project at Risk at Any Time: No



3.  ASSESSMENT OF DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVES, DESIGN AND
QUALITY AT ENTRY
3.1       Original Objectives:
According to the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), the primary objective of the project was
"to undertake, on a pilot basis, activities to support decentralized economic recovery while creating
the capacity and procedures necessary to address the broader post-war situation." The specific
objectives of the project were to: (i) build the capacity of institutions responsible for post-war
reconstruction and develop procedures for decentralized rural development; (ii) provide land use
information and develop land policies for smallholders; (iii) help households displaced due to war to
restart agricultural production; and (iv) improve health and life of rural households by increasing
access to drinking water.
The Rural Rehabilitation Project (RRP) was intended to support Government's National
Reconstruction Program (NRP) following a conflict which lasted over a decade and resulted in the
massive displacement of rural populations, the destruction of rural infrastructure, the collapse of the
economy, and the disappearance of most government services in rural areas. The project was part of a
massive donor backing for the Government's rehabilitation effort. However, the weight attached to
decentralization and to piloting procedures was premature given the urgent and constantly changing
demands of the post-war situation, and the low institutional capacity which existed at all levels of
government. The specific project objectives (and related components) were also an uneasy mix of
rather disparate interventions for both emergency assistance and longer-term policy development.
3.2       Revised Objectives:
The primary project objective was not revised during implementation, but specific project
objectives were modified to reflect a 1997 restructuring of the project which eliminated the
Distribution of Agricultural Packages component and limited the scope of both the land and water
components (see below).
3.3    Original Components:
At its inception, the RRP had four main components, namely:
(i) Support for Decentralization, including: (i) pilot activities in Sofala and Zambezia
Provinces to test procedures for identifying, funding and implementing community-
based micro-projects; and (ii) institution-building and training of Government staff,
NGOs and community groups; (US$6.4 million base cost).
(ii) Land, including: (i) a land study and pilot demarcation for smallholder lands to
improve access and secure tenure rights; and (ii) land use mapping and institutional
strengthening; (US$2.9 million)
(iii) Distribution of Agricultural Packages (Agpacks) to provide seeds and hand tools
to smallholders returning to their traditional land after the war; (US$4.5 million).
(iv) Rural Water Supply to: (i) increase the coverage of the rural water supply in Sofala
and Zambezia Provinces; (ii) strengthen provincial water supply institutions; and
2



(iii) stimulate community participation in operation and maintenance of the systems.
(US$5.0 million)
The project was to be managed by the then-recently established (1990) National Institute
for Rural Development (INDER) which reported directly to the Council of Ministers and held cross-
sectoral responsibilities. INDER established a small, contracted project unit in Maputo and two
implementation teams led by Provincial Project Advisers (one in each of the two provinces - Sofala
and Zambezia). These units were budgeted and financed under the project's decentralization
component. Some 190 person-months of long- and short-term international technical assistance (TA)
and 150 person-months of national TA were planned to assist INDER in project management and
operations, as well as for training, capacity-building and studies. Implementation of the land and
water components was to be contracted out to DINAGE,CA and PRONAR respectively. Although the
project was designed as a three-year pilot operation, the SAR already anticipated that five years
would be needed to complete disbursement. The RRP design rightly allowed for flexibility, in
particular with respect to the selection of priority districts within the two selected provinces
(depending on the security situation), and the types of community-generated investment ideas (micro-
projects).
3.4    Revised Components.
In mid 1997, the project was restructured as part of a broader IDA portfolio restructuring,
in order to: (i) remove activity overlap between RRP, the Agricultural Services Rehabilitation and
Development Project (ASRDP) and the Agricultural Rehabilitation and Development Project,
(ARDP); (ii) simplify RRP components; (iii) adjust to the prevailing circumstances (the country was
no longer in a post-war emergency situation); and (iv) clear the way for what was to become the
agricultural sector development program - PROAGRI. The following main changes were agreed
upon:
e  transfer of the Land Study sub-component to ASRDP;
e  cancellation of the Agpacks component;
s changes in the field implementation arrangements of the Rural Water Supply
component to allow private sector participation and Provincial Water Supply
Workshops (EPARs) to operate on a ccmmercial basis; and
*  expansion of the Rural Water Supply component to allow for construction of village-
level small piped systems.
Total costs of the project were not amended, and the freed resources were re-directed to
the Decentralization (micro-projects) and the Land Use Mapping components. The project area for the
Decentralization and Water components was extended from partial coverage to coverage of all
districts of Sofala and Zambezia. To a great extent, the restructuring agreement sanctioned changes
in direction of the project which had already occurred. It simplified the project's structure, making the
micro-projects the core focus of the project and other components peripheral.
During this restructuring, ARDP Credit was cancelled (See separate ICR reports for ASRDP and ARDP).
3



3.5    Quality at Entry:
Throughout preparation and appraisal, there was a difference in emphasis between
Government's.objectives for national reconstruction - oriented primarily to restoring infrastructure
and agricultural production over as wide a part of the 40 priority districts as possible - and the Bank's
desire to pilot systems for community-led rural development. The SAR did not make a clear case for
the predominance of the pilot decentralization objective in a project labelled "rehabilitation", and the
project, as negotiated, was ambiguous in relation to what the decentralization micro-projects should
achieve: whether provision of merely a trial and training ground or a significant contribution to the
Government's national reconstruction program. Given the prevailing country situation, the large
amount of the credit (US$20 million) was inconsistent with a pilot project and the SAR disbursement
schedule (more than 90% over the three first years) was unrealistic. The component coverage of the
project was also too broad and complex. The Bank's Quality Assurance Group (QAG) did not review
this project. Based on the above, the ICR mission rates the Quality at Entry as unsatisfactory.
4.  ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES AND OUTPUTS
4.1    Outcome/Achievement of Objectives:
The objective of the project was to assist the Government with post-war national
reconstruction and to engage with rural communities in improving their livelihoods and living
conditions. The impact of the project in terms of national reconstruction has exceeded by far what
could have been envisaged from the proposals contained in the SAR. It lasted 7 years instead of the
planned 3-5 years, and in its second phase, from 1997, it has contributed not merely to rehabilitation
but to rural development. Many of the specific objectives included in the SAR were superseded by the
restructuring of the project. Overall project outcome is thus rated satisfactory.
The project's most important impact was through the micro-projects. Although original
plans called for micro-projects in 8 districts, the project in fact supported micro-projects contributing
to improved living standards and education in 27 districts (as summarised in the Table below).2
ZAMBEZIA   SOFALA   TOTAL                 Costs            Costs
|Number ofDistricts         15            12         27        US$ million)    (percentage)
Schools                     88            36         124            5.9             53.6
Health Centers               10            46         56            3.5             31.8
Other Water Points          24             26         50   |}
Roads/Bridges               30             7          37    }       0.8              7.3
Markets                      12            5          17            0.1              0.9
Livestock                     1           14          15    }
Agriculture                   1           22          23    }       0.2              1.8
Others                       18            7          25            0.5              4.5
Total No. Projects         184           163         347           11.0      f     100.0
2 The ICR mission has chosen to cluster micro-projects' contracts which, combined, provide a given service to the
community, rather than counting the number of contracts, as was generally done during project implementation.
For example, the provision of a school with associated teacher's house, latrines and pump in the same location are
treated as a single project; provision of 4 water points to a single community has also been treated as a single
project. Source: Estimates constructed by the ICR Mission.
4



Through micro-projects, the construction of school facilities through the project is
estimated to have increased the capacity of the rural school system by 50,000 students in a geographic
area of some 3,500 km2 It provided health center services (first aid, mother and child care, maternity
wards) to a catchment area of around 1 1,000 km2 with a total population of almost 300,0003.
The project's contributions are consistent with national and provincial governments'
strategies for poverty reduction which give particular attention to: improving access to education for
females (which has been shown to be directly related to family welfare); and promoting child health
while reducing infant mortality. In addition to their impact in health and education, the civil works
contracts financed through the project have generated employment and boosted economic activity in
the targeted rural communities and have also provided links with life outside.
In some remoter communities, RRP was the first governmental activity to appear after the
end of the war to engage with the local populations ancl to invest in improved facilities. The impact of
this concrete proof of government goodwill in previously RENAMO-held areas is of inestimable
political and social significance, and can only have been positive in the process of nation-building.
Provision of social services, opportunities for improved access, marketing and grain-milling must also
have promoted the resettlement process. It is interesting that RRP was often perceived as an NGO
project, perhaps because of its fieldwork practices with local communities and operational flexibility.
The project has also had a significant and positive impact on local capacity to develop
and maintain rural infrastructure and skills. Selected local people have been trained, and supported
with equipment, in a variety of highly useful skills such as midwifery, carpentry, tailoring, bee-
keeping, as well as in those relating to the construction and maintenance of the buildings erected.
It has had much less direct impact on capacity-building for decentralization and
instituting community-led development (except for rural water supply). For its duration, RRP
provided a channel for funds for locally identified investments and it pioneered and created some
government capacity for community consultation and organizing community participation. However,
the project failed to institutionalise and mainstream the procedures and capacity to undertake
decentralized rural development where collective action through local government is required.
However, independently from RRP, the Government pursued a pilot for decentralized planning with
another donor (UNDP/UNCDF) to address such institutional development, and this is now serving as
the basis for the Bank's follow-on project, the proposed Decentralized Planning and Financing
Program (DPFP).
The opening of water points in rural areas has undoubtedly relieved problems of clean
water supply in many communities. Unfortunately, this has been somewhat offset by the fact that
some water points have been polluted by floods and some pumps have broken down - overall,
existing rural water points are tending to break down rather faster than new ones are created. This is
the one area where community mobilization and participation were significantly strengthened by the
project and this is helping to improve operation and maintenance. Perhaps the main impact of the
water component has resulted from the recommendations of the Rural Water Supply study of 1997.
These have led to the adoption of a demand-led water supply policy which has been institutionalized
and is being pursued in the IDA-funded National Water Program.
Based on the following assumptions: (i) schools: 2.5 shifts per school room; plus adult literacy of 400 places per
school (3 km walking radius); and (ii) health: 5,000 patients per center with walking radius of 8 km.
5



The impact of the land mapping component has been minimal so far, perhaps because of
relatively limited publicity about the existence and potential use of the new GIS and related maps
which were created under the project. Consequently, these have only been used by DINAGECA and a
few individuals who have purchased them in Maputo. They may in future contribute to land policy
and law implementation, which is the responsibility of the Land Commission.
4.2    Output by Component:
Component 1: Support to Decentralization
The outputs from this component are substantially different from those envisaged in the
SAR. The SAR placed emphasis on capacity-building through technical assistance at provincial level.
It also foresaw using sub-projects to test procedures for planning, financing and implementing
community-based initiatives and to improve knowledge and skills of local government officers, NGO
staff and community leaders in decentralized community-based rural development. Sub-projects (up
to US$3.6 million including community contributions) were to be specified by the communities, and
were anticipated to be mostly related to production activities (such as agriculture).
As designed, this component would have contributed to the NRP more in terms of
institutional development than in the actual rehabilitation of physical infrastructure. As it turned out,
relatively few production-related initiatives were pursued; much more infrastructure has been
developed than was originally envisaged; but more limited progress than hoped for was made in
engaging communities and local officers and establishing effective institutions for local governance
through which they might contribute to the economic and social development of their neighborhoods.
The project employed eight Rural Development Agents (ADRs), who worked as liaison agents
between communities, districts and the provincial project units, but many micro-project proposals
were initiated directly by district and provincial administrations rather than by communities
themselves.
Social Infrastructure: A total of 30 new health centers were built with 54 new houses
for nurses; 93 schools were built with 24 new houses for teachers. The health centers and houses
were built almost exclusively in Sofala, while 64 of the schools were built in Zambezia. In addition,
17 hospitals, health posts or centers and 25 schools were improved (rehabilitated, equipped or
extended). Latrines were built at almost all new health posts and schools and at a number of similar
additional public sites. Water points were also normally constructed with schools and health posts, as
well as in residential areas (see also Component 4 below).
Agricultural Development: As noted above, in contrast to expectations, less than 2% of
micro-project funds were used for agricultural activities, mostly in Sofala. Livestock micro-projects,
mainly goat re-stocking, were implemented in 6 districts of Sofala and one district of Zambezia, with
the distribution, on a grant basis, of some 680 goats (over 200 beneficiaries) and 50 draught oxen (25
beneficiaries). Fruit tree, coconut and cashew planting material was provided to a few communities in
Sofala. Three dip tanks were rehabilitated or constructed and two irrigation systems were assisted.
The identification of these micro-projects was generally facilitated by ADRs, while formulation and
implementation was done by the Provincial Directorate of Agriculture.
Rural Market Infrastructure Development: Nine markets were rehabilitated and
upgraded and 7 new markets were built. Eight maize mills were distributed and one rice mill
developed. Over 200 km of feeder and access roads (including bridges and culverts) were
6



rehabilitated or reconstructed in Zambezia and 5 metallic bridges were erected in Sofala. These were
particularly important developments in the relatively isolated rural economy of post-war
Mozambique.
The component's training program was late and spread much thinner than originally
intended. Provincial and district officers, together with community and NGO representatives, were
given a week's course in Micro-project Planning with Community Participation. Twenty-six courses
were held, allowing all districts the opportunity for relevant officers to be trained. The courses, which
included field training in 40 communities, were both well conducted and appreciated by participants.
However, only 11 districts received a further course for consolidation, there was no sustained follow-
up, and little subsequent use was made of the skills acquired by the participants in the implementation
of the project. This was partly because of the frequent ltransfer of district staff. In terms of capacity-
building, it is thought that project staff, including the ADRs, benefited most, largely through doing.
Several are now using their skills and experience in sirmilar projects. The INDER training team
became a well-established resource used by a number of other projects.
Much less technical assistance (TA) was provided than that envisaged in the SAR. No
internationally-recruited officers in planning and project appraisal were engaged for the provinces.
With the notable exception of the second Project Coordinator in Zambezia, the managerial
performance of the Provincial Project Managers was weak. The ADRs appear to have performed
variably, but satisfactorily overall during the early stages of the project, considering the greatly
extended areas they were expected to cover and the delay in the training program. However, most
appear to have had little lasting impact on the practices of the district and local administrations. With
the restructuring of the project (1997), the skills of the ADRs in extension and community
development no longer fit with project implementation requirements. Proposals were made for their
redeployment, but the ADRs seem to have been under-utilized in the latter stages of the project.
The major achievements in system development and capacity-building have been in
the sphere of public works construction, contracting and management.4 Following an initial period
when construction was directly managed by the project, and both rates of progress and quality of
works were found to be deficient, the provincial project units instituted a system of public bidding for
project works which was open and transparent. As experience was gained through project
implementation, an accredited list of contractors was prepared and, to reduce evaluation and
administration work to manageable proportions, invited shortlists for individual works were often
preferred. The project also instituted more effective and appropriate works supervision by appointing
and instructing its own supervisors to ensure that workcs were continuously and promptly supervised,
even in remote locations. Works were generally completed relatively rapidly and construction quality
improved, although some defects such as warped roof'timbers, leaking roofs, damp walls and termite
damage are observed in some places. The public work.s contracts provided job experience and on-the-
job training to countless local workers, as well as 3 courses for nascent contractors and contractors'
staff. A proposal was developed for the establishment of an independent agency (AGETIP) which
could manage provincial public building programs across all sectors. The study was shelved but may
be a useful input for the preparation of the follow-on project - DPFP.
Overall, the outcome of this component is rated satisfactory.
4 See also a (draft) report by Louis Helling: The Policy and Institutional Framework for Decentralized Planning
and Management of Small-Scale Public Infrastructure Investment for Rural Development in Mozambique.
February 2000.
7



Component 2: Land
This component was intended to contribute to national land management and land rights
allocation systems. After project restructuring, the Land Use Mapping Component5 was comprised of
several activities including: (i) the revision of national topographic maps and the estimation of land
use patterns; (ii) the detailed mapping of priority RRP districts; (iii) the development of a national
Geographic Information System (GIS); and (iv) training of DINAGECA staff. At project inception,
INDER signed an implementation agreement with DINAGECA, which in turn contracted all the
component activities to a joint venture between a specialized national and international company. A
three-year contract was signed around mid-1996 and successfully implemented in two phases,
generally in accordance with the agreed terms of reference and time frame. Each phase was concluded
by a national workshop held in Maputo. The joint-venture contract included the procurement of
equipment, software and satellite imagery. On-the-job training was provided to a team from
DINAGECA and INDER. The feasibility of using 1:50,000 maps for community land demarcation,
was also tested in one district in each of Sofala and Zambezia provinces.
As planned, a GIS has been established within DINAGECA and the following maps (500
copies each) have been produced: (i) a national coverage of the land use map (1:250,000 scale) in
digital format and as printed copies (93 sheets); and (ii) detailed land use coverage for 8 priority
districts at 1:50,000 scale (88 sheets). The maps can be purchased at DINAGECA's office in Maputo.
However, staff from the Provincial Service for Geography and Cadaster (SPGC) were not involved in
the joint-venture contract implementation, they were not invited to the national workshops, and they
did not benefit from any training: even field truthing was carried out by DINAGECA staff from
Maputo.
The maps and GIS, have remained rather confidential and seem largely under-utilized,
hence the impact on addressing land management and land right issues has been minimal so far. Staff
from SPGC are hardly aware of their availability, nor are they generally known to other provincial
and district institutions and projects. For these reasons, the component is considered as marginally
satisfactory.
Component 3: Distribution of Agricultural Inputs (Agpacks)
This component was designed as an emergency measure to support families returning to
their farms after the end of the war. At the outset of the project, in early 1994, administrative
problems6 meant that the opportunity was missed to procure Agpacks for the coming agricultural
season. INDER submitted a procurement request to MPF in November 1994, but Government was not
prepared to use IDA credit for this purpose and in 1996 requested the cancellation of the component.
Funds were reallocated to other activities, particularly to Decentralization (micro-project sub-
component).
Component 4: Rural Water Supply
At project restructuring, activities under the Land Study and Pilot Demarcation sub-component had not yet been
initiated, and were transferred to ASRDP.
6 The Special Account was not opened until June 1994.
8



This component was planned to strengthen the capacity of 3 district workshops run by the
Provincial Rural Water Supply Workshops (EPARs) and finance the construction of about I 00 water
sources (by the workshops) per year. It was also designed to improve the organization and
management of the EPARs and to develop a scheme for operating and maintaining water supply
systems based on community participation and the provision of a standardized hand pump: the
AFRIDEV. An inventory of water supply points in Sofala and Zambezia provinces was to be
undertaken in the first year of the project as a basis for a 5-year development plan. During the early
stages of project implementation, the role of EPARs was already being reviewed and the institutional
strengthening, TA and training that were envisaged for them were not pursued apart from the supply
of 6 tractors, 2 lorries and 2 vehicles. EPARs gradually began to operate on a commercial basis and
competed for contracts with private companies.
As a part of the restructuring of the Bank's portfolio, the ASRDP water component in
Nampula was to be transferred to RRP. However, funds were not transferred from ASRDP to RRP
and no reference to such a change in the RRP project area was made in the revised DCA. Hence, RRP
took no action in Nampula.
Water Point development. A total of 300 manual AFRIDEV pumps were supplied
under the project, 150 in Zambezia and 150 in Sofala. Most pumps were installed by EPARs for
micro-projects under Component 1, with civil works for the water points generally being undertaken
by private contractors. Other water points were contracted to NGOs, other government agencies and
private contractors. Almost all the pumps in Sofala have been installed in villages, while in Zambezia
100 pumps have been installed in villages, 45 in schools and 3 in health centers. The communities
have the right of use and the responsibility to maintain the pumps whether the water point is in the
village, school or health center.
Community participation was promoted through the Community Education Program
(PEC), a branch of EPAR, which was operating before RRP began. Consultation with the
communities took place from the identification stage of the water point development process, but the
approach was supply-based and did not critically review community demand. A new strategy is now
in place which ensures a demand-led approach. Prior to construction of the water point, elected
members of the community are trained in O&M, and I'EC officers continue to monitor the water
points during the year after completion. Water points are, by and large, maintained by the community
representatives, and some communities successfully raise funds for repairs and spare parts. However,
some communities have been less inclined to contribute to O&M when the facility is located in public
areas such as schools and health centers.
In 1995, the project carried out an inventory of the location, condition and operation of
each rural water source in Sofala and Zambezia provinces. A purpose-built database software was
installed in the Water Departments of the Directorates of Public Works and in the EPARs of both
provinces and training was given on the use of the software. The system has been operational in
Zambezia since 1995 and data have been updated regularly. The resulting database has facilitated
planning, O&M and emergency operations. The experience in Sofala has been disappointing. Most
data and the software were lost when the computer broke-down. No attempt has been made to re-
install the system and maintain the database - partly as a result of the frequent transfer of staff and
lack of sufficient training.
The project financed a national study on Institutional Arrangements for the Provision
of Rural Water Supply and Sanitation (March 1997) which has laid the foundations for a national
9



rural water supply policy and strategy. The study's recommendations form the basis for the National
Rural Water Transition Plan, providing guidelines and standards for the sector, including the future
role of the private sector, and establishing a framework for improving the sustainability of water
supply in Mozambique. The study also recommended a more thorough review of the mandate, legal
status and role of EPARs.
Small Piped Systems. Project restructuring allowed for the rehabilitation of small piped
village water supply systems. Four feasibility studies were carried out for the towns of Gurue, lie,
Maganja da Costa and Pebane in Zambezia province. The project completion date was extended to
allow the completion of the Gurue system, which has now been rehabilitated and expanded. The
rehabilitated system has been operating since September 2000, but some complementary civil works
are required to protect the intake. Arrangements for the O&M of the scheme still have to be
determined pending completion of a study by the National Water Department (DNA), which intends
to use Guru6 as a pilot for a new organizational model.
The overall outcome of this component is rated satisfactory.
4.3   Economic Rate of Return:
An ERR was not calculated for the project.
4.4   Financial Rate of Return: (not calculated)
4.5   Institutional Development Impact:
With the extinction of INDER, and its incorporation within MADER, the impact on
institution-building for rural development remains to be seen. However, the project did not build
significantly the capacity to undertake decentralized rural development, especially at district level.
This was further exacerbated by the high turnover of district staff, including those who benefited from
project training. The locus of decentralization policy and strategy development has moved to the
Ministries of Planning and Finance and of State Administration. There will still, however, be a
parallel need for local participation in planning for productive initiatives. Under the Rural Water
Supply component, PEC teams have been strengthened, but with the commercialization of EPAR's
activities there are uncertainties regarding PECs' operations. Under the Land component, capacity has
been built within DINAGECA for operating GIS, but SPGCs did not benefit from such training as
anticipated at appraisal. Overall, the Institutional Development impact is considered as being
unsatisfactory.
5. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING IMPLEMENTATION
5.1       Factors Outside the Control of Government or the Implementing Agency:
* Following the signature of the peace agreement, security in the country-side improved rapidly and
provided favorable conditions for RRP operations, especially in the rural areas.
* The loss of the first President of INDER, who was the prime mover for the borrower's
conception, preparation, negotiation and early implementation of the project, negatively and
substantially affected project implementation during 1995 and 1996.
10



* In 2000, a cyclone damaged rural infrastructure uncder construction in Sofala, which resulted in
implementation delays and increased costs; during the same year, floods delayed completion of
the Gurue piped system, and caused losses of oxen provided by one micro-project in Sofala.
5.2       Factors Generally Subject to Government Control:
* The existence of INDER as a conduit for cross-sectoral investment funds made a substantial rural
development program possible, during a period when the focus on sectoral programs created an
environment in which sector-specific activities were receiving most attention and few other
resources were available for cross-sectoral initiatives.
* Government delayed appointing a successor to the first President of INDER until December 1996,
and this caused a dramatic reduction in support and leadership at the highest level during 1995-
1996; on the other hand the appointment of the new President provided a new dynamism and
contributed to improving project performance thereafter.
* The unwillingness of Government to use IDA funds for international TA negatively affected
project start-up.
* There was poor understanding of the project's objectives and method of operation by some
district administrations, which led to concentration of project implementation in certain districts
and spheres of action.
5.3       Factors Generally Subject to Implementing Agency Control:
* The initial low capacity of national and provincial jproject management, and their unfamiliarity
with IDA procedures contributed to a rather slow project start-up.
* However, continuity of the two key central project management staff, following a "learning-by-
doing" process, resulted in a good performance by project management and this contributed to the
successful implementation of the micro-project sub-component.
* The failure to assure implementation of training arrangements on time resulted in some delay in
community consultations and identification of micro-projects and may have prejudiced the
ultimate outcome in terms of capacity-building.
* In common with other Mozambican projects, there was an almost complete lack of M&E, which
was critical for RRP, given the pilot nature of the project. Upon project completion, there is little
information on systems for decentralization and community-driven development, cost
effectiveness and project impact; as a result the project has been left in a condition in which it
cannot completely fulfil its role as a pilot.
5.4    Costs and Financing:
Total project costs (see Annex 2a) are the same as the SAR estimates (US$23 million
including contingencies). Following project restructuring, the costs by component changed
substantially, in particular for the Decentralization component which amounted to about
US$16 million, as compared to appraisal estimates of US$8 million (and micro-projects amounted to
some US$11 million compared to appraisal estimates of US$4 million). Bank disbursements
amounted to some US$20 million, most of which were disbursed after 1996. The initial delays in
disbursements were mainly due to lack of progress in implementation, in particular TA and
cancellation of the Agpack component. Government contribution amounted to US$1.9 million, which
is similar to the SAR estimates. Of the government funds, US$0.5 million were disbursed by the
provincial governments of Sofala and Zambezia to micro-projects. Beneficiary contributions to
micro-projects (planned in the SAR to amount to just over US$1 million) were never valued in
11



monetary terms. However, many communities did contribute to project costs by providing local
construction material and labor.
6. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
6.1   Rationale for Sustainability Rating:
Overall, project sustainability is rated as likely. Over 50% of total project costs were
invested directly in rural rehabilitation and development through micro-projects, primarily for the
construction and rehabilitation of schools, health centers, water points and roads. Their sustainability
will largely depend on the quality of civil works and the capacity of the beneficiary communities, line
ministries, and provincial and district authorities to ensure their maintenance. The high rate of use of
these infrastructures, as observed by the mission, suggests a strong interest by stakeholders in their
continuing operation and maintenance. The proposed follow-on project, the DPFP, is geared to
strengthening arrangements for O&M of rural infrastructure. Although there will be a time-lag
between the two projects, the sustainability prospects of RRP investments through the micro-projects
would be enhanced if DPFP continued to cover the provinces of Zambezia and Sofala.
Regarding the Land Use Component, DINAGECA has a team of trained GIS and remote
sensing specialists who have the capacity to maintain the system. However, equipment will rapidly
become obsolete, software will need upgrading, and the GIS will have to be updated. DINAGECA,
which does not have the financial capacity to sustain and further develop its GIS, needs to seek
further external support to ensure the sustainability of its GIS-related operations.
If it is ultimately decided to privatise the EPARs, special arrangements will be needed to
ensure that the community work now carried out by the PEC is continued.
6.2    Transition Arrangements to Regular Operations:
The project management teams in Maputo and the two provinces are being retrenched,
and project assets and files handed over to the relevant institutions at national, provincial and district
levels. Responsibilities for future operations regarding micro-projects, land use and rural water supply
will rest with the respective line ministries.
DINAGECA is committed to distributing the printed land use maps and to organizing
workshops to train stakeholders on their use as well as the potential uses of digitized maps/GIS
information. Such training is to involve staff from SPGC, districts, NGOs and development projects.
In the longer term, the GIS developed under RRP should be integrated within a long term strategy for
land information management, for selective land titling and cadaster purposes and for monitoring land
use and management (e.g. changes in land use or land cover, agricultural statistics, forest,
environmental aspects etc.). This integration could be undertaken by the National Land Commission
and involve the key players such as DINAGECA, SPGCs, PROAGRI, the environment and forest
departments (MICOA, DNFFB) and other related programs.
DNDR should liaise with DNA and the World Bank National Water Project to ensure that
final works of Gurue are completed and O&M arrangements are put in place.
12



In 1999, the project commissioned a study entitled "The RRP Experience with
Decentralized Management: Lessons for the Future". The draft report provides useful information, but
the study remains incomplete, especially regarding the civil works aspects. This study should be
revisited and completed in the context of the proposed DPFP formulation, and a thorough review of
civil works construction7 should be made. The review should be expanded to cover similar facilities
constructed by other agencies. As part of the same exercise, the proposals made in the studies relating
to the establishment of provincial AGETIP entities should be critically reviewed. It would also be
helpful to review in detail the experience of the project's ADRs in working with local communities
and providing liaison with district and provincial level entities.
7. BANK AND BORROWER PERFORMANCE
Bank
7.1       Lending:
The Bank's lending performance is rated unsatisfactory, primarily because:
-  the SAR was not fully in harmony with Government's priorities for national reconstruction,
and Government commitment to the project design and financing arrangements was not
properly assessed;
*  the comprehensive preparation work (e.g. on training) was not adequately reflected or built on
in the SAR;
*  the Bank did not ensure consistency between SAR, DCA and the project's Operations Manual
(in particular with regard to social infrastructure);
*  project design was complex; and
*  the large amount of the credit was inconsistent with a pilot project and the SAR disbursement
schedule was manifestly unrealistic.
7.2       Supervision:
The Bank's supervision performance is rated satisfactory overall. Despite the early
diagnosis that INDER would need strong guidance ancd support, the Bank did not provide the benefit
of its experience elsewhere to the project. There was a gap in supervision between April 1994 (when
the project was rated satisfactory) and May 1995 (when the project was rated unsatisfactory). No joint
annual implementation reviews were carried out as agreed upon at Appraisal. After 1996, there was
continuity of TTL, detailed field supervision missions and implementation reviews were conducted,
guidance was timely and effective, and good working relations with the borrower were maintained.
The supervision performance during this period contrilbuted substantially to the success of the project
and is rated highly satisfactory. The mid-term review was very helpful in turning around what had
been a shaky initial period - this despite shortcomings of the original design.
7.3       Overall Bank Performance:
To review the construction design, construction costs, quality of works and related maintenance costs, tendering
and supervision arrangements, etc.
13



In spite of the shortcomings during lending and supervision until 1996, the overall Bank
performance is considered satisfactory, primarily because of the key contribution of supervision to
satisfactory project implementation during the last four years of the project.
Borrower
7.4       Preparation:
The Government was actively involved in the project preparation, and the first President
of INDER contributed directly to the process. However, Government should have been more pro-
active during appraisal to ensure a better balance between piloting decentralization procedures and
contributing to the National Reconstruction Program in terms of rural rehabilitation.
7.5       Government Implementation Performance.
Throughout implementation, Government commitment to the project was strong.
Counterpart funding was made available although it lagged at some stages of the project. Audits were
carried out regularly but failed to discover a systematic error in withdrawal applications.
7.6       Implementing Agency.
INDER gave high priority to the implementation of this project. In part this was due to the
strong interest in the program held by the first and later the second President of INDER. The
importance of the President's interest in the program was particularly evident following the loss of the
first President of INDER, when the project team did not receive adequate support.
The direct personal interest and practical support of the second President of INDER and
continuity of project management have been key in this regard. Innovative solutions have been found
to resolve the problems that have arisen during implementation.
7. 7      Overall Borrower Performance
Project administration has been adequate overall, although some lapses, both in the
provinces and at headquarters did occur. The project management team has been less satisfactory in
reporting, and in developing an effective monitoring and evaluation system, which have been
minimal. Overall, the borrower's performance has been satisfactory.
8.  LESSONS LEARNED
In the course of project implementation, the following lessons were learned:
* The SAR, together with the Operations Manual, rapidly proved to be an inadequate
guide for project implementation. At Appraisal, the Bank should ensure clarity of
purpose and agree on these with the relevant parts of Government. This is especially
important where the weight of preparation has fallen predominantly on Bank staff and
consultants, rather than Government itself.
14



*  The IDA Credit included funding for massive TA and emergency assistance (Agpack
component which included provision for contracting NGOs). During project
implementation, it appeared that Government was not prepared to use IDA funds for
such type of expenditure. Government should seek a blend of credit and grant funding
through co-financing arrangements for operations that include emergency assistance
or require substantial TA and a partnership with NGOs. The Bank should also help
borrowers in seeking grant co-financing.
* The project activities and outputs are substantially different from those anticipated at
appraisal, which recognised the need for flexibility in a post war situation. Managed
flexibility is the key to the success of project implementation, in particular when the
situation is expected to change at a fast pace.
* The RRP was designed as a three-year pilot operation and it was anticipated that
much of the US$20 million Credit would be spent over that period. The project ended
up as a 7-year rural development operation. Pilot activities should be limited in size
and an effective M&E system, backed by targeted Bank supervision, should be in
place to "capture" the lessons learned for future larger scale operations. Should M&E
capacity of the implementing agency be weak, it could be contracted to qualified
national institutions or the private sector.
* Following restructuring, the project was significantly simplified and much of project
management attention was devoted to the micro-project sub-component, which
proved to be successful. Micro-projects were focused primarily on the rehabilitation
and development of social and rural infrastructure. Simple and targeted activities
greatly contribute to the success of such operations.
- INDER and some key project staffiwere committed to project success and achieved
much, despite relative inexperience and being few in number. Where the will to
succeed and freedom of action are present, national staff can successfully implement
projects with minimal outside assistance.
* Micro-project success and sustainability is more likely when communities are
involved throughout the process, from the identification and design stages to
completion, operation and maintenance.
* Addressing generic problems observed on civil works (e.g. roof water leakage,
moisture infiltration and termite infestation) would not require major incremental
costs at construction, but they would reduce the maintenance cost and improve
sustainability.
* Land use mapping is not an end in itself, but rather a tool for supporting the
implementation of the land policy and law, as well as for land/natural resource
management purposes. Project design should ensure that such an expensive tool be
part of a comprehensive strategy for land policy development and management.
15



9. PARTNER COMMENTS
(a) Borrower/implementing agency.
(attached as Annex 8)
(b) Cofinanciers:
NA
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
NA
16



10. ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
Annex 1
Key Performance Indicators
Output Indicators:                     I             l               l
Indicator               pro 2   In   AptuaULatest           Remarks
_________________________ .tSAW               AP  I      EsUmite
Support for Decentralization
Micro-Projects implemented: Zambezia
No. of new schools constructed         Not defined        71
No. of schools rehabilitated           Not defined        22
Furnishing and other equipment for     Not defined        87
schools
No. of houses built for nurses and     Not defined        11
-teachers
_No. of health posts constructed        Not defined        2
_ Rehabilitation of health centers       Not defined        12
No. of latrines constructed            Not defined        364
Micro-Projects implemented: Sofala                 __     __
No. of new schools constructed         Not defined        91
No. of schools rehabilitated           Not defined         8
Furnishing and other equipment for     Not defined        32
schools
No. of houses built for nurses and     Not defined        76
_teachers
No. of health posts constructed        Not defined        30
Furnishing and other equipment for health   Not defined    5
_centers
IRehabilitation of health centers - Sofala  Not defined    5
_No. of latrines constructed           Not defined        236
17



Output Indicators:
2 ;1 '  ' ;-*i -dicaito      i       -            0                      . Remiarlks
Su   Ft fr JDeeetrliato                              ____X____X____ 
Land Study: Land use, ownership, social  4 Studies                 Was transferred to the
issues and conflict solving.         (2-Sofala and     Not Done    ASRDP-MADER.
2-Zambezia)
Produce a report on demarcation      By Project Year  Partially Done  A clear methodology
experience with methodology                3                       and guidelines have not
recommendations on smallholder                                     been produced as
demarcation                                                        intended
National topographic and land use map X    93 sheets    Done
500 colour copies, scale (1:250,000)
Produce detailed land use maps X 500 for   88 sheets    Done
4 priority districts, 2 in Sofala and 2 in
Zambezia (at 1:50,000 scale)
GIS: supply software, manuals, compile    Set          Complete
data and train DINAGECA staff in the use
of GIS.
Long-term training (university degree)  2 DINAGECA     Not Done
_______ _______ _______ _______ ______staff
200,000           -             Cancelled at
Distribution of    a                     'iousholds   _____________       restructuring
R r   Water uup 0 lWyt      =X'_                                                       _
Establish District Workshop in Buzi, Sofala  1                          Cancelled at
_                                                                                 _restructurin
Establish Workshop in Chinde & Alto        1                            Cancelled at
_Molocue, Zambezia                                                      restructuring
Provide equipment to workshops to-increase capacity,       -            Cancelled at
logistics and transportation.                                           restructuring
IConstruct Water Sources in Sofala     Not defined        95
Construct Water Sources in Zambezia    Not defined        52
No. of Pumps supplied                    1000            300
Inventory of Rural water supply      in Project Year  Complete for  Operational in Zambezia
infrastructure for Sofala and Zambezia     1          Sofala and       but not in Sofala
_________________________________ _________I           Zambezia
1/ The SAR had not defined any quantifiable impact or outputs for the RRP.
18



Annex 2a
Project Costs and Financing
Project Costs by Component (in US$ million Equivalent)
Proiect ComDonent           A_ raisal     Actual/Latest  Percentage of
Estimate 1       Eftfmate /2   Appraisal
Support to Decentralization                 7.9            15.8        199.2
Courses and Seminars                     0.7             0.4         51.4
Sub-Projects                             4.3            10.8        250.5
Capacity Building /3                     2.9             4.7        160.3
Land                                        3.5             3.4         96.4
I Land use Mapping & Inst.               2.7             3.3         121.5
Study
Land Study & Pilot                       0.9             0.2         17.5
Demarcation
Distribution of AgPacks                     5.4               -            -
Rural Water Supply                          6.2             2.4         39.5
t Sofala                                 1.9              0.5         23.4
Zambezia                                 3.2             0.6         84.3
Small-Piped System    _                            0.9             -
Support to Center                        1.0             0.5         48.0
Total:                                     23.0            21.7         94.1
1/ Mission estimates (the SAR did not present costs by component with contingencies).
2/ Mission estimates (project accounts did not keep records of expenditure by
component).
3/ Includes project management, consultancies and studies, see supplementary Table 3.
1'9



Annex 2b
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (in US$ Million Equivalent)
Expenditure Categories     Procurement Method Appraisal    Procurement Method Actual/Latest
Estimate - 0                      Estimate
ICSB   NC8   Other  NBF  Total  ICB   NCB   Other NBF   Total
1-A Civil Works for Rural                    2.2          2.2   0.7       -    0.0      -    0.7
Water Supply
1-B Building'    t Reoation      -      -    0.3           0.3     -      -    0.4      -    0.4
(houses & offices)
2 Sub-Projects(A.2)         0.3    0.7    1.5   1.1    3.6      -    9.1    2.0           11.0
3-A Vehicles & Equipment       2.3      -    0.4           2.7   1.1      -    0.6            1.7
3-B Seeds & Tools              4.7      -    0.1      -   4.8             -          -         -
4-A Land Use Mapping           1.4      -             -    1.4   3.2      -    0.1           3.3
Contracts
4-B Technical Assistancei        - :         4.8      -   4.8   0.6    1.6    0.7            2.9
4-C Training                                 0.9      -    0.9     -      -    0.4           0.4
4-D  NGO Services                            0.8      -    0.8            -    0.0      -  0.02
5 Incremental Operating       -            1.5     -    1.5          0.0    1.4       -    1.4
Costs
Total                      8.7    0.7   12.5   1.1  23.0   5.6   10.7    5.4        -  21.7
11 Technical assistance includes Project Preparatory Fund (PPF) refinancing.
20



Annex 2c
Project Financing by Category of Expenditure (in USS million equivalent)
Cat Cateqory of Expenditure    Appraisal Estimate   Actual/Latest Estimate  Percentage of Appraisal
No.                          Bank    Govern  Beneficia ank 12 Govern Beneficia Bank  Government Benefi
ment  ries            ment  ries 13                      ciaries
|1-A  Civil Works for Rural        1.9    0.2    0.1    0.7    0.1         -    34.7       29.0      -
Water Supply
1-B  Building Renovation          0.2    0.1        -    0.1    0.2        -    55.9    248.5       -
(houses & offices)
2 Sub-Projects (A.2)           2.5    0 1      1.0   10.2    0.8        -   407.8      847.7     -
3-A  Vehicles & Equipment         2.                -    1.2    0.5        -    45.0          -    -
3-BSeeds & Tools                  4.8
4-  Land Use Mapping               1.4      -       -    3.2    0.1        -   227.9          -    -
Contracts
4 B Technical Assistance 1i        3.4    1.4       -    2.8    0.0        -    83.6        1.1     -
4-C Training                       0.9              -    0.3    0.0        -    38.3          -    -
4-D  NGO Services                 0.8               -    0.0       -       -      2.3         -
5lncrementalOperating           1.4    0.1       -    1.1    0.2        -    81.2      222.6
Costs
| Total                      20.0    1.9    1.1   19.7    1.9         -    98.6        100
11/ Includes PPF.            l        l              l             l                  _
2/ The Bank's latest disbursements figures are US$300,000 less than the Project accounts.
3/ Beneficiary contribution was mainly in terms of construction material and labor, no attempt has been made to
value these inputs.
Annex 3
Cost Benefit Analysis
(Indicate Currency, units and base year)
Present Value of Flows
Economic Analysis                Financial Analysis
_____   Appraisal  [Latest Estimates Appraisal    Latest Estimates
Benefits         An ERR was not calculated for the project
Costs
Net Benefits
IRRINPV
21



Annex 4a
Bank Inputs: Site Visits
Stage of Project Cycle       MonthNear  ~No of perso.:              Perf a  
i i :0: ia  S0:0 i t ;   I p:ementat:Ion d  t3~elo .t:
Identification 1/     May-June 90        EC (2), Ag,            nla               nJa
R.Eng, Ext
Preparation 1/       Apr-92             EC (3), RD, Ag,        n/a                n/a
WID
Appraisal/Negotiations   Jun-July 92        EC, RC, IS,            n/a               nia
L.Info, FS, H-
Eng
Svp.rvi.sions
:00dSPNl.10   7 7  0  7 0  May-June 93       L-lnfo, LM, EC,         S                 S
ME
SPN-2                      Sept-Oct 93       EC (3), Ext,            S                 S
AGME, LM
SPN-3                      January 94        EC, Ag                  S                 S
SPN-4                      March 94          Ag, RW, EC              S                 S
SfP-s                      December94        EC, CP                  U                 U
PN--                      July 95            EC, L.Info, CP,         U                 U
ME
70  SP  '.     :  00  00:T0December 95       EC                      U                 U
SPNW8                      April-May 96      EC                      U                 U
SPN- O-Oct-Nov 96                            EC, C.Eng,              S                 U
L.Info
SPW-IO                     June-July 97       EC, L.lnfo,             S                 U
C.Eng, W.Eng
SPN-i1                     Oct-97             W.Eng                   S                 S
SPW!2                      November 97        EC                      S                 S
SPN-13                     April-May 98       EC (2), Env             S                 S
_P -14                     Oct-Nov 98         EC (2), C.Eng           S                 S
7    -    Jn                   June 99            EC                      S                 S
S0pNs18                    Oct-Nov 99         EC                      S                 S
7SPN1 7                    Feb-Mar 00         EC                      S                 S
0 1N-48                    May-June 00        EC                      S                 S
SPN-T1                      Nov-Dec 00        EC                      S
7770 XICR                      Jan-Feb 01        Ag, EC (2)              S                  S
1/. Including contribution from FAO/CP:
Notes: Key to Specialized staff skills
Institutional Specialist       IS                 Land Information Specialist       L lnfo
EconomistUAgrc. Economist      EC                 Food Security Specialist          FS
22



Stage of Project Cycle  I   Month/Year    No. of Persons          Performance Radings
and Speciality
Implementatton     Development
IProgress          Objectives
Agronomist/Agriculturalist    Ag                 Hydraulic                        H-Eng
R   I Enineer                 R.Eng             Engineer                          L
Rural Engineer                R.Eng             Land                              LM
l___________________              Management
Agriculture Extension Sp.     Ext.               Rural Water Specialist           RW
WID Specialist                WID                Community Participation Specialist    CP
Rural Development Specialist  RD                Monitoring & Evaluation Specialist  ME
Rural Credit                  RC                Civil Engineer                    C-Eng.
Water Engineer                   W.Eng
Ratings: U= Unsatisfactory   S= Satisfactory
Annex 4b
Bank Inputs: Staff *
Stage of Project Cycle      Actualf Laest Estimates
___ ____    Staff Weeks               US$ (000G
Identification through            118.4                        312.2
Negotiation 1/
Supervision                       131.8                        406.5
ICR                            to be completed by AFTR1      to be completed by AFTR1
Total       .                |    250.2                         718.7
1/ FAO/CP and Trust Fund contributions at identification/preparation stages are not included.
23



Annex 5
Ratings for Achievement of Objectives ** / Outputs by Components
Objectivelutputs            Highly          tItuac6toy    atisfawtory   ifghly       Not
___________: f     ;:;       C   .   Unsatisfacory  Applkable
MoiroPoies t007 07:88::::     _.X
x~~~~~~~~~
x~~~~~~~~~
x~~~
fW0000** Re--lates toffi the; ob0jectives spcfe Xi hA
01~~~Rlte toS the00 outputs spcfe in... th P 0ADX\
Annex 6
E7iW~~~~~Rtig ofL Ban  and Boroe PerformanceL
PubEicSe;Isatisfactor          ______                            Ustsatr
Banherf(Spoirmc:
.e,in  ______    _____                                              ________
Notes: * Also includes Bank-financed and trust fund consultants 
j ** ~~Relates to the objectives specified in the SAR
r-Spriin  _____                                  ______I_____  __
r *** ~Relates to the outputs specified in the PAD
Annex 6
Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
lmplementation ~ ~ ~       ~     ~     ~      Jusiofctr
Bank Performance:
7~~~~~~~~~~~~
Borrower
Performance:
Go:;4vernment                      X
lmIlementing tAtency                      X
Overall    ___________  X:::OveiX  _
24



Supplementary Table 1
Proiect Costs by Expenditure Category (in US$ million equivalent
Expenditure Cateaories        AchlaIsaI      Acua          Percentaate of
Estfrnate       Esftate    A  ralsal
1-A Civl Works for Rural Water              2.2             0.7         33.2
Supply
1-B Building Renovation (houses             0.3             0.4        120.1
& offices)
2 Sub-Projects (A.2)                       3.6            11.0        306.9
3-A Vehicles & Equipment                    2.7             1.7         61.8
3-B Seeds & Tools                           4.8
4-A Land Use Mapping Contracts              1.4             3.3        233.4
21
4-B Technical Assistancell                  4.8             2.9         59.5
4-C Training                                0.9             0.4         39.4
4-0 NGO Services                            0.8             0.0          2.3
5 Incremental Operating Costs              1.5             1.4         90.6
- Total                                    23.0            21.7         94.2
1/ Includes Project Preparation Fund (PPF).                    I _
2/ The high increase in this category is partly due to lthe inclusion of Technical Assistance
|within the joint-venture contract (rather than under category 4B, see also Annex 2a).
'25



Supplementary Table 2
Proiect Costs by Cateaorv of Expenditure (in SDR million equivalent)
0   E d  S i 0; Es0lmat ;f                                         of AAiur a  lasal
I  Works
1-A Rural Water                1.09      1.09     0.71     0.55       0.50       45.83
1-B Other                      0.07      0.07     0.08     0.08       0.08      116.06
2   Sub-Projects (A.2)         1.66      6.03     7.56     7.56       7.38      444.74
3   Goods
3-A Vehicles & Equipment       1.44      0.98     0.88     0.84       0.83       57.84
3-B Seeds and Tools            3.25         -        -        -          -
4   Consultant Services
4-A Mapping                    0.72      2.20     2.28     2.28       2.31      321.16
4-B Technical Assistance       2.21      1.81     1.96     1.98       2.04       92.18
4-C Training                   0.36      0.36     0.23     0.27       0.25       68.73
4-D NGO Services               0.58      0.03     0.01     0.01       0.01        2.20
5   Operating Costs            0.80      0.80     0.79     0.93       0.81      101.07
Unallocated                2.32      1.13        - 
Total:                        14.50     14.50    14.50    14.50     14.21        98.03
Source: From the WB disbursement schedule (February 2001).
26



r_                                                               _       1Supplementary Table 3
Decentralization Component - Capacity Building Sub-Component:
Capacity Building 1/                                    Value
Civil Works for INDER and other                                328,0001
Long term Consultancy
Training                                                        72,000
=Auditing                                                      219,000
NGO Services                                                    18,000
O Costs                                               1,342,000
Project Staff
Center 2/                                                      578,000
_Provinces                                                      676,000
Short Term Consultancies
Studies
Beneficiary Assessment                                          39,000
AGETIP study (Aggregate)                                       337,000
Manual of Procedures                                            33,000
Training Plan/Manual                                            16,000
Decentralized Planning Report                                   15,500
Other                                                           17,500
Vehicles and Equipment                                         611,000
|Training 3/                            1                      376,000
Sub-Total:                                  1                   4,678,000
1/ Refers to Annex 2a, Decentralization component.
2/ Including project director costs over 8 years (US$:343,000)
Supplementar.y Table 4
I Micro-Proiect Sub-component: Number of Contracts completed by Type and Value 1/
Micro-Project Completion Date      1995-96       1997-98      1999-00      Total
Zambezia:                                                              L
Force Account No.                    13             41           4          58
Total Value (US$ '000)             130.0          432.4        70.7         633
Sub-Contracting No.                   201           103        227          350
Total Value (US$'000)              197.7         1,063.4    3,161.2       4,422
Sub-total Zambezia (US$ '000)        32.          1,496       3,232       5,055
Sofala:
Sub-total Sofala (US$'000)        1,139.2 ~    2,674.71     2,161.51      5,975
Grand Total (US$ '000)            1,466.9        4,170.5j    5,393.31    11,031
1/ Refers to Annex 2a, Decentralization Component/Micro-Project Sub-Component.
27



Supplementary Table 5
Decentralisation Comronent - Courses and Seminar Sub-Cornonent:
Detailed Costs (Latest Estimates)
No. of Participants
Course/Seminar Title                                  SAR      Actual/ Latest
Estimates
Basic Course on Project Proposals                      40
Capacity Building Contractors                                       71
Training for Supervisors                                  I         83
Community Training in Participatory Planning                       257
Income-Generating Project Planning Course (ADRs)                    14
Topography Course, DINAGECA staff, South Africa                      2
O&M of Buildings                                                    49
Training of Community Leaders in Rural Participation   60            -
Rural Diagnosis for community land demarcation                      11
WB-Seminar on procurement (Maputo/Lisbon)                             5
Seminar on Rural Water Sector Strategy Study                        40
Policy Seminar for Government officials                45
Accounting and Project Proposal Seminars               45             5
Micro-finance seminar, WB-Washington.                                1
Study Tour on Micro Projects (Gaza Province)                         5
Study Tour, Namibia                                                  3
Studies                                             M. Months
Mapping                                                 24 Outsourced by
output
XLand Tenure Study                                      24 Cancelled at
I restructuring
Inventory of Rural Water Supply                          3!Outsourced by
output
28



Supplementary Table 6
Technical Assistance: Comnparison between SAR and Actual
SAR      Actual/
Estimates   Latest
No. of Person Months
Project-Financed National Staff
Project Director                                       36        98
Financial Controller                                   36        72
Financial and Accounting Officers                      36       212
Rural Development Agents (ADR)                         36       488
Training Coordinator                                   36         0
Project Coordinators (Sofala, Zambezia)                         115
Construction Engineers (Sofala, Zambezia)                        96
_    __ _ _ _ __ _ _ __   _                              _  _____
l                                                         I
International Consultants:
Program Advisor                                        20         0
Project Planning and Appraisal Specialist              36         0
Training Advisor                                        0        12
Water Supply Specialist (UNV)                          36         0
Financial Management Specialist                        18         0
Procurement Advisor                                     6         0
Legal Advisor                                          12         0
Public Administration Specialist                       12         0
Monitoring and Evaluation Specialist                    6         0
Specialist Trainers                                    12         0
Land Use Consultant                                    12         0
Community Education Specialist (Sofala & Zambezia)    4.5         0
Management Consultant                                  12         0
_ Management and Organization Specialist                6 _
National Consultants:
Course Director                                        60         1!
Course Lecturers                                       60   _ -
Specialist Trainers                _   _
1/ Performed by INDER/DNDR regular staff.
29



Annex 8
GOVERNMENT OF MOZAMBIQUE IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION
REPORT
MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT
NATIONAL RURAL DEVELOPMENT OFFICE
RURAL REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Credit 2479-MOZ)
Government Contribution to the Implementation Completion Report
Project Data
Identification                          February 1990
Project Concept Development             May 1991
Pre-appraisal                           September 1991
Project Preparation Facility (PPF) Advance   May 1992
Appraisal                               June 29-July 17, 1992
Approval by World Bank                  February 1993
Negotiations                            February 16-19, 1993
Signature of Credit Agreement           April 30, 1993
Ratification by Council of Ministers    July 16, 1993
Concurrence of Legal Counsel            October 19, 1993
Credit disbursement                     December 8, 1993
Amount of Credit                        US$20,000,000
Government's contribution               US$2,000,000
Community's contribution                US$1,000,000
Projected closing                       December 31, 1998
Actual closing                          December 31, 2000
Coordinating institution                Rural Development Institute (INDER), fol-
lowed by Agriculture Ministry (MADER)
Implementing agencies                   National Office of Geography and Mapping
(DINAGECA)/Provincial Offices of
Planning and Finance of Sofala and
Zamb6zia provinces/National Water Office
(DNA)IPRONAR
INITIAL OBJECTIVES
The specific objectives of the project were: (i) to strengthen the capacity of the provincial
institutions responsible for planning, implementation, and management of national
reconstruction, and to test and improve procedures for decentralized rural development; (ii) to
30



compile data on land use to guide future infrastructure investment planning, resettlement of
returnees, and development of a land policy guaranl:eeing security of land tenure for farmers;
(iii) to help farmers returning to their original landholdings to regain self-sufficiency in food
production, thereby reducing the need for imported food and restoring the country's productive
capacity; and (iv) to improve living and health conclitions in rural communities by providing
clean water, reducing the time and energy put by women and children into fetching water, and
increasing opportunities for productivity in labor, education, and other economic and social
activities.
INITIAL COMPONENTS OF THE PROJECT
To achieve these objectives, the project was di\ided into the following four components:
decentralization (which included training); rural water supply; land development (which
included mapping and soil studies); and resettlement. Details of the contents of each
component are given in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR).
The project, designed for implementation over Five years with closing projected for
December 31, 1998, was intended to cover five districts in Zambezia province (Upper
Mol6cue, Chinde, Gurue, Mocuba, and Nicoadala). and three districts in Sofala province
(Buzi, Dondo, and Nhamatanda). These districts were chosen on the basis of security and
highway or water access, given the circumstances of the armed conflict. This area of coverage
was subsequently expanded to encompass Zambezia and Sofala provinces in their entirety, a
total of 28 districts - a positive change because it allowed promotion of rural development in
areas of greater need than those originally envisioned. Operation of the project in all districts
of the two provinces became possible as a result of signature of the Peace Accord in 1992,
without which rehabilitation and construction activities in these districts would have been
impossible. This design modification showed that both the Government and World Bank were
able to exercise flexibility in the interests of projec-t implementation, while the resulting
expansion of coverage made the geographical scope of the operation more satisfactory.
The project was coordinated by the Rural Development Institute (INDER) until 1999, and
subsequently by the National Directorate for Rural Development (DNDR) of the Ministry of
Agriculture and Rural Development until its completion on December 31, 2000. The
implementing agencies were: the Provincial Offices of Planning and Finance of Sofala and
Zambezia, for the decentralization component; the National Office of Geography and Cadastre,
for the Cadastre component; and the National Water Office, for the rural water supply
component. Although the project had been designed as a pilot scheme, its results proved to be
those of a full-scale rural development project. It was carried out during a period of rapid
changes in the country's economy and political situation associated with the postwar national
reconstruction process. Constant readjustments were needed to ensure ongoing coherence with
the objectives and policies of the National Reconstruction and Development Program.
Amendments to the Credit Agreement
After project implementation began, the Credit Agreement was first amended in 1996, its
objectives being redefined as follows: (i) to strengthen the capacity of the institutions
responsible for postwar reconstruction and to develop procedures for decentralized rural
development; (ii) to compile data on land use and occupancy; and (iii) to improve the health
:1I



and living standards of rural communities by expanding rural water supply coverage. The main
features of this amendment were: inclusion of funding for water supply systems, cancellation
of the resettlement component, and cancellation of the sub-component on soil studies. The
following objectives were set:
Decentralization Component
(a) Provide technical assistance for the National Rural Development Institute (INDER)
and the key project implementing agencies, (b) identify, design, appraise, and execute small-
and medium-scale investments in Sofala and Zambezia provinces as a pilot scheme, and (c)
organize training courses and seminars.
Mapping Component
(a) Update the national topographic map and estimate actual land occupancy on a scale
of 1:250,000, (b) prepare more detailed maps on a scale of 1:50,000 for eight selected districts,
and (c) prepare the Geographic Information System Manual, and train technicians in operation
of the GIS.
Rural Water Supply Component
(a) Rehabilitate and increase water supply capacity, mainly by (i) developing
additional capacity, (ii) utilizing existing production capacity better, and (iii) rehabilitating or
constructing wells, cisterns, and small water supply systems. (b) Expand the service delivery
area by improving execution capacity, mainly through (i) developing procurement procedures
for use by private companies in-carrying out projects, (ii) reducing the structural costs of rural
water companies through improvements in their management practices that will enable them to
compete with the private sector, and (iii) establishing a planning and monitoring system. (c)
Develop an operation and maintenance methodology for water supply systems, based on
community participation and such simple technical moves as (i) replacing existing hand pumps
with others that are easier to operate and maintain, and (ii) drawing up an inventory of existing
water supply infrastructure, with indications of location, condition, and need for repair.
Other Amendments to the Credit Agreement
The second amendment redistributed the available funds among eligible expenditure
categories and extended Credit duration to December 31, 1999. The third amendment
redistributed the available funds among eligible expenditure categories and extended Credit
duration to June of 2000. The final amendment merely extended the duration further to
December 31, 2000. None of the amendments changed the amount of the initial Credit
Agreement.
The amendments to the Credit Agreement-although made without a total revision of
the initial document and the initial objectives of the project-were a sensible reaction to the
changes that occurred in the process of.national, post-conflict reconstruction. They were
further confirmation of the previously noted flexibility where implementation of the project
was concerned, simplifying it and expediting disbursements.
32



OUTCOME/ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
Decentralization Component
In the rural zones, the decentralized pilot pro ject attempted to (i) test and improve
procedures for the financing and implementation of small projects to benefit communities,
support a resurgence of economic activities, improve delivery of social services. generate jobs.
increase output productivity, construct and revive economic and social infrastructure, and
finance small projects; and (ii) build up the capacity of the government agencies responsible
for identifying, planning, carrying out, and evaluating national reconstruction and rural
development activities projects, and programs, by using the procedures outlined above, doing
so in a decentralized fashion and through training and instruction.
Implementation of this component led to the signing of 667 contracts, which resulted
in the execution that many micro-projects distributed among the various categories listed in the
following table:
33



Programmed in the SAR           Accomplished
Type of Micro-project              Unit  Sofala Zamb. Total  Sofala Zamb. Total
Road repair                       Km       40     12    52          3 201      204
Bridge and aqueduct construction  No        -     -      -         6   25       31
Irrigation systems                Hect  150   440    590          60  100      160
Repair of markets                 N        20    20      40        1    1        1
Reconstruction of markets         N        I1    11    22          3      7     10
Construction of Markets           N        12    12    24          2     6       8
Construction of vendors' stands   No        -      -      -       335  440      775
Construction of elementary schools    No    -      -      -       24    68      92
Remodeling of elementary schools  No        -      -      -        3   22       25
Construction of secondary schools  No       -      -      -        2     -       2
Remodeling of secondary schools   No        -      -      -        2     -       2
Classrooms for 500 students each  No        -      -      -      104  250    354
Construction of 2-seat student desks   No   -      -     -      2.600 6.250   8.850
Expansion of Health Centers       No        -      -      -        3     1       4
Construction of Health Centers    No        -      -      -       26     1      27
Remodeling of Health Centers      No        -      -      -        5    5       10
Sets of hospital furniture and equip.    No  -     -      -        1    5         6
Construction of teachers' homes   No        -      -      -       26    -       26
Construction of nurses' homes     No        -      -     -        47    8       55
Construction of INDER offices     No        -      -     -          -    -       1
Bathrooms (schools and health cntrs.)  No   -      -     -       222  483      705
Construction of water points      No        -      -     -        55   32       87
Repairing of water points         No        -      -     -        40   20       60
Development of draft animals      Cattle    -      -     -        50    -       50
Development of goats              Goats  -         -     -       760   32       792
Fishing kits                      No        -      -     -         6    -         6
Development of bee culture        Hives   -        -     -        18     -      18
Development of cashews             Seedlings       -      -     24.000  -  24.000
Development of coconut             Seedlings       -      -     6.100   -   6.100
Development of fruit trees         Seedlings       -      -     4.087   -   4.087
Construction of dipping tanks      Tanks   -       -     -         4    -         4
Rice hulling machine              No        -      -     -         I    -        I
Corn mills                        No        -      -     -         3     5       8
The 667 contracts made it possible to carry out micro-projects for reconstruction,
expansion, new construction, and fitting out of public service buildings. These micro-projects
were executed directly by the project in the first phase, and subsequently by local contractors.
They were selected by the communities and the district and provincial authorities in the
respective sectors. They were carried out in coordination with the provincial authorities
whenever the micro-projects to be executed involved increased government spending for their
operation.
Taking into account that funding of the project was part of the National Reconstruction
Program, the results for this component surpassed those anticipated in the initial project
document. The micro-projects carried out contributed to rural development, particularly in
34



access to education, health, water supply, roads, farm output, and employment (albeit
temporary).
Health, education, agriculture, and water supply were the areas receiving greatest impact,
as can be seen in the following table. Nearly 50,000 students, 2,600 families, and 960,860
people benefited from project activities in this component that financed micro-projects.
Number of Beneficiaries
Class 2                                    Sofala              Zambezia           Grand Total
Students
Classrooms                                 16,600              28,506             45,106
Subtotal - Students                        16,600              28,506             45,106
Families
Draft cattle                               25                                     25
Breeding goat;s_9_                         l                    10                205
Coconut seedlings                           1,725                                 1,725
Various fruit tree seedlings               488                                    488
Mandioc seedlings                          50                                     50
Nurses' residences                       _48                                      48
Guard's residence                           I                                     I
Manager's residence                         I                                     I
Nurses' residences _                       47                   8                 55
Rural A.D.'s residence                     1                                      I
Teacher's residences                       28                                     28
Subtotal - Families                        2,51_2               18                2,530
Persons
Rural markets                              86,500               141,168           227,668
Health Centers                             203,493              9,200             212,693
Rice hullers                                                   42                 42
Fishing kits                               6                                      6
Traditional midwives trained                                   3,546              3,546
Wells for drinking water                   51,000              28,500             79,500
Rural hospitals                            25,000               39,752            64,752
Sets of hospital furniture                 6,000                                  6,000
Kilometers of roads                                             78,247            78,247
Sewing machines                                                 10                1 0
Mills                                      16,000               37,453            53,453
Bridges and aqueducts                                           172,534           172,534
Clinics                                    7,000                10,766            17,766
Cholera prevention                                              28,688            28,688
Hectares irrigated                         30                   14                44
Public sanitation facilities               7,440                8,548             15,988
Total - People                             394,993              565,868           960,861
This component called for training courses and seminars to facilitate project
implementation and prepare national reconstruction projects, as well as to provide training for
personnel involved in regional planning in the participating agencies. Activities accomplished
in this subcomponent can be summarized as follows:
35'



Training and Instruction
Type                                                                  Expected          Actual
number of        number
participants
Courses
Basic Course on Projects for Project Staff                            40                0
Training Course for contractors                                       0                 42
Training Course for contractors-Sofala                                0                 29
Training Course for binec        Sofala                               0                 4]
Training Course for inspectors                                        0                 42
Course in planning micro-projects (community particip.)               0                 257
Course in s lannino economic projects                                 0                 14
Course on toponomy in South Africa                                    0                 2
Basic Courses on budget for project staff                             20                0
Course on building maintenance                                        0                 24
Participatory Rural Development (Community leaders)                   60                0
Rural study for establishing land boundaries                          0                 ] 1
Course on building maintenance                                        0                 25
Subtotal - Courses                                                    120               487
Seminars
Lecture on thematic cartography                                       0                 1
Progress Seminar for the PRR in Zambezia                              0                 60
Introductory Seminar for the PRR in Sofala                            0                 40
Introductory Seminar for the PRR in Zamb&zia                          0                 40
Introductory Seminar for the PRR in Maputo                            0                 40
World Bank Procurement Seminar                                        0                 5
Seminar to release study on the water sector                          0                 40
Seminar n micro-financ                                                0                 1
Seminars with NGOs                                                    40                0
Seminars on accounting for project staff                              45                5
Seminars on management for project staff                              60                0
Seminars on policy for government officials                           45                0
Technical Seminars for project staff                                 60               0
Subtotal - Seminars                                                   250               232
|Study visits
Study visit to mnicro-projects in Gaza                                0                 2
Study visits to Namibia                                               0                 3
Subtotal - Study visits                                               0                 5
370              724
There were 29 participants in Sofala and 42 in Zambezia in the courses for contractors.
They covered topics of special interest to contractors (contract law, legal aspects of contracts,
logistics, organization of work, bidding, contracts, and other relevant subjects in this area),
which improved the performance of the contractors and even the quality of the work. This
experience demonstrated that the practice should be continued.
There were 41 participants in Sofala and 42 in Zambezia in the courses for inspectors of
civil works (which improved the quality of inspections and represented a substantial increase
in the number of independent inspectors for rural community works). This is another element
that should be repeated in future projects or activities of a similar nature.
36



The courses for inspectors and contractors involved more than 50 contractors and
demonstrated that they are necessary and useful. The curriculum was developed on the basis of
problem areas identified in inspectors' reports by project staff. These courses should continue
to be offered in future projects, because of the results obtained in quality of work, speed of
completion, careful attention to plans by the contractors, and attention to the contract clauses
by contractors and inspectors. These courses were also useful for improving the working
relationship between contractors and inspectors, both of whom assumed greater responsibility
for contract compliance. In future projects it is important that this component integrated into
the regular operational system of the public works sector, as a responsibility of this sector for
providing this type of training for local contractors. Along with these courses there were two
courses in Zambezia and Sofala on preventive maintenance for buildings, in which 40 people
were trained. Participants were drawn from members of the communities and district
employees in the public works sector. The courses demonstrated their value for sparking
community initiatives to supplement the government's effort to maintain basic services for the
population.
Courses on planning with community participation. These courses were offered in 46
communities with a view to meeting the real needs of the communities in each area. The
courses were taught with methods that permitted cornmunity participation in the identification,
selection, and decision on community investments. At least 116 micro-projects were selected
in this manner for financing by the Rural Services Rehabilitation Project. These activities
helped people who felt ownership of the micro-projects. Successful planning of micro-projects
with community participation through this project demonstrated that it is necessary to include
this element in the national planning system so that iit is not an isolated and short-lived activity
excluded from the national system of investment programming.
The results of implementation of this component were considered satisfactory.
Land Development Component
National reconstruction and rehabilitation ol'agricultural services require maps
showing land use and vegetation cover and an adequate policy to ensure security of land
occupancy and tenure. Production systems and land ownership and use are essential factors in
food production and environmental protection. This component was subdivided into two parts,
namely Mapping and Soils. The soils sub-component was cancelled at the time of the first
amendment of the project.
Mapping
The project called for: reviewing and updating maps on a scale of 1:50,000; determining
the area of land occupied for each purpose; making detailed local maps to permit programming
of activities at that level; creating a national capability to produce maps for various purposes in
accordance with the needs of the various users, quickly and with satisfactory quality, through
the purchase of appropriate equipment, training of personnel in this sector in the use of that
equipment, and use of modern technologies for map production (processing of satellite
imaging). The following specific activities were programmed: (i) update the national
topographic map on a scale of 1:250,000; (ii) produce 500 maps showing land use at a scale of
1:250,000; (iii) produce statistics on land use and vegetation coverage; (iv) produce maps with
37



detailed data on eight districts at a scale of 1:50,000; (v) install the Geographic Information
System (GIS) in the National Office of Geography and Cadastre (DINAGECA); (vi) install
programs adapted to the system for the work to be accomplished; (vi) train specialists of
DINAGECA to work with the equipment purchased, and operate and maintain the GIS; (vii)
hold three seminars for approval of the work methodology and dissemination of the results of
the first and second phases of the work; and (viii) train two university graduates in this area.
The activities making up this component, with the exception of the training of two
university graduates, were fully accomplished. All the work of the component was entrusted to
a joint venture composed of CENACARTA (a Mozambican company) and IGN-France
International (a French company).
During the execution of the project, there was no problem finding financial resources for
carrying out the various activities. Now that the project is finished, and considering the
precarious financial condition, the sustainability of the effort is in doubt. The inputs and all
activities related to map production are extremely expensive. Although the project left
equipment and trained personnel, they cannot be used to their full capacity because of the
government's limited resources, which do not permit doing high-volume jobs.
The Cadastre objectives of rural services rehabilitation project were realistic because the
various phases or stages were consistently finished on time. The rural services rehabilitation
project was well designed. It is recommended that future projects pay more attention to aspects
of training and technology transfer, and the planning and content of the training to be given.
Along the same lines, the Provincial Geography and Cadastre Services (SPGCs) should have
received special training so they could contribute more effectively to the refresher training that
will be required in the future. This could reduce the costs incurred in sending technicians to
headquarters to get the refresher training.
We believe that dissemination of the database to the provinces, along with specific
instructions for its management and use, is unrealistic because at the provincial level the
necessary human and technical resources for this purpose are still lacking. An effort will be
made to distribute the maps already produced so that they can be used. This aspect was not
included in the performance contract for this component, so authorities in the sector are
working to find funding for it and for gradually developing conditions for the provincial
databases and dissemination of the work done.
The financial resources obtained through the project and placed at the disposal of
DINAGECA are making a significant contribution to the rapid and satisfactory meeting of the
user demand for geographically referenced data. Maintenance is an integral part of the
functional scheme of DfNAGECA as a governmental agency. Several alternatives are being
explored for guaranteeing the continued functioning of the equipment.
The results of the implementation of this component were considered satisfactory.
Rural Water Supply Component
This component envisioned increasing the service delivery area of rural water supply in
Sofala and Zambezia, and improving the organization and management of the agencies
responsible for water supply in the project area. Other objectives were to strengthen
38



community participation in the operation and maintenance of the water points by reinforcing
the Community Education Program, and purchasing inputs needed for maintenance of hand
pumps. Specific activities programmed were the following: (i) rehabilitate and construct a total
of 120 water sources in Sofala and 180 in Zambezia; (ii) purchase of AFRIDEV brand hand
pumps, which are easy to use and maintain, in replacement of the INDIA MARK 11 brand; (iii)
make an inventory of water supply infrastructure in Sofala and Zambezia; (iv) undertake a
study on the organization and management of area rural water supply companies (EPARs); and
(v) increase output capacity (building three sanitary treatment plants for rural water in the
districts of Upper Mol6cue, Chinde, and Buzi, and buying and delivering equipment for
manual and mechanical well drilling), increase management capacity at water treatment plants
(establishing systems for programming, monitoring, and coordinating of contract awarding,
logistics, and community education), and improve the PEC through training for its
administrators, extension agents, and operation and maintenance groups in methods of eliciting
greater community involvement.
In the initial design for the project, priority was given to strengthening the provincial
treatment plants for rural water. This effort consisted of improving the output capacity of rura]
water treatment plants in the provinces by construction of three new sanitary treatment plants
and supplying various types of equipment, management training, and improvement of the
mechanisms for increasing community involvement in water supply activities. The context of
the war situation during the height of the design of thhe project, together with the lack of a
strategy for the sector, had a pronounced effect on the shaping of these activities.
After execution of the project was begun, unanticipated activities considered most
beneficial for the sector were added. The most important new activity added was the study for
institutional reorganization, which made it possible to draw up a policy and national strategy
for water supply that is currently to be followed by the sector, and the inclusion of water
systems to be funded by the rural services rehabilitation project. The activities can be
summarized as follows:
39



Type                                                             Unit        Projected    Actual
Purchase of well drilling equipment, manual and mechanical       Sets        2            b
Purchase of tractors and accessories                             N          6            6
Purchase of two trucks                                           NO          2            2
Purchase of hand water pumps                                     NO          1,400        300
Construction of sanitary water treatment plant in the District of Upper  Metros  133      0
Mol6cue                                                          Quadr.
Construction of sanitary water treatment plant in the District of Buzi  Metros  133       0
Quadr.
Construction of sanitary water treatment plant in the District of Chinde  Metros  133     0
Quadr.
Planning prototype sanitary water treatment plant                NO          0            1
Study of water supply system in Gurue                            NO          0            1
Study of water supply system in lie                              NO          0            1
Study of water supply system in Maganja da Costa                 NO          0            1
Study of water supply system in Pebane                           NO          0            1
Study for institutional reorganization of the water sector       NO          0            1
Inventory of water points in Sofala and Zambezia                 NO          2            2
Inventory of water infrastructure in Sof./Zamb.                  NO          1            1
Construction and outfitting of water points                      NO          240          147
Rebuild and expand the water system of Gurue                     NO          0            1
A project for a prototype sanitary water treatment plant was developed with a view to
expanding the geographic area of the provincial rural water treatment plants, as indicated in the
project document. Since the project for expansion of the provincial rural water companies was
abandoned in the implementation of the rural services rehabilitation project, the prototype can
be used as soon as the future and legal status of the rural water companies is clarified. The
National Water Office (DNA) is going to immediately commission a study that will assist in
deciding the future of the current companies.
The project bought 300 hand water pumps that were used in new and rehabilitated water
points, as well as two trucks, six tractors, and two vehicles for the provincial water
departments and the provincial rural water supply companies, to be used for transporting
supplies and technicians for inspecting the water supply works. Absent a clear policy for the
construction and rehabilitation of widely separated water points, the purchase of hand water
pumps was somewhat limited until the strategy to be followed is clarified.
The inventory of water sources in Sofala and Zambezia provinces was completed. The data
are being used for programming the water supply. This study also produced software for the
database on water sources that is being used by the water departments in Zambezia. In Sofala
the database was not used for lack of adequate follow-up.
A study was done for the institutional restructuring of the water sector. Its
recommendations are to be implemented and have guided the activities of the National Water
Office. This study was done instead of the study on management and organization of
provincial rural water treatment systems, because of the need to define the strategy for the
water sector before that study is begun. The water sector will use the recommendations of the
study that was completed.
40



Studies were done on small water supply systems (Gurue, lie, Maganja da Costa, and
Pebane). Among the water supply systems studied, thie one for Gurue was rehabilitated and
enlarged. This was carried out and completely finished. As for the management of this system,
the National Water Office has already begun a study that will help to identify management
options for similar situations.
The results of the implementation of this component were considered satisfactory.
Soils and Resettlement of the Population
This sub-component and component were cancelled.
LESSONS LEARNED
Planning of micro-projects with community involvement
The process of community participation in the process of investment planning should
be continued by being institutionalized. This would ensure its permanency because it would
become part of the national investment programming system, and would avoid the interruption
in the process that occurs when officials are transfer-ed out of the district or province.
Project timeframes
Whenever possible, projects that involve cornmunity participation in their execution,
maintenance, and operation should have long time fiames, and be free of disbursement
pressures, which generally tend to interfere with the best organization of such processes as the
development of procedures and the necessary involvement of the appropriate agencies. The
question of community participation is a long-term process that cannot be expected to proceed
at the same pace normally anticipated for disbursements. Flexibility in the execution of
projects of this kind, especially those that involve multi-sector coordination, should be taken
into account in project design so that positive results likely to improve the implementation
process can be incorporated.
Institutional development and training
It was unrealistic to expect this project to achieve much in the way of institutional
development, which depends on institutional development at the central level. It is essential to
have clear rules and procedures for the execution of works at the provincial and district levels,
with well-delineated lines of responsibility for these levels in the various sectors. This would
facilitate clarification of project activities at every level, bearing in mind that decentralization
goes beyond the physical aspects of investment decisions to include questions of financing. It
is to be hoped that future projects of this sort are preceded by studies that reconcile provincial
and regional concerns and those of the responsible central agencies with project objectives.
Inspection and civil construction companies benefited more from the training effort, since their
problems had been better identified.
41



Support for provincial and district public agencies
Future rural development projects should devote more attention to providing these
institutions with support through the central sector agencies, particularly in the definition of
standards, procedures, and training.
Training
Training and orientation for contractors and inspectors in their respective fields and
others such as contractor law, legal aspects of contracts, logistics, organization of work,
competitive bidding, contracts and other relevant subjects, should be a permanent element
because it proved to be one of the best ways to improve the performance of contractors and
inspectors, and to raise quality and speed in the execution of works. It is a practice that should
be continued in future projects of this type.
Courses on preventive maintenance of buildings
The courses proved themselves to be necessary in eliciting community initiatives to
supplement government efforts to maintain basic services for the population, and should be
considered in future projects.
Mapping and land use
The activities of this component were all entrusted to a specialized company, IGN-
FRANCE INTERNATIONAL/CENACARTA, and were completed as a whole. One job that
remained unfinished is to be continued with the training of the provincial geography and
mapping services, which will be responsible for updating the mapping in each of the
provinces. These units would carry on the work continuously in each province and transmit the
results to headquarters in Maputo for periodic updating of maps. The sector will seek funding
to permit dissemination of the results of the mapping that was done, and to train provincial
technicians in the use of the results obtained.
Rural water supply
Except in emergency situations, water supply programs should respond to actual
demand and be carried out by private management or using other water supply system
management models. Studies on various altemative management systems are going to be
carried out by the National Water Office. One of the systems to be considered is that of Gurue,
which was rehabilitated and expanded with funding from the Rural Services Rehabilitation
Project.
42



IBRD 24277
CONGO  9UAL~~~~~DI  3g4        36-W40                           P
ts  ZAIRE TOOZANL&   > 34 ( \    36            3&ATZI
w z\ X NIASSA  ,  V  {CSr
MA LA                                    M   _.fPua]      .
ZAMBIA ~ ~  ~    ~ ~ TAZAI
M..O
C.h.. B... D- ~ ~ ~ ~     Mcoo 
HARARE                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~MOZAMBIQUE
c  RURAL REHIABILITATION PROJECT
Z   A   M   B  I  A ti <<tXf*3\%DvCtuP oject    re\osO\ 
-                                              4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
HARARE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ER ROAD$U
-   , ,l INTRNATOCNAtATOUND
.ocBo.B,foo$N. B,  fIh.,m OFo84N,40  wOo*
SUUSU~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P          VNCEnO1 CAM L           24 CtA5
21~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
) { D   r               -  M9BD6 ~~~~~~~WVNC OUNDARCCNS2
OW  j        11). Np,I-4.Nko by Th. IMoe     GRn.C i0
W~~~~~~~~~~f   itw ft N , ~ 4~ W .W;cao   0  Oll ll
30W                                                             4??
FEBRUARY 1993






IBRD 24278
V4IASSA                                                                                 W F <AIC
NAMPULA              N         D  -
~ /  \   OURU)t                               D  0OrA
u Moubo         l9npb"g @      #e   
MILANGE         {                      hOZXAlt Ligonho  \
ASORROI                                            DQUNAII
exdwfveiy far te coronSeco                             AO
l rcdrsia   MILANGE   ua LoA           \                                     G
0                    LU~~~~~~05                               10         10            0           5
A   Mongue                     0    LGL                            /      
and die boundaries shown     ne                                             GILE
- of. Tunhomrzde W orld OMun_ Sq _/ojp,
.   Chirre                                                 nj      
0 O        \  )            \                       PEBANE                            199
Derre               iA \                    Mouea                                              <
Mear      ORUBL                      OUBiA        r-      G    NJA          MuolaOma            NobUri  \
. / ~~~DA COSTA 
MORRUMBALA                                    C DAAC OSTA     Bjn          -                       .
\       ~~~MOPEIA Camp    NICOG2                                                      ^qJ
<  MOPEIA   Gonhc    ;                                 ~~~~RURoL REHABILITATION
>                1 I3^J~~~~~NOE                   Prol^ect Supported Distridts In Zambezia-
\ CHiNDE .
2 [   >  uIINDE                                          (+)  F~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IROVINCE~t<>AL
/                                               O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ADMINEMWE POSTS
/                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DISTIUC BOUNESP
X                                                    -    RB i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NION 30UNDARES
/                                  -                       NXERNA~~~~~~~~~~MOWL BNOANME
on This map dos beeno,n ahed
par of Ttioe Worl 8ber0knon9pc
arty judgn"  on. ttrw 
er wdrst    or  atuetny                                                CLOMMlR S
suhbourldafiesW                                                          ptxtfAekl
FEBRUAIRY 1 993






IBRD 24279
ON -7GO  eWMO*A       Xe>-
NAS.                                            MOZAMBIQUE
RURAL REHABILITATION PROJECT
ram a            Project Supported Districts In Sofala
\ k   <    g>  >  CHEMBA  *)                         -   PROJECTAREAS
a SOAFuRTIH Ct   Ocs         \                   CHEMBAX             2                  i      PROVINCE CAPITAL
________\___Mulin__ _  a    /S 1                          *       DISTRICT CAPITALS
This map  hos been  prepared                             Canxixe          1                                              ADMfNISTRATIVE POSTS
by The  World  Bank s  staff                            0                                                     -          DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
exclusively for the convenience
of readers  and  is  for  the                                        C                                                   PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
internal use of The World Bank                               CAIGUA                        A                     -       ITRAINLBUDRE
Group.The denominations used                                MARINGUE                CAL                                                          R
and  the  boundaries  shown                                                                                              I               B       A
on this map do not imply, on the
part of The World Bank Goup,                                   RNU
any judgment on the legal
status ot any territory or any /ty.. 
endorsement or acceptance of                                                                           upang
such boundaries. \
g  \        Su~bu4             ,Y          anhm    nga \t
,Nh modzi                 \\  MARRO                                   MEU\ U            A qyi
7            (  Vunduzi                                                MARRO
'INHAMINGA
0  50005GORONGOSA                               250
ORONGOSA                    f                                           \ 
<               >    Ivk~~~NUANZ                                     J
'-^.A-9Er   r                ~FAMUANZA                               199
KWaANDA    t> 
NHAMATANsDA                          9 
g  >                 BtI~~~~sZI  E\,A   1    A             .         I1 N  D  I A  N
13 G nda/        BUZ I
CHIBABAVA                            St>folo  ,.  
t   HIBABAVA                                          .-
> < O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ C E A N
1i  0                    /           Dvnhe 4                  
. b              un~~~~~Mxugue             /               0
i\  A                  ~~~MACHANGA 
MACHANGA     
%       ,(                      it9~~HAMBANE  \ 
0               50               1 00              1 50              200>               250     
KILOMETERS 
Approximate Scale 



