Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 2479 MOZ
                   Development Credit Agreement
                  (Rural Rehabilitation Project)
                              between
                      REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                       Dated April 30, 1993
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 2479 MOZ
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated April 30, 1993, between the REPUBLIC OF
MOZAMBIQUE (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(the Association).
      WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project; and
      WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1,
Page  2
1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth,
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
      (a)   "AgPack" means a package of agricultural inputs
containing improved seeds and simple agricultural hand tools;
      (b)   "CFA" means Centro de Formacao Agraria, the Agricultural
Training Center of the Borrower;
      (c)   "CPP" means Commissao Provincial de Plano, the
Provincial Planning Commission;
      (d)   "DNP" means Direccao Nacional de Plano, the National
Planning Directorate of the Borrower;
      (e)   "DINAGECA" means Direccao Nacional de Geografia e
Cadastro, the National Directorate of Geography and Cadaster of the
Borrower;
      (f)   "EPAR" means Estaleiro Provincial de agua Rural, the
Provincial Water Supply Workshop;
      (g)   "Guidelines" means the Guidelines prepared by the
Borrower for the purposes of Project accounting;
      (h)   "INDER" means Instituto de Desenvolvimento Rural, the
Institute of Rural Development of the Borrower;
      (i)   "Implementation Agreement" means any of the agreements
referred to in Section 3.03 of this Agreement;
      (j)   "Land Commission" means the Land Commission of the
Ministry of Agriculture of the Borrower;
      (k)   "Manual" means the Operations Manual referred to in
Section 3.04 (a) and Section 5.01 (a) of this Agreement, prepared by
the Borrower to describe the procedures to be followed during the
subproject cycle including, inter alia, the terms and conditions and
the eligibility criteria for processing a subproject;
      (l)   "PESU" means Programma de Emergcncia de Sementes e
Utensilios Agricolas, the Emergency Seeds and Tools Program of the
Borrower;
      (m)   "PRONAR" means Programa Nacional de agua Rural, the
National Rural Water Supply Program of the Borrower;
      (n)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
      (o)   "Project Preparation Advance" means the project
preparation advance granted by the Association to the Borrower
pursuant to an exchange of letters dated February 7, 1992 and
March 26, 1992 between the Borrower and the Association;
      (p)   "Project Area" means the districts of Buzi, Dondo, and
Nhamatanda in the Province of Sofala, and Alto Molocue, Chinde,
Gurue, Mocuba and Nicoadala in the Province of Zambezia, and all
such districts that may be included by agreement between the
Borrower and the Association; and
      (q)   "Subproject" means the activities under Part A.2 of the
Project.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
Page  3
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to fourteen million five hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 14,500,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in a
commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association, including appropriate protection against set-off,
seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 5 to this Agreement. The President of INDER shall be
responsible for operating the Account.
      (c)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to itself the amount required to repay the principal amount
of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of
such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance
shall thereupon be cancelled.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1998 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
      (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in
Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
      (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such
other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on June 1 and December 1 each year.
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
annual installments payable on each June 1 and December 1 commencing
June 1, 2003 and ending December 1, 2032. Each installment to and
Page  4
including the installment payable on December 1, 2012 shall be one
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment
thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
      (b)   Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years, and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
      (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a) above.
      Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through
INDER with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate agricultural and rural development practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the Project.
      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Borrower and the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4
to this Agreement.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.03. For the purposes of the implementation of the
Project, the Borrower shall cause INDER to enter into Implementation
Agreements with CFA, DINAGECA and PRONAR, under terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association, specifying, inter alia, the rights
and obligations of CFA, DINAGECA and PRONAR, respectively, the
timetable to be followed and the scope of activities under the
Project to be carried out respectively by CFA, DINAGECA and PRONAR.
      Section 3.04. The Borrower will take necessary actions to
ensure that:
      (a)   all subprojects shall be processed according to the
procedures described by the Manual and that the Manual shall not be
modified without prior approval of the Association;
Page  5
      (b)   no later than June 30, 1997, a revised Manual
incorporating the lessons learned during Project implementation is
produced;
      (c)   no later than December 31, 1996, a report of the Land
Study containing a methodology for the demarcation of smallholder
land is completed;
      (d)   no later than June 30, 1994, the study on the
Organization and Management of Provincial Water Supply is completed;
      (e)   no later than June 30, 1994, an Inventory of Rural Water
Supply Infrastructure for Sofala and Zambezia is completed; and
      (f)   the Guidelines, satisfactory to the Association, for
project accounting are followed.
      Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall every year conduct,
jointly with the Association, an annual Project implementation
review. The review shall, inter alia: (i) assess the progress made
in processing and implementing subprojects and in defining policies
out of the land study and in producing land use maps; (ii) evaluate
the number of wells produced; and (iii) evaluate the progress in the
distribution of Agpacks.
      (b)   No later than one month prior to each review referred to
in (a) above, the Borrower shall, through INDER furnish to the
Association, for its comments, a report in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, including an evaluation of the
progress achieved in complying with Project implementation.
      (c)   The Borrower shall, promptly thereafter, carry out the
recommendations emanating from each such review.
      Section 3.06. The Borrower shall cause the CPPs of Sofala and
Zambezia to open and thereafter maintain Project Accounts (Sofala
Project Account and Zambezia Project Account, respectively) in
commercial banks acceptable to the Association. The Borrower shall
deposit into each of the Project Accounts an amount equivalent to
$50,000, as the Borrower's contribution.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance
with sound accounting practices, the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section, including those
                  for the Special Account for each fiscal year
                  audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
                  principles consistently applied, by independent
                  auditors acceptable to the Association;
            (ii)  furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
                  but in any case not later than nine months after
                  the end of each such year, a certified copy of
                  the report of such audit by said auditors, of
                  such scope and in such detail as the Association
                  shall have reasonably requested; and
           (iii)  furnish to the Association such other information
                  concerning said records, accounts and the audit
                  thereof as the Association shall from time to
                  time reasonably request.
Page  6
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
                  with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
                  accounts reflecting such expenditures;
            (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the
                  Association has received the audit for the fiscal
                  year in which the last withdrawal from the Credit
                  Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
                  invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                  evidencing such expenditures;
            (iii) enable the Association's representatives to
                  examine such records; and
            (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are
                  included in the annual audit referred to in
                  paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report
                  of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
                  auditors as to whether the statements of
                  expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                  together with the procedures and internal
                  controls involved in their preparation, can be
                  relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Effective Date; Termination
      Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
      (a)   the Borrower has adopted the Operations Manual
acceptable to the Association;
      (b)   the implementation agreements between INDER and CFA and
INDER and DINAGECA referred to in Section 3.03 of this Agreement
have been signed by the parties thereto;
      (c)   the Borrower has prepared, for the Project, standard
bidding documents for the procurement of goods and works and
standard package for the selection of consultants, acceptable to the
Association;
      (d)   the Borrower has adopted an Annual Plan of Operations
for the implementation of the Project, acceptable to the
Association; and
      (e)   the Borrower has appointed an Auditing Firm, for the
purpose of the Project, acceptable to the Association.
      Section 5.02. The following is specified as additional matter,
within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions,
to be included in the opinion or opinions to be furnished to the
Association, namely that the implementation agreements specified in
Section 5.01 (b) above have been executed and are binding upon the
parties in accordance with their terms.
      Section 5.03. The date one hundred and twenty (120) days after
the date of this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
            Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 6.01. The Governor of the Bank of Mozambique of the
Page  7
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Banco de Mocambique
            Departamento de Relacoes Internacionais
            Avenida da 25 de Setembro 1695
            Maputo
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  MOBANCO                     6355/7 BMMO
                  Maputo
                                          Facsimile:
                                              29178
      For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  INDEVAS                    197688 (TRT),
                  Washington, D.C.           248423 (RCA),
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                              82987 (FTCC)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
                  REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE
                  By /s/ Eneas da Conceicao Comiche
                                         Authorized Representative
                  INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                  By /s/ Stephen Denning M.
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items to be financed in each Category:
Page  8
                             Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                             (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)   Works for:
      (a)  Part D of           1,090,000        100% of foreign
           the Project                          expenditures and
                                                70% of local
                                                expenditures
      (b)  Other                  70,000        100% of foreign
                                                expenditures and
                                                70% of local
                                                expenditures
(2)   Subprojects              1,660,000        100% of foreign
      under Part A.2                            expenditures and
      of the Project                            90% of local
                                                expenditures
(3)   Goods:
      (a)  vehicles and        1,440,000        100%
           equipment
      (b)  seeds and           3,250,000        100%
           tools
                            Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                             (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(4)   Consultants'
      services:
      (a)  Mapping               720,000        100%
      (b)  Technical           1,800,000        100%
           Assistance
      (c)  Training              360,000        100%
      (d)  NGO Services          580,000        100%
(5)   Operating Costs            800,000        100% for Year 1;
                                                80% for Years 2
                                                and 3; and 50%
                                                for Years 4 and 5
(6)   Refunding of               410,000        Amount due pur-
      Project Prepara-                          suant to Section
      tion Advance                              2.02 (c) of this
                                                Agreement
(7)   Unallocated              2,320,000
                              __________
           TOTAL              14,500,000
                              ==========
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower;
      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
Page  9
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower; and
      (c)   the term "operating costs" means incremental Project-
related operating costs including office supplies, maintenance of
vehicles, equipment and computers procured under the Project, cost
of fuel for said vehicles, Project staff allowances, and field
trips, Project-related communication expenses, and office rentals.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of: (a) payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; (b) payments made
for Category (2), unless the amounts specified in Section 3.06 of
this Agreement have been deposited; and (c) payments made for
Category (1) (a), unless the Implementation Agreement between INDER
and PRONAR has been signed.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
      The objectives of the Project are: (i) to strengthen the
capabilities of institutions responsible for post-war reconstruction
and to develop procedures for decentralized rural development; (ii)
to provide land use information and to develop policies for tenure
security for smallholders; (iii) to help households displaced due to
war to restart agricultural production on their traditional lands;
and (iv) to improve the health and quality of life of rural
households by increasing the coverage of the rural drinking water
supply/infrastructure.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Support for Decentralization
1.    Provision of technical assistance and equipment to INDER and
to the key institutions.
2.    Carrying out of pilot activities on the provinces of Sofala
and Zambezia to identify, appraise and implement small- and medium-
scale investments.
3.    Organization of training courses and seminars.
Part B:     Land Study and Land Use Mapping
1.    Assisting the Land Commission in developing policies and in
designing and testing procedures for demarcating smallholder lands.
2.    Revising the national topographic map and estimating the land
use pattern.
3.    Developing instruments and detailed maps for priority
districts in Sofala and Zambezia.
4.    Preparation of GIS data, software programs and manuals.
Part C:   Distribution of Agpacks
      Providing Agpacks for about 200,000 households in the Project
area.
Part D:     Rural Water Supply
1.    Rehabilitating and improving capacity for supplying water,
including: (i) development of additional capacity; (ii) increasing
use of existing capacity; and (iii) construction of wells, boreholes
or other water sources.
2.    Strengthening of EPAR's capability to coordinate
Page  10
administrative, logistical and technical assistance activities,
including: (i) development of procurement procedures for the use of
private contractors for the implementation of civil works; (ii)
establishment of a monitoring and programming system; and (iii)
updating of cost structures.
3.    Developing a scheme for operating and maintaining water supply
systems, based on community participation and technological changes,
including: (i) the replacement of handpumps for easy-to-maintain
equipment; and (ii) preparation of an inventory of infrastructure to
indicate the location, condition and operation and maintenance
requirements of existing water supply facilities in the Project
area.
                      *         *          *
      The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1998.
                            SCHEDULE 3
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in May 1992 (the Guidelines). For fixed-price contracts, the
invitation to bid referred to in paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines
shall provide that, when contract award is delayed beyond the
original bid validity period, the successful bidder's bid price will
be increased for each week of delay by two predisclosed correction
factors acceptable to the Bank, one to be applied to all foreign
currency components and the other to the local currency component of
the bid price. Such an increase shall not be taken into account in
bid evaluation.
2.    To the extent practicable, contracts for equipment and
vehicles shall be grouped in bid packages estimated to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or more each.
3.    Goods shall be exempted from the preshipment price inspection.
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A 1 hereof, goods manufactured in the Republic of
Mozambique may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Office supplies estimated to cost less than $20,000 equivalent
per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $200,000, may
be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of
price quotations obtained from at least three suppliers eligible
under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to
the Association.
2.    Proprietary spare parts up to an aggregate amount not to
exceed $200,000 may be procured directly from the supplier, in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
3.    Items or groups of items estimated to cost the equivalent of
$1,000, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $50,000, may be
procured off the shelf, in accordance with procedures acceptable to
the Association.
Page  11
4.    Works for subprojects estimated to cost the equivalent of
$25,000 or more, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $700,000,
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive
bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures
satisfactory to the Bank.
5.    Works for subprojects under Part A.2 of the Project estimated
to cost less than $25,000, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed
$700,000 and works for building renovation up to an aggregate not to
exceed $200,000, may be procured on the basis of price quotations
obtained from at least three contractors, in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Association.
6.    Works for rural water supply and building renovation, up to an
aggregate amount not to exceed $1,900,000, may be procured on the
basis of force account.
Part D:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
      (a)   With respect to each contract for work estimated to cost
the equivalent of $50,000 or more, and for goods estimated to cost
the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to
the Association prior to the making of the first payment out of the
Special Account in respect of such contract.
      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the
Credit Account are to be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure.
2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
1.    In order to assist the Borrower in the Project, the Borrower
shall employ experts and consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be selected
in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the
Consultant Guidelines).
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section,
the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank
review or approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures,
letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts
shall not apply to contracts estimated to cost less than $100,000
equivalent each. However, this exception to prior Bank review shall
not apply to the terms of reference for such contracts nor to the
employment of individuals, to single source selection of firms, to
assignments of a critical nature as reasonably determined by the
Page  12
Bank and to amendments of contracts raising the contract value to
$100,000 equivalent or above.
                            SCHEDULE 4
                      Implementation Program
1.    Under the general guidance of the Steering Committee, INDER
shall coordinate the implementation of the Project and manage all
Project funds.
2.    INDER through the CPPs of Sofala and Zambezia and the CFA
shall implement Parts A and C of the Project, DINAGECA shall
implement Part B of the Project, and PRONAR shall implement Part D
of the Project.
3.    The Borrower shall establish a Project Steering Committee
which shall include, inter alia, the directors of DINAGECA, CFA,
PESU, PRONAR, DNP, the Land Commission and the Directors of
CPPs of Sofala and Zambezia. The Steering Committee shall be chaired
by the President of INDER.
4.    The Steering Committee shall meet at least twice a year, inter
alia, to (i) provide guidance on Project implementation, (ii)
approve the annual operations plan and recommend project investments
for the next year, and (iii) approve semiannual project monitoring
and evaluation report.
5.    INDER and the Provincial governments of Sofala and Zambezia
shall maintain separate Project Accounts. These accounts shall be
consolidated into Annual Financial Statements by INDER. The
statements shall contain a summary of the sources and use of funds,
a summary of Special Account, and a recapitulation of reimbursements
replenishment claimed under statements of expenditures.
6.    The Directors of CPPs of Sofala and Zambezia shall open and
manage project accounts. INDER shall replenish the accounts against
statements of expenditures presented by the Directors of the CPPs.
7.    The Borrower shall ensure that civil works for Part D of the
Project are only executed in sites where communities have signed
agreements with the CPPs.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                          Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (5) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $750,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
Page  13
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for
a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
      (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Association
                  requests for deposits into the Special Account at
                  such intervals as the Association shall specify.
            (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Association the
                  documents and other evidence required pursuant to
                  paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
                  payments in respect of which replenishment is
                  requested. On the basis of each such request, the
                  Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                  withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into
                  the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
                  shall have requested and as shall have been shown
                  by said documents and other evidence to have been
                  paid out of the Special Account for eligible
                  expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article
V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from
the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the
Association may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account
Page  14
(or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association)
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence
or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
      (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to
the Association such outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.
