Documert of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 7904
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BURKIINA FASO
NIENA DIONKELE RICE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1013-BUR)
June 30, 1989
Agriculture Operations Division
Sahelian Department
Africa Regional Office
iTis document bas a esticted diLstibution and may be used by recipients only In the perfonnance Of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authoriztion.



ABBREV$ATIONS
ADRAO          Association for the Development of Rice in West Africa
BUNASOLS       National Soils Bureau
CERCI          Center for Experimentation on Rice and Irrigated Crops
FAC            French Aid and Cooperation Agency
IRAT           Institute for Tropical Agronomic Research and Food Crops
MAE            Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock
MDR            Ministry of Rural Development
ORD            Regional Development Organization
ORD HB         ORD of Hauts-Bassins (region)
ORSTOM         French Agency for Scientific and Technical Research
RIS3           Rice Industry Support Group
SAED           Societe Africaine d'Etudes et de Developpement (Burkinab6
consulting firm)
SCET           Societe Centrale d'Equipement du Territoire (French
consulting firm)
SNSC           National Certified Seed Service



FOR OMCIuAL USE ONLY
TKE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C 20433
USA
Ollhce o DVWectv.C~.
Op. atmn lvakutnn
June 30, 1989
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Project Completion Report - Burkina Paso Niena Dionkele
Rice Develrpment Project (Credit 1013-BUR)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled
"Project Completion Report - Burkina Faso Niena Dionkele Rice Development
Project (Credit 1013-BUR)" prepared by the Africa Regional Office.
No audit of this project has been made by the Operations Evaluation
Department at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OFFIACIL USE ONLY
BURKINA FASO
NIENA DIONKELE RICE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
PREFACE  ....................................... ............i
BASIC DATA  SHEET  ............................................ .                       ii
EVALUATION  SUMMARY ............................................ iii
I.    BACKGROUND ................................................                                1
A.     The  Project  in the Context  of National Agricultural  Strategy..1
B.    Previous Rice  Projects ........................................ l
II.   PREPARATION AND EVALUATION .................................... 1
A.    Technical  Studies and Preparation .............................1
B.    Pre-appraisal ................................................1 
C.    Broad Outlines of the Project .................................2
- Production  Component ................................... 2
- Rice  Industry  Support .................................. 3
D.    Costs and Financing ........................................... 3
E.    Organization  and Management ................................... 3
- Agricultural  Production Component ......................3
- Rice  Industry  Support Group ............................4
- The Director  of the Rice Mill ..........................4
III. PROJECT  IMPLEMENTATION ....................................... 4
A.   Introduction .....................................                                         4
B.    Changes after Appraisal .....................................  5
C.    Implementation ................................................ 5
- Managers  and Management ................................5
- Production Component ................................... 5
- Rice  Industry  Support Component ........................ 10
D.    Problems Encountered .......................................... 11
- Technical .............................................. 11
- Insufficient  Knowledge  of the Milieu ................... 12
- Sociological  Problems .................................. 12
- Faulty Evaluation  of Institutional Dynamics ............ 13
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



IV. RESULTS                      ................... 13                                     K
A.   Direct ........................................................ 13
B.   Indirect ........................................................    14
V.   EXPENDITURES AND ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE ......................... 15
A.   Project Costs, Financing, and Expenditures .................... 15
B.   Economic Results .............................................. 16
VI.  INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT ..................................... 17
VII. PROjECT SUSTAINABILITY ........................................ 17
VIII.      PERFORMANCE OF IDA AND OF THE GOVERNMENT             .    .     17
A.   Government .................................................... 17
B.   IDA ........................................................   18
IX.  LESSONS LEARNED ............................................... 18
A.   Factors Peculiar to the Niena-Dionkele Project ................ 18
B.   General Lessons ......................................               ......... 19
TABLES
1.   Distribution of Fertilizer;
2.   Annual Rainfall in the Project Area;
3.   Development of Area of Rice Production, Number of Trained Farmers,
Yield and Production;
4.   Rice Seed Production;
5.   Farm Budget for Rainfed Rice Production on the Developed Perimeter;
6.   Production Charges and Cost Price of the Main Crops in the Project
Area;
7.   Labor Requirements for the Main Crops grown in the Project Area;
8.   Utilization of Finance According to Category and Source;
9.   Summary of Costs by Project Component;
10. Summary of Costs and Benefits.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BURKINA FASO
NIENA DIONKELE RICE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1013-BUR)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Niena Dionkele
Rice Development Project in Burkina Faso, for which Credit 1013-BUR in the
amount of US$ 6.5 million was approved on April 29, 1980. The last
disbursement was on July 16, 1987.    The Czedit was closed on December 31,
1986, two years behind schedule, and an amount of US$ 2.8 million was
cancelled.
The PCR was prepared by the Agriculture Operations Division,
Sahelian Department, of the Africa Regional Office, and is based, inter
alia, on the Staff Appraisal Report; the Credit Agreement; supervision
reports, correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower; and internal
Bank memoranda.
This PCR was read by the Operations Evaluation Department (OED).
The draft PCR was sent to the Borrower on January 12, 1989, for comments by
March 9, 1989, but none were received.



-ii -
BASIC OATA StET
aAMM FASO - NIt3 0106(8* RIC 0EV8L.064T £ cjetT (CSED1) 1018-aN)
KEY tWtT DATA
Appraieel         Actual           Act.aI as I -  Appraisal
Proet Cost (tISO  Mllion)                          7.12               3.9                          54U
Creitt Aa=unt (UISt ti 11 iion)                    6.5                3.67                         st
Disbursed                                       6.5                3.*7                         an
Ca.3c.l*l.                                      0.00               2.83                        .-
Repaid (to 6/89                                  --                --                           --
Outstanding (& of 61W)                          --                 3.67                        --
Dut. Physical C opn  nto Coupleted                1962               OttS                         IS60
Perimeter Denelopuent Works                    14t2               1465                        1S0X
Board Approal                                      --           04/29/tO                         __
A   wetDate                                   --05/06/60                                    -
Date O-                                               12/06/60                         __
Closing Date                                  12/31/64           12/31/86                         120t
Econoam  Raet of Return (b)                        94             n*aati..                         --
Financial Perforance                               --                                --
Inetitutional Performance                          -- toc'r                                       --
COLHATIVE OI5wlRSTrS
FY80       FY61         FY62          FY3          FYft4        FY83          FYt6    FYb7      FY88
Appraisae I  M(S )               0.;        1.3          i.i           4.S          (.0          6.S
Actual (UN 14)                   0.0        0.42         1.18          1.S7         2.ao         2.74          3.23    3.45       3.67
Actual sa-   of Appr,;sI        0.06       32.31        36.86         82.7t        38.33        42.216        4.7S    53.16    56.56
Oates of Final Di;burs.ant:          Jul, 16. 1987
Amount Cancelled:                    6 2.83  ilfi1on
STAFF DAJ1TS
FY76     FY76     FY77     FY76      FY7t     FY60     FY61      FY82    FY83      FY84     FY85      FY88     FY57     FYd8   Tot.l
Preapprei.al          36.1       *.S      --      48.6.    50.9       --       -        --       --        --       --       --        --       --      137.1
Appraisal              0.1       --       --       --       8.3      39.4      --       --       --        --       --       --        --       --       47.8
Nepotiation             _-                                   --       4.2       --       --        __       -_       __        __       __       __       4.2
Supernision            --                                   --       12.0    19.2      18.2      8.0       8.7      7.3      7.8       ?.0      14.8    96.4
Other                  0.8        --       --      0.4     10.2       0.8       --       --      0.8       --       1.1      1.4       6.'      13.1    35.1
Total Staff Wks       36.7       4.3      0.8     46.2    69.4    65.6        19.2    18.2       8.8       8.7      6.4      6.9      13.8      27.6   320.6
MISSION DATA
Mii;on            Date       N. Days            No. Pera         Spai e  "tiane       Staff           Report            Status    Trend   Typoa of
Repreaented  /a      Wek.              DOate             /b        /c     Pr,obles /d
Apprai-   l       *:5/79          14                 2          Ag(1),B(l)             47.?         04/10/80               --        --       __
Suparnieion I    es/60            11                 2           BP1) C(1)              4.0         06/06/80                1        1        _
Superni ion 2     03/81           11                 3          AS I      ,1).C(1)      6.8         04/22/81               1         2        0
S.per,iaion 3     11/61           12                 2           Ag.(1)                 4.0          11/20/61              8         2        T a
S.Pnrei;on 4      06/82            6                 2          AO 1D0 I               2.0         06/18/82               S         2        T,M
Super-i"ion       12/62            6                 1           Ag 1                   1.0          12/11/82              3         2        F,O
Supervnison 6     05/6S            4                 1          At 1                    1.0         08/18/82               3         2        FMt,T
Sup*rnision 7     11/83      6                       2          AG 1   0(l)            2.0          11/17/63              2         2        F
Suporniajon 8     07/84            4                 1           AO 1                   1.0         07/31/64               2         2        F,P
Supari i;on 9     02/0S            4                 1           Ag 1                   1.0         03/06/a8               2         2        F.P
Superni*ion 10    09/85            4                 1          Ag 1                    1.0         09/20/68               2         2        P
Superniejon 11    06/86                              3          A2 ,C(1)                3.0         06/23/66               2         2        II
Supar.i ion 12    10/86            a                 1           Ag 1                   1.0          10/23/66              2         2        14
Super,ision 1I    0/6j?            4                 1           Ag 1                   1.0         05/12/67               2         2        I.
Total                            4f.4                                                  76f.2
OTrt PROJErT DATA
Borroaer                                               Burkina fa.o
Enacuting AgenCy                                       Mtinistry U Ag%riculture (formerly Rural De-.)
Fiscal Year of Borrower                                Jan 1 - Doc er 31
Follow-on Project Nam"                                 none
Currency (ahbraiet'on)                                 CFAF
Aeprpial year e.er am                               61.00 US - 210 CFAF
Coupletion yer averase                              61.00  S . 303 CPAF
/a       Ag  . 'griculturaliat, a * Economist, C a Engineer; D * Operation  Offictr
/b       bnasus: 1 a problem 1 r  or a;mnr problem.; 2 . moderate probla; 3 * mjor erobless
/c       Trend: I   i prcming; 2 a etetionery; 3 . detriorating
/d       T.7p" of Prblam: Pa  financial; Mal *mnagarial; T . technical; P . political; 0 . other



- iii -
BURKINA FASO
NIEN4A DIONKELE RICE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
EVALUATION SUMMARY
BACKGROUND, PREPARATION, AND EVALUATION
1.     The project was  designed as  part of the  Government's strategy  to
develop  rice  production  to  improve   the  quality  of  life  of   rural
populations,  to  reduce  food  imports,  and  to  improve  food   security
(paragraph 1.1)  1/ .   The two  main objectives  were to  test methods  of
bottom land (bas-fonds) development and to resolve problems of the rice
subsector (2.4).   The  project was  identified  in 1974  and  the  initial
preparation report completed in 1980 (2.1). Significant changes in project
design took place during appraital, reducing the scale to pilot operation.
The credit was eventually signed in May 1980.
2.     The aims of the production component were: (i) to develop 400 ha  of
bottom lands for a single, annual rainfed rice crop, (ii) to provide
personnel, improve cropping practices, supply credit and inputs, (iii) to
build and operate two agricultural service centers, (iv) to create a
cooperative, (v) to establish a demonstration unit and training programme,
and (vi) to finance seed production and adaptive research. The project was
also to provide support to the national rice industry, in particular
the Ministry  of   Rural   Development,   through   technical   assistance,
establishing  a  monitoring   and  evaluation   unit,  providing   improved
management and supplying equipment for the Kou rice mill, and studies
(2.5). Total project costs were expected to be US$7.1 million (2.6).
III. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
3.     The initial Project Director was  appointed soon after signature  of
the credit, but it was only towards the end of 1982 that most of the
Burkinabe personnel were in place. Recruitment of expatriate personnel was
even slower (3.5).
4.     The design of the bottom  land development component was  influenced
by earlier flooding problems encountered at Lake Karamassasso (3.7).
Although 500 ha were protected and provided with a road network, only 160
ha of plots were developed in 1981, with 172 ha added in 1983 and 64 ha in
1985 (3.8).
5.     In 1981,  it became  clear  that the  design  of the  perimeter  was
inappropriate for that year's rainfall (3.9). The dikes excluded external
runoff water, which the farmers needed for their crops. Farmera tried to
1/   Subsequent references to relevant sections of the main text will be
made withouth the prefix "paragraph' - eg (2.4).



- iv -
breach the dikes and the project, unsuccessfully, tried to build an intake
mechan'sm. Rice production was severely reduced through lack of water. In
1982, 14*5, and 1986, in contrast, flooding was the problem (3.10).   Later
in the project's life, small perimeters were developed at Niena (35 ha) and
Dionk6l# (50 ha? (3.12 and 3.13).
6.     A  high  density   of  specially  trained   extension  workers   was
established (3.3.4 and 4.2), which ensured satisfactory adoption rates,
yields,  and   seed   production  (3.15).    Project   extension   services
concentrated exclusively on rice production (3.16).
7.     The research  component focused  on selecting  varieties,  improving
cropping techniques and monitoring seed multiplication (3.18). Trials were
undertaken on varieties, fertilizer response, sowing patterns, diseases and
parasites, the behavior of the water table, ferrous toxicity, and dryland
cropping systems (3.20). The rice variety IRAT 15-29, which had been
successful elsewhere, did not perform well. IRAT 144, however, performed
well, yielding 2.2 tons/ha and showing considerable adaptability to
different conditions (3.22 and 3.24).
8.     The N'Dorola  input supply  center was  more used  than the  one  at
Teoule, which is too far out of the village (3.25). The rate of input
supply and the use of credit by farmers was 202 greater than expected at
appraisal. Credit recovery rates were consistently high, reaching 100l in
1985/86. The 4.000 CFAF land and water fee was fully paid by all farmers
each  year  (3.26).   Medium  term  credit,  achieving  80Z  of   appraisal
estimates, was fully reimbursed by the farmers (3.27).
9.     The intervention of  Faso Yaar  temporarily alleviated  a number  of
rice marketing problems (3.29). The project provided 52 single-row sowers
and 11 pedal threshers for rent by the farmers. A 500 kg/hour dehulling
unit was established, but never used (3.30).
10.    The management of the Kou rice mill was improved, but lack of  space
prevented the installation of additional equipment. High levels of foreign
matter in the rice brought to the mill made it impossible to maintain low
operating costs (3.32). Lack of cooperation from the Kou Valley Authority
and the ORD prevented the rice mill from achieving its inteuded financial
autonomy (3.33).
11.    The reinforcement of the Ministry of Rural Development did not  have
its desired impact due to lack of institutional support, a reorganization
of the Ministry, and overambitious aims for a key study (3.34 and 3.35).
Plans to encourage the creation aiid operation of a cooperative society were
never realized as an appropriate specialist was not recruited (3.36).   The
small monitoring  and  evaluation  team  was  very  active  (3.37).   Three
Burkinabe graduates were trained by the project, though only one received
overseas training (3.38). Most of the anticipated studies were completed
(3.39).
12.    The polder-type construction built at N'Dorola could neither capture
extra external runoff nor drain excess internal water. Maintenance was not



-v - 
always properly carried out. There were 15 ha with fertility problems and
a rise in the water table hindered land preparation elsewhere (3.40 to
3.42).
13.    Changes in the project area at pre-appraisal left some participating
villages far  from  the  developed perimeter.   This  iesulted  in  serious
manpower shortages.   The  problem was  overcome  by establishing  the  two
outlying perimeters near  the two  most distant  villages (3.44).   Another
problem was the refusal of authorities to allow the project to control the
valve on the  Karamassasso dam.   A wide  variety of  local interests  were
lined up against this proposal (3.45).
14.    There were  problems  with  farmers abandoning  their  fields  after
planting. Some caseF were due to farmers wanting to maintain their land
use rights, but lacking the desire to ensure a harvest. More frequently,
farmers volunteered for the project simply to qualify for World Food
Programme rations (3.46).
15.    There was institutional duplication between the project and the  ORD
Hauts-Bassins. The project never undertook a number of intended non-rice
production activities and failed to develop the planned rice-producers
cooperative (3.47).                                                                     £
RESULTS
16.    The project developed 500 ha of  land for rice production at  Dougo,
near N'Dorola, and 35 ha at Niena, and 50 ha at Dionkele. The project
involved nearly 900 farmers, though in a less intense manner than planned
at appraisal (4.1).
17.    Appraisal report targets for total production were achieved, but 502
of the rice came from outside the main N'Dorolas polders. Only 35Z of total
production was marketed through the project, the majority being sold
locally (4.3). CERCI research contributed to the agronomic success of the
project, but diversification  trials yielded negative  results (4.4).   The
project had a successful seed bulking operation for the new rainfed
varieties (4.5).
18.    An average farmer participating in the project would have  increased
his annual family income by between CFAF 30,000 and 40,000 (4.6).   Further
benefits resulting from the project included the creation of additional
employment, an increase in cultivated area, the introduction of a new cash
crop (thus reducing reliance on cotton), stimulating the integration of
women into the area's of economic life, providing a practical introduction
to intensified production (and, consequently, improved land management) and
facilitating the operation of the Kou rice mill (4.7).
EXPENDITURES AND ECONOMIC RESULTS
19.    Des?ite a  two  year extension,  total  project costs  were  54Z of
appraisal estimates (US$3.9  million rather than  US$7.2 million).   Dollar
exchange rates were partly the reason for this, though careful financial
management was a contributory factor (5.1). Expenditures and the sources



- vi -
of finance did not differ  ubstantially from appraisal estimates (5.2).
20.    The economic  analysis of  the  costs and  benefits of  the  project
showed a negative rate of return (5.3). The project's economic performance
was affected by a drop in international ricc prices and the fall of the
dollar since 1985 (5.5). As this was a pilot project, it is unlikely that
the ERR is a valid criteria for gauging success (5.6).
INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
21.    The project  did not  achieve the  intended level  of  institutional
development. The impact of technical assistance was limited, especially
that of the rice policy adviser, and the absence of a cooperative
specialists mav have serious repercussions for future development (6.1).
Extension staff were well trained in rice cultivation, but only one of the
three candidates for overseas managerial training undertook the course
(6.2).
PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
22.    The ultimate hand-over of project responsibilities to the ORD  Hauts
Bassins (currently ex-ORD at January 1988) was always foreseen as a
possibility after the first phase, bat has been slow to be realized (7.1).
If inputs and equipment are available, '.f the processing and marketing of
rice can be assured and if appropriate varieties and disease control
systems are available, farmers should continue to grow rice in the area
( 2).
PERFORMANCE OF IDA AND OF THE GOVERNMENT
23.    Financial constraints obliged the  Government to reduce its  portion
of project financing. Other government shortcomings side included failure
to build 14 km of roads and the premature transfer of two trainee managers
(8.1). Although bureaucratic procedures and political turbulence delayed
decisions, there was a firm commitment on the part of the Government to
complete the project successfully (8.2).
24.    World Bank supervision missions contributed positively to production
activities but lacked specialist inputs on cooperatives, cereals policy,
and monitoring/evaluation. The missions failed to pay sufficient attention
to deviations f.om the appraisal plan in project execution (8.3).
25.    Problems with project design included  a failure to take account  of
conflicting local interests, the creation of institutional overlap with the
ORD Hauts Bas;ins, the use of incomplete rainfall data when developing
civil works designs, and an overestimation of labor availability in
relation to the distances between perimeters and village (8.4).
LESSONS TO BE LEARNED
26.    The project showed that it was possiblc to develop bottom-lands  for
rainfed rice cultivation.   The prospects  of developing  a polder  without
water control were, however, not encouraging (9.1). Lessons learnt



- vii -
relating .o  project  preparation  include  the  need  to  ensure  start-up
preconditions are in place and the importance of project specific rules
being compatible with similar rules already in operation elsewhere 4n the
area (9.3). The project showed the importance of being aware oi local
interests and competing resource users (9.4), and the need to ens;'re that
personnel have the appropriate position and authority to carry out their
official responsibilities (9.5). The project demonstrated the need for
long term central government support if a project is intended to produce
crops that have to compete directly with cheaper imported crops (9.6).
27.    Lessons learnt during  implementation showed the  importance of  not
losing sight of the project's long term goals (9.7) and the limited
capacity of pilot operation to address certain crucial long-term issues
such as marketing and land tenure (9.9).



I. BACKGROUND
A. The Project in the Context of National Agricultural Strategy
1.1.   The Niena-Dionkele Project was conceived as part of the Government's
strategy of developing rice production to improve the incomes and living
standards of the rural population, to reduce rice imports and to improve
food security during drought years. Through institution building and data
collection, the project was to help lay the foundations for a national
rice-growing industry. In 1980, Burkina Faso imported a little over 30,000
tons of rice and produced a slightly larger quantity.
B. Previous Rice Proiects
1.2.   The first large-scale  rice project  was undertaken in  1958 in  the
Niena-Dionkele flood plain.   This consisted ot  improving the drainage  of
"bas-fonds" areas, or bottom lands, and retaining water through closing the
sluices at the end of the rainy season. About 1,500 ha were developed, but
the project failed after three year- due to insufficient protection against
floods and inadequate support and marketing services. About 3,000 ha of
bottom  land,  divided  into  small  perimeters  of  5-20  ha  each,   were
subsequently set up in various parts of the country in the context of the
IDA-financed Rural Development Funds I and II. These generally gave good
results at first, with yields of 1 to 3 tons/ha. It was, however, not
known whether larger bas-fonds areas, such as those of Niena Dionkele,
could be successfully developed.
II. PREPARATION AND EVALUATION
A. Technical Studies and Preparation
2.1.   At Government's  request,  an  IDA  mission  identified  a  possible
irrigation project  at  Niena  Dionk4ld  in  1974.   FAC  then  financed  a
feasibility study that was carried out in 1974/75 by SCET International and
published in  1976.   The  project  was  prepared  by  the  FAO/World  Bank
Cooperative Program. Field work took place in February/March of 1978 and
the  preparation  report  was  completed   in  June  of  that  year.    The
feasibility/preparation work was closely monitored by the World Bank
Resident Mission in West Africa.
B. Pre-appraisal
2.2.   As initially prepared, the project aimed to develop 1,454 ha of land
suited to "bas-fonds" rice cultiv& ion and to increase cotton production on
the  surrounding  plateaux.   However,  it  was  substantially  changed  at
appraisal. The project that was finally approved was an initial three-year
pilot phase of an intended three-phase program, aimed at improving bottom
land production. During the first phase 400 ha north of the Dougo river,
near N'Dorola, were to be developed and cultivated by 800 Senoufo and Bolon
families. The project was also intended to help farmers develop 2,160 ha
of plateau crops -- essentially cotton, sorghum, millet and maize -- and to
help the  Government  resolve problems  of  the rice  subsector.    If  the



-2-
results of this first phase were satisfactory, the project would be
followed by subsequent phases planned to cover 3,500 ha and involving about
3,900 families, some of whom would be immigrants.
2.3.   The decision to  carry out an  initial pilot project  rather than  a
full scale development was made because of uncertainties about adoption
rates of new technologies and farming systems, sociological facto-s and the
viability of marketing arrangements:
C. Broad Outlines of the Final Project
2.4.   The two  main  objectives were  (i)  to verify  the  key  hypotheses
concerning the future of bottom-land development and (ii) to resolve the
problems of the rice subsector. The project would examine, firstly, the
possibility of including bottom-land rice into traditional production
systems, and, secondly,  the sociological aspects  of such inclusion.   The
project was also to encourage institution building in the rice subsector.
Finally, the project aimed to help set up the marketing structures
necessary to gain the confidence of rice producers, to determine an
appropriate national policy for the development of rice cultivation and to
train future rice industry managers.
2.5.   According to paragraph 3.05 of the appraisal report:
'The pilot project would be implemented over three cror?ing years,
1981/82 - 1983/84, with an infrastructural buildup in 1980/tl. It would
comprise two distinct but interrelated components - production and rice
industry support, involving:
Production Component
1.   developing 400 ha  of the North  Dougo swamp for  single crop  rainfed
rice production;
2.  providing management staff, a trained extension service, and promoting
better farming on swampland and uplands through improved husbandry,
credit, farm inputs, oxen and equipment;
3.   construction and operating  two farm service  centers and promoting  a
Niena-Dionkele Cooperative Society;
4.   providing farm  inputs and  oxen and  equipment for  sale on  cash  or
credit;
5.   establishing a demonstration unit, with demonstration, seed production
and training functions;
6.   establishing and operating a research substation to undertake research
into project-related matters;



-3-
Rice Industry Support
7.   strengthening  the  Ministry  of  Rural  Development  with   technical
assistance, charged amongst other things with the preparation of rice
industry policy study;
8.   establishing a monitoring and evaluation unit;
9.   strengthening the management of the Kou Valley rice mill and providing
for possible physical improvements;
10.  funding studies of further developments in the project area ard of the
national rice industry."
D. Costs and Financing
2.6.   Total project  costs were  estimated to  be US$7.12  million.   Base
costs amounted to US$5.62 million. Base cost percentages of each component
were as follows:
Millions. CFAF   1,000 US$      2
Bottom-land Development                                230        1,095    19
Management And Training                                236        1,125    20
Supply Centers                                          38          181     3
Agricultural Inputs                                     73          349     6
Demonstration Unit                                      16           79     1
CERCI Research                                          11           53     1
Technical Assistance                                   222        1,056    19
Monitoring Aknd Evaluation                             151          718    13
Support To Kou Rice Mill                               104          494     9
Studies And Consultant Services                         99          475     8
Total Base Costs                                     1,180        5,620   100
E. Organization and Management
Agricultural Production Component
2.7.   The Ministry of Rural Development  was responsible for the  project,
with the production component implemernted by a semiautonomous project
management unit. The unit would depend on the Regional Development Agency
of Hauts-Bassins (ORD HB), with its Director answering to the Director of
the ORD.   Project headquarters  were at  N'Dorola.  An  Executive  Project
Committee at the national level was planned, composed essentially of the
department heads of the Ministry of Rural Development, and responsible for
examining and approving budgets. At the regional level, the Director of
the ORD-Hauts Bassins was to coordinate the departments and agencies
directly affected  by  the  project.   At the  local  level,  a Management



-4-
Committee would monitor land use and credit approval, a-Id an ad hoc group
would advise the Project Director on questions related to the agricultural
community.
Rice Industry Support Group
2.8.   The project  was  to  support  the Secretary  General  MDR  and  the
Director of the ORD-Hauts Bassins by creating a small rice industry support
group in Bobo Dioulasso. This would comprise a group leader, a cooperative
specialist, and a monitoring/evaluation specialist, assisted by a social
anthropologist and the director of the rice mill. In addition to providing
monitoring and evaluation inputs, assistance to cooperatives and rice mill
management, the Group would be responsible for a study of rice industry
policies. The Group would be in charge of providing other consultant
services and studies, and would be responsible for the training program for
managers. The Group's leader would be answerable to the Secretary General
and  advise  him  on  all  aspects  of  production,   marketing,  and  rice
processing. He would also advise on the various projects and rice-growing
activities in the country.
The Director of the Rice Mill
2.10   The  Director  of  the  rice  mill,  internationally  recruited  and
residing within the Kou valley rice perimeter, was responsible for the
technical, managerial and financial reorganization of the rice mill.
Answerable to the Secretary General of the MDR, he was required to liaise
with the rice industry support group and, especially, Aith the Director of
the Nina-Dionkele project.
III. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Introduction
3.1.   The IDA  credit  was  approved  on  April  29,  1980.    The  credit
agreement was signed on May 8. However, it was not until December 5, 1980
that the  Credit  actually  became available  to  the  Government.   Credit
effectiveness was subject to the following conditions:
- the establishment of a special Project Account;
- the acquisition of title for land required for the construction
of buildings, the research branch and the demonstration unit;
- the recruitment of at least two managers.
3.2.   Project  implementation   was  retarded   somewhat  by   delays   in
procurement. The start of civil works, planned for October/November 1980,
took place  only  the  following  April,  using  borrowed  equipment.   The
recruitment of the expatriate personnel was subject to delays in the



-5-
Ministry. By early 1983, only one of the five experts was in place.   Major
technical difficulties added to these delays, and immediately after the
first cropping season, resulted in a request for a one-year extension. The
project finally had two extensions, and was closed in December 1986.
B. Chanaes after Appraisal
3.3.   In January 1985, there was  a reduction in the Government's  portion
of financing and a change in the Managing Committee's mode of operation
(sections 2.04, 3.01(b) and 3.01(a) of the Credit Agreement). There was
also a change to 4,000 CFAF in the fees paid by rice growers for the use of
the perimeter; the appraisal report had stipulated 8,000 CFAF the first
year. to reach  20,000 CFAF  the third year.   The original  clause of  the
Credit  Agreement  (section  4.04  (a),(b)   and  (c))  was  untenable   as
neighboring rice growers in the Kou valley were paying 3,000 CFAF/ha/year,
and were practicing annual double cropping with total water control.
3.4.   The construction of a 14 km road, from Niena to N'Dorola via Teoule,
was initially delayed because of lack of capacity of the Secondary Roads
Maintenance  Service.    The  start   of  construction   was   subsequently
discouraged by supervision missions, in order to preserve funds for a
project extension.   This  departure  from the  Credit  Agreement  (section
3.03(b)), like  the  alteration in  fees,  was never  made  official.   The
justification of this proposed saving is questionable since US$2.5 million
of the credit were returned to IDA just before the closing date.
C. Implementation
Managers and management
3.5.   The first Project Director was appointed shortly after the signature
of the Credit Agreement. It was, however, only in November 1982 that, with
the exception of the anthropologist, all the Burklnabe personnel were in
place. The expatriate personnel, aside from the Rice Expert who arrived in
1981, were slow  to be recruited.   The posts of  Assistant Director,  Rice
Policy Adviser and Monitoring/Evaluation Chief were filled only after April
1983. The Cooperatives Expert was never recruited.
3.6.   In 1984,  the  contract of  the  Rice  Expert expired  and  was  not
renewed. In the same year, the Assistant Director was obliged to leave the
project for health reasons, less than a year after his arrival. He was
replaced without much delay. A few months later, it was the Director's
turn to be replaced. rinally, in early 1985, the contract of the Rice
Policy Advisor expired and was not renewed.
Production component
3.7.   In 1958, 1,500  ha of  bottom land  development failed  for lack  of
protection against the floods of Lake Karamassasso. It was consequently
decided that the Niena-Dionkele project should include the construction of



- 6-
runoff collectors (7.4 km) and of a dike (4 km x lm) as protection against
the lake's maximum floods. More efficient exploitation of the Karamassas-o
spillway, which regulates  the level of  the lake, was  also planned.   The
bottom-lands north of the Dougo river were selected as the site for the new
project because they had suffered least from the 1958-60 floods.
3.8.   Developing the Bottom-lands.  The development of the rice  perimeter
north of the Dougo river started in the first half of 1981. Eventually 10.6
km of low protection dikes (1.5m high) were erected against floods, as were
wide (3m) and  shallow (0.5m) drains  to intercept runoff.   Some 36 km  of
access roads were built enclosing a total area of 500 ha, 100 ha more than
planned. Land preparation (deep plowing and bunding) and the subdivision
into 0.5 ha plots  were only undertaken on  160 ha in 1981.   Subsequently,
172 ha  were prepared  in 1983  and  64 ha  in 1985.   The result  was  the
creation of a polder supplied only by rain water, and with no means of
evacuating excess water or bring in external runoff. The dike-building
works required nearly 402 more labor than foreseen originally.
3.9.   From the first year of operation  the polder design in the  northern
part of the Dougo  area proved unsuited to  local rainfall conditions.   In
1981 rainfall was only 792 of the average for the period May - September.
Under such conditions the collection of runoff from the higher part of the
plain could have supplemented the rainwater so badly needed by the rice,
especially the inundated varieties. Unfortunately the dike and peripheral
drainage canal prevented  the water from  reaching the perimeter.   Farmers
tried to  breach the  dike, to  allow  runoff to  enter, and  the   Project
subsequently, and unsuccessfully, tried to build simple intake structures
to capture runoff.   The rice  inside the polder  suffered from  a lack  of
water throughout the cropping cycle.
3.10.     In 1982, 1985  and 1986,  the opposite  problem arose.   Abundant
rains caused flooding that, depending on the year, was either early, long
or late. This had various negative effects on rice production, especially
in the  lowest-lying  part  of  the  perimeter.   In  1986  a  particularly
catastrophic flood made it necessary to try to install valves in the
perimeter's protective dike, this time to evacuate excess water. Even this
effort was unsuccessful, as the flood had risen up to the level of the
dike, preventing any outflow from the perimeter.
3.11.     Despite frequent recommendations  from supervision missions  that
the Project should be entrusted with control of the Lake Karamassasso
control valve,  this  was never  done.   There were  too  many  conflicting
interests, especially farmers upstream and downstream of the dam, that
stood to be affected by such a move.
3.12.     In 1984  and 1985  the  project carried  out some  smaller  scale
perimeter developments near the villages of Niena (35 ha) and Dionkele (50
ha). These works had not been included in the initial program. They were
undertaken to respond to complaints from the villagers about the distances
between their homes and the N'Dorola perimeter. They also gave a chance to



-7-
test cheaper technical alternatives to the polder-type design used at
N'Dorola.
3.13.     The works consisted  of land clearing  followed by  cross-plowing
with a  bulldozer,  in  the case  of  Dionkele,  or with  a  small  tractor
(Bouyer), in the  case of Niena.   Land was subdivided  into 0.5 ha  plots.
The average cost of these works,  which did not include water control,  was
53,000 CFAF/ha, whereas  the cost of  the works on  the N'Dorola plain  had
been 470,000 CFAF/ha.
3.14.     Extension.  There were four specialized rice extension agents for
the 400 developed  hectares; the equivalent  of one per  200 farmers.   The
extension agents  were trained  during practical  seminars at  the Kou  and
Banzon schemes.
3.15.     The extension agents' impact was satisfactory in view of: (i) the
speed at which  techniques were  adopted and varieties  proposed; (ii)  the
yields and production obtain3d; (iii) and the rate of multiplication of
first generation seed by farmers.
3.16.     Several demonstration field-days were  organized on the  N'Dorola
perimeter; che rice-growers of the Niena Dionkele project also undertook
study visits  to  the  Kou  and  Banzon  projects.   Extension  activities,
however, dealt only with rice production, neglecting other plateau crops
(cotton, sorghum, maize, etc) and livestock, even though these had been
included in the appraisal report.
3.17.     A demonstration unit  was established  in the  1983/84 season  to
show the effects of using improved rice cultivation techniques. The unit
also  organized  seed   multiplication.   The   project  investigated   the
possibility for crop diversification by establishing demonstration plots,
both with farmers on the highest areas of the perimeter (cowpeas in 1984),
and on the 5 ha of the demonstration field located in the middle of the
perimeter (sorghum, maize, cowpeas).
3.18.     Research.  A research branch of the Center for Experimentation on
Rice and Irrigated Crops (CERCI) worked on the project's rice perimeter.
The applied research, financed by the project, focussed mainly on: (i) the
selection   of   rainfed   varieties   suited   to   the   areas'   various
hydropedological conditions; (ii) the improvement of cropping techniques
(iii) crop protection and, (iv) monitoring of seed multiplication.
3.19.     In  view  of   the  variations  of   slope,  drainage  and   soil
characteristics on the plain, three representative sites were chosen for
the trials. The first was in a purely rainfed area, the second in the
lowest part of the perimeter and the third in the highest part of the
perimeter. Subsequently, only the last two sites were retained within the
perimeter, while two other plots, located outside the perimeter, were
included at the request of project management.



3.20.     There  was  good  cooperation  between  CERCI  and  the  project.
Periodic meetings were held at Farako-Ba to decide on research programs and
frequent exchanges also took place on the perimeter between researchers,
the project's extension agents and farmers. The latter benefitted greatly
from the plots' being located near their own fields. The trials most
frequently undertaken on the Niena-Dionkele plain were varietal trials.
Other  work   investigated  responsiveness   to  nitrogen   and   phosphate
fertilizers, the impact of date and density of sowing, and the effects of
parasite and disease control efforts. Additional studies were begun on the
fluctuations of the water table on the plain and on the response of the
vegetation to ferrous toxicity due to poor drainage. The CERCI unit also
worked on a cropping system (rice, maize, sorghum, cowpeas) for the
non-floodable areas of the perimeter.
3.21.     Despite the good  collaboration established  between the  project
and the CERCI two criticisms were raised by the project. The first was the
excessive doses of mineral fertilizer used in tests that could not be
replicated by the farmers.   The second concerned  delays in submitting  of
results of the trails.
3.22.     Varietal selection  and  seed  multiplication.   Right  from  the
start, the project had a problem in identifying rice varieties suited to
the  hydropedological   conditions  of   the  plain.    The  first   season
demonstrated that it was not possible to focus on a high performance
indundated variety (IRAT 15-29), and showvd the need to find a strictly
rainfed variety with high yield potential. The IRAT 15-29 variety, which
had been successfully used in the irrigated schemes of Kou and Aanzon,
proved  to  be  sensitive  to  blast  (pyriculariosis)  without   permanent
flooding, as well as to scalding, because of its relatively long growch
cycle (135 days).
3.23.     In  1982,  the  project  imported  directly  from  Bouake   (COte
d'Ivoire) seeds of the rainfed variety IRAT 144. This was bulked under the
supervision of CERCI  in N'Dorola.   This variety,  with a  110 day  growth
cycle, immediately proved to be well adapted to the hydropedological
variations of the plain, and was popular because of its average yields of
2.2 tons/ha that were much higher than those of previous varieties.
3.24.     The IRAT 144  variety subsequently proved  its great  versatility
and high performance in other regions of Burkina, and in neighboring
countries (Mali,  Niger,  Chad).   The seed  produced  the  project's  seed
farmers (lst generation - R1) and certified by the Kou valley SNSC assigned
to the project disseminated this high performance rainfed variety in a
region much larger than the limited project area.
3.25.     Centers for agricultural  sprvices, inputs, individual  equipment
and credit.  Two input supply cente,  were built, one at N'Dorola and  the
other at Teoule. The latter, which was situated outside the village at the
request of the villagers (who were initially mistrustful of the project),
is used much lees than the center in N'Dorola.



-9-
3.26.     The  project  provided  rice  growers,  with  inputs,  on  credit
especially NPK  fertilizer,  urea  and  seed.   Very  small  quantities  of
herbicides and insecticides were also brought on credit. The total amount
of short term credit used for inputs exceeded appraisal objectives by 20Z
(see table lb).   The rate  of recovery of  seasonal credit  was also  very
high; in 1985186 it reached 100Z. The hydro-agricultural fee -- finally
fixed at 4,000 CFAF -- was paid in full each year by all the rice growers
of the project.
3.27.     A line of  medium term  credit allowed farmers  to acquire  draft
animals and  animal  traction  equipment.   This was  managed  by  the  ORD
Hauts-Bassins. Here again, the rate of credit recovery reached 1002.
Unlike short term credit, however_ this component achieved only 89% of
appraisal estimates (table 1).
3.28.     Marketing, collective  equipment and  cooperative.  Although  the
project had no difficulty in its first year with marketing 24 tons of
paddy, in 1982/83 it had to obtain a loan from the Caisse Nationale de
Credit Agricole (CNCA) so that the Kou rice mill could buy all the
producers' rice. This measure was all the more necessary since, with the
price of local rice 130 CFAF/kg against an imported rice price of only 100
CFAFIkg, it would have been impossible for rice growers to market their
production through unofficial channels.
3.29.     The  situation  has  improved  since  Faso  Yaar,  a   parastatal
organization specialized in rice marketing and processing, took over. This
company gives an advance to producers at the time of collection. The rest
is paid when the total weight is known, usually within two weeks of
purchase. There is some fear that this delay might Lengthen =n the future,
because project management always had intervened to ensure that payment was
made as soon as possible.
3.30.     In 1984, the project provided its rice growers with 52 single-row
sowers and 11 portable pedal threshers that were rented by farmers for the
time necessary to extract seeds (11 winnowing machines that had been
ordered with  the  threshers  were  never delivered).   In  1985,  a  paddy
dehulling unit with a capacity of 500 kg/hour was delivered to the project.
Unfortunately, this unit has not yet been used due to the lack of personnel
capable of ensuring its proper use and maintenance.
3.31.     As most  rice growers  already  belonged to  operational  village
groups, formed under the ORD, all credit and inputs were channelled through
these groups, as did the production to be marketed. Although extremely
advantageous on the short term, this arrangement delayed the creation of
the cooperative group that had been originally planned. The future use and
management of the collective equipment left by the project is an issue that
needs to be resolved.



- 10 -
Rice Industry Support Component
3.32.     Support to  the Kou  rice mill.   Using project  funds, the  rice
industry expert organized a renovation of the mill, got the plant to
operate at 80Z of capacity, and established a system of equipment
maintenance and a stock of spare parts.   Due to lack of space, it was  nut
possible to set up the additional equipment (de-stoner, roll huller and
cylinder sorter) that would have improved t'ae quality of the finished
product. It was not possible to maintain operating costs at a jeasonable
level because of the presence of foreign matter in the bags of rice brought
to the mill.
3.33.     The financial  mar.agement  autonomy of  the  mill that  had  been
foreseen at  appraisal  was  not achieved.   This  was  due to  a  lack  of
cooperation from the Kou Valley Authority, which owned the mill, and from
the ORD of Hauts Bassins, which managed it. Since it was impossible to
achieve independence in budgeting and accounting, the Director of the Niena
Dionkele project decided not to replace the rice mill director when his
contract expired. At the same time, the project ceased to provide funds
for the operation and maintenance of the mill.
3.34.     Reinforcement of the  Ministry of Rural  Development (MDR).   The
reinforcement of the MDR was to be implemented by the Rice Industry Support
Group (RISG).   RISG would  be  headed by  an  adviser, answerable  to  the
Secretary General of the Ministry. This expert would advise on all aspects
of production, marketing and rice processing in Burkina Faso. In order to
be able to do this, he was responsible, among other things, for carrying
out a study of the rice industry's action policies. This study never got
past the stage of a draft report on "Issues related to rice and rice
c'ltivation". The overly ambitious nature of the study partly explains why
it has remained very vague, and why it was submitted too late for the
Government to take advantage of its results. The adviser's task was not
made easier by a lack of support and monitoring on the part of the agency
to which he belonged (ADRAO), and by a ministerial reshuffle which occurred
around the middle of his st-y.   In the reshuffle MDR disappeared and  gave
rise to the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock.
3.35.     The failure to incorporate the adviser into the structure of  the
Ministry and his remoteness from those in a position to make decisions,
prevented him from having the desired impact. The fact that the Secretary
General of the MAE, who had been in post for nearly a year, was unaware of
the presence of this expert until the day his report was submitted shows
how unlikely it was that the hoped-for reinforcement was of the Ministry
would occur.
3.36.     The rice industry support group also was to include a cooperative
specialist who was supposed to encourage the creation and operation of a
cooperative society grouping the producers of the Niena Dionkele project.
It was anticipated, however, that the specialist's services would be si.ared
by Nifna-Dionk6l1, the  Kou Valley  project and, rnerhaps,  by Banzon.   The



- 11 - 
difficulties encountered in finding a suitable candidate led to an
alternative solution. In mid-1981 an agreement was concluded with the Kou
Valley project that their cooperative specialist, provided by Dutch
technical assistance, would support the Niena Dionkele project for one day
a week. Two years later, however, the project director expressed concern
that one day a week was not enough to encourage farmers to be more
autonomous and active in promoting of their own development. Despite the
director's wish that a full-time specialist join the project, this never
happened, nor was the cooperative society created.
3.37.     Office of Monitoring and Evaluation.  Due to the late arrival  of
the expatriate monitoring and evaluation expert, this unit was slow to be
set up.  Nonetheless, this unit carried  out a useful study of the  farmers
in the project  area.  The small  evaluation team was  also very active  in
preparing the village land management operations which were to follow the
initial project.  Although the  mandate entru-ted to  this office was  well
respected in general, it was unfortunete that rice growers were not
separately identified from  the overall  sample of farms.  This would  have
made it easier to  pinpoint the project's impact.   A practiced eye  during
supervision missions would have helped.
3.38.     The training program.  Three Burkinab6 graduates were assigned to
the project  under  the training  program.   They were  answerable  to  the
Secretary General of MDR, but were administered and professionally guided
by the rice policy adviser. Their training was to take place partly in the
country and partly abroad, so as to prepare them within three years to
become managers in the rice industry. Only one of the trainees was able to
study abroad.   The  other  two  were prematurely  appointed  as  heads  of
agricultural development projects.
3.39.     Studies.  Almost all the most important studies were carried  out
to completion, although in most cases the study results were submitted
late. The most important studies were: a hydraulic study by ORSTOM of the
plains of Niena Dionkele and of Foulasso and Lelasso; a pedological study
of the  project   rea  by BUNASOLS;  a  study  of the  environment  and  of
migratory movements, both of which were done by SAED; and, finally, a set
of aerial photographs.
D. Problems encountered
Technical
3.40.     Design.  The polder-type construction  built next to the  village
of N'Dorola proved unsuited to the local rainfall conditions, characterized
by differences of 300 mm from one year to the next. This cor.struction
designed for average rainfall of 1,000 mm, could neither capture runoff in
the  case  of  drought,   nor  drain  excess  water   in  case  of   flood.
Paradoxically, the rice growers settled on fields next to the main drain.
just outside the polder, enjoyed better moisture conditions that those
inside the polder.



- 12-
3.41.     Maintenance.   Maintenance  of  the   drainage  network  and   of
separating bounds was not carried out systematically throughout the
perimeter; this inevitably led to the deterioration of certain blocks.
3.42.     Fertility.  A 15 ha part of the N'Dorola perimeter had  fertility
problems (lack/excess of trace elements: Zn, Fe, etc). On a larger portion
(100 ha), a rising water table often made it difficult to undertake land
preparation work.
3.43.     Availability of seed.   The low  rainfall or  the first  cropping
seasons and the unsuitability of the inundated rice varieties (e.g. IRAT
15-29, which is susceptible to pyriculariosis in the absence of flooding),
meant that it was necessary to turn to high performance rainfed varieties.
Such varieties were not available in Burkina Faso at the time, and
therefore had  to be  imported from  Cote d'Ivoire.   They were  bulked  at
N'Dorola.
Insufficient Knowledge of the Milieu
3.44.     Distance to the initial perimeter.   Due to the reduction of  the
initial project area at pre-appraisal, some of the villages originally
designated to cultivate plots found themselves far from the N'Dorola
perimeter. The project consequently had a serious problem of manpower
shortage shortly after the start-up phase. To increase the number of
beneficiaries, the project established two small additional perimeters near
two of the most distant villages.   This problem should have been  foreseen
as a glance at a map at the time of appraisal would have shown, however,
that in this thinly settled area where there is no shortage of land, it was
highly improbable that farmers would want to walk 15 km per day to
cultivate rice.
3.45.     Divergent interests  on the  control of  the Karamassasso  intake
valve. In the hope of ensuring better water control in the perimeter, the
first supervision missions recommended that the project should control the
valve of the Karamassasso dam. Their wish was never fulfilled since there
were many farmers on either side of this installation who also depended on
the dam. The manipulation of this valve for the purposes of the project
would have resulted in the flooding, or drying. of the fields of many
farmers who were not involved in the project. I..evitably, the Prefect of
N'Dorola, who had a wider perspective of the problem, opposed the project's
having monopoly control over the valve.
Sociological Problems
3.46.     Claiming of  plots  for  purposes other  than  agriculture.   The
intervention of the Prefect was needed to control the farmers who had plots
allocated to  them, seedal  them,  and then  abandoned them.   In  certain,
apparently infrequent cases, the idea of occupying lands was to prevent
them from  being settled  by their  immediate neighbors.   A more  frequent
problem was that of farmers volunteering to participate in the project only



- 13 -
in order to qualify fer World Food Program rations. Once sowing was
finished the beneficiaries  disappeared, never  to be  seen again.   Partly
through the help of the authorities' intervention and partly due to an
increase in yields, these desertions, eventually, almost completely ceased.
Unfortunately, WFP food distribution continues (720 tons between 1982 and
1986), despite the protests of the first project director who feared that
this would encourage dependency on the part of farmers.
Faulty Evaluation of Institutional Dynamics
3.47.     Duplication of effort with the  ORD.  Various factors eroded  the
original idea of giving the project a certain amount of managerial and
administrative autonomy.   Being in  an  area already  covered by  the  ORD
Hauts-Bassins, the Niena Dionkele project was inevitably in a position of
overlap in certain respects. This could only be justified if there had
been a specialization or a cuality of service that the ORD could not offer.
However, due to lack of personnel and valid alternatives, certain services
or activities planned at appraisal to be the responsibility of the Niena
Dionkel4 project, ended up being assigned to the ORD. Thus, crops other
than rice were never handled by the Niena Dionk6le project, which remained
exclusively concvrned with rice. For a similar reason, the cooperative
component was never developed, since most of the rice growers already
belonged to functional village groups, and the veterinary services and
livestock support originally planned for the project were never organized.
3.48.     Unrealistic expectations of influence.   The failure of the  rice
expert to restructure the management of the Kou rice mill and the inability
of the adviser to MDR (later MAE) to influence rice development policy,
were partly attributable to unrealistic appraisal estimates of the scope
for influencing decisions. These expatriate specialists were not part of
the Ministry's institutional framework and were not in a position to exert
influence.
iV. RESULTS
A. Direct
4.1.   Developed Perimeter  (see  table  3).   The  project  developed  the
northern part of the  bas-fonds of Dougo next  to the village of  N'Dorola.
Over 500  ha was  developed and  is now  available for  the cultivation  of
rainfed rice  and  lOO ha  of  bas-fonds rice  in  the lower  part  of  the
perimeter.  Two others, smaller and less expensive, operations were carried
out next to the villages of Niena (35 ha) and Dionkele (50 ha) and
contributed considerably to the expansion of rainfed rice in the Ni6na
Dionk4l4 plain.
4.2.   Promotion of rice-growing.  The project had an undeniable impact  on
the spread  of  rice-growing  in  the region.   This  happened  in  a  less
spectacular,  but  more  harmonious,  manner  than  had  been  planned   at
appraisal. The farmers in the villages involved did not abandon their



- 14 -
plateau fields to cultivate rice on the equipped perimeter as had been
planned. Instead, they managed to integrate this new crop into their
production system.   The numbeL  of )ice-growers  affected by  the  project
eventually reached 883 people in 1985, 1OZ more than the number foreseen at
appraisal. The dense extension network established by the project enabled
farmers to master the recommended techniques in the relatively short period
of two  cropping seasons.   The rice-growers  had no  trouble adopting  the
selected varieties, line sowing using 80 kg of seed per ha, and applying
100 kg of fertilizer followed by a top dressing of 50-100 kg/ha of urea.
4.3.   Yields and production.   Except for the  first cropping season,  the
yields obtained by farmers were always good, around 2T/ha, and superior on
the average to those  expected in the appraisa'l  report (see table 3).   In
1986/87, paddy production exceeded 800T on 400 ha of seeded area. However,
only 50Z of the total quantity of paddy was produced on the N'Dorola
perimeter; the other half came from village plots or other fields located
outside the perimeter.   From 1981  to 1986,  the total  quantity of  paddy
marketed through official channels was 1,247 tons, or 35Z of the estimated
total production during the period. Large quantities of rice were marketed
locally, where there is a very good price for parboiled and ready to
consume rice . Rice is an occasional, but still fairly infrequent, part of
the producers' diet. It can consequently be considered a cash crop.
4.4.   Applied research.  As  component of  the project,  CERCI se'ected  a
certain number of irrigated and rainfed rice varieties adapted to the
variPas hydrological conditions of the plain. This program contributed to
the g.lod yields and tie agronomic success of the project (table 4).
Experiments were carried out on rice, maize, sorghum and cowpeas to
investigate the scope for diversification on the developed lands of the
Ni6na Dionkele plain. These confirmed that, except for rice, other crops
are very susceptible to waterlogging.
4.5.   Seed multiplication.  Starting  in the 1982/83  season, the  project
handled the multiplication of seed from rainfed varieties that had not been
previously available in Burkina Faso. One hundred thirty-five tons of
certified seed were produced during 1982-86. In 1985, ten tons of the IRAT
144 seed was used in other projects and even outside the country (table 4).
B. Indirect
4.6.   Increased incomes.  At the time  of collecting data for this  report
(late 1°87), rice was the most profitable crop in the area, whether one
considered profits per hectare, 86,910 CFAF/ha as against 20,415 CFAF/ha
for cotton, or the returns to labor 1,572 CFAF/day as against 777 CFAF/day
for cotton, (see tables 5,6 and 7). Unfortunately, the available data does
not make it possible to determine detailed farm budgets. It is, however,
known that the farmers involved in the project have, on average, 0.5 ha of
rice. Assuming no labor constraints, the project would have produced an
increase in family income  of about 40,000 CFAF/year.   In the worst  case,
i.e., where it would have been necessary to diminish cotton by 0.5 ha to



- 15 -
provide labor for rice growing, incremental family incomes would be
approximately 30,000 CFAF/year. In addition to contributing to increased
revenues through the sale of paddy and seed, the project stimulated
pricessing  activities  (pounding,  parboiling)  that  created   additional
profits.
4.7.   Other factors.  (i)  Project stimulated the  creation of  occasional
employment in the areas of agriculture and trade. (ii) Unlike other farmers
of the region, those cultivating rice were less dependent upon cotton as a
cash crop. The risks associated with a decrease in cotton prices were thus
correspondingly diminished.  (iii)   Nearly half of  the rice producers  in
the villages of Nidna and DionkelO were women. The project wisely, and
delicately, made this possible. It was made known to village committees in
charge of assigning plots that nothing stood in the way of women's
applications if they were judged appropriate. (iv) The development of the
bottom lands and their subdivision into plots of 0.5 ha allowed farmers to
devote themselves to semi-intensive rice cropping. In this way, they could
perceive the differences between this approach to agriculture and the
traditional, extensive, practices. This is a useful way of laying the
groundwork for the village land management program now underway.
V. EXPENDITURES AND ECONOMIC RESULTS
A. Project Costs, FinancinR and Expenditures
5.1.   At the  time of  appraisal project  costs wre  estimated at  US$7.2
million.  Despite  a  two-year  extension actual    sts  were  only  US$3.9
million, 54Z of  appraisal estimates.   This can  be explained  to a  great
extent by the fact that the dollar was low at the time of appraisal ($1/210
CFAF), whereas the exchange rate remained very high throughout the life of
the project (over 300 CFAF in 1982, 1983, 1986 and over 400 CFAF in 1984
and 1985). Project management was generally very careful with finances.
partly because of the personal inclinations of the directors, and partly
because the political upheaval that made managerial prudence necessary.
5.2.   IDA was  to  finance  90Z  of  project  costs,  with  the  Burkinabe
Government making up the rest.   From January 1985, however, IDA  increased
its share of  local salaries  and operating costs  from 88Z  to 942.   This
slight change is reflected in expenditures, 922 of which were made by IDA
and 8Z by the Government (table 8). In general, expenditures by component
did not differ substantially from original estimates (see table 9 for
detailed expenditures by component and by year.)



- 16 -
Expenditure by Component
Component                                    Z Expected            2 Achieved
Bottom Land Development                          19                    14
Mana'ement And Training                          2C                    26
Supply Centers                                    3                     2
Agricultural Inputs                                6                    5
Demonstration Unit                                1                     1
CERCI Research                                    1                     1
Technical Assistance                             19                    18
Monitoring And Evaluation                        13                    11
Kou Rice Mill                                      9                   10
Studies And Consultant Services                   8                    12
Total                                         100                   100
B. Economic Results
5.3.   The economic analysis of costs  and benefits yields a negative  rate
of return (table 10). In calculating the ERR, only rice production was
taken into account, since the project did not address other crops.
5.4.   Costs and benefits  were calculated  on the basis  of constant  1987
prices. Under costs, as suggested in the appraisal report, only those
attributable to the production component (investment and operation) were
included: developing the perimeter, the office of management and extension,
supply centers, inputs and equipment, demonstration unit and research
branch,  and  25Z  of   monitoring/evaluation.   The  additional   manpower
necessary to develop the perimeters was also included in the economic
costs. Given the difficulty of finding employment in the project area, the
cost of additional labor was estimated at 802 of the local market rate for
unskilled labor. In calculating benefits, the rice import parity price was
used in constant  1987 terms.   For local expenses,  the appraisal  figures
were used, expressed in constant 1987 terms.
5.5.   The project's economic performance was greatly affected by the  drop
in world rice prices: in 1987, rice was worth only 40Z of the value
preAicted at appraisal (US$200/t, instead of US$500/ton). The fall of the
dollar since  1985  has also  had  a negative influence  on  the  economic
benefits of the  project, which  are based on  the economic  price of  rice
expressed in CFAF.
5.6.   As the Niena-Dionkele operation was a pilot project, it is  unlikely
that the ERR is a valid criterion for judging its performance. It was
inevitable that management overheads would be high relative to the size  of
the works carried out.  In addition,  the pilot project served to  identify
simple and inexpensive solutions for rainfed rice cultivation on bottom
lands. Provided that rice production activities are taken over by the ORD,
the development of new areas could become profitable in a short time, even



- 17-
if funds have to be spent to maintain a management structure, operate the
supply centers  and  extend  the research  agreement  with  CERCI.   Before
embarking on a large scale operation, however, it would be necessary to
monitor yields on this type of lightly equipped perimeter, in order to
verify the stability of results in the absence of drainage.
VI. INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
6.1.   The level of institutional development instigated by the project did
not live up to appraisal expectations. Technical assistance staff were
transitory and had limited influence. This was particularly the case with
the rice policy adviser. The lack of a cooperative specialist hindered the
development of viable rice growers' groups.
6.2.   Although  the  extension  personnel   were  well  trained  in   rice
cultivation, only one of the three managers who were to study abroad
received this training.
VII. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
7.1.   From the  start it was envisaged  that th,  Niena-Dionkele  project
might be taken over by the ORD Hauts-Bassins if a second phase did not
materialize. The incorporation of a new component into the HE project does
not pose any problem in principle, though this has been slow in practice.
7.2.   Considering .he current  price of  paddy, more than  double that  of
other cereal grains, it is likely that farmers will continue to cultivate
rice on the lands developed by the project, even if the extension effort is
less intensive. It will be necessary to ensure that:
- the necessary inputs and equipment are available;
- processing and marketing of production is assured;
- research continues to propose new varieties and to handle
disease control.
7.3.   In order to meet these three conditions on which the  sustainability
of rice production depends, the ORD Hauts-Bassins project would need to
provide about 10 million CFAF annually.
VIII. PERFORMANCE OF IDA AND OF THE GOVERNMENT
A. Government
8.1.   Financial difficulties obliged the Government to reduce its  portion
of financing. The Secondary Road Maintenance service was not able to build
the 14 km of  roads envisaged in  the Credit Agreement.   Two of the  three



- 18 -
managers who were to study abroad were transferred before the end of their
training.
8.2.   The cumbersome  bureaucratic  structure,  exacerbated  by  political
turbulence, delayed  many  project  decisions.   This  did  not  cause  any
irredeemable delays. There was a firm Government commitment to complete
the project.
B. IDA
8.3.   The supervision  missions contributed  to the  project's  production
activities,  especially  during  the  first  three  years.   However,  they
neglected the  rice  industry  support aspect  of  the  project.   Although
agronomists, engineers, economists and financial analysts contributed to
supervisions, the missions never included a cooperative specialist, cereals
policy specialist, or monitoring/evaluation expert. From January 1985, the
supervision missions put the project more or less on hold, in order to
devote themselves to the village land management project that was taking
shape. It should be noted that the supervision reports never once
mentioned major deviations in project execution, such as the exclusive
emphasis on rice.
8.4.   There were a number  of faults in the  design of the project,  which
have already been discussed in the text. Amongst the most import of these
are an overestimation of labor availability, especially as a result of the
distance  between  the  main  perimeter  and  the  furthest   participating
villages, the creation of a situation of institutional overlapping with the
ORD, failure to identify conflicting interests in the operation of the
Karamassasso intake valve, and the use of inappropriate rainfall data when
designing the perimeter.
IX. LESSONS LEARNED
A. Factors Peculiar to the Niena-Dionkele Project
9.1.   The project showed that it was possible to develop bottom-lands  for
rainfed rice cultivation. However, given the variable rainfall of the
region, the solution of the polder without water control will have to be
rethought.   Despite  a  number  of  studies  on  the  development  of  the
Niena-Dionkele plain, the project's technical and hydraulic components were
not sufficiently well examined at appraisal. There was not even a detailed
plan for the  execution of works of  project start-up.   A more  attentive
analysis of rainfall data would have eliminated the proposal involving
excessive land drainage as well as a polder-type arrangement without water
control, which cannot be justified in the light of the region's irregular
rainfall.
9.2.   The project demonstrated that bottom-lands development, in the short
term at least, can be achieved by less intensive and more economical means



- 19 -
that do not include water retention devices. In such situations, it is
imperative that applied research focus on the agronomic practices best
adapted to the hydropedological conditions. This is needed to be able to
recommend highly adaptable varieties as well as appropriate sowing dates
and densities.
B. General Lessons
9.3.   Ex-ante evaluation.  When  major changes  occur between  preparation
and appraisal of a project, it is essential to ensure that the basic
preconditions for project start-up are viable (eg., that there is a
sufficiently  dense  population,   at  a  reasonable   distance  from   the
installations).  If  the  credit  agreement includes  clauses  relating  to
similar rules already  in effect  in nearby areas,  care must  be taken  to
ensure that they are mutually are compatible (eg, do not demand  O.000 CFAF
in water changes for single seas  on cropping, where, in an adjacent  area,
farmers are paying only 3,000 CFAF/year for double cropping).
9.4.   When  an  operational  recommendation  is,  in  fact,  an  essential
prerequisite for the success of a project, it is vital to determine if all
the relevant factors have been considered (eg. do not stipulate that the
project must control a dam when the survival of others having nothing to do
with the project depends on a different control pattern than the one
proposed).
9.5.   It  is  important   to  ensure  that   individuals  entrusted   with
institutional restructuring and with policy-making responsibilities are
physically and administratively positioned so that they can carry out their
functions.
9.6.   Projects involving  crops  that compete  with  imports can  only  be
developed if  there is  a firm,  long-term commitment  on the  part of  the
Government to encouraging and maintaining the project, even if the imported
products are less expensive.
9.7.   Implementation.  When practical reality leads a project to adopt  an
alternative short term solution to an original project objective (such as
using existing village groups rather than creating new vice producer
cooperatives), it is important to ensure that the replacement institution,
or operation, will be at least as viable and effective as the one
originally planned.
9.8.   Prolect  Sustainability.   Even  with  a  relatively  limited  pilot
project, it is important to ensure that locally crucial activities can be
continued, even if a subsequent phase of the project is not implemented.
9.9.   Limitations Of Pilot Operations.  Pilot projects are, by their  very
nature, not usually an appropriate vehicle for testing certain long term
operations. For this reason, it was not possible for the project fully to



- 20 -
explore  long  term  issues  related  to  rice  marketing  and  about   the
development of relationships between resident v.md migrant populatioa;s.
JLewis:sd
(nienapcr.txt:JLBURPCR)



- 21 -
Table 1
BURKINA PASO
NIENA-DIONKELE RICE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Distribution Of Fertilizer
Year  Area Sown           Fertilizer Distributed   Target         Readiusted      2 Of Target
Target Achieved    NPK    Urea  NPK + Urea  NPK + Urea   Target I/         Achieved
NPK + Urea
.... (ha) . ......(.........      ........ -t) .--------------
1981   300      155      N.D.    N.D.         N.D.           51          -             -
1982   400      155      34.0    17.0          51.0          51        26.35         193.0
1983   400      362      40.2    42.7         82.9           68        61.54         135.0
1984   400      386      28.8    29.2          58.0          68        65.62          88.0
1985   400      461      34.9    30.8         65.7           68        78.37          84.0
1986   400      402      26.9    20.2          47.1          68        68.34          69.0
Total        1,921      164.8   139.9        304.7          374       300.22         101.5
11  The original target was readjusted in light of the application rates and area sown.
Use Of Credit
(in millions CFAF)
Short Term                      Medium Term
Year     Target       Achieved       2     Target       Achieved       2
1981       2.94           0.47      16       3.05            -        -
1982       5.77           3.29      57       4.03            -        -
1983       5.00           6.88    102         5.49          6.03    110
1984       4.98           8.13    163        5.87           4.47      76
1985       4.98           8.68    174           -           3.16      -
1986       5.00           7.04    140           -           2.80      -
28.67         34.50    120        18.44          16.46     89
JLewis:sd
tablel.txt:JLBURPCR
Fabruary 2, 1988



- 22 -
Table 2
BURKINA FASO
NIENA-DIONKELE RICE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Annual Rainfall In The Proiect Area
N'Dorola                                   Dionkdl#
(Projects Meto. Station)                                 (ORSTOM)
Year              mm      Number Of Days               mm             Number Of Days
1986              938               66              1,068                        53
1985           1,049                 64             1,133                        68
1984              678               70                699                        59
1983             777                62                810
1982              996               83              1.009
1981              763               69                822
1980                                                1,038
1979                                                  973
1978                                                  911
1977                                                  740
1976                                                1,124
1975                                                1,099
1974                                                1,017
JLewis:sd
table2:JLBURPCR
February 2, 1988



Table 3
BURKINA FASO
NIENA-DIONKELE RICE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Development Of Area Of Rice Production. Number Of Trained Parmera. Yield And Production
19S1/92           1982/sa            1983/84            1984/86               1986/88             1988/97            1981-es
Obi   Ach    X   Ob.   Ach       %   Obi    Ach      %   Ob;    Ah.   X   Ol    Ach.    X   Ob;    Ach.    X   Oti.   Ach.    X
Are Sown (ha)
On Main PHrieter            3We   156  62    400    155   39    466    814   76    400    833  83    46W    326   81    400    193   48
On Subsiduary Perlmtero                                                                                          67                  67
Outside Perivaters                                                         48                  53                 79                 162
Total                        360   155  52    466    166   39    400    362   90    460    as3  97    406    461  116    466    402  100
Number Of Farmer. Trained
On Main Perimeter           686   364          866    816         8O6    602           800    444        8GM    481           800    290
On Subsidunry Porimetern                                                                                        l1                  102
Outside Perimeter*                                                        101                 100                292                 376
eTotsl 66    86461    806    316  4                                  8e      66375    866    644  66         6      883 e       8o see    7679
Yield. (kg/ha)
On Main Perimeter          1,127   523  47  1,366  2,174  166  1,743  1,799  163  2,6so  1,964  94  2,680  1,698   82  2,202  2,290  104
On Subsiduary PerImeters                                                                                       2,210               2,140
Outside Prlmeterr                                                      2,625               1,320              ?,026               1,875
Average Yields                                                   1,748  1,969  116  2,891 1,876  96  2,6so  1,618   87  2,2M2  2,112   96  1,793  1,846  163
Paddy Production ttl
On Main Perimeter            838    S1         544   387           697    656          032    654         832    662          981    442
On Subsiduary Perimetero                                                                                         126                 122
Outside Perlmeters                                      15                126                  70                1I"                 286
Totsl                        33U    81  24    644    352   65    697    691   99    882    724  87   682    s3s  161    861           49   se  4,124  3,685   s8
Marked Production (t)                24               .213                184                 292                274                 266               1,247
JLewis:ed
toble3.txt:JLSBIPCR
February 2, 1966



- 24 -
Table 4
BURKINA PASO
NIENA-DIONKELE &ICE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Rice Seed Production
Year                Variety                Production                -Destination
(t)
1982/83      IPAT 15-29; IRAT 144            12,144                   Secteur N'Dorola
1983184      IRAT 15-29; IRAT 144            40,324                   Secteur N'Dorola
1984185      IRAT 15-29; IRAT 144            10,972                   Secteur N'Dorola
1985/86            IRAT 144                  44,994                   ORD HB, Bougouriba,
Comoe, Houhoun,
Mali via Adrao
Secteur N'Dorola
1986187            IRAT 144                  25,772                   Secteur N'Dorola
4456; IRAT 146B               1,815                  Secteur N'Dorola
136,021
Characteristics Of Selected Varieties
Variety           Type              Growina        Yields              Observations
Period         (tlha)
(days)
Dourado           Dryland              90             2.0              Can withstand 10 cm
of flooding for
10-15 days.
IRAT 144          Dryland             110            2.2               Low palitability
IEAT 147          Dryland              90            2.0               Needs more
fertilizer than
IRAT 144.
IRAT 15-29-680-3  Irrigated           135            3.5               Susceptible to
blast if not
flooded.
IRAT 44-18        Irrigated           145            3.5               Too slow to permit
late planting.
JLevis:sd
table4.tts :JLBURPCR
February 2, 1988



- 25 -
Table 5
BURKINA FASO
NIENA-DIONKELE RICE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Farm Budget For Rainfed Rice Production On The Developed Perimeter
(CFAF/ha)
Traditional      Average       Intensive
Price of Paddy (CFAF/kg)                        85           85              85
(K) Expected Yield (kg/ha)                  1,800         2,200           2,400
(P) Value Of Production                   153,000       187,000         204,000
Costs
Seeds (80 kg)                               12,800       12,800          12,800
Fertilizers                                  4,000  a/   18,500  b/      18,500  b/
Insecticides/Herbicides                                                   7,200  c/
Hire Of Seeder And Thresher                               3,500  d/       5,000  e/
Hire Of Animal Drawn Equipment                           12,000
Hire Of Tractor                                                          19,000
Land And Water Charges                       4,000        4,000           4,000
Other (52)                                   1,040        2,540           3,325
(C) Total Charges                          21,840        53,340          69,825
(R) Net Revenue                           131,160       133,660         134,175
(J) Labor (man/days)                           121           85              75
(T) Labor Costs f/                         66,550        46,750          41,250
Returns to Labor (R/T) (CFAF/day)            1,084        1,572           1,789
Net Benefits                                64,610       86,910          92,925
Cost Price (C + TIK) (CFAF/kg paddy)            49         45.5              46
a/ 50 kg urea.
b/ 100 kg NPK + 100 kg urea.
c/ 4 1 insecticides or 2 1 herbicides.
d/ 1 day seeder + 1 day for thresher.
e/ 2 days seeder + 1 day for thresher.
ft At 550 CFAF/day.
Source: Project Monitoring And Evaluation Service.
JLewis:sd
table5.txt/JLBURPCR
February 2, 1988



- 26 -
Table 6
BURKINA PASO
iIIENA-DIONKELE RICE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Production Charges And Cost Price Of The Main Crops In The Pro1ect Area
Rice       Cotton           Maize          Sor
Official Price 1986187 (CFAF/kg)             85           100              40               40
Average Yield O'g/ha)                     2,200         1,200           1,700            1,000
Value Of Output (CFAF/ha)               187,000       120,000          68,000           40,000
^harges (CFAF/ha)
Seeds                                    12,800   a/      400   b/      1,600   c/         800   d/
NPK e/                                   10,500        10,500          10,500               -
Urea f/                                   8,000         8,000           8.000
Plant Protection                             -         10,800   g/         -
Equipment                                 3,500   h/       -
Land And Water Charges                    4,000            -               -
Draft Animal Charges                     12,000   il  18,000   /       18,000           12,000
Other (3Z)                                2.540         2.385           1,905              640
Total Charges                            53,340        50,085          40,005           13,440
Income (CFAF/ha)                    133,660       69,915          27,995           26,560
Labor
Man Days/ha k/                               85            90              80               80
Labor Costs (CFAF/ha) 1/                 46,750        49,500          44,000           44,000
Return to Labor (CFAF/j)                  1,572           777             350              340
Benefits (CFAF/ha)                       86,910        20,415        -16,005          -17,440
Production Costs (CFAF/kg)                 45.5            83            49.5             57.5
a/ 80 kg X 160 CFAF/kg
b/ 50 kg X 8 CFAF/kg
c/ 32 kg X 150 CFAF/kg
3
d/ 16 kg X 150 CFAF/ka
3
el 100 kg X 105 CFAF/kg
ft 100 kg X 80 CFAF/kg
g/ Decis 6 1 X 1,800 CFAF/1
hi Seeder 1,500 CFAF/ha, Thresher 2,000 CFAF/ha
il Plough
Ji Plough and Weeder (6,000)
k/ Animal Traction
1/ 550 CFAF per man day
Source: Project Monitoring And Evaluation Service.
awisssd
(table6.txt/JLBURPCR)
February 2, 1988



- 27 -
Table 7
BUTRKINA FASO
NIENA-DIONKELE RICE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Labor Requirements For the Main Crops Grown In The Project Area
Operation                Rainfed Rice          Cotton             Maize/Sorghum
.............. (Man days/ha).
Land Clearing                      10                 2                      2
Hand Digging                       20                18                     18
Draft Animal-Ploughs               10                 8                      8
Hand Sewing                        13                13                     13
Sewing By Seeder                    4                 4                      -
NPK Application                     5 a/                 a/                  5 a/
Urea Application                    5 a/              5 a/                   5 a/
Hand Weeding                     31 - 40             40                     35
Weeding By Animal Traction          -                25                     25
Plant Projection                    -                 6                      _
Harvest                          20 - 28 b/          35                   20 - 22
Total:
Hand Labor                   121                124                    98
Animal Traction               85                 90                     80
a/ Digging in.
b/ Using pedal-driven thresher.
Source: Project Monitoring And Evaluation Service.
JLewis:sd
table7.txt/JLBURPCR
February 2, 1988



- 28 -
Table 8
BURKINA FASO
NIENA-DIONKELE RICE DEVELO1MENT PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Utilisation Of Finance According To Categorv And Source
Total                                Source Of Finance
(CFAF'000)        Z            IDA  Burkina Faso
Production
Construction, equipment, local personnel        388,840      25.7             83             17
Techrical assistance                             63,000       4.2            100              -
Credit, material, production costs              101,658       6.7             83             17
Rice Industry Support
Construction, equipment, loc.al personnel       355,802      23.5             83             17
Coasultants                                     357,000      23.6            100              -
er Costs
vepayment of advance                             25,200       1.7            100              -
Initial Deposit                                  84,000       5.6            100              -
Unallocated                                     136,500       9.0            100              -
Total                                         1,512,000    100.0              90             10
JLewisssd
(tableS.txt/JLBURPCR)
February 2, 1988



Table 9
BURKINA PASO
NIENA DIONKELE RICE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Summary of Costs by Project ComPonent
(In Thousands CFAF)
190/81      1981/82      1982/88       1998/84       1984/86      1986/86      1996/87 3/             Tota   /
(12.31.87)
Bag-Foods Devolopoent                  117,771        6,178        29,189        18,400       10,69?         4,814           6,862           261,746
Manegs  nt And Training                 90,174       40,904        81,918       90,216        68,131       66,681           60,930           486,145
Input Supply Centers                     9,609        8,865         2,246        6,463         7,144        2,745   .        1,728            23,290
Agricultural Inputs                      8,770         5,e68       20,803       22,811        22,003        16,276           9,166            99,476
Demonstration Unit                       1,694         2,790        1,948         4,569        1,967         4,869           8,182            26,849
CERCI Reserch                            2,919         8,145        2,404         4,8600       8,188         2,694           8,060            27,e96
technical Assistance To Ministry        14,U83        25,221       83,827       106,658       56,817        42,409          60,860           328,003
Monitorlng And Evaluation                6,228         5,801       3,#,607       49,427       85,826        43,196          27,670           201,649
Support To Kou Rico Mll                 87,512        85,768       46,044        22,68        45,159           -               -             181,124
Studies And Consultant Fee              28,286        18,161       16,900        67,071        8,815        81,882          65,736           216,261
870,686      164,878      256,281       871,887      258,217       214,106         228,674         1,849,028
/  Costs for 1966/37 are *pproximted to December 81, 1986.
JLwels:sd
tob:e9.txt/JLBUPCR
February 2, 198



Table 10
SRKINA FASO
NIENA DIONKELE RICE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economlc Analysls of Pllot Proioct
Suwmary of Costs *nd Bene ito
(In Thusanda CFAF at constant 1987 prices)
1986       1981       1982       198S       1984       1986      1986   1987-89   1990-94   199S-99   2000-49
Cultivated Arma (ha)                       -          1SS        155        862        88S       461        402       400       4Y'9      460       400
Paddy Yield (hg/hb)                                   528      2,174      1'M        1,9876    1,818      2,112     2,160     2,166     2,166     2,100
Paddy Production (t)                       -           61        862        691        724       839        849       840       646       840       840
Economic Price of Paddy (FCFA/t)       68,140     94,848    -6,169       84,488    9f,417    61,588    55,148    48,365    64,970   65,943   56,627
Value of Production/Beneflt.               --       7,642     26,456     58,864     65,402   68,867    46,821    40,616    46,175    48,992    47,483
Prolect Costs
Baa Fond. Development                 177,771       6,178     28,139     18,466     16,697     4,314      6,852     2,660     2,000     2,060     2,6e6
Manag    t and Training                90,174      48,906     81,913     90,210     68,131    65,881    60,930      2,000     2,060     2,6 6     2,666
Agricultural Input.                     8,776       5,065     20,303     22,811     22,093    16,276      9,168    13,66W   13,66    13,566    13,600
Monitoring and Evaluation               1,367       1,826      8,627     12,867      6,956    10,602     6,892         --        --        --         --
Input Supply Center                     9,699       8,86       2,248      6,468      7,144     2,746      1,728     2,600     2,600     2,000     2,000
Demonstration Unit                       1,694      2,796      1,948      4,609      1,867     4,859      8,182        --        --        --         --
CERCI Research                          2,919       8,145      2,404      4,800      3,183    2,594       8,e65     4,000     4,606     4,606     4,000
Additional Labor                           --       6,797      5,797     13,539     14,4U8   17,241    15,035    14,960    14,966    14,960    14,966
Total Costs                           288,64       77,659    1C1,377    103,089    188,566  124,511   106,885    88,460    38,460    88,468    88,466
Total Costs (at 1987 prices)          392,975      99,791    176,506    178,690    186,779   118,656   100,693         --        --        --         --
Neot Bnefit.                         -28s6,64    -92,149   -160,060   -116,818    -71,817   -44,689   -53,772       1,976     7,715     8,532      9,628
JLIssJ c:d
tablolO.txt/JLBURPCR
Fobruary 2 1988



