Document of                          H               âpt
The World Bank 
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 2746-UV
UPPER VOLTA
NIENA DIONKELE RICE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
April 10, 1980
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00                                   CFAF 210
CFAF 1,000                               US$4.762
WEIGHTS AI4D EIEASURES
1 metric tonne                            0.98 long ton (2,205 lbs)
1 kilometer (km)       =                  0.62 mile
1 hectare (ha)                            2.47 acre
FISCAL YEARS
Government:  January 1  -  December 31
Project:      April 1    -  Iiarch 31
IDA:          July 1       -  June 30
ABBREVIAT IONS
AVV        Volta Valleys lîanagement Authority
BOAD       West African Development Bank
BCEAO      Central Bank of West African States
BND        National Development Bank
CERCI      Irrigated Crops Research Center
CFDT       French Fibre and Textile Company
CNCA       National Agricultural Credit Bank
DU         Demonstration Unit
FAC        French Aid and Cooperation
FSC        Farn Service Center
IRAT       Agriculture and Food Crops Research Institute
IRCT       Cotton and Textiles Research Instîtute
MiRD       MIinistry of Rural Development
OFPACER   National Cereals Agency
ONBI       National Dams and Irrigation Department
ORDI       Regional Development Organization
ORSTnOII    Overseas Technical and Scientific Research Organization
RIA11      Rice Industry Advisor to IIRD
RISG       Rice Industry Support Group
SCEi       French Consultant:  Societe Centrale d'Equipment du Territoire
SERS       Secondary Road :Iaintenance Services Unit
SOFITEX   Textile Fibre Company
SOVOLCOI  Upper Volta Trading Company



UPPER VOLTA                    FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
NIENA, DIONKELE RICE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TABLE 0F CONTENTS
Page No.
I.        The Rural Sector ....................... 
Agricultural Sector ................i....
Rural Sector Strategy and Issues ...............                                       2
Principal Agricultural Institutions.............                                      4
The Rice Subsector......................                                              6
I.   The Project Area.......................                                                9
Location...........................                                                   9
Climate Land Features and Topography.............                                     9
Water Resources, Soils and Vegetation .. ...........                                 10
Land Use and Tenure.....................   il
Population and Farm Labor................... il
Roads and Communications ................... 12
Power, Water Supply, Education and Health Ser-vices .. ....                          12
Prospects for Rice Development ................                                      13
III.  The Project.......................... 14
General............................14
Summnary Description .......................
Detailed Features ...................... 16
Cost Estimates ........................ 21
Proposed Financing ...................... 22
Procurement and Disbursement ................. 23
Accounts, Audits and Reports ................. 25
Land Title ..........................25
IV.       Project Implementation and Management.............                                    26
Project Management ...................... 26
Farmer Involvement ...................... 27
Agricultural Extension and Research..............                                    27
Farm Service Centers and Credit................                                      28
Cooperatives .........................29
Training............................30
Rice Industry Support Group .................. 31
Staffing.........................                                                    32
Monitoring andi Evaluation ................... 33
This report is bâsed'on the findings of an appraisal mission consisting ot
Messrs. Pease and Notley (Bank) which visited Upper Volta from May 22 - June
5, 1979. This foll,owed a preappraisal mission in October 1978 consisting of
t~tessrs- Pease, Guerreiro, Levi, and O'Sullivan (Bank), Boumendil and Hammnond
(Consultants) and Barry (AFDB).
This documnent has a restricted distribution and mnay be used by recipient.s only in the performance
of their officiai duties. Its contents may flot otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont'd)
PLige -o.
V.      Technological and Production Specifications          ...........    33
Agricultural Production ...............................e.e.o        33
Upland Crops ...........................................       .    37
Average Yields, Net Return per Manday and Total Production ..   38
VI.     Markets, Prices, Financial Analysis and Cost Recovery .2.... e    40
Markets and Prices .40
Financial Implications for Farmers and Cost Recovery                42
Financial Implications for Governnent .43
VII.    Benefits and Justification ......                 0 ..............    43
Project Benefits                 . . .43
Economic Rate of Return Calculation                  . .    44
Environmental Effects.. ........                                    46
Risks and Sensitivities            ................ .46
VIII.   Agreements Reached...........................................        47
Annex 1:     Agronomy
Table 1      Farm Budgets - 7 years average - MIodels 1-5
ANNEX 2:     Project Costs and Financing; Government Cash Flows
Table 1      Summary of Project Costs by Project Activities
Table 2      Estimated Disbursement Schedule
Table 3      Government Cash Flow
ANNEX 3:     Economic Evaluation
Table 1      Summary of Economic Benefits and Costs - 3 Phase Program
Table 2      Summary of Economic Benefits and Costs - Pilot Project
Table 3      Economic Farmgate Prices
ANNEX 4:     Project Organization
Chart 1      IBRD 20684 - Relationships with ORD and MRD
Chart 2      IBRD 20987 - Relationships at Project Level
Chart 3      IBRD 20733/4 - Mlanagement and Development Timetable
ANNEX 5:     Selected Documents and Working Papers in the Project File
MAPS
IBRD 14301   Location of 3 Phases of Program
IBRD 14613   National Rice Project Areas, Rivers and Communications



UPPER VOLTA
NIENA DIONKELE RIÇE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. THE RURAL SECTOR
1.01      Upper Volta has a total area of about 274,000 km2, and a
b'      resident population of 5.6 million (1978) whilst an additional 800,000 live
abroad. Overall population is growing at 2.6 percent per year, less
emigration of 1.6 percent, giving a net increase of 1.0 percent. The
average urban increase is 4 percent against 0.7 percent for rural areas.
While average population density is 20/km2, there is a heavy concentration
of people in the central north, where 60 percent of the population lives.
The urban population represents some 8 percent; the main towns are the
capital, Ouagadougou (225,000), and Bobo Dioulasso (135,000). Per capita
GNP was US$160 in 1978.
Agricultural Sector
1.02      Agriculture is the dominant economic sector, providing a livelihood
for 80 percent of the economically active population and producing some 40
percent of GDP and 90 percent of recorded exports. Industry, much of which is
based on agricultural products, represents about 15% of GDP. Remittances
from migrant Voltaic labor to the Ivory Coast (the main destination) are also
a substantial source of income and are responsible for 6 percent of the GNP.
Gross value from agriculture is estimated at US$215/family/year or US$40 per
capita (1977). Crop farming, under shifting cultivation, produces 25 percent
of GDP, and provides 60 percent of official export earnings. Livestock
employs another 6 percent of the population, produces 10-12 percent of GDP,
and provides 30 percent of official export earnings. About 8 percent of the
land, or approximately 2.2 million ha, is cultivated each year; the basic food
crops, sorghum, millet and maize, account for some 85 percent of the culti-
vated area and, on average, 80 percent of total production value, but little
is marketed. Rainfed cotton, groundnuts, sesame, irrigated and swampland
rice, sugar and vegetables account for most of the remaining cultivated area
and are marketed in greater quantities for local consumption or export.
1.03      Although the entire country is relatively flat, there are pronounced
regional differences in climate, soils and population density. The climate
changes gradually from Sahelian in the north, with a rainfall of 600 mm, to
savannah toward the south, with a rainfall of 1,200 mm, creating agricultural
differences: the low and erratic rainfall in the north results generally
in unreliable harvests and greater reliance on livestock for survival and
consequently low population densities.  There is also a striking contrast
between the Mossi plateau in the central north and the western and the south-
western regions. On the Mossi plateau, crop farming remains at a subsistence
level because of high population, over exploited soils and unreliable rainfall,
whereas in the west and southwest, soil and rainfall conditions are more
favorable, population densities are lower, and production is more market-
oriented.



- 2 -
The Sahelian droughts in the early 1970s further exacerbated these dif-
ferences: in the central region, they virtually eliminated cotton production
and reduced grain production by as much as 35 percent; while in the western
regiDn, they affected production of these two crops very little. Moreover,
most of the country's irrigation potential is in the western region.
1.04      Cotton is the country's most important cash crop, and a major
export. Production began in the early 1950s, and had reached some 36,000
tonnies in 1969-70.  During the 1971-75 drought period, production stagnated at
about 30,000 tonnes annually, but then increased to about 50-55,000 tonnes in
1976 and 1977. Almost 90 percent of this cotton was produced in the western
region.
1.05      The livestock subsector, while of vital importance to the economy,
faces serious constraints, mainly recurrent droughts, overgrazing, insuffi-
cienit watering facilities, and the growing competition of foodcrops. Fores-
try, another important subsector, especially the production of firewoocl and
building poles, faces serious problems related to destruction of the land
cover.
1.06      The foodcrop subsector also faces considerable problems.  Since
1975, Upper Volta has become a substantial importer of grains amounting to
52,000 tonnes in 1977, some supplied as food aid. Commercial imports of rice
have risen from 3,000 tonnes in 1974 to 20,000 tonnes in 1978. A return to
self-sufficiency in overall grain production is a goal which is attainable in
years of reasonable rainfall. However, given the almost total reliance on
rainfed agriculture, the achievement of production sufficient to cover demand
in pcor seasons poses difficult technical problems. Further, rice is of
special interest because imports are expanding to meet urban demand - the
value of rice imports is now equal to 10 percent of the country's export
earnings.
Rural Sector Strategy and Issues
1.07      Government Strategy.  The Government's strategy for the rural sector
can be summarized as giving priority to: (a) developing rainfed agriculture
by promoting improved farm practices while integrating cropping and livestock
activities; (b) stepping up migration from the densely populated and relatively
infertile north central plateau to areas in the west and southwest which have
low population densities and good agricultural potential; (c) gradually
increasing the development of swampland and irrigated agriculture, thus
helping to protect the nation against the catastrophes of major drought; and
(d) assuring national self-sufficiency in fooderops, particularly to
replace rice imports.
1.08      These priorities are overlapping to a considerable degree, and being
pursued by a variety of projects. In particular, in the central plateau, it
is intended that a balanced effort of cropping development and adaptive
research will be pursued under the Koudougou ORD project currently being
apprai.sed by IDA.  Migration from nothern areas will continue to call for
development of exploitable lands in the south, including swamps, such as at
N{ena Dioankele, and irrigable land. This development would also improve the
securiJty of food supplies and reduce imports of rice.



- 3 -
1.U93           A major constraint on development is the limited quantity of
socîological, technological, environmental, economic and marketing information
on which national agricultural policy is based. This constraint requires that
a pilot approach be followed in new fields such as medium-scale swampland
development before funds are committed to larger projects. Nevertheless,
available data indicates that the development of swampland such as Niena
can be supported economically (para 7.05).  With half of present rice
demand beiîrg met by imports, Government is also keen to see the develop-
ment of large irrigated schemes.  Thus technical studies of the poten-
tial areas of the Black Volta and Sourou river systens are underway
(para 1.26). In the future, policy decisions on such matters as cropping
alternatives (e.g. cotton and/or rice), food self-sufficiency, and
drought protection may involve careful analysis of price relationships
and aconoîic trade-offs.  It is thus important that a maximum of factual
information and sound analytical studies be made available to Government
decision-makers.
lil0      Bank Group Lending.  Bank Group lending policy toward Upper Volta is
in keeping with an October 1977 presidential decree which established rural
development as a priority sector. Three rural development projects have been
successfully completed (para 1.11). There are also four ongoing IDA-assisted
agricultural projects: Bougouriba I (Credit 496-UV) for US$8.0 million, West
Volta Agricultural Development (Credit 706-UV) for US$3.6 million and the
Livestock Development Project (Credit 557-UV) for US$6.0 million, all of which
are located in the southwestern part of the country, and the Second Rural
Development Fund (Credit 640-UV) for US$9.4 million, largely concentrated on
the Mossi plateau. An agricultural development project covering the Koudougou
ORD is currently being appraised. A forestry project credit for US$14.5
million was approved by the Board on January 21, 1980.
1.11      The three completed rural development projects were essentially
consecutive efforts. The Rural Development Fund Project (Cr. 317-UV) was
started in 1972 and the Project Performance Audit Report (PPAR) confirmed
that the project had been innovative and successful in implementing diversi-
fied and scattered subprojects including small area (10 ha) rice development
projects, wells, feeder roads and soil conservation measures. The rate of
return was estimated at 19 percent compared with 16 percent at appraisal.
The Drought Relief Fund Project (Cr. 442-UV) using the RDF organization,
successfully developed clean water supplies for 105 villages and 307 km of
feeder roads. The PPAR noted that this project's components had already
been introduced in the RDF Project and that a main contribution was to put
the project organization to a successful test. No rate of return was
computed for this project. The Completion Report on the Cotton Project
(Cr. 225-UV) noted that substantial improvements in farming practices
had occured and that, as a lesson of experience, the ongoing follow-up
project is based on an integrated rather than a single-crop focus; the rate
of return, 37 percent, also exceeded the appraisal estimate of 31 percent
partly due to an increase in cotton prices. As a general conclusion,



it has been noted that the problen remains of the Government having insuf-
ficiernt financial resources to maintain services established under the project
after the proiect period has ended; so far this unresolved problen has been
met through continued financing under the second phase project.
1.12      The RDF II and West Volta Agriculturai Development projects have
been making good progress and there are indications that Bougouriba II,
after a slow start, is beginning to be effective. The Livestock Develop-
ment Plroject aims to improve animal health and establish ranches for
pastoralists. The former has gone well but because of organizational ard
other problems the number of ranches has been cut from 9 to 3 and the
Credit: reduced by US$3 million.
Principal Agricultural Institutions
1.13      The Ministry of Rural Development (MRD) has as its executive head
a Secretary General, located in Ouagadougou, who has under him appropriate
planning, organizational, and national agricultural support services
including research and irrigation. Several parastatals come under the
responsibility of 1RP.  There are Il Regional Development Organizations
(ORDs), which cover the entire territory except for the lands adjacent to
the tLree Volta rivers, which are largely depopulated because of river-
blindness and are administered by the autonomous Volta Valleys Development
Authority (AVV).  ORDs are public agencies which are supervised by Boards
of Directors representing the local administration and population. The
directors of the ORDs report to the Secretary General, IIRD. The ORDs have
a large degree of autonomy and carry out a wide range of activities, such
as extension services, the execution of small rural works, women's activi-
ties, cooperatives and community development, and economic analysis and
planning. They rely on centralized public services for certain technical
activities, such as construction of feeder roads, buildings, wells and
irrigation works.
1.14      The ORD Hauts Bassins, where the project is situated, has its
headquarters in Bobo Dioulasso. It covers five sectors: Bobo North, Bobo
South, N'dorola, Hounde, and Orodora; and is responsible for the Kou Valley
and Banzon irrigated rice schemes (paras 1.24-25). Its responsibilities
include agricultural extension, training and visual aids, community develop-
ment, finance and administration, agricultural credit, livestock health,
rural engineering (including vegetable production), draft equipment manu-
facturing (Corema), and cold storage.
1.15      Agricultural Research.  A number of research centers are respon-
sible to MRD. The Centre d'Etudes et de Recherches sur les Cultures Irriguees
(CERCI) conducts work on irrigated crops, particularly rice. This center is
financed by and receives technical assistance under UNDP/FAO. It is located
at Faraka Ba near Bobo Dioulasso and operates one substation on the Kou
Valley irrigated rice scheme. For cotton, the main agency is the Institut de
Recherches du Coton et des Textiles (IRCT); and for cereals the Institut de
Recherches Agronomiques Tropicales (IRAT); these two agencies are French
funded.



-5-
1.16      The Office National des Barrages et de l'Irrigation (ONBI) in MRD is
a recently established organization (initially recommended by an IBRDiCP
sector study of irrigation in 1975) which is the agency responsible for
the design and construction of irrigation projects in Upper Volta. It is
relatively inexperienced and, in due course, will have to be given more
support.
,,.17     Agricultural credit mechanisms are in a state of change.  Short-
term agricultural credit for annual inputs has in the past been provided by
the National Development Bank (BND), through its Agricultural Credit Division,
making use of the rediscount facilities of the Central Bank of West African
States (BCEAO): BND lent to the ORDs who on lent to farmers at 5.5 percent.
Funds for medium-term credit funded by the Conseil de l'Entente, USAID and by
IDA under Credit 640-UV have also been used by ORDs for medium term loans to
farmers at 5.5 percent. Government intends that agricultural activities will
be coordinated and overseen in the future by the Caisse Nationale de Credit
Agricole (CNCA) which is currently being established. Credit operations will
continue to be administered by the ORDs, but the CNCA will have one agent at
each ORD to supervise the segregated accounting and control of credit opera-
tions, and will provide central training facilities for ORD credit staff. IDA
funds for agricultural credit will continue to be channelled separately to
ORDs but in the short term the MRD Financial and Administrative Unit and in
the medium term CNCA wil:L oversee their administration (para 4.13).
1.18      Cereal marketing is undertaken by two parastatals, and by private
traders. The National Cereals Agency (OFNACER) under MRD was established
with funds from Government and has completed its first year of substantial
local-purchasing operations. OFNACER purchases maize, white and red sorghum,
millet, rice and cowpeas. It is endeavoring to ensure, by direct purchases
and purchases through licensed traders, that farmers receive the official
price for cereals (uniform throughout the country for each product) and
through its wholesale and direct retail outlets, that official consumer
prices are effective at retail level. The objective of substantially
influencing prices has not yet been met. OFNACER is also charged with
managing large reserve cereal stocks (provided by foreign aid). OFNACER
has its headquarters in Ouagadougou, where accounts for the first year are
still being collated. It is understood that at present the organization is
running at a loss, and that Government intends to continue to meet short-
falls in operating costs.  The Voltaic Marketing Company (SOVOLCOM) under
the Ministry of Commerce and Industry is 97 percent government-owned. It
r     is a major wholesaling and retailing organization, dealing in a wide variety
of goods. It purchases locally, imports, and retails agricultural produce.
It operates mainly in Ouagadougou and Bobo Dioulasso and functions profitably.
There are also a considerable number of private traders who operate effec-
tively nearer the main consumption areas. High transportation costs deter
traders from providing aLn adequate market outlet in remote areas at prices that
producers would find attractive. It is not clear whether the official
wish to have OFNACER purchase at a uniform price throughout the country can be
realized in practice, although OFNACER now has sufficient storage and trans-
port capacity to operate on a large scale. Small-scale traditional local
production from swamplands and production from improved swamplands is con-
sumed near the point of production and also in the urban markets, with prices



- 6 -
being governed by market forces. Producer prices for rice are further dis-
cussed at para 1.28.
1.19      Cotton marketing and ginning are undertaken by a weil-functiclning
joint arrangement, recently transformed from a partnership into the Textile
Fibres Company (SOFITEX) under the Ministry of Rural Development, with parti-
cipation by Government and the French CFDT. As cotton must go to a ginnery,
Government is readily able to regulate producer prices, which are announced
annually.  About 90-95 percent of lint production is exported, the remainder
being sold to the domestic textile industry. From its cotton operations,
Government has in the past obtained sizeable cash surpluses, used to finance
input subsidies and ORD activities. However, as falling export prices in the
last two years have reduced these surpluses, the financing of input subsidies
has become problematic. With regard to the proposed pilot project, input use
would not be sufficiently large for this situation to be of concern. IBRD
forecasts improved cotton prices through 1990, and cotton can be expected to
continue to play a key role in the Upper Volta economy.
The Rice Subsector
1.20      Supply and Demand.  In Upper Volta as a whole, per capita consump-
tion of rice has increased steadily since the early 1970's, rising from 3.7 kg
in 1971 to 7.2 kg in 1978. Most of the increase since 1974 has come from in-
creased consumption in the cities, where there has been a dramatic replacement
of millet and sorghum. Consumption in urban areas has reached 55 kg/person,
and the preference for it over the traditional grains is likely to continue.
1.21      Domestic production of rice reached 45,000 tonnes paddy in 1976/77
(23.000 tonnes rice equivalent after deducting on-farm losses). Government
would like to achieve self-sufficiency in rice production--an understandable
goal for a landlocked country which suffers from recurrent droughts and
food ,hortages, but a goal whose economic implications require careful analy-
sis. The production implications of the goal are that an additional 109,000
tonnes of domestic production of paddy would be required by 1990 if the
country were to become self-sufficient. This is based on expected trends in
population growth and per capita consumption of rice (increasing at a rate of
1 kg every four years) which puts rice requirements in 1990 at about 75,000
tonnes (154,000 tonnes paddy equivalent) taking into account farm losses.
Whilst higher rice prices relative to millet and sorghum may slow this growth,
the experience in neighboring countries indicates that rice quickly rep:Laces
mille: and sorghum in the urban diet, and in view of its greater convenience
and lower cost of preparation, can bear an appropriate price differential.
Given these circumstances it is important for Upper Volta to conceive and
implernent a well-founded rice policy - within the framework of an overall
food policy - in order to ensure best use of resources. Whilst government
wishes to be self-sufficient in rice, further analysis of the technical
and economic aspects of rice production and their place in a total food
policy, must be carried out. It appears likely that in the absence of direct
controls, or major price interventions depressing demand, the country will
continue to rely heavily on rice imports through to 1990.



1.22      Current domestic production comes from traditional sources (76 per-
cent), swamplands (8 percent), and irrigated areas (16 percent). Traditional
rice growing is generally carried out in swamps, that is low-lying areas with
impeded drainage. Because of the absence of water control, production is
unreliable and thus receives little cultural attention. Land preparation and
weeding in particular are perfunctorily performed, seed is of the traditional
Gambiaka variety and the crop is regarded basically as a bonus to production
of other crops on upland parcels. Some conscientiously tended swampland
rice is grown (5 percent) where an upland farming source is not available and
where therefore the family is dependent upon the rice crop. In these cases,
production is constrained by the absence of improved seed, fertilizer and
water control measures. Nevertheless, yields of about 1 tonne paddy/ha can be
expected.
1.23      Schemes to increase rice production have centered on water control
of swamplands and on irrigation. To date 2,200 ha of irrigation have been
developed. There are an estimated 30,000 ha of swamplands suitable for
development, and the considerable river water resources provide the opportu-
nity for at least 130,000 ha for irrigation. Although promising, there is as
yet no completely successful large scale scheme. The first major scheme,
involving improvement of swamp drainage and the retention of water levels
through sluice gate control at the end of the rains (August/September), was
initiated in 1958 in the Niena Dionkele flood plain. About 1,500 ha of
rainfed rice was developed; but the scheme failed after three years due to
poor flood control due to bad design and operations and inadequate support
services and marketing services (para 2.06). Subsequently, some 3,040 ha of
swamplands in small schemes of 5 to 20 ha have been developed in various areas
of the country under the IDA-financed RDF I and II projects. These schemes
have been generally successfully initiated, with yields ranging from about 1-3
tonnes/ha. The subsequent performance of these developments however has not
yet been measured (para 1.11) and there is now a need to see whether larger
swamps such as Niena Dionkele can be developed successfully.
1.24      The first major irrigation project including the use of permanent
river flow was developed, between 1968 and 1973, by a Taiwanese mission at Kou
(26 km northwest of Bobo Dioulasso) in Hauts Bassins ORD. This double-cropped
rice project originally covered 1,000 ha but has been reduced to 870 ha. Some
areas with unsuitable soils were deleted, and some land was lost because a
lake expanded as a result of inadequate drainage facilities. The project
produces 6,000-7,000 tonnes paddy per annum, contributing about 14 percent
of national rice production. Farmers grow about 1 ha of rice each; some make
informal arrangements with the local people whereby they also cultivate
upland areas. Many use oxen for cultivation. Seed and fertilizer are
provided by the scheme's cooperative and cultural practices are good. Yields
are 3,500-4,000 kg/ha per crop and high returns to farmers continue to be
obtained. There are also some problems: declining soil fertility; inadequate
drainage; inadequate maintenance of irrigation structures; inexperience in
cooperative society management and financial control; and poor crop marketing,
as well as inefficient operation of the Kou Valley rice mill. Rehabilitation
of this scheme is being financed by the West African Development Bank (BOAD)
through a loan of US$1.7 million, signed in July, 1979. It's relationship to
thie proposed project is discussed at paras 1.27 and 3.19.



- 8 -
1.25      In 1977, a similar scheme covering 500 ha was commenced at
Banzon, about 100 km to the west of Bobo Dioulasso in the Hauts Bassins
ORD, with assistance from the People's Republic of China. The project is
still in the early stages of development.
1.26      The promising results of the RDF schemes and the evidence of the
Kou scheme have resulted in the financing by FAC of the preparation of a
master plan, which is being prepared for the Sourou and Upper Black Volta
rivers.  Studies which commenced in 1979, will include a number of feasibility
studies that will examine in depth those areas having particular suitability
for irrigated and rainfed development. The cost of water control, yields,
prices and the place of rice within an individual farmer's overall cropping
system, will determine whether rice can be produced economically.  Thus
these studies, and detailed analysis of current development schemes and of
the proposed Niena Dionkele scheme will enable technical choices to be made,
and provide evidence of farmer response to specific systems. This project
will help government in this task.
1.27      Rice Milling.  There are three large-scale rice mills in Upper
Volta, a 3 tonnes/hour mill at Kou and two 1 tonne/hour mills within 10 km
of Bobo Dioulasso. A smaller mill is located at Banfora, to the south.
Elsewhere in the country, there are a number of 0.5 tonne/hour mills. The
two mills at Bobo are both old and operate well below capacity. The larger
mill at Kou, relatively new (1976), also operates below capacity on account
of poor maintenance and spares availability. It is currently under ORD
control. Management requires upgrading, and an excessively large labor
force is employed. This mill would have adequate capacity for production
from both the Kou Valley scheme and from the proposed Niena Dionkele scheme
up to the end of the second phase (3,000 tonnes paddy/year). At that time
(1987), an increase in the capacity of this mill, or construction of
another mill, would be necessary. The shorter term needs are considered in
the proposed project.
1.28      Marketing and Producer Prices.  Very little rice grown by tradi-
tional methods finds its way into the organized marketing channels. What
does is usually handled by small traders, although OFNACER may in the future
play a greater part. The Kou Valley scheme is the major organized source of
production, and these farmers have had increasing difficulty in selling their
surplus production despite OFNACER purchasing some (1,860 tonnes) of the 1979
dry season crop (3,800 tonnes). Up to 1978/79 the ORD was involved in pur-
chasing the crop on behalf of OFNACER.  The ORD's financial difficulties have
led to dissatisfaction by OFNACER with this arrangement, as obligations of the
ORD have not been met on schedule, in turn leading to delays in the crop being
purchased. Except for such purchases by OFNACER, farmers have usually
received less than the official price. Part of the problem has been due to
financial difficulties between OFNACER and the ORD as purchasing agency. The
other is that it has been more profitable for SOVOLCOM, the Army, OFNACER and
traders to import rice for sale to the urban areas than to go to the trouble
and risk of purchasing rice from Kou - especially after the official producer
price was increased in 1978 (to above world prices) at the same time as world



- 9 -
prices decreased. In addition, the lack of institutional capability in the
Ministry prevented a-proper analysis of the rapidly expanding rice market and
failed to regulate imports. The project has taken this experience into
consideration (para 6.02).
II. THE PROJECT AREA
Location
2.01      The project is in the Niena Dionkele zone located 108 km northwest
of Bobo Dioulasso in the subsector of N'dorola in N'dorola sector of Hauts
Bassins Region (see Map 14301). The swamplands to be developed in the Niena
Dionkele area consist of 3,500 ha of the Dougo and Kuo Swamps and swamplands
along the valley bottom of the river Duogo and its tributaries, the Kuo and
Ouzou. The two valleys are flooded in the wet season and, along with their
rivers, dry out in the dry season.  Farmers at present grow dryland crops
on the red lateritic soils of the surrounding uplands and from 150 to 200
ha of swamp rice on the edges of some of the flooded areas. The whole catch-
ment area covers some 90,000 ha and includes the villages of N'dorola, Were,
Karamassasso, Dingasso, Diguere, Niena, Kourouma and Dionkele.
Climate, Land Features and Topography
2.02      The area is close to the 1,050 mm isohyet and is characterized by
a dry season from November to March and a wet season from April to October.
Maximurm temperatures occur in March and April, minimum temperatures in
December and January. Temperatures average 25-300C. Maximum cloud cover
and rainfall center on August. During the dry season, the dry winds from
the Sahara (northerly and northeasterly) result in very sunny weather and
very low humidity. Rainfall data (collected over 22 years at N'dorola) show
that evapotranspiration requirements are amply satisfied from the end of June
to the end of September, and that climatic conditions are very favorable for
annual dry season crops. The rainfall ranges from 1 in 50 year extremes of 400
mm over 6 months to 2260 mm over 12 months.  One year in two, 1060 mm can be
expected spread over 9 months. Working Paper C3 contains data on sunshine,
temperatures, and humidity in Bobo Dioulasso, and some data recorded at Niena
Dionkele.
2.03      The catchment area is bounded, except on the south, by high projec-
tions with outlying hardpan. The geologic formations are of sandstone
origin (close to Niena) and doleritic (north of N'dorola). Peripheral eleva-
tions are in the 450-650 m range. The alluvial depressions are below the
336 m level. The basin is characterized by a flat relief with some slight
longitudinal and transversal slopes. The valleys leading to the central
depression have variable longitudinal slopes and gentle to sharp transversal
slopes. In general, natural embankments border the low-lying areas.



- 10 -
Water ]Resources, Soils and Vegetation
2.04      The flow patterns of the Duogo, Kuo and Ouzou rivers follow
closely the rainfall pattern, with a maximum runoff at end-August/mid-
September.  Generally, the rivers are dry by December.  Hydrological
surveys, carried out by the Overseas Technical and Scientific Research
Organization (ORSTOM) in 1974, 1975, and 1976, show that the coefficient of
runoff (i.e. the ratio of actual runoff to rainfall) is unexpectedly low
(5.8 percent); this finding considerably limits the feasibility of storage
reservoirs for permanent irrigation.
2.05      At their entrance inside the flood plain, the river beds of Dougo
and Kuo disappear completely and, consequently, these rivers usually flood
the ne:Lghboring areas of good lowland soils.
2.06      There is only one exit for the river floods, at Karamassasso, at
the not:hern extremity of the flood plain. The grade of the river from here
on is quite shallow, and further downstream the floods flow through a
48-km-]ong channel with some narrow stretches due to rocky outcrops that limit
the drainage discharge of the flood plain. At Karamassasso, the discharge is
limited to 20 m3/sec. This low discharge causes the water to back-up, so
that the northern part of the plain is regularly flooded. In 1958, a gated
structure was built at Karamassasso with the purpose of maintaining a pond of
some 2,900 ha (at contour level 331) for the purpose of controlling water
levels in the swamp. However, the level of control was insufficient for
sustairted high yields due to the highly variable hydrology of the area. It
was cortcluded that better flood control would be needed. Development pro-
posals involving this structure are discussed at para 3.06.
2.07      Soils.  A number of soil surveys have been carried out in the
project zone. The soil types are distributed as follows: lithosols, 40
percent; tropical ferruginous soils, 46 percent; vertisols, 7 percent; and
in the swamplands, hydromorphic soils, 7 percent.
2.08      The upland loamy to clayey-sandy ferruginous soils have good
water retention, and water penetration is not impeded by a resistant struc-
ture on the surface. These soils are of average to good quality for sorghum,
cotton, maize, and legumes. The pH of the soils is slightly acid to neutral;
organic content is average (3-9 percent); there is little assimilable phos-
phorus and a low absorbent complex.
2.09      Vegetation in the project zone is similar to that of the Sudano-
Guinean region.  There are five tree species, which help identify soil
types. The karite and nere trees are found on deep soils, acacia and
bauhinia on vertisols, and mytragyne in flooded areas. In the range lands,
the grass cover consists mainly of andropogon, eragrostis, loudetia and
sporobolus.



- il -
Land Use and Tenure
2.10      A bush fallow system of farming is used and areas are cleared for
crops by burning over the vegetation and leaving certain trees standing,
generally the karite andl nere species. Millet is cultivated on a two-to-
three-year cycle, sorghum for six years followed by five years of fallow.
Maize may be continuous:Ly cultivated for as many as 50 years in some
locations, rice for one to 10 years, and cotton from two to five years.
Where striga (a semi-parasitic weed) is a problem, the land is left 10-15
years to regenerate.
2.11      Average area cropped per family is currently 2.4 ha.  In addition,
families have access to varying quantities of fallow land and grazing
areas, much of which could be cropped as population increases. About 5,000
head of cattle graze in the area during the dry season. Average farm size
is estimated at 4.75 ha excluding grazing areas, thus indicating an area
of some 2.35 ha of fallow land cropped from time to time.
2.12      Land tenure throughout the project area is organized on the basis
of kinship. Traditionally, farmland is held collectively by a man and his
sons and their children - the patrilocal extended family. Occasionally,
the land is held by the fraternal joint family, consisting of two or more
married brothers and their sons. In recent years, an increasing number of
fields are held on the basis of the immediate family alone. The residual
or final right to land, once held by the "earth chief", is now held by the
national government (See Working Paper C 4).
Population and Farm Labor
2.13      The present population is estimated to be 1,500 families
(8,000 people) distributed as follows:
Project Area Population
…---1976                                        1979
Village            Population          Families                  FaihMies l/
Ndorola              2,309               433                        466
Teoule                 694               140                        152
Dingasso               590               102                        111
Karamassasso           178                 35                        38
Diguera                111                 19                        20
Were                   256                52                         55
Niena                  256                48                         51
Kourouma             2,385               447                        482
Dionkele               620               116                        125
Total                7,399             1,392                      1,500
1/   Assumes 2.6 percent growth rate since 1976.



- 12 -
The region is one of the least populated in the country, havin! an average
density of only 10/km2, as against a national average of 20/In  (and
a density on the Mossi plateau of 40/km2). The principal ethrnic groups
are: Senoufo, 48 percent; Bolon, 42 percent; Bobo, 7 percent; Mossi ard
others" 3 percent.
2.14      Farm Labor.  Women do not generally work in the fields, though
some will assist at harvest time. A man generally works his land assisted
only by his young sons. However, additional labor sources can come from
voluntary work groups, reciprocal aid from friends, or the return of family
members from outside work. As shown by the labor profile in Working Paper
C2, there is adequate family labor available for the proposed cultivated
area. The number of persons per family varies among villages, but is
generally in the range of 4.9-5.7, with an average of 5.3 and an average of
three economically active persons.
Roads and Communications (Map IBRD 14613)
2.15      IDA Credit 653-UV provides for the paving of the major road serving
the southwest of the country, where Niena Dionkele is located, from Bobo
Dioulasso to the border with Mali. There is now a good asphalt road for
the first 60 km; the remaining 48 km is laterite and mostly in good condi-
tion (the original construction of this road was financed under the Cotton
Project: - Cr. 225-UV). Within the project area, most roads become impassable
at the height of the wet season. Some road construction in the area would be
carried out under the IDA-financed Rural Roads Project (Cr. 579-UV). The
major import/export linkage is the Ouagadougou-Abidjan railway, on which Bobo
Dioulasso is located.
Power, Water Supply, Education and Health Services
2.16      There is no power supply in the project area and none is planned
for the near future.
2.17      Rural water supplies are generally inadequate and often unhygenic.
The high water table throughout the project area has resulted in the
existernce of many poorly constructed private or village wells. Most are
about 5-lOm deep. While they generally do not dry up even at the height of
the dry season, they soon become adulterated and frequently collapse
because of poor design and maintenance. As there is no scarcity of water,
any improvement should be aimed at improving the supply of unadulterated
water. To this end, Government has made proposals to USAID to finance a
scheme to improve water supplies for each village.
2.18      Health services are based on curative care at fixed point faci-
lities" although mobile teams are available to conduct vaccination against
major cliseases such as cholera and sleeping sickness. In the project area,
there are dispensaries at N'dorola and Kaya; in 1978, there were 9,945
consultations at N'dorola. The project area has a number of health prob]ems,
with malaria being a major health hazard and leprosy cases significant.
A tenth of the population have suffered from onchocerciasis, with many of
these suffering permanent eye disabilities. The low population density



- 13 -
reflects these poor health conditions. However, the area continues to
benefit from internationally-aided onchocerciasis control measures and the
disease no longer represents a serious constraint to swampland development.
2.19      Education services in the project area are limited to one six-year
prinary school at N'dorola for 300 pupils, and two three-year primary
schools of 150 pupils each at Kaya and Kurouma. Under the Second Education
Project (Cr 956-UV) a Young Farmers Training Center (CFJA) will be built at
Teoule for 30 students for 3 year courses, opening in 1982.
Prospects for Rice Development
2.20      Efforts to develop irrigated rice in Upper Volta have centered on
the southwest region (paras 1.23-1.26) and thus the project area has been a
focus of subsectoral attention.  In view of the apparent suitability
for rice development Government asked IDA in 1974 to look at the area
again. A FAC-financed SCET study in 1974/75 concluded that there was
inadequate water availability for a double crop irrigated scheme, but
nevertheless that an agricultural project combining upland crops and
rainfed swamp rice appeared feasible. Three alternatives were offered
which involved 1,500-1,800 ha of flood plain development. The alternative
initially selected was the least expensive and simplest, eliminating
alternatives that included mechanized cropping in the uplands and/or
expensive civil works for growing rice under full or supplemented irrigation.
This development approach combined 1,500 ha swampland single-crop rice
production together with a small 315 ha irrigated polder and extensive
cropping in the uplands. The preappraisal mission in October 1978 examined
the proposal and concluded that the area could be expanded to 3,500 ha of
rainfed single crop swamp rice which should be developed through a three-
phase development program. The parameters of the full scheme were estimated
on the basis of assumptions that were considered reasonable, but which
required testing out before committing funds to a scheme estimated at
preappraisal to cost US$33 million. The three phase program presented in
this report, based on the above scheme but substantially changed in some
aspects, is estinated to cost US$22 million.
2.21      The first phase, taking three years, would involve the development
of 400 ha of rainfed rice involving farmers in the area. The pilot project
would test: cost and benefit assumptions, technical assumptions, labor
availability, compatibility and effect of rice in the farming system, socio-
logical aspects of the development, cooperative and input systems, and market-
ing aspects.
2.22      If this pilot phase proves successful, a second phase project
would consist of the development of the adjacent areas of the Kuo perimeter
(660 ha) and the South Duogo perimeter (400 ha), a total of 1,060 ha.
This second phase would include improvement of the discharge capacity of
the downstream flood plain outlet by blasting away of rocky outcrops (para
2.06), and feasibility studies for developing suitable areas around the
Karamassasso lake. The third phase would probably involve the remaining
reclaimable areas of the Niena Dionkele flood plain, some 2,040 ha. Flood
protection would be required for the perimeters as well as the areas along the
rivers.



- 14 -
2.23      Nearby the Niena Dionkele flood plain, there are two more large
flood plains (Foulasso-Lelasso and Kadana) with similar hydrological and
soil conditions. These swamps offer about 4,000-5,000 ha of swamplands
suitable for rice cultivation which could be developed in subsequent
phases. A successful experience with rice cultivation on the swamplands of
Niena Dionkele could therefore provide the necessary information that could
lead to the development of large areas in the general vicinity of the
project area, as well as other extensive areas all over the country (esti-
mated at 30,000 ha).
III. THE PROJECT
General
Identification, Preparation and Appraisal
3.01      The droughts of the early 1970s had a severe effect on Upper
Volta's agriculture, particularly upland farming.  As a result, Government's
attention was drawn to the potential for improving the balance of crop
production, particularly rice, through development of lowland swamp areas.
Government also sees the development of such areas as providing the oppor-
tunity to resettle people from the Mossi plateau where population pressures
have resulted in soil deterioration. At Government request, an IDA mission
identified a possible irrigation project at Niena Dionkele in 1974. FAC
then financed a full feasibility study in 1974-75 by SCET International,
which produced its report in May 1976. Preparation was done by the FAO
Co-operative Program, with field work in February/March of 1978; the
preparation report was completed in June. The Bank's Resident Mission in
West Africa monitored the feasibility/preparation effort. IDA pre-appraised
the prcject in October 1978, and appraisal took place in May 1979.
General Project Objectives
3.02      The proposed project would be a three-year pilot phase of a
possible three-phase program for converting a swampy area to more productive
use. In the first phase, 400 ha of the North Dougo swamp would be developed
for cultivation by 800 of the local Senoufo and Bolon families.  It will
assist farmers in the development of 2160 ha of existing upland crops,
principally cotton, sorghum, millet and maize, and assist government to
address the rice sub-sector issues through the provison of technical
assistance. If this first-phase pilot project is successful, the project
could be extended in second and third phases to about 3,500 ha for about
3,900 families, some of whom would come from outside the area.
3.03      The two prinary objectives would be (i) to test key assumptions
regarding the future development of swamp areas (para 2.21) and (ii) to
address the rice subsector issues. The project would examine the feasibi-
lity arnd sociological aspects of including swamp rice within farming systems
having varying ratios of upland crops. It would also promote institution
buildirig in the rice sector through strong evaluation, organizational and
trainirig components. The project would examine the prices, marketing and
economic aspects of rice production with a view to defining a national rice



- 15 -
policy in the context of an overall food policy. The Governnent would be
helped to create the necessary marketing structure to ensure farmer confidence
in rice production, to determine the country's future rice development policy
and strategy wîth the aid of economic planning and analysis, and to train
future rice industry managers by a formal career advancement program. In
conjunction with studies to be conducted on the upper Black Volta, financed by
the Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (FAC) and monitored by IDA, the project
would help open the way for the appraisal of a series of development schemes
for irrigated or rainfed crops.
3.04      The project follows Government policy to increase the production
of rice, thereby raising farm incomes and the standard of living of the
farming population, decreasing the need for rice imports, and providing
greater stability to food production in drought years. Through its institu-
tional and fact-finding roles, the project would play a significant role in
laying the foundation for a sound rice industry.
Summary Description
3.05      The pilot project would be implemented over three cropping years,
1981/82 - 1983/84, with an infrastructural build-up in 1980/81. It would
comprise two distinct but interrelated components - production and rice
industry support, involving:
A.   Production Component
1. developing 400 ha of the North Dougo swamp for single crop rainfed rice
production;
2. providing management staff, a trained extension service, and promoting
better farming on swampland and uplands through improved husbandry,
credit, farm inputs, oxen and equipment;
3. constructing and operating two farm service centers and promoting a Niena
Dionkele Cooperative Society;
4. providing farm inputs and oxen and equipment for sale on cash or credit;
5. establishing a demonstration unit, with demonstration, seed production
and training functions;
6. establishing and operating a research substation to undertake research into
project-related matters;
B.   Rice Industry Support
7. strengthening the Ministry of Rural Development with technical assis-
tance, charged amongst other things with the preparation of a
rice industry policy study;
8. establishing a monitoring and evaluation unit;



- .1. -
9.  strengthening the management of the Kou Valley rice mill and providing
for possible physical improvements;
10   funding studies of further developments in the project area and oçf
national rice industry.
Detailed Features
A. Production Component
Swamp Development
3.06      The first objective is to develop an area with soils and elevat:ion
as representative as possible of the whole cultivable soils of the Niena
Dionke:Le flood plain. The North Dougo swamp has been selected for this
reason.   It has about 400 net ha of Class I and Class II 1/ (mostly Class I)
soils, located at low and intermediate elevations, permitting observation
of the varying influence of the capillary water supply from the water table
created by the Karamassasso lake. The North Dougo swamp is the area within
the Niena Dionkele flood plain least affected by the flooding which resulted
in the failure of the scheme initiated in 1958 (see para 1.23). Under the
project, the problems which occurred under the 1958 scheme would be resolved
by the construction of interception drains, and a protection dike to protect
the area against the highest levels of the Karamassasso lake, upstream of
the we'ir, and by more efficient operation of the Karamassasso weir,  which
regulates water levels in the lake. The swamp development would consist of
flood protection works consisting of retaining banks to prevent water over-
flowing from the Dougo and Kuo rivers and perimeter ditches to protect the
rice fields from damaging downhill runoff. The 400 ha would be subdivided
into 0.5 ha plots which would be marked out, levelled and bunded by hand labor
to retain rain water. This swamp development would be relatively inexpensive
in ternis of the civil works (see para. 3.08). Moreover, only 14 km of new
feeder roads are required, an additional road section through Teoule to Niena.
Hence development costs for the pilot project would be kept to a minimum.
Flood protection works take into consideration existing run-off. However,
future phases will reassess the run-off effects of increased upland cultiva-
tion.
3.07      The Office National des Barrages et Irrigation (ONBI) would survey
and peg out the area.  Then, 7.4 km of interception drains and 4 km of
1 m-high dikes would be constructed along contour-level 331 m to protect
the area against the highest levels of the Karamassasso lake. This work
would be done under the control of the Project Manager, by private contractors
or in the event of excessively high bids, by ONBI using land development
machinery (1 x 140 hp tractor, heavy plow and ancillary equipment) procured
under the project. Farmers would construct 120 km of internal bunding (40-45
cm high), using their own labor. ONBI would do the initial deep plowing. The
1/   SCET Classification (See Annex 5 B3).



- 17 -
bunds would permit the building up of a water layer of 10 cm, and also
would provide storage for at least 10 cm from heavy rainfall. SERS would
construct 14 km of roads using its own existing machinery and staff. Assur-
ances were given at negotiations that ONBI will provide the supervisory
services to implement the civil works program, either using machinery procured
under the project or through contractors; and that SERS would construct about
14 km of roads using its own existing machinery and staff, and according to
the project timetable (para 8.01).
3.08       Maintenance of the water control structures would be carried out
under the control of the Project Manager. Farmers would be required to
maintain the internal bunding as a condition of creditworthiness for future
loans. Maintenance of interception drains and protecting dikes would be
carried out by hand labor supplemented where necessary by machinery provided
under the project and operated by ONBI. The costs of this work would be
fully recovered by the annual charge mentioned below. ONBI has the staff
for initial survey work, which would be carried out over a three-month
period during the dry season 1980/81. At 1980 prices, base capital costs
for water development for the pilot project are US$1,943 per ha or US$971 per
family; and for the complete three-phase program would be US$2,659 and
US$2,386 respectively. Total recurrent and operating costs for the three
phases are US$65 per ha per annum or US$59 per family per annum. An annual
land charge of US$38, rising to US$95 per ha per annum in the third cropping
season, would be paid by farmers through sales of produce (para 6.06).
Management, Extension and Farming Methods
3.09            During the pilot project, the response of the local people
to technological innovation and issues of land use and settlement would be
tested. In this first phase, it is expected that participation would
include 800 families, or 53 percent of the project area population. The
selection of these farmers would be primarily the responsibility of a
Management Committee (para 4.05), which would be composed of community
leaders. Project staff would play an active role to ensure a high proportion
of potentially responsive farmers.  It is estimated that farmers will grow
between 2.9 and 3.3 ha of crops, of which 0.5 ha will be swampland rice (the
other main crops: maize, sorghum, millet and cotton, being grown in the
surrounding uplands). Improved upland crop and rice husbandry would be
promoted through the extension services (para 4.08) and demonstrations (para
3.14) and the provision, through cash and credit sales, of farm inputs such as
seed, fertilizer, oxen and equipment (such as ox plows, planters, harrows, ox
carts and hand operated threshers, sprayers etc). At full development of the
three-phase program, about 4z44 tons of fertilizer and 6,000 litres of insecti-
cide (mainly for cotton) will be sold by the project through Farm Service
Centers; and about 76 tons of rice seed will be produced by the CERCI research
station, the Demonstrat:ion Unit, and master farmers (paras 5.06-07). There
are about 150-200 pairs of oxen already in the project area and the project
would provide another 170 pairs of oxen, which would meet the immediate needs
of project farmers for both swampland and upland farms. Oxen would be pur-
chased at the end of the cropping year, when farmers possess liquid cash
resources to make down payments; the oxen would be trained in time for the
next plowing season.



- 18 -
Supplementary feed (cotton-seed) would be provided by cash sale for
90 days annually and adequate arrangements would be made for veterinary
services and technical advice. About half the farmers are likely to use
seasonal credit, and oxen and equipment will be purchased with medium-term
credit. Total credit requirements for the pilot project are estimated at
US$440,000 and would be administered through a revolving fund controlled by
the Project Manager (para 4.13).
3.10      The project would establish a project management unit with appro-
priate management staff and a trained extension service including equipment,
vehicles, buildings and operating costs for organizing and carrying out the
development activities. Project headquarters would be located in or near
N'dorola. For the pilot project, buildings would consist of two senior staff
houses, one intermediate house and materials for construction by villagers (a
traditional practice) of 13 junior houses. Additional buildings would consist
of stores and a generator house.
Farm Service Centers (FSC) and Niena Dionkele Cooperative Society
3.11      There is an existing input supply center at N'dorola operated by
the ORD. Under the pilot project, the N'dorola center would be managed by
the project and would be improved. A second center would be constructed at
Teoule. These centers, which would serve both project and non-project
farmers, will provide all project farmers with an FSC within 8 km of their
rice holdings. An FSC will consist of a store, office, house for the supplies
assistant, and a well, and would supply a variety of input supplies on cash as
well as on credit.
3.12      A Cooperative Society would be progressively developed based on the
existing village groups which would continue to function and to which all rice
growers would belong. It would approve agricultural credit taken by members
and would ultimately handle the supply requirements of farmers, together with
marketing of agricultural products (para 4.15). Initially, farmers would meet
in project offices and use project stores. A cooperatives specialist would be
provided under the project and would help establish and supervise the Coopera-
tive Society.
Farm Inputs
3.13      Farm inputs financed under the project (para 3.09) would be managed
under two separate accounting systems, one recording purchases and sales
whether on cash or credit; the other recording the credit transactions. The
cooperatives specialist would work closely with the farm service centers and the
credit operation, in order to draw up a program for close involvement of the
farmers in these activities, and a schedule aiming at their phased takeover by
the Cooperative.
Demonstration Unit
3.14      A 5 ha Demonstration Unit would be established to carry out prac-
tical, project and farmer-oriented undertakings. It would supplement seed
production by master farmers; conduct field trials on varieties of rice and
other crops released by research; and conduct field trials on the Unit and



- 19 -
on farmers' holdings, devoted to a variety of project-related practices.
Activities would fall in three categories: (a) fertilizer trials; planting
date trials; fodder crop trials for feeding draft oxen; minimum tillage
trials; feed and management trials on work oxen; and trials aimed at mainten-
ance of soil fertility through manure collection and application and use of
green or cover crops; (b) demonstrations to farmers of farming teclniques
through periodic field days; and (c) encouragement of a greater involvement in
the farming cycle by women whose traditional involvement has been limited to
a modest input at harvest time. Investments would include provision of
buildings, equipment and operating costs.
Research Substation
3.15      The project would fund the establishment and operation of a 2 ha
research substation to be operated by the Centre d'Etudes et de Recherches
sur les Cultures Irriguees (CERCI). The substation would be located in the
project area alongside the project-managed Demonstration Unit and CERCI
would conduct crop research on agricultural aspects such as variety selec-
tion and cultural priorities.
B. Rice Industry Support
Rice IndusRtry Support Group
3.16      The project would provide support to the Ministry of Rural Develop-
ment in its function of developing a national rice industry through the
provision of 4 technicians: Rice Industry Advisor to 1IRD (RIMI), Senior
Evaluation Officer, lIanager of the Kou Valley Rice Mill and a Cooperatives
Specialist. A Voltaic social-anthropologist would assist the Monitoring and
Evaluation Unit (MEU) for the first 18 months.  Funds would also be provided
for vehicles, equipment and operating costs to carry out monitoring and
evaluation, a rice industry policy study, and a career advancement program for
rice industry specialists. This rice industry support group would live in
Bobo Dioulasso in rented accommodation with rented offices. The average base
cost of the four specialists assuming international recruitment, (totalling 12
man-years) including relocation costs and benefits, is US$99,000/ man-year, of
which US$71,000/year represents salary and direct benefits.
Rice Industry Advisor to the Ministry of Rural Development
3.17      The Rice Industry Advisor to 14RD would lead all activities of
the rice industry support group, but in particular would be responsible for
(i) preparing a rice industry policy study; (ii) assisting the Ministry to
coordinate ongoing activities, such as marketing policies, which have a
bearing on the success of the pilot project; and (iii) implementing the career
advancement program for rice industry specialists.



Mo±ftoriag & Evaluation
3.18      A monitoring and evaluation unit will be established which will in
its monitoring role assist the production component in implementing its
develiopment program, and in its evaluation role provide those essential data
required for the preparation of future projects.
Kou Valley Rice Mill
3.19      Production from the pilot phase will be milled at the Kou Valley
rice mill. The mill is badly in need of attention (para 1.27). The project
would therefore provide for the rehabilitation and improved management c,f the
mill through: firstly, an expatriate mill manager for three years who would
supervise the mechanical rehabilitation of the mill and its continued mainte-
nance and improved operations, and would also ensure that the mill operated
along sound commercial lines with efficient accounting controls and manage-
ment; secondly, the supply of spare parts and repair costs to bring the mill
back into a state of effective operation; and thirdly, a senior house would be
built for the mill manager at Kou. The Kou Valley rice mill is located 82 km
from Miena Dionkele on the Bobo Dioulasso road. Improved management and
operation of the mill will not only benefit the project, but will also give
support to the national rice industry.
Studies
3.20      Twenty-three man-months of consultant services would be provided
under the project to undertake or assist with three studies:  (i) A review
of alternatiVe lines of action for the improved management and operation of
the Kou Valley rice mill. Funds for this review are provided under the
PPF. Alternatively, the study may be conducted by the Rice Mill Manager when
appointed. (ii) A rice industry policy study directed by the Rice Industry
Advisor to the MRD, with assistance from specialists provided under the
project (para 4.22), would examine the present rice industry and make recom-
mendations on policies to be followed to promote its development (see Working
Paper C 6). (iii) Preparation of a Phase II project, which would reflect the
lessons of experience during the first three years of the pilot phase as well
as findings from the rice industry policy study (see Working Paper C 6). In
addition, consultants would be engaged to provide a periodic overview of
training activities at all levels (para 4.21 and Working Paper C 6). If
necessary consultants would be used to determine the need for and eventually
prepare terms of reference for a study of the incidence and control of
schistosomiasis in swampland (see Working Paper C 6). The average base cost
of consultant services is estimated at US$9,300/ man-months, including
subsistence and travel. At negotiations, Government gave assurance that prior
to engaging any consultant, the detailed terms of reference would be reviewed
by and agreed with IDA, consultants appointed would have qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of appointment satisfactory to IDA, and
consultant reports would be promptly reviewed with IDA for examining possible
implementation implications (para 8.01).



- 21 -
Cost Estimates
3.21       Project costs, net of identifiable taxes and duties (from which
the project will be exempt), are estimated at CFAF 1,495 million (US$7.1
million), of which CFAF 894 million (US$4.3 million) or 60 percent repre-
sents foreign exchange requirements.
Project Costs
--CFAF million-- --US$ thousands-- % For % Base
Local For. Total  Local  For. Total  Exch.  Costs
A.   PRODUCTION COMPONENT
1.  Swamp Development               92  138   230    438   657  1,095    60    21
2.  Management, Extension          101  135   236    480   645  1,125    57    21
and Farming Methods
3.  Farm Service Centers            22   16    38    106    75    181    41         3.5
4.  Farm Inputs                     44   29    73    210   139    349    40          7
5.  Demonstration Unit`             13    3    16       60    14      74    19       1
6.  CERCI Research Sub--station    8    3    il         41    12      53    22       1
Subtotal               280  324   604  1,335 1,542  2,877    54    54.5
B.   RICE INDUSTRY SUPPORT
7.  Rice Industry Support Group  77  145   222    368   688  1,056    65    14
8.  Monitoring & Evaluation         66   85   151    311   407    718    57    13.5
9.  Kou Valley Rice Mill            25   79   104    116   378    494    76         9
10.  Studies                         19   80    99       95   380    475    80        9
Subtotal               187  389   576    890 1,853  2,743    68    45.5
C.   TOTAL BASE COSTS               467  713 1,180  2,225 3,395  5,620    60   100
Physical Contingencies          36   42    78    173   197    370    53
Price Contingencies             98  139   237    468   663  1,131    59
D.   TOTAL PROJECT COSTS            601  894 1,495  2,866 4,255  7,121    60
Cost estimates are based on prices and quotations obtained during appraisal in
May 1979, revised to allow for anticipated price increases to March 1980.
Estimates for land clearing and deep plowing are based on force account
operations, but implementation will be by contractors if this is feasible at
lower cost; other land development costs are on the basis of implementation
by contractors. Physical contingencies added to base estimates are 15 percent
for civil works, 10 percent for vehicles, equipment and furniture and 7.5
percent for local salaries and operating costs. Price contingencies on
costs, including physical contingencies, have been calculated for 1980, 1981,



- 22 -
and 1982-83 at 9 percent, 8 percent and 7 percent respectively compounded for
all items.  The base cost for the pilot phase is US$5.6 million and for all
three phases is estimated at US$22 million.
Proposed Financing
3.22      The proposed IDA credit of US$6.5 million would finance 90 percent
of net project costs rounded to US$7.2 million, to cover 100 percent of
foreign exchange costs (US$4.3 million) and 76 percent of local costs (U',$2.9
millioin), The Government of Upper Volta would contribute 10 percent of
projeci: costs, US$700,000, which would include salaries and post allowances of
civil servants employed by the project estimated at US$150,000, together with
input subsidies of $40,000. Beneficiaries would contribute US$30,000 of
project: costs as down payment for oxen. At present, the subsidy on fertilizer
used oar cereals is provided by the Caisse de Stabilisation which is funded
largely by a distribution of cotton profits, which are currently depressed
because of world market conditions. At negotiations assurance was given that
the project would obtain its fertilizer requirements through SOFITEX.  In
regards to fertilizer subsidy this would be reviewed as part of the Rice
Industry Policy Study to be conducted by the RISG. Assurance was given by
Government that it would take all necessary steps to ensure the availability
of the project's fertilizer requirements.
3.23      Project Preparation Facility.  Included in the above costs are
amounts totalling US$120,000 for project start-up expenditures for which
IDA made available a PPF advance on April 19, 1978, to finance operating
expenses of the project manager designate, building construction including
the research outstation, and a study of the Kou Valley rice mill.
3.24      Project Special Account.  Because Upper Volta has difficulty in
prefinancing expenditures, an amount of US$400,000, financed as an advance
from the credit, would be deposited in a special bank account under the
joint control of the Project Manager and the Director of FAU, which would
be operated under terms and conditions acceptable to IDA. Unless agreed
otherwise by IDA, all disbursements in local currency would be effected from
the special account and reimbursement made by IDA to that account. Disburse-
ment applications would be accompanied by (i) a statement of movements on the
account since the application, with the balance certified by the Bank holding
the account; (ii) a reconciliation showing that the balance represents the
original amount of the account, less payments awaiting reimbursement, or
small working advances. IDA would replenish the account on receipt of these
statements together with evidence of disbursements for allowable expenditures.
Should any disbursements be made from the revolving fund which are not accept-
able to IDA, the Government would deposit the corresponding amount in the
special account. Assurances to this effect have been obtained at negotiations
(para 8.01). The opening of the account would be a condition of credit
effectiveness (para 8.02).



- 23 -
Procurement and Disbursement
3.25      Procurement of civil works for drainage, land clearing, and deep
plowing, houses, and offices (totalling US$1.9 million) would be by competi-
tive bidding in accordance with local procedures, which are acceptable to
IDA, or with the agreement of IDA by force account (para 3.07). Experience
in Upper Volta has shown that works of this size in remote areas do not
attract international firms. Vehicles and equipment (totalling US$0.5
million) including equipment required for civil works undertaken by force
account, but excluding farm draft equipment, would be procured through
international competitive bidding in accordance with IDA guidelines in the
case of contracts over US$100,000, through competitive bidding in accordance
with local procedures, which are acceptable to IDA, in the case of contracts
between US$30,000 and US$100,000 and by competitive shopping for contracts
less than US$30,000. Farm draft equipment for sale on credit or cash (total-
ling US$200,000) would be procured by competitive bidding in accordance
with local procedures. Farm inputs including fertilizer and urea (totalling
US$100,000) would be procured from SOFITEX or by competitive bidding in
accordance with local procedures in the case of contracts between US$30,000
and US$100,000 or by competitive shopping for contracts less than US$30,000.
Domestically manufactured goods would be allowed a preference of 15 percent
or the level of applicable import duty if lower. Internationally recruited
staff (estimated cost US$1.5 million) and consultants (estimated cost US$0.5
million) would be obtained following procedures acceptable to IDA. The
average base costs of the five internationally recruited specialists, for
which project funds are available (totalling 15 man-years), including reloca-
tion costs and benefits, is US$96,000/man-year, of which US$69,000/man-year
represents salary and direct benefits. The average base cost of consultant
services, totalling 23 man-months, is estimated at US$9,300/man-month includ-
ing subsistence and travel. Remaining project costs (US$2.4 million) would
involve (a) wages, salaries and related allowances; (b) operating costs of
vehicles, equipment and offices; and (c) scholarships, audits and training,
and (d) credit for oxen purchases by farmers.
3.26      Applications for withdrawals from the credit account would be
fully documented except for civil works done by force account, credit for
oxen, local salaries, and operating costs, which would be submitted with
certified statements of expenditures, whose supporting documentation would
be retained for inspection and certification by the independent auditors,
and for inspection in the course of project supervision.
Disbursements
3.27      The IDA credit of US$6.5 million would be disbursed over four
years under the following categories:



24 -
US$
thousands        % of Expenditures
A.   PRODUCTION
1(a).  Civil works                    )            88% of expenditures
1(b).  Vehicles and equipment         )  1,530     100% of foreign expenditures or
)            88% of local expenditures
1(c).  Local staff salaries and       )
operating costs               )             88% of local expenditures
2.     Salaries and allowances of          300     100% of expenditures
internationally recruited
staff
3(a).  Credit for oxen                )            100% of credit granted
3(b).  Draft equipment                )    400     100% of foreign expenditures or
)            88% of local expenditures
3(c).  Incremental farm supplies Il )              The lesser of (i) 100% of
and inputs                    )             foreign expenditures or 88%
of local expenditures; or
(ii) 100% of the price charged
or to be charged to farmers
B.   RICE INDUSTRY SUPPORT
4(a).  Civil works                                 88% of expenditures
4(b).  Vehicles and equipment         )  1,400     100% of foreign expenditures or
88% of local expenditures
4(c).  Local staff salaries and       )            88% of expenditures
operating costs               )
5.     Consultants' studies, audits    1,700       100% of expenditures
and salaries and allowances
of internationally recruited
staff
C.   GENERAL
6.     Reimbursement of Project            120     100% of amount advanced
Preparation Facility
7.     Initial Deposit in Special   )
Account                       )    400
8.     Unallocated                         650
TOTAL                            6,500
The Table of disbursements is at Annex 2, Table 2.
1/   The basis for calculating the disbursement claims for incremental
supplies (Category 4 (c)) would be Years 1 and 2: gross quantities
purchased, valued on basis in the third column; Year 3: gross quanti-
ties purchased in Year 3 valued on basis in the third column, less
amount claimed in Year 1; Year 4: gross quantities purchased in Year
4 valued on basis in the third column less amount claimed in Year 2,
less the amount of the Year 3 calculation if this were negative.



- 25 -
Accounts5 Audits and Reports
3.28      Four distinct sets of accounts would be kept and maintained in
accordance with sound and recognized accounting practices, for (Ai) the
project unit, (A2) farm inputs, (A3) agricultural credit, and (B) the Rice
Industry Support Group. Each would have its own bank account. The four
accounting systens would be prepared and installed by the Financial and
Administrative Unit (FAU) (financed under Credit 706-UV) during the project's
formation year. Systems (AI), (A2) and (A3) would be maintained by the
project accountant at N'dorola, system (B) by the accountant attached to
the Rice Industry Support Group. The accounting would be supervised by the
Financial and Administrative Unit. In due course, responsibility for super-
vision of the agricultural credit accounts would pass to the Caisse Nationale
de Credit Agricole, which is being established. Assurances have been obtained
during negotiations on all the above matters (para. 8.01).
3.29      Annual budgets would be prepared by the Project Mlanager and by
the Rice Industry Advisor to MRD (RIAM), with the support of FAU, and in
consultation as necessary with regional officials concerned with the project.
They would be subritted for the review and approval of the Project Executive
Conmittee and would be based on appraisal estimates amended, where necessary,
to reflect changes in cost and policy. Both the Project Mlanager and RIAM
would submit quarterly statements of expenditure against budget, and a recon-
ciliation of their bank accounts, to FAU, which would monitor them on behalf
of MRD. At negotiations, an assurance was obtained from Government that all
project accounts would be naintained in accordance with sound and recognized
accounting practices; that accounts would be audited annually by independent
auditors acceptable to IDA; and certified copies of audited accounts and
the auditors' report would be submitted to IDA within six months of the
financial year ending March 31. The audit report would comment upon the
soundness of the accounting system and internal controls and would include
a statement as to whether or not IDA funds had been used for their intended
purpose and confirmation that summary statements of expenditure correctly
reflect detailed records, and supporting documentation (para. 8.01).
Land Title
3.30      As a condition of effectiveness:
-    land title will have been obtained to land required by the project
for building construction, the research substation and for the
Demonstration Unit (para 8.02).



- 26 -
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND MANAGEMENT
.rolect Management
4.01      The project would be the overall responsibility of the MinistrV
of Rural Development with the production component being implemented by a
semi-autonomous self-accounting Project Mfanagement Unit. This Unit would
be established under the ORD Hauts Bassins, with a Project Manager being
responsible to the ORD Director. Project headquarters would be located near
N'dorola. There would be a Project Executive Committee (PEC) at national
level composed principally of 12¶D Department heads which would have a budge-
tary review and approval function. At Regional level the Director ORD Hauts
Bassins would coordinate departments and organisations directly concerne,d with
the project. At local level a management committee would control land usie and
credit approval and an ad hoc group would advise the project manager on
matters related to the farming community (See Chart I and Working Paper C5).
Senior Project Staff would be appointed by the Ministry of Rural Development.
4.02      In the Project Management Unit (PMU), under the Project Manager,
the management of technical activities would be delegated to a Deputy
Project Manager.  Operational units would be an extension service, con-
sisting of rice specialists; the Farm Service Centers; the Demonstration
Unit; and a livestock assistance section.  Accounting and credit adminis-
tration would be under the PM. A Rice Industry Support Group (RISG),
established in the Ministry of Rural Development, would be charged with the
cooperative's program, monitoring and evaluation, and administration of a
special junior manager advancement program (see Chart 2).
4.03      The Project Executive Committee would be formed to review and
approve project budgets and to review project performance from progress
reports submitted to it by the Project Manager and by the Rice Industry
Advisor to MRD (para. 8.01). The Committee would be composed of: Prefect
Hauts Bassins Region (Chairman) Secretary General MRD, Director of Land and
Water Development (HER), Director of Agricultural Services (DSA), Director of
ORD Hauts Bassins, Director General OFNACER, Director of ONBI, Representatives
from the Miînistries of Trade, Finance and Planning, Director of CNCA and
Director of CERCI. In addition the Project Manager, Niene Dionkele would be
Secretary and the Rice Industry Advisor to MRD would attend in a non voting
capacity. During negotiations assurance was given that the committee would be
formed with composition and function as detailed above.
4.04      The Director ORD Hauts Bassins would provide a coordinating role
normally through routine ORD meetings (para 8.01). In addition the Project
Manager would from time to time request meetings of senior officials having
related responsibilities to the project. This coordination would ensure that
those officials of Hauts Bassins Region having a contributory role to play in
project implementation were aware of project progress and of their own commit-
ments to the project. This coordination function would operate as necessary
and would include, as appropriate, representatives from SERS, CERCI, Training
and Visual Aids, Pest Control, National Seed Service, Animal Health, Kou
Vàlley Rice Mill and where necessary from OFNACER, SOVOLVON and the Banking
system. At negotiations assurance was given that coordination would function
as detailed above.



- 27 -
4.05      A lianagement Committee would be formed which would have as its
principal functions the control of land use, the selection of project farmers
and the approval of credit to farmers. It would be composed of: the Sous
Prefect N'dorola who would be Chairman, the District Chief, representatives
from ORD, ONBI and DSA, two traditional chiefs and three farmer representa-
tives. The Project lIanager would be Secretary and other project staff would
attend as necessary.  A sub-committee of the Mlanagement Committee would meet
in an ad hoc capacity and would advise the Project Iianager on all matters
relating to the social customs, traditions and sensitivities of the local
people; and as a sounding board so that project management would be able to
anticipate reactions to development proposals; encourage an involvement
by the people in project planning and implementation. Consideration would be
given to the viewpoint of all sections of the community and the various
ethnic groups. At negotiations assurance was given that the committee would be
formed with composition and function as detailed above.
4.06      The project infrastructure is relatively simple and aligned to
existing practices of the ORD Hauts Bassins. In the event that no further
phases were-conducted, project components would revert to the ORD with a
minimum of organizational or administrative disturbance. If, on the other
hand, the results of the pilot project lead to extended phases, the project
organization and infrastructure would be continued and moderately expanded
to cope with the increased development program.
Farmer Involvement
4+07      Identification of the 800 project farmers would be carried out
initially by extension workers in conjunction with village leaders. Final
selection would be made bv the Management Committee with the Project 1ianager
having overriding control. Criteria would be: enthusiasm to grow rice;
location relative to North Dougo swamp; current farming performance; current
loan repayment record; manpower availability relative to existing lands
farmed; enthusiasm to adopt new technology (e.g., oxen); and need for assist-
ance as a poor farmer. Project farners would represent some 53 percent of the
local community. With this high percentage of the community participating in
the project, a proportion of low response farmers is, therefore, unavoidable.
For this reason, 25 percent of farmers (200) are assumed to adopt project
recommendations at such a low level that they can be considered to remain
"traditional". Nevertheless, they will obtain higher-tlian-existing yields by
virtue of benefiting from the scheme's water control measures.
Agricultural Extension and Research
4.08      The project would provide an intensified agricultural extension
service under the direction of the Deputy Project Manager. The five existing
ORD extension workers, who are responsible for overall agricultural coverage,
would continue to be responsible to the Officer-in-Charge of the N'dorola
agricultural subsector. They would provide extension services to project
farmers on their upland crops and to non-project upland farmers. The DEI
and the Officer-in-Charge, N'dorola subsector, would ensure effective coordina-
tion of services to upland farmers through formal weekly reviews and day-to-
day close cooperation. The effectiveness of this arrangement will be kept



- 28 -
under regular review and will be adjusted if necessary. The project wouwl
provide and supervise four rice specialists (one specialist per 200 families).
By P11.se III  there would 13 rice specialists responsible for extension to
39900 farmers on 3,500 ha - a ratio of 1:325 families. In adc`'ition. on-
animal production assistant would be employed to assist the l70 farmers owning
oxen. Periodic refresher training of extension staff would be conducted at
existing institutions (para. 4.16).  The compactness of the project areEa will
permit: a relative concentration of extension activities and assist the supervi-
sory and training functions. For mobility, project extension personnel will
be provided with mopeds, which they will buy on credit, and for which operat-
ing allowances will be paid.
4.09      Research.  The project's 2 ha research substation (para 3.15), whicht
will be located contiguous to the project's demonstration unit would be
operated by the Centre d'Etudes et de Recherches sur les Cultures Irriguees
(CERCI), whose main station is at Faraka-Ba near Bobo-Dioulasso. The research
program would be formulated in consultation with the Project Manager and
approved by the PEC. Half-yearly reports will be presented and research
results analyzed within six months of trial completion. CERCI is expected
to continue to receive technical assistance and finance from UNDP/FAO.
CERCI"s recommendations on rice varieties would be followed by the project.
4.10      Demonstration Unit.  The 5 ha Demonstration Unit (para 3.14) would
come under the Deputy Project Manager since its functions would be closely
related to the extension and training functions of the project. This unit
would play important observational, demonstrational and training roles for
both i-armers and extension workers. The trial program would be developed in
consu:Ltation with CERCI staff and would be presented to the PEC at the same
time as the research program. Quarterly reports would be made.
Farm Service Centers (FSC) and Credit
4.11      The two supply centers at N'dorola and Teoule (para 3.11) would
come under the project accountant and a supplies assistant would be in
charge of each. The centers would provide: (i) medium-term credit items
(ox equipment, donkey carts, sprayers); (ii) short-term credit items wh-ich
would also be sold for cash (fertilizer, seed, insecticide/ pesticide and
sacks'); (iii) cash items for dryland farmers, draft oxen owners, and
swampLand farmers (hand tools, mineral bricks, and cotton seed for oxen
feed); and (iv) lesser used equipment such as ox-drawn seeders and pedal
threshers, which would be available on hire to farmers.  Furthermore, the
FSCs lwould become important contact points for farmers and the extension
service. Farm inputs would be passed on to farmers with an adequate
mark-up to cover handling charges, losses, etc., and to help ensure that
when the cooperative took over the operation it was financially attractive.
Non-project farmers would purchase items for cash or credit under the West
Volta Project (Credit 706-UV).
4.12      The incremental funding requirements will be financed by the
project to create a short-term and medium-term fund that will roll over.
The azcounting and bank account for these operations would be separate from
other projects and credit accounts.



- 29 -
4.13      Credit.  Presently, nedium-tern agricultural credit is provided
at an interest rate of 5.5 percent under two IDA-financed projects (Credits
430 and 640-UV). Under the proposed project, credit would be made avail-
able to members of farmers groups within the cooperative at an interest
rate, for both short and medium-term loans, of 8.5 percent, the maximum
permitted under the regulations of the six country central bank (BCEAO).
This compares with a past rate of inflation averaging 12 percent for the
period 1976-78 but expected to decline to 9 percent during the next three
year period in keeping with international inflation. A group whose members
as a whole were less than 90 percent repaid for the second previous year
would not be eligible for a further loan until the arrears had been cleared.
A farmer group would consist of a minimum of 5 and a maximum of 30 farmers
who, from family relationship or other reasons, naturally operate together
in their farming operations. They would obtain the benefits of pooled
resources and would accept the responsibilities of loan repayment as a
group.  The credit would be administered by the Project Management Unit
through a special revolving credit fund.   At negotiations, assurances
were obtained from Government that rates of interest charged to farmers
would be not less than 8.5 percent on both short and medium-term lending
(para 8.01).
4.14      Lending terms would be:  (i) seasonal inputs - no down payment,
with repayment of interest and capital in full at the end of the season;
(ii) a minimum down payment of 25 percent of the total cost of a pair of
oxen, with three equal annual repayments of capital and interest; and (iii)
ox equipment and donkey carts - no down payment, with an interest-only
payment after one year, followed by four equal annual payments of interest
and capital, giving five years credit in all. In addition, farmers
would be required to contribute 10 percent of the cost of oxen each year to
an insurance scheme which will provide for the replacement of oxen which
die. The cooperative and livestock production assistants would have
to agree that a claim was valid and the veterinary assistant would have to
certify the cause of death. Claims would be limited to the amount available
in the insurance fund.
Cooperative Society
4.15      The project would progressively promote the formation and opera-
tion of a Cooperative Society which would be based on the existing village
groups which would continue to function. This Society would be represented on
the Management Committee (para 4.05). The Cooperatives Specialist in the
Rice Industry Support Group (RISG) would assist in the establishment of the
Society and the training of office bearers in their duties and members in
their responsibilities. Operations would commence with the collection and
sale of rice and possibly other crops on behalf of farmers. Deductions for
handling and Society operating costs would be made from bulk revenues before
passing the proceeds on to farmers. At the same time, the Society would be
responsible for the repayment of loans and the collection of land assessment
charges. Since in the early years, loans would be issued from the Farm
Service Centers, with accounting control directly under the project, a close
liaison would be maintained between the Society and the project accountant and



- 30 -
credit staff. At a later stage, depending on capability, the Cooperative
would incorporate input purchase and supply and ultimately would take over the
Farm Service Centers and support activities. Within the Society, existing
sociological groupings would be expected to advise on individual farmer
creditworthiness and to take responsibility as a group for loan repayment. The
formation, training, and expansion of business activities of the Cooperative
would be phased over a timetable to be devised by the Cooperatives Specialist.
Training
4.16      Field Staff and Farmers.  The project's training program, under
the Deputy Project Manager, would be closely integrated with the training
facility provided under the lWest Volta Agricultural Development Project
(Credit 706-UV). A training center at Bobo Dioulasso, with a capacity for
60 trainees at one time, specializes in short (either two weeks or 1-3
days) courses. This center has concentrated on the production of training
aids related to the cotton farmer, but could readily expand its effort to
include the rice farmer.
4.17      The proposed project would also place much emphasis on farmer
training through the Demonstration Unit (DU). This Unit's major assignment
would be training-by-demonstration mostly on farmers holdings. Project
extension workers would maintain a very close liaison with DU workers, and
regular demonstrations, field days and training exercises would be held on the
DU and conducted by DU staff for the benefit of both farmers and extension
workers. Because of the small scale of its initial operations, the DU would
be ccntrolled by the Deputy Project Manager. At a later date, if a unit chief
becomes necessary, an otherwise qualified person may need to receive instruc-
tion in training methodology and be attached for a short period to a profes-
sional training organization to gain experience in training techniques. This
apprcach to farmer training through a DU will be examined as part of preparing
the future project phases, to determine its potential for continuation and
replication.
4.18      Cooperative Training.  The Cooperatives Specialist will be
responsible for initiating whatever training may be required for farmer
members or Society office bearers and will, if appropriate, use audio-visual
equipment for this purpose. The objective will be to ensure that: members
have a basic understanding of the benefits available from cooperative
membe!rship and their obligations through farmer groups to the Society; and
office bearers are capable of managing society affairs by the completion of
the Cooperatives Specialist's assignnent (3 years). In this work, the
Cooperatives Specialist will receive advice from the Social Anthropologist
in th-e Monitoring and Evaluation Unit who will assist in identifying
social constraints and sensitivities in the establishment of the group and
cooperative system.
4.19      Career-Advancement Program (Details in Working Paper C 5).  Ihree
Voltaic staff, who will preferably have been in employment for a year cr
two since completing their tertiary education, will be assigned to the
proje!ct under a career advancement program. They will be responsible to
the Secretary General, MRD, but will be administered by the Rice Industry
Advisor (RIAM).  The objective will be to produce senior level managers
for the rice industry over a three-year period. While it would be advanta-



- 31 -
geous to have more than three junior managers, such manpower is limited in
Upper Volta and it would be prudent to begin an untested training approach
on a relatively small scale. As a condition of credit effectiveness, at
least two of these junïor managers will have been selected (para 8.02).
4.20      Each junior manager would complete the 36-month program in a
different cycle to the other two managers. Training components and periods
(in months) of attachment to each are: overseas business management
training (9); practica:L commercial agricultural experience, (3); cooperatives
(3); monitoring and evaluation (3); irrigation (3); financial and personnel
management (2); marketing (2); planning (2); mill operations (3); project
management and operation (4). This schedule leaves two months spare and
for leave. In each training component, the junior manager would be given
responsibility and wou:Ld physîcally work on the component; and each would
be required to submit an in-depth paper on a given subject, which would be
commented on and discussed with the component manager. These reports would
in turn be used by the RIAM in reviewing the experience of the program.
4.21      Consultant Overview of Training.  The project would provide
US$30,000 (12 man-weeks) to cover the services of consultants who would
provide about six weeks/year overview of all three components of the
project's training program during the three-year project life.
Rice Industry Support Group
4.22      The project would provide support to the Secretary General of
the Ministry of Rural Development, and to the Director of the ORD Hauts
Bassins, through the provision of a small Rice Industry Support Group (RISG)
based on Bobo Dioulasso consisting of a suitably qualified head, a coopera-
tives specialist, a senior evaluation officer assisted by a social anthropol-
ogist, and a mill manager. Apart from its supporting functions to the project
in monitoring and evaluating, cooperatives support (para 3.16), and mill
management, the group would carry out a Rice Industry Policy Study; for this
exercise, the RIAM would draw upon expertise existing in Upper Volta, both
from staff financed by the Niena Dionkele project and elsewhere. The group
would be responsible for other consultancies and studies and for the career
advancement program for junior managers. The head would be a person having
extensive commercial, economic, or project management experience. He would be
responsible to the Secretary General and would advise on all aspects of rice
production, marketing and processing in Upper Volta, but especially in regard
to the operations of the various project components and rice activities. In
addition, the project provides six man-months consultancy support, which would
be used as necessary by the RIAM. He would be assisted by a cooperatives
specialist and a senior evaluation officer, both provided for under interna-
tional recruitment. A social anthropologist would carry out an 18-month
assignment at the beginning of the project and would be responsible to the
senior evaluation officer (see Working Paper C 7). This support group would
operate with financial autonomy (though cheques would be countersigned by the
Project Manager) and with budgetary control exercised by the Secretary
General, MRD. Annual and quarterly reports would be submitted separately,
but in conjunction with the Project Management Unit.



4.23      Rice Mill Manager.  A Rice ilill lianager (prob.lly to be in   >
tionally recruited), who would be based at the Kou Valley rice scheme,
would be responsible for the technical, managerial and financial reorgani-
zation of the mill. He would be responsible to the Secretary General,
Ministry of Rural Development, and would also have an advisory relation.ship
with t:he Rice Industry Support Group. He would also liaise closely with
the Project Manager, Niena Dionkele.
Staffing
4.24      As local recruitment is not likely to fill all posts, funds are
provided for international recruitment.  It is assumed that the pilot project
would employ five internationally recruited staff for 15 man-years; (Rice
Industry Advisor to the Ministry of Rural Development, Senior Evaluation
Officer, Kou Valley Rice Mill Manager, Cooperatives Specialist and Deputy
Project Manager). The pilot project would also employ four senior Voltaîc
staff for Il man-years and 50 intermediate and junior staff for a total of 158
man-years. In addition, Government would, under the project, finance the
following ONBI staff for water control works: two senior staff for three
man-years, three intermediate staff for six man-years, and five junior staff
for 10 man-years. Three junior managers would undergo a management training
program covering nine man-years. At negotiations Government gave assurance
that suitably qualified and experienced Voltaic staff would be recruited where
available (para. 8.01).
4.25      The key personnel for the project unit would be:
(a) Project Manager, who would be an agriculturalist and would
have overall responsibility for the project. He would delegate
all extension, field trials, training and research activities to
the Deputy Project Manager.  A Project Manager was appointed in
July 1979 and he was a member of the negotiating team.
(b)  Deputy Project Manager (probably internationally recruited),
who would be experienced in rice agronomy, project management,
and training. He would be responsible for project extension
services, training and for the operation and management of the
Demonstration Unit (paras 4.10 and 4.16).
(c) Project Accountant, who would maintain project accounts, inclading
farmers' loan accounts, assisted by the HRID's Financial and
Administrative Unit (FAU) in Bobo-Dioulasso. He would be respon-
sible to the Project Manager and would function closely with the
Farm Service Centers and the Cooperative and would maintain
records of farmer loans.
4.26      Disengagement of Internationally Recruited Staff.  As five
internationally recruited staff probably would be employed under the
project (para 4.24), the following arrangements would be instituted
to ensure a phased plan of disengagement: (i) the training program would
be closely monitored, firstly by the RIAM, secondly by periodic visits of



- 33 -
consultants, and thirdly by IDA supervision missions; (ii) coincident with
project quarterly and annual reporting (see Working Paper C 8), all inter-
nationally recruited staff, together with those Voltaic staff who are expected
to benefit directly from their counsel, will submit separate progress reports
to the RIAM for transmission to the Secretary General; (iii) the Deputy
Project Manager, Niena Dionkele, and the Rice 2Iill Manager would relocate to
Bobo Dioulasso about six months before the end of their contracts. Their
involvement with the proiect would continue on a visiting agent basis, and
they would also be committed to help prepare the project completion report and
the Rice Industry Policy study; (iv) the post of Rice Industry Advisor (RIAM)
will be discontinued after three years, as it is only temporary in nature; (v)
similarly, the Cooperatives Specialist would not be replaced, his primary
function being the establishment of the cooperative societies (para 4.15) and
the training of society office bearers. Secondarily, he will provide support
to the RIAI in preparing the Rice Industry Policy Study. During the period of
the project, the Director ORD Hauts Bassins will designate a cooperatives
officer for the Region to take over from the project's Cooperatives Officer,
he having provided whatever training to his successor as may be necessary. At
negotiations assurance was given by Government that where international
recruitment was undertaken, persons with qualifications and experience and on
terms and conditions of employment satisfactory to IDA would be appointed.
This is likely to apply to the posts of Deputy Project Manager, Rice Industry
Advisor to MRD, and the Kou Valley Rice Mill Manager, and possibly to the
Senior Evaluation Officer and Cooperatives Specialist (para 8.01). Terms of
Reference for key project staff are in Working Paper C 5.
Monitoring and Evaluation (Details in Working Paper C 7)
4.27      As the project is designed to test a number of technical and
sociological assumptions, a Monitoring and Evaluation Unit (MEU) would be
an integral part of the pilot exercise. A small Evaluation Unit will be
established under an appropriately qualified Senior Evaluation Officer, who
will be a member of the Rice Industry Support Group. He will be assisted
during the first 18 months by a Voltaic social anthropologist and there-
after by a Voltaic economist. Six enumerators of agricultural assistant
level would collect data in the field. Four clerks/processors would
provide processing support. In view of the small size of the unit, only
data essential for monitoring of the project and the satisfactory prepara-
tion of a Phase II project would be collected. Other less essential but
valuable information would be identified and conclusions reached whenever
possible by subjective judgments. The MEU would provide information for
the Project Manager andl project supervisory bodies. It would evaluate the
technical and social impact of the project in its wider implications,
principally for use by Gove:-nment and financing agencies.  A sociological
survey would examine agricultural practices as they relate to the specific
ethnic groupings - Senoufou, Bolon and Peul - and to women as a distinct
social group. In due course, MEU would become part of a national monitoring
and evaluation program.
4.28      Completion Report.  At negotiations assurance was obtained
that Government would prepare and furnish to IDA, promptly after project
completion, a project completion report in accordance with a format and
content acceptable to t:he Association (para 8.01).



- 34 -
V. TECHNOLOGICAL AND PRODUCTION SPECIFICATIONS
Agricultural Production
5.01      Present Cropping Pattern.  The Niena Dionkele catchment covers
some 90,000 ha - roughly equivalent to the N'dorola sector. Of this area
some 3,600 ha is cropped by 1,500 families (2.4 ha per family). The
remainder is either fallow land, which from time to time is cropped, lan,d
reserved for grazing, or waste land. The present distribution of crops is:
cotton, 450 ha (12.5 percent); sorghum/millet, 2,050 ha (57.0 percent);
maize, 600 ha (16.5 percent); minor cash crops, 300 ha (8.5 percent); and
swampland rice, 200 ha (5.5 percent). While cotton is the principal cash
crop, groundnuts, sesame, rice and vegetables are also sold. The majority of
the sc,rghum, millet and maize crops are eaten in the farmers' household.
5.02      Future Cropping Patterns.  The project will affect the cropping
pattern principally through the increase in swampland area (0.5 ha per
family) and through the expansion of the use of oxen plowing, harrowing,
weeding and transport).  For project farmers who continue to use hand
cultivation methods it is expected that they will continue to grow their
2.4 ha of upland crop as well as 0.5 ha of rice; farmers using improved
husbandry are expected to shift their cropping pattern by growing more
cotton and maize at the expense of sorghum and millet. Farmers using oxen
will in addition to growing rice expand their upland crops by a further 0.4
ha making a total of 3.3 ha; they are also likely to change their upland
cropping pattern. Because oxen will allow more timely cultivation including
improved weed control this will lead to further improved yields. Because
oxen owners are likely to use their oxen on upland crops before hiring them
to neighbors, the project has included the purchase of more pairs than just
the development of rice would require (para 5.09-11). These expansions are
within family labor availability to cultivate, as shown in Working Paper C 2.
As will be explained further in para 5.13 project farmers are likely to
be categorized into (a) traditional farmers continuing to use the same
husbandry methods and cropping pattern (b) intermediate hand cultivators
using improved husbandry and changing their patterns and (c) ox cultivators.
The average family cropping programs for the project farmers in the first
phase is shown below:
-------------------Project Farmers---------------
Without                   Intermediate    Farmers
Project   Traditional        Manual        Using Oxen
----------------------(ha)-----------------------
Cotton                      0.3            0.3            0.6            1.2
Sorghum/millet              1.5            1.5            1.1           0.8
Maize                       0.4            0.4            0.5            0.6
Minor Cash Crops 1/         0.2            0.2            0.2            0.2
Rice                        _              0.5            0.5           0.5
Total                   2.4           2.9             2.9           3.3
1/   Includes groundnuts, cowpeas, sesame and vegetables.



- 35 -
-n later phases it is expected that many farmers will come from outside the
Niena Dionkele area.   It is not known how many will be able to get rights for
upl and cultivation and it is anticipated that some will not and will therefore
have to subsist on the rice plots alone. At this stage it is thought that
such people will require between 1 and 1.5 ha of rice. Because of these
unknown social and technical constraints the project has based its future
settlement assumptions on the basis of 1 ha of rice per settler. The exact
amount will be determined for each settler in later phases by future land
rights, labor availability and other factors. During the pilot project the
land use and soil studies conducted by SCET will be reviewed by the RIMI in
relation to future settlement involving swampland or upland cultivation.
5.03      The labor requirement for the expected cropping program (W,orking
Paper C 2) would be:
2Ian-days 1/
Without            With
Project           Project
Traditional - manual                  176               232
Intermedîate - manual                 235               302
Oxen users --                         235               360
.i   One pair of oxen is assumed to replace 7 man days hand labor.
Peak labor requirements occur in June/July for planting and in November for
harvesting. However, in no month would labor requirements exceed the
availability of three active people in the average family unit.
5.04      Rice Cultural Practices.  Land preparation will commence annually
as soon as soil conditions permit, generally in April. Traditional and
intermediate manual level farmers will cultivate with the hoe (daba). Ox
cultivation farmers fall into three groups - intermediate level hiring from
other farmers, intermediate level owning oxen and equipment and advanced
level farmers with their own oxen and equipment. Traditionally, farmers
broadcast seed. Under the project, farmers will use direct seeding methods;
advanced farmers will be encouraged to line-plant at 30 cm intervals. Seed
drills Twill be obtainable on hire through the farm service centers. Seed
rice will be treated with Thiram, the cost of which is included in the
price of seed rice. The optimum planting date is June 15-20. Weeding,
which receives inadequate attention under traditional practices, is likely
to be the most financially rewarding aspect of the improved technological
package. Intermediate level farmers would weed their fields at least twice
by hand; those advanced level farmers who had line-planted would use oxen
cultivation supported by hand weeding. Trials would be conducted using
herbicide (such as Propanil at 7.5 litres/ha and 2-4-D at 1.25 litres/ha) in
the second and third leaf stages. Insect pests are a problem but CERCI
does not at present recommend treatment. The project would conduct trials on
pest control. If a suitable economic treatment is found, farmers would also
be encouraged to spray their crops using the controlled-droplet applicator
sprayers they possess for cotton spraying. Treatment would



- 36 -
likely be with either Furaden at 13 kg/ha or Sevin 85 at 6g/liter of water.
At harvest, traditional farmers will collect the panicles by hand whereas
intermediate and advanced farmers will be encouraged to harvest with a
sickle sufficiently early to avoid ear shatter. Pedal threshers would be
available on hire from farm service centers. Where applicable, grain would
be treated in the store with Nexion 2 percent.
5.05      West Africa Rice Development Association (WARDA) varietal recorm-
mendations and yields for Upper Volta are:
Duration    Typical Farm    Research Yields
Classification    Variety    (days)        Yields (t/ha)          (t/ha)
Rainfed            IRAT 10(90-100)         1.7-2.5            3.0-3.5
Swampland          IR 20 (115-125)         2.5-3.5              5.0
Swampland          VIJAYA (120-130)        2.5-3.5            4.0-5.0
Fully Irrigated   IR1529/680/3(140)        3.5-5.5              6.0
Currently, the most widely used variety of rice is the local Gambiaka,
which under traditional practices yields about 1 tonne/ha. IRAT-10 will be
recommended initially as the principal variety. It is responsive to
fertilizer applications, yields well, and is tolerant to disease.  A
drawback is that palatability is only mediocre. The Demonstration Unit will
conduct trials on IR 1529, a variety that is of longer duration (130-140
days), shallow rooting, and requires not less than 10 cm of water at the
end of September. Thus farmers would not be encouraged to try IR 1529
until water availability in the swamplands has been better determined.  IR
20 will also be tested by the Demonstration Unit.
5.06      Provision of Seed.  CERCI produces foundation rice seed and can
meet the first year's requirements for varieties IRAT 10 or IR 1529.  Seed
is certified by the National Seed Service, which operates a seed dressing
unit at Kou - 82 km from the project area. Certified seed is bought from
master farmers at CFAF 78/kg - a premium of 20 percent on the base price of
paddy. Dressed seed is sold to farmers at CFAF 95/kg. The National Seed
Service will clean and dress seed on behalf of farmers for CFAF 4/kg.
5.07      Farmers in the project area are cautious in their acceptance of
improved seeds until they have witnessed better performance in the field.
Improved seed will therefore be promoted through the interaction of: the
CERCI research substation at N'dorola, conducting research on project
area problems; the adjacent Demonstration Unit, managed by the project; and
promotion of master farmer seed producers, supervised through field inspec-
tion by a representative of the National Seed Service, and encouraged by
the incentive of attractive prices for certified seed.
5.08      Fertilizer.  Hitherto, the only fertilizer available to farmers
for application on swampland rice has been the compound fertilizer used
on cotton (13-35-0), imported by CFDT. This is not ideal for use on rice.
A new compound (14-23-14-6-1), first used on the 1978 cotton crop, has
been found to be more acceptable for rice. In view of the rather small
quantities of fertilizer required (68 tonnes compound and urea for Cropping



- 37 -
Year 3), there is inadequate justification to import special rice ferti-
lizer at this stage.  Farmers would therefore apply 14-23-14 to the seed bed,
and urea as a top dressing at the following rates.
14-23-14     Urea
Traditional Farmers                 -
Intermediate Farmers            50 kg/ha     50 kg/ha
Advanced Farmers               100 kg/ha    100 kg/ha
Intermediate and Advanced
Cotton Farmers                100 kg/ha
5.09      Oxen.  Within the area farmers already own some 150-200 pairs of
oxen and their benefits have been appreciated by other farmers who have
created a large demand for oxen and ox implements. The use of oxen permits
more timely and better land preparation, better weeding, and reduced labor
requirements at peak periods - especially during harvesting and transporting.
Eventually oxen cultivation would cover 90 percent of rice land under the
project.
5.10      Oxen would be purchased at the end of the cropping year, when
farmers possess liquid cash resources to make down payments, and would be
trained in time for the next plowing season. Over the working season,
supplementary feed (cottonseed) would be provided. When bought, at about
four years of age, oxen are expected to weigh an average of 230 kg. They would
be sold at the end of the cropping season, on average at seven years of age,
weighing 340 kg. A veterinary assistant resident at N'dorola would provide a
vaccination service for the principal disease hazards: rinderpest, contagious
bovine pleuropenumonia, hemorrhagic septicemia, anthrax, blackquarter and
trypanosomiasis. An animal production assistant would operate through the
Demonstration Unit and would provide technical advice to farmers on improved
nutrition and animal husbandry.
5.11      One hundred pairs of oxen with appropriate equipment are suffi-
cient for the cultivation of the 400 ha of swampland rice. However, the
project provides for 170 pairs of oxen, for needs to cropping year 3 which
will circumvent oxen being used on upland work at the expense of the swam-
plands. Oxen would be owned by an estimated 80 advanced farmers and 90
intermediate farmers. An estimated 170 intermediate farmers would hire
oxen.
Upland Crops
5.12      The project will assist swampland rice farmers in their upland
farming through the provision of work oxen and implements and fertilizer,
pesticide and seed for cotton. Whilst the project FSCs will provide farm
inputs for upland crops grown by project farmers, the extension back-up to the
inputs will be provided by the existing polyvalent extension workers who



- 38 -
are also responsible for non-project farmers. Cotton is the principal tupland
cash crop and average yields for the N'dorola Sector in 1978/79 were 1,100
kg/ha.  The project farmers at intermediate and advanced level will therefore
receive fertilizer (100 kg/ha), spray chemicals, and seed (25 kg/ha). Yield
levels; of 1,500 kg/ha for advanced farmers can be confidently predicted in
view cf the provision by the project of oxen and ox equipment resulting in
more timely and more efficient cultural operations. Sorghum and millet are
grown in pure or more frequently mixed stands and are the staple cereals in
the diet. Intermediate and advanced farmers are expected to respond to the
improved seed (for sorghum) and fertilizer (50 kg/ha) recommendations
available. 1978/79 yield levels for sorghum in N'dorola were 1,100 kg/ha
and, with the more timely cultural practices due to oxen use under the
project, yields of 1,400 kg/ha for advanced farmers are projected. Maize
is prized by farmers and, with the availability of improved fertilizer-
responsive varieties like Jaune Flint and Jaune de Fo available, this crop
is expected to become of increasing importance. Intermediate and advanced
farmers would apply fertilizer at 100 kg/ha and yields of 1,600 kg/ha are
projected as against an average yield for N'dorola of 1,200 kg/ha. For
minor cash crops - groundnuts, sesame, cowpeas and vegetables - farmers
would benefit from improved ox cultural practices.
AveraEe Yields, Net Return per Manday and Total Production
5.13      At present, there are disparities in the level of husbandry
applied by upland farmers. For estimating future project inputs and
production, it is recognized that these disparities in ability will con-
tinue, and that project farmers both before and after the project fall into
three main categories: (a) Traditional farmers, who will continue their
present husbandry practices despite the selective methods used. Neverthe-
less, improvements on base traditional rice yields can be expected from
these farmers on account of overall water control measures and contact with
agricultural extension workers. Traditional farmers, however, are assumed
to be unresponsive to improved seed, fertilizer, and improved cultural
techniques on their upland crops. (b) Intermediate manual farmers, who
will still use hand tools but will apply improved husbandry to both rice
and upland crops. They would apply some fertilizer and inputs to rice and
cotton with improved husbandry increasing other crop yields. The Bolon
people, who in particular are less used to working with oxen, are likely to
constitute the major group in this category. (c) Ox cultivation families,
who will cultivate 13% more land than the hand cultivators and fall into
three groups. Some hire oxen because they are unable to afford the downpay-
ment or find hiring more convenient. Such farmers will use inputs on rice
and cotton but are unlikely to get the highest yields as the oxen probably
would -not be available at the most opportune time. They could nevertheless
expect improved yields through better land preparation and more timely
cultivation. Similarly, some oxen owners do not make full advantage of
their oxen and will get the same yields as hiring oxen. These two groups
are classed as intermediate-level oxen users. In addition, there are
the advanced oxen users who use row cropping with superior weeding. Inputs
will be applied to rice and cotton and upland cereal crops. Yields would



- 39 -
refleet these improved cultural practices. The percentages of these three
groups of farmers are given below:
Without       Cropping Year 3        At r'ull
Project            1983/84        Development-Yr 5
Traditional                           77                 39                20
Intermediate manual                    8                 18                 6
Oxen users - intermediate - hired   8                    21                37
- intermediate - own       5                 il                17
- advanced - own           2                 il                20
100               100               100
5.14      Although Niena Dionkele is in the IDA West Volta Project (Cr. 706-UV)
area, yields are presently lower than the average for that project 1/ because
it has not received the attention (due to its low population density and
distance from Bobo) that other areas have. By Year 5 project farmers would
show the following improved performance:
Average
net
Minor              return
Sorghum/             Cash               per man/day
Cotton    Millet    Maize   Crops   Rice 2/   per farm
--------------------kg/ha------------------          CFAF
Before  Development                                                3/
Traditional                500        600       800       500       -         468
Intermediate               700        750       850       600       -         438
Advanced                 1,100      1,000       950       650       -         518
Average                    700        640       820       520       -
Project Year 5
Traditional                500        600       800       500   1,250         450
Intermediate - manual    900          950    1,150        800   2,000         513
Intermediate -
Oxen Users                950      1,000    1,150        800   2,200         589
Advanced                 1,500      1,400    1,600    1,000   3,000           726
Average                  1,050        840    1,060        770   1,972
1/   Average yield in kg/ha for the N'dorola sector for cropping season
1978/79 are reported by the ORD as: sorghun 1,100; maize 1,200;
millet 1,000; cotton 1,100; groundnuts 460.
2/   Rice is not grown by project farmers before development, but local averages
are 1,000 kg/ha.
3/   Yields for salable or consumable produce and are net of on-farm
harvesting, storing, and handling losses.



VI.  MARKETS, PRICES,  NAICL  ANALYSI ANBD COS' i GOV-ERY
Markets and Prices
6.01      The pilot rroject would produce by Year 5: 870 tonnes paddy,
1270 tonnes maize, sorghum and millet; 850 tonnes cotton; 130 tornnes minor
cash crops, such as groundnuts, sesame and cowpeas; and 8 tonnes meat equli-
valent.. No marketing difficulties are expected for the modest non-rice
producl:ion of this pilot project which involves commodities enjoying well
establ.!shed markets in Upper Volta. At any rate the grain output other than
rice would be largely consumed on farm with only small quantities marketed
through existing channels. Cotton, Upper Volta's major export crop, would be
sold through the present well-functioning mechanism of SOFITEX. The market
for cattle is good and is governed by the export trade to the Ivory Coast.
Overall, the prevailing producer prices of these commodities are satisfactory.
On the other hand, the rice market and related marketing procedures are yet to
be developed in Upper Volta in a manner conducive to the full utilization of
rice potential (para 1.28), but no unmanageable difficulties are envisaged in
disposing of the rice from this pilot project. The incremental volume
is small (2% and 3%, respectively of domestic production and imports); the
quality is expected to be superior to that of traditionally-grown rice; and
adequate transitory marketing arrangements have been agreed upon (para 6.04).
The present paddy price of CFAF 63/kg is sufficiently remunerative to induce
the expected participation in the project. However, looking beyond this pilot
project, the development of a sound rice subsector in Upper Volta - to which
this project is intended to contribute - depends upon the design of a well-
tuned rice policy comprising not only the level of and the spread between
paddy and rice price but also rice import policies as well as marketing
arrangments and procedures. These issues are addressed in the following
paragraphs.
6.02      While the project should have no unmanageable problem in disposing
of the rice produced it is important that for subsequent phases and further
rice development Government develops a sound rice policy which ensures that
rice is grown and marketed within an economically dependable food and
agricultural program. A major task of the Rice Industry Support Group will
be to assist Government in this. Amongst its various tasks it will examine:
costs of production, choice of production and milling technologies; competi-
tive reLationship of rice with other crops in relation to farmer incomes
and national needs; importance of rice to food security and value over
alternative food crops; level of rice and paddy prices, duties, taxes and
subsidies and rates of land use charges and their overall effects on supply
and demand and on the fiscal balance sheet of the rice subsector. How much
demand will actually expand and how much self-sufficiency can be obtained,
will depend upon a variety of factors, including price policies. If rice
prices are too low, the consumer, particularly the urban consumer would be
more likely to make the seemingly one-way switch to rice from coarse grains,
which can be readily produced in Upper Volta albeit under drought-prone
conditions. In turn, low rice prices may encourage the growth of imports
rather 'lhan domestic production. If paddy prices are too high, then land
(subjecit to suitability constraints) and labor resources may be switched from
other crops, which may yield higher foreign exchange benefits (cotton) or
greater food output for the costs involved, to rice. Incorrect rice or



- 41 -
paddy prices will cause economic distortions and could result in subsidies
either to producers or consumers which Upper Volta is ill-equipped to finance,
or the foregoing by Government of a reasonable source of revenue in the form
of an import tariff. Periodic reviews will be necessary as import prices and
local production costs are unlikely to move in concurrence. Moreover there is
a natural wish to adjust: the producer price for increases in production costs,
without regard to imported prices. Whilst the producer price can usefully be
protected from fluctuations in world prices, it is important that the relation-
ship with world prices over a suitable period be taken into account. A
contribution to the development of a good price policy is both an important
and difficult aspect of the project objective (para 6.04).
6.03      As far as mil:Ling and marketing longer term policy are concerned,
several options need studying. The economics of large and small mills must
be explored, and whether policy should encourage private, cooperative, or
government ownership and control. In marketing too, the role of cooperatives
needs examination, as well as the methods for government intervention aimed
at ensuring that demand is met within the framework of a national food policy,
that farmers have an incentive to produce, that rice development takes place
without a charge on the national treasury, and that imports are managed by
an appropriate mechanism. These objectives may conflict with each other,
but policy must aim at achieving a suitable balance.
6.04      Government views the proposed project as a vehicle to address
the issues related to marketing and producer rice prices (para 1.28). The
RISG in the MRDJ will have as one of its functions the formulation of recommen-
dations aimed at ensuring that the marketing process works smoothly. Under a
recent Governnent decree (August 1979), a Cereals Marketing Technical Commis-
sion has been formed which will amongst other things submit to Government each
year its recommendations as to rice imports taking into account local produc-
tion. Government has provided the following written assurances to IDA:
(i)  Purchasing Agency(ies).  OFNACER and SOVOLCOM will purchase
locally produced paddy at official prices. Government has stated
it will guarantee these agencies borrowing from BND. At negotia-
tions Government gave assurance that OFNACER will act as buyer of
last resort (para 8.01).
(ii)  Import Management.  A system of import management will be
instituted in order to avoid disruptions in the marketing of
locally produced paddy.
(iii)  Pricing.  Price levels will be recomnended annually by the
Cereals Marketing Technical Commission. Government will set
producer prices at levels which are not only attractive to both
producers and the distribution agencies, but also competitive
with the price of imported supplies.



- 42 -
Financial Implications for Farmers and Cost Recovery
6.05      Indicative budgets have been prepared (Summaries in Annex 1,
Table 1) for the main categories of farmers. At the extreme some farmers
duringr the course of the project could move from the traditionai level to the
advanced oxen user level; and in this case, the net family cash income would
increase from the current traditional level of CFAF 13,000 (US$62) before
development to CFAF 150,000 (US$714). However, in most cases the increase
will be much less, as farmers will advance from the traditional to an inter-
mediat:e level or from the intermediate to the advanced. The average increase
in net cash farm income is expected to rise from CFAF 13,900 (US$66) to
CFAF 80,500 (US$384).
Farm Incomes (with Project) 1/
Trad. -Intermediate…- Advanced
Hired   Own
Manual   Oxen    Oxen
------CFAF '000---------
Total Value of Production              117      174      199      209     281
Less Costs (net after oxen hire)         2         9      26        3       4
Less Land use charge                    il        il      il       1il   -il
104      154      162      195     266
Less value of subsistence               72       91       84       90     116
Net cash income              CFAF       32 2/    63       78      105     150
Net cash income man/day    CFAF        138      209      271      304     410
1/   Averaged over 7-year period.
2/   Before development CFAF 13,000.
6.06      Cost Recovery.  Farm budgets indicate that project farmers can bear
land use charges which will cover all the recurrent costs associated with
the land development and a considerable proportion of land development costs.
However, a progressively increasing scale will be applied since in earlier
years farmers could be discouraged by too high charges. Charges will there-
fore b,e fixed for the first year at CFAF 8,000/ha and will be increased pro-
gressively so as to reach CFAF 20,000/ha by the third cropping year. By the
sixth year this should be increased to CFAF 30,000/ha but such a decision
would be  influenced by the progress of this pilot project and by the findings
of the Rice Industry Support Group. The level of charges would fully recover
recurrent costs and would liquidate 74% of the development cost in 50 years
at the opportunity cost of capital of 8 percent. In respect of farmers
benefii'ting from water control improvements outside the Project Area, Govern-
ment agreed that charges would be maintained at levels sufficient to recover
all recurrent costs plus such proportion of investment costs that farm budgets
indicate can reasonably be borne by farmers (para. 8.01). Government assurances
were given at negotiations to the principle of cost recovery and to the
specif.ic details for the pilot period noted above. In addition Government
agreed that all land use charges would be reviewed annually and would seek to
maintain their level in real terms.



- 43 -
Financial Implications for Government
6.07      At full development of the pilot project Government cash outflow,
including IDA Credit repayments, will be fully covered by the land use charges
and cotton revenue. Whilst the extension service is still required, which in
this projection has been taken as 19 years, there will be a net Government
cash outflow. Land use charges following successful three phase development
should generate an income for Government of CFAF 105 million (US$500,000) per
annum by program maturity. Government receives substantial revenue from cot-
ton marketing, and so will benefit from the small increase in cotton produc-
tion by project farmers. Governient will, for the pilot project, receive
land-use charges rising from CFAF 2.4 million in the first cropping year to
CFAF 6 million by the third cropping year. By Year 6 the figure could be
increased to CFAF 12 million/year. Governnent should also benefit from spend-
ing on consumer goods subject to indirect taxation, by both beneficiaries,
and expatriate employees. Although no data exists to support the extent of
this benefit, an estimate has been included in the Government cash flow
projections at Annex 2, Table 3.
VII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
Project Benefits
7.01      At full development, the project would increase the incomes and
living standards of 800 farm families (4,200 individuals). The net cash
incomes of participating farm families in the project (at the traditional
level) would increase from their current level of about US$65 per year
(1980 prices) to about US$166 per year at a direct cost per benefiting
family of about US$766 (excluding costs due to price increases). lqet bene-
fits per family member rise from CFAF 15,500 (US$80) for a traditional farmer
to CFAF 33,300 (US$172) for an average of intermediate farmers.  This compares
with an absolute poverty level for the rural areas of US$89 1/ per capita. By
providing an ample supply of water, modern farm inputs, improved extension
services, better access to credit, and better market access, the proposed
project would support directly by year 10 increased production from 400 ha of
paddy and 1,100 ha of upland crops. The incremental annual production at that
time is estimated to be about 2,450 tonnes of paddy, valued at about US$0.9
million, 163 tonnes of coarse cereals valued at US$70,000, and 668 tonnes of
cotton valued at US$375,000.
7.02      At full development, the project's contribution to employment
would stem not only from the regular work generated at the farm level but
also from jobs created during the investment period. In Year 10 and each
year thereafter, the project would require annually a total of 1,300 man-years
of farm family labor., Total incremental on-farm employment generated by the
project would be about 480 man-years.
7.03      In summary, the physical results of the project are modest
but will allow confirmation to be provided to a number of technical and
I/   1975 figure inflated by low-income consumer price index up to 1978 and
projected at 10% to 1980.



- 44 -
socio-economic hypotheses.  Should these hypotneses be confirmed the pilot
project is likely to lead to a much larger program of development of
swampland suitable for rainfed crop production. In the immediate future3
this îs likely to be focussed on Phases II and III at N -ena D-Lonke1e
involving 3,500 ha of the Niena Dionkele flood plains, for which a detailed
analysis has been made. At full development, the three-phase program
would increase the incomes and living standards of 3,900 farm families
(l9,000 individuals). Phases II and III of the program would support
directlv by year 16 increased production from an additional 3,100 ha of
paddy yielding 5,900 tons of paddy valued at US$2.2 million. Later on,
other similar developments may merit consideration.
7.04      On the institutional side, through the technical assistance and
training programs, the project would improve the capability of Voltaic
staff for implementing and planning ongoing and future projects, not only
in the Niena Dionkele area but countrywide. The benefits of training would
extend to staff of the Ministry of Rural Development, to the cooperatives
and to the farmers themselves. The technical and socioeconomic data
generated by the project would be valuable for future development of rice
and development of the rural sector as a whole.
Economic Rate of Return Calculation
7.05      The design aim of the production component of the pilot project
is to test certain assumptions; the rate of return on the pilot phase
is not a valid criteria for judging the project's acceptability because the
pilot project bears high overhead costs relative to size, for example a
project management unit. Nevertheless, the ERR for the pilot project is 9
percent. At the opportunity cost of capital in Upper Volta (8 percent) the
net present value of the pilot project production investment is US$385,000.
The swamplands represent a valuable potential asset in Upper Volta given
the pressure on agricultural land in the north and there are no alternative
more profitable uses, known at this time, to which this or similar land can
be put. In contrast, the rate of return of the three-phase program, which
is the present best estimate of the possible larger scale investment that
might follow a successful pilot phase, is a valid indicator to be used to
confirm that conceptually at this stage one can foresee the scope for
viable follow-up projects. Because of the uncertainties surrounding
certain key assumptions the present best estimates on most-likely yields
are 2.2 tonnes/ha at full development, and on this basis the ERR of the
three phase program is 9 percent. However, should full development yields
be 2.8 tonnes/ ha the ERR would be 13 percent. These higher yields could
well ozcur, in the light of results at RDF swampland development schemes
(para 1.23) WARDA varietal recommendations (para 5.05) and the irrigated
Kou Valley project (para 1.24). An analysis of the rice component on its
own is somewhat artificial, but a calculation charging all overhead costs
of input distribution, administration and extension against rice benefits
over the three phases results in an ERR of 8 percent. If large-scale,
rainfed, single-crop rice schemes are contemplated in the future, it will
be important to establish to what extent such overhead costs are imputable



- 45 -
to rice production and the scope for profitably utilizing excess overhead
capacity to encourage farmers to produce simultaneously other upland
crops.
7.06      In the economic calculation, the program life has been assumed to
be 30 years after an 11-year development phase. Costs and benefits have been
based on 1980 constant prices. The cost stream includes all economic costs
(investment and operations) which are yield related. Included are the invest-
ment and operating costs of swampland development, project management unit
and Demonstration Unit, farm equipment and inputs such as fertilizer
and seed, family and hired labor, and 25 percent of the cost of monitoring
and evaluation. Excluded are costs relating to the CERCI Research Substa-
tion, the costs of the RIAM, management support to the Kou Valley Rice Mill
and studies and consultancies, as benefits would accrue to later projects.
Local wages and salaries paid by the project are valued at their financial
cost, and additional family labor has been valued at the market rate for
unskilled labor in the project area. The cost of the project unit technical
assistance has been reduced by 25%, reflecting the estimated net cost of such
assistance to the economy. Physical contingencies varying from 7 percent to
15 percent have been included (para 3.21). Tax and subsidies have been
excluded. In calculating benefits, import parity prices were used for rice
(at Bobo Dioulasso), maize and sorghum (at Niena), while local prices were
used for oxen sales and minor crops. No allowances were made for possible
major price increases in years of drought. Export prices were used for
cotton. IBRD commodity price forecasts have been used. Local currency has
been shadow priced using a standard conversion factor of 0.85.
7.07      The rate of return shown above argues for a close evaluation of
the results of the first phase, and review of the rice industry policy study
before embarking on further investments. The present arguments in favor of
rice development, which will be explored in depth in the study, fully support
initiating a carefully planned pilot production policy and study effort. They
include (i) the substantial, presently unquantified, benefits to the national
economy from improved food security, in the form of reduced costs of food
shortages due to major drought (conmon every 7 to 10 years). If such benefits
could be properly quantified, the rate of return for the rice component would
be higher; (ii) the reduction of population pressure and associated soil
degradation in the north by opening up new settlement possibilities; and
(iii) the need to satisfy the growing urban demand for rice. It is prudent
for a land-locked nation such as Upper Volta to protect itself from major
fluctuations in food supplies produced locally under drought-prone conditions,
and from food shortages that may occur in particular years on the world
market. As necessity for more food security is clear, there is a related need
to fully explore all reasonable possibilities, one of which is rice production.
7.08      From the farmer's viewpoint, rice, although competing somewhat
with cotton at planting time, fits his family's labor profile and so improves
labor output. Financial returns per manday are currently better than for
other crops, except sorghum, so that rice increases rural incomes. As an
additional cash crop to cotton, rice is also attractive because it decreases
the likelihood of lower cash income through crop failure.



- 46 -
Environmental Effects
7.09      The development of the swampland may, by its nature, increase
health hazards in the area (para 2.18), such as from schistosomiasis.
Therefore, the project will provide three man-months consultancy, to carry
out cLetailed surveys of disease incidence and if necessary a small control
program (see Working Paper C6). Future actions could be funded either
under the Phase II project or under a separate program. The project would
have a number of beneficial effects environmentally through the utilization of
an undeveloped swampland previously affected by onchocerciasis, improving soil
fertility with use of manure from oxen, through studies and intensive manage-
ment identifying and controlling future disease incidence directly related to
the swamp, and through improved nutrition of the local populace. Possible
water pollution from inorganic fertilizer applications is not likely to be a
serious problem. No problems of erosion or other soil denudation are
envisaged as a result of the project.
Risks and Sensitivity
7.10      The decision to carry out a pilot project as the first phase of
a longer term program arose because of three main areas of risk:
(i)  a slow adoption rate of recommended practices due to
labor being unavailable at the critical times when needed;
(ii)  the unknown responsiveness of the people to technological in-
novation, changes in farming system (i.e. introducing swampland
rice in addition to existing upland farming) and sociological
factors (introduction of ethnological outsiders in later phases);
and
(i:ii)  the poor crop marketing arrangements that have prevailed
hitherto and the unknown effectiveness of marketing arrange-
ments which have been proposed.
7.11      Sensitivity analysis was applied to determine to what degree the
three phase program's most important variables are likely to affect its
return. These variables include the three risk areas mentioned above,
together with the yield and price of rice, all of which affect the benefit
streamn for rice, the yield and price of cotton, the cost of civil works,
and costs in general. Switching values were used as a measure of sensiti-
vity. The switching value of a variable is that value at which, other
variabIles remaining unchanged, the net present value of the project equals
zero. At this point the rate of return of the project equals the opportunity
cost of capital (OCC). In Upper Volta the OCC is estimated at 8 percent.
Below this value the program becomes economically unacceptable. The
table below shows the result of this analysis.



- 47 -
% Change Switching Value
Three Phase Program
Paddy production or prices                          -9
Cotton production or prices                        -46
Costs of major civil works                         +23
Value of family labor                              +37
Input costs                                        +35
All other costs                                    +28
7.12      The pilot project design incorporates safeguards against the
project risks through:
(i) adopting modest yield levels;
(ii) delaying introduction of farmers from outside until Phase Il or III;
(iii) operating an intensive extension service (1:200); providing
adequate staff training and farmer training through, for example,
the Demonstration Unit; and linking research to the practical needs
of the project;
(iv)  operating a l4onitoring and Evaluation Unit to identify problerms
for action by management; and
(v) assuring conditions of rice marketing for project farmers.
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED
8.01      The following assurances were given by the borrower during
negotiations:
(a) ONBI will provide the supervisory services to implement the civil
works program either using machinery procured under the project
or through contractors (para 3.07; Credit Agreement 3.03 (a>);
(b) SERS will carry out the road construction program using its
own existing machinery and staff according to the project time-
table (para 3.07; Credit Agreement 3.03 (b));
(c) prior to engaging any consultancy, the detailed terms of reference
would be reviewed by and agreed with IDA, consultants appointed
would have qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of



- 48 -
appointment satisfactory to IDA and consultan.s reports wou:d De
promptly reviewed with IDA for examining possible implementatiLon
implications (para 3.20; Credit Agreement 3.02(d);
(d)  SOFITEX would be the source of supply for project fertilizer
requirements. All necessasry steps will be taken to ensure the
availability of the project's fertilizer requirement (para 3.22;
supplemental letter to Credit Agreement);
(e) the project special account would be operated on terms and
conditions satisfactory to IDA. Should any disbursements be
made from the revolving fund which are not acceptable to IDA,
the Government would deposit the corresponding amount in the
account. Details of the other terms and conditions are at para
3.24; (Credit Agreement 2.02 (b) and (c));
(f) Four sets of accounts would be designed and installed by FAU,
which would provide accounting support to the project. Details
are at para 3.28; (Credit Agreement 4.01 (b));
(g) Government will implement satisfactory accounting and auditing
procedures (para 3.29; Credit Agreement 4.01 (a) and 4.02);.
(h)  a Project Executive Committee will be formed with composition
and functions as noted in para 4.03 by June 30, 1980, (Credit
Agreement Schedule 4);
(i) the Director ORD Hauts Bassins will execute a coordinating function
and the Project MIanager can from time to time request meetings for
coordination purposes (para 4.04; MIinutes of Negotiations);
(j) a MIanagement Committee will be formed with composition and functions
as noted in para 4.05 by June 30, 1980 (Credit Agreement Schedule 4);
(k)  rates of interest to be charaged to farmers would be not less than
8.5 percent on both short and medium-term lending (para 4.13;
Credit Agreement Schedule 5 para 6);
(1) suitably qualified and experienced Voltaic staff would be recruited
for posts to be filled locally - notably Project 1lanager, Project
Accountant, and three junior managers (para 4.24; Credit Agreement
3.01(c);
(in) where international recruitment was undertaken persons with quali-
fications and experience and on terms and conditions of employment
satisfactory to IDA would be appointed. This is likely to be appli-
cable to: Deputy Project Manager, Rice Industry Advisor to IRD.
Kou Valley Rice Mill Manager, Senior Evaluation Officer and Coopera-
tives Specialist (para 4.26; Credit Agreement 3.02(d)



- 49 -
(n)  Governmentwill prepare and furnish to IDA, promptly after
project completion, a project completion report in accordance
with a format and content acceptable to the Association (para
4.27; Credit Agreement 3.05 (c)>;
(o)  OFNACER would act as buyer of last resort for proiect produced
paddy (para 6.04; Minutes of Negotiations); and
(p) cost recovery would be progressively introduced for project
farmers who in cropping year 3 would pay CFAF 2D,000/ha.
Non project farmers benefitting from water control measures
would be charged a rate to recover all recurrent costs plus
a reasonable proportion of investment costs. The level of
land charges would be maintained in real terms and would be
reviewed annually (para 6.06; Credit Agreement 4.04 (a),(b)
and (c)>.
8.02      The following would be conditions of Credit effectiveness:
(a) the project special bank account had been opened (para 3.24;
Credit Agreement 5.01 (b));
(b) land title will have been obtained to land required by the
project for building construction, the research substation
and for the Demonstration Unit (para 3.30; Credit Agreement 5.01
(a)); and
(c) at least two of the junior managers will have been selected
(para 4.18; Credit Agreement 5.01 (c)).



.



-IIEM  JJ1OW~~~~~~~~~~ELE UICE D~~~~~~~~  FWMCES EE 11=11~1010 1015 
IPF'OMtMdHA~,MifPiMete?ois
01603 ttdlttttî 5306 POPI2pDF12<tj Pcc,2t/p-t-   ita-nevaPOi- ttv  0700   S ,lAroto
uffll ~  ~     ~      ~     Pp   ost   -7Oe    trss'ttrrM'taotn -toro                                       to
Otaonn           ot,             lîtAcet:         Oitht           W   t-            dl             pi,n             ott                tn-t           tt
Sera projet   Avec pojet   led-- tcjo±  ent nentet   mas prjet   A-e  projet   Sans arojt   0-re  Wnotet    SI-  trpt P5rproie
(00 00       03) S?           t        t-      o)      dt        3      v      .. (o            0,1    >014   til        0I,   2                              P,           Oto
trora Ocam  crics                          (0.2)    'v       (ttt~~~~~~~~~~ 5,,O  <cL.2    ccp    <t.2  760    '-)   tc         0t      L-      v)       6o     ( oo      Y )'                                 i           tne (tts  ee-.e
<779)    </2(2:           797~            <Lt              792<           279:              7. Ir          W3.) 
Otcc                                                                   <'-o             150               i                t  ,1                                           Pt-t          1,0-i1  
rrrottce/loliast                             tvv               toc           0.105             ,00            1,025             7(0            t 00,              3.5                                  vc0          te 000/t>]~~~~~~~~11E5  100-  l5  7
tlntcs                                              ~~~               ~~~~            ~~~       ~      ~~~             ~~~~            ~~~30  300  Att   '  p-t  6        6  96                                t:o          Mai
vvtcao  t               -3                  O,)'              .90'          1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i 1/3  '7te>'  Ilt,130   o/,'3            idv               Pt4 ]et 
14>0: 'rai (o ifa  95  SP                jettp             - ,ta3.         6,000            0,903           tte?~~~'         Pelto           6,2-.?           0,661                               't 653  t,D 2ea,tee'trttatcitro rtr t'
95                                                                                                            3,15~9<  .p1  m   0P 6 772 ~
F4-                                  ~~~~~~~C'ol   ie!jrtt (po
îles  6i'vjtiftiiet  Prttt t., 0cr, a                                                                                                                                                                   trMor.rtoo77Ttei -ttc~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2"i" ~~  =1 5  J41
invit/tOt k            """''712""'                         (7,5111                          <y      r,yo                    <10 î',tt9                      r<ct-) >E                             (o/t 2                     ?îre/'0Oit
voaIsr                                 -, o,                                                          (05  1 ,705                      1)       3'                     <2)       3'C"                       (S4)    t ,w0gso-6
Po1 lîttrer tt'07 O                                                                                                    76< 10               (il)        yo                   <t')        961                       6<1                             te     rlt.occv<
Marter Iva/tro   tot                                                                                                                                     ____                       *t)                        O~~~~~~~~~~~~~o r ' t-vrs'oota/jrir~2 4) r  E
Ps//o                     (os)      roi      os.    tot    's)    2w    'tac)~~~~~~~~~~~~87   t40     1-40v   )<o                                                                      k n.(> t40 (.'3.9  t.  vt,r
asteî  tose  Set,.. (0<00)                          sp~~~~~~~~~~~~1,98'  1<3,61     72-o             5,890          15,..00         tvso0               î,t          0011ât,r'                              0:9              cns  rte   crme''I
J.R, ,-dy                        L5                                                                                                                                                                               551- t.l
,<p,teetMrev.-.v   cvvat.a   ~~t                                                                                                                                 - 3,9:0                              (ti 9090          t5rsar.acd  sarisets2  t) a9 oI  oe       0<
49,047  6~~~~~~~~'2cÈ      U        I9,61j~~~~~~~~
ttr-l,ase  ana toto Stase 6 Etc'Saarai                                                                                          îv,6o-r<                            (to cj: t           lIt  et  'rote tcoit-e  0. dotirseer~~l5 52
Porvoroti Oetlo?ccrct<2o>ol'vt                                                                                             )ît<s6nSo<                              o/ct...                             /5v  t           Paoetaoc9,0cet
tzee   a  eaw     eev W - -1  090            za,SO                                    2               615              8'5           6,5.(2                                           "t90                                   o                         rets    e'Mst,/tr
Matît                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 dos -~j  5  630, l   '  (~'  73.  73L  118i856 i54304    ~
"'T907777777ce~~~~ottt.      10,090                           49,245                           6905/o                  p~~~~~   ttM,6t>                              17.2t'2            .00 ttear,e11ee 6 lItre  It nidb.11~2L
67  50,2.0   2,/ad   tte<AO        '3,1jp         OdeitS            -.5, 50             r.v't        49,622            56,/Ad             d5,5Pt           Sceoto/tot,b,o                pr.j~1
Mo 'i                                          90777        W~~~~~~~W        <317977 ~~~~~<,~~~'t            57273D            <3t1iI7                              sri )/      <59W
R-eeitre    'Aa   oe p-      S1 il-~,  sert,4                                                                                                                                           -.0939<O,Ot                                           eleif  eatoteSe240ts el   olpe
<'et Oeaslit               r>  -'t                       90,oS           tt.,ooi         9/,o/9                                                             t' .50/                                             <3~~~~~~~~~~dlbll.Il 
___________                                                                   72711"l,I    7y  l   II.   -, -   .  C   -bc,9i                                      t,',9       rt3,3                                 1010....ta    ic
?rcsrlLvcecsteO.001 0                                                                                       5%lot                            /'..                             tg.....pt 1-Od-ttootA,'t.c
tal v  Oeoorrosnv -. attr'p -o                                                    3              52                00 3-'                                             l             '.O/                                 s -tae.jvirlost'
ir /aod ia  rP                                                 66             0                0               1             <r5Il                                               Sa,                                  0              O-eo/iea.-t   F0
OeasoP/otvli        -                                                                 39                               36                              ,00                                7                                 1.0d' tr0-rtrtese' ano
isist  pvoaî  clrr                                            aS-t           îr,oo           :,/j.Ott                       liv/o-.,.t<4tt,120.. d3>                                        -     tt.ptP'                             o-'t/s:vti    aii
1/    es   aritptese   t  cr  reeic   0-eesedl.aasQecoasercace  aca]yOaseeeredla 5  sîescot tarie.              1<    ac  Oot5~   2  tee   iret  e odOi  d  Oee  t.   deil.r.CFAaistIois  -ope'tae  e'.asceoeo
PI   ie Oeiivsr'eer PjPot  cicocd  Ooececeoli.  dseog, Oc001  crercsetrlp  cc i  rradnoecf sese  rd peide              dc    'eroedtscess de.c.rF.rc  Os   orloscstder4dssrs0e
1)Ops/eosdtt.ccsoot                                                                                                                                i        r Icedtcelsfl,c'td    to tfdei    ttr    ca l                                              ceoe    e   eIeîc



1



~~f ~~-j-t  b,             [3303 0, Lt2&t30-00-A7 -6                  je   c-
03,00 I1OtAIE  1203120160030   110~T/00C    T .03ta    30303   1033    0   300   1333
10233:    s              lnfratAoavitof/Rraa -------------------------------
1032OA     It3a3323                                                                                                                                                     33-Y.  2,[AI 33331 TA'il, II1433,17
OL-  toD            -u341 3,3                                                                       1,230C           223,405~3t
TvAl' C1-2'.L,UAo  32302 42                                                             O             333             3                                                                                      MaAt4lr7'
t33003002000A0.A                  2~~~  3         13,334          1,303           2,20'~           2    7-3                                                    MAIl        0M   343'2'
T-l Cbr           "                                  l,   So 
la0t3.u0eatrnlte1,100                                                               30            -~,0,C          To,9                                                    Ihl a'.    -".-a,    3033
TAt. l 3    ai,  A -1 09î
3                                         3-3    10~~~~~~~~6  LI "','  -'A,AA=A
2330 '21  Ton'>  nA'AOAAA                                                               ,D2, 1~~4,,          -2 ¶0        A    4 V
C 1'iA  v                                                                 4'.A                                             '47                                 l-1                tlal -       3- ar,--
lu,  C'ou,                           ~               ~              ~~~~     ~~3 0                                                                               -AAA1A-O,,A4A
m    -A'3CID   0A13AO33                                                                                                                                                                 At-IA
'301102                             VAAA                                                                                                   33   33              A'A,A> 1~~~~là1  ,  l,j,  7_1
OAAa'Ii. 3,,ttn Il.3a1                                                                  1    n
î1                                              4~~~~~~~~~~A~i D             ~          oi    Ju 
0333 2AI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t3                                                                                                                               3-fAAn 3~~~~~~~.,  1:"  l.1,':',
33    a                                                                                       3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A  A~~~~~~t A- : 6
3COIf îoiaoa3                                                                                                                                                 A  31              -aaa
00a20pantA                               13~~~~~~~~~~~~A                   iü 
'.'.po~~~~~'.nAA3A30Aa  ->~~                                            ~'u 
30    A]-34'.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 3,  313o                                                                       .             4,1_i
0    'oo't1n0    iOn- ZfD0A000nPA0                                                                                                                       -    -TAWI]-   "nr;-OM"v-Anç 3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4,
- 0'.3aa-A-1-'.n13331'                                                                                                                                  --  ana,,ci k6  1R
fat A  2a1t'.t                                        3 23~~~~~~~~4  00  i50A,a                                                                                   ratta"i
O0lAtn 3ApO---- tnl-  330 - ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ e   ~
O~~3~~3    o    vA'AAnna                                                                                           3      3A,3Ç~~~~3, 1   c
-AtfA  -tiraS'                                                                               3v       v'.JnIaRl    '-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7L
il            330
00- 3î'alAa3a 3433~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,
't- ai  o-e   Ont      3A1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3  0333AA3'. ~ ~       ~        ~       ~        ~        ~       ~       ~       ~       e
-.al'.ra    A14.aa                                                                                                                                                     Da.a.'.A,A.AA0 a'a.'O, à~~
'.43    '.'.
LA  a'.Iaa,  -43a0300,-nn-A3na'.3f                                                                                                                                2-0"-A-onaaAA
Otk fî  -t.   220'.731                                                                                                                                                             t      -- t,'.3:1A]-aAa.3
n   303A 102040~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7'31   7                                                                                 7
Stan -     aD'..'.,  4                                                 30   3         -A,0.           34,03              nA
LA,- Ila, 3, 1333



1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1



- 52 -,                   Annex/Annexe 2
Table/Tableau 2
UPPER VOLTA/HAUTE VOLTA
Niena Dionkele Rice Development Project/
Projet de Développement Rizicole Niena Dionkele
Schedule of Forecast IDA Disbursements/
Revision des retraits de fonds IDA
Exercise
IDA                  Semester ending/           Disbursement/                  Cumulative/
Fiscal Year            Semestre jusqu ' au        Retrait                        Cumulé
US$ Million
$EU Millions
1979/80                June/juin  1980               0.1                            0.1
1980/81                Dec.  1980                    0.3                            0.4
June/juin  1981              0.9                             1.3
1981/82                Dec.  1981                    1.0                             2.3
June/juin  1982              0.9                             3.2
1982/83                Dec.  1982                    0.8                            4.0
June/juin  1983              0.8                             4.8
1983/84                Dec.  1982                    0.7                            5.5
June/juin  1983              0.5                             6.0
1984/85                Dec. 1983                     0.5                            6.5
November 16, 1979/
16 novembre, 1979






- 53 -
UIlPER VOLTA/HAUTE-VOLTA                                                                      MqREX/ANhEtE 2
NIENA DIONKELE RICE DEVEDOPMENT P3OJECT/PROJET DE DEVELOPPEMENT RIZ.ICOI.E DE NIENA DIONKELE                                      Tau  3
Government Cash Flow (Pilot Project)/Flux monétaire de l'Etat (projet pilote)
Current CFAF '000                   P`Y/AF     CY/AP 1   CY/AP 2   CY/AP 3   CY/AP 4   CY/AP 5   CY/AP 6   CY/AP 7   CY/AP 8   CY/AR 9   CY/AI' l0-19   CY/AP "0-49    FCFA '000 courants
1980/81    1981/82   1982/83   1983/84   1984/83   1985/86   1986/87   1987/88   1988/89   1989/90   1990/99            2000/29
Cash Inflow                                                                                                                                                                  lilux d'entrée
1.  IDA Credit                      468,518    334,131   208,896   245,262                                                                                                    .DA
2.  tand lise Charges                             2,402     4,200     6,000      8,000     8,000    12,000    12,000    12,000       2,000    12,000         12,000          2.  Redevances
3.  Indirect Taxes on Project-                                                                                                                                               3.  Lmpôts indirects sur
Oenerated Spending  /                      2,317      3,848     5,767      6,296     6,912     7,o88      7,192     7,335      7,652     7,795          7,795              dépenses résultant du projet
4.  Cotton Revenue                               5,000    16,000    27,000    32,000    34,000    34,oo0    34,000    34,000    34,000    34,000             34,000          4.  Revenu sur le coton
Total. Inflow                   468,5i8    343,848   232,944   284,029    46,296    48,912    53,088    53,192    53,338    53,652    53,795             53,795              élux d'entrée global
Cash Outflow                                                                                                                                                                 Flux de sortie
i.  Project & Post-Project Costs   520,755    371,257   233,107   272,513    60,000    60,000    60,ooo    60,000    6o,000    60,000    6o,ooo              10,000          L. Coufs du projet et de
l'après-projet j/
2.  IDA Deit Service                                                                                                                                                         ".  Service de la dette IDA
- Service Charge                  3,370      5,630      7,580     9,360      9,360     9,36(o     9,360     9,360     9,360      9,360     8,895          4,450              -Commission de service
- Principal                                                                                                                               12,4iR         37,100              -Principal
3.  IrTput SubsidiesaV                              9oo     1,600     3,000      4,000     4,000      4,000     4,000      4,000     4,000      4,000         4,000          3.  Subventions des intrants _
Total Outflow                   524,125    377,787   241,287   284,873    73,360    73,360    73,360    73,360    73,360    73,360    85,379             55,950               ilux de sortie global
Net Outflow                           55,607     33,939     8,343        844   27,064    24,448    20,272    20,168    20,025    19,70,î   31,584          t 12,155
FY Z Formation Year ending March 31, 1981                                                                      AF    Année de formation se terminant le 31 mars 1981
CY - Cropping Year ending March 31                                                                             AP 5 Année de production se terminant le 31 mars
Assumption is:                                                                                                 Hypothèse:
/  50% of incremental cash income spent on dutia',le goods with average tax of` P5%                             / i )O% du revenu additionnel en espices utilisO pour
2   Based on analysis at West Volta Agricultural Development;  assumes a reversal of                               l'achat de biens susceptibles à l'ispôt, avec une
present depressed world cotton prices                                                                          charge moyenne de 25%
j   In current terms to Year 5, constant thereafter                                                            J   Basé sur une analyse du Projet de  a. veloppement
agricole Ouest-Volta; suppose un revirement des
j   Extension Service no longer continued                                                                           prix actuellement faibles du coton
Net Inflow                                                                                                 3/  En termes courarnts jusqu'à l'année 5, en termes
constarnts par la suite
4/ Fin de service de vulgarisation
j51 Flux d'entrée



UPPER VOLTA - NIENA DIONKELE RICE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ECOONMIC ANALYSIS OF 3 PHASE PROGRAM - SUnMARY OF COSTS AND BENEFITS
CFAF '000 IN 1980 TERns
YEAR             19B0         1981          1982         1983         1984         1985          1986         1987         198''
PRODUCTION :TONNES)
PADDY                               O          338          544          697           832         1415         2270         3073          3281
COTTON                              O           46          161          384           446          s98          689          699          6h9
SOROHUM                             0          -39          -52          -32           -30          -45          -45           4            -45
MAIZE                               O           38           70           153          243          275          275          275
MINOR CASH CROPS                    O            3           10           28            41           45           45           45            45
PAIRS OF OXEN                       O            O            O           43            52           67          109          166           ?()
ECONOMIC FAîRMGATE PRICES
PADDY                               O           58           59           61            62           63           65            65           65
COTTON                              O           66           72           82            89           97          105          107           188
SOROHUM                             O           68           69           70            70           70           71           71            71
MAIZE                               O           72           72           74            74           75           75            76           76
nINOR CASH CROPS                    O           50           51           50            48           47           47           47            48
PAIR OF OXEN                        O          104          101           96            99          102          106          108           106
ECONONIC BENEFITS
PADDY                               o        19604        32096        42517        51584         89145       147550       199745       213265
COTTON                              o         3036        11592        31488        39694         66833        72345        73723        74412
SORGHUn                             O        -2652        -35s8        -2240        -2100         -3150        -3195        -3195        -3195
MAIlZE                              O         2736         5040        11322         17982        20621        20625        20900        20900
nIONR CASH CROPS                    O          150          S10         1400          1968         2115         2115         2115          2160
OXEN                                O            O            0         4128          5148        6834         11554        17596        22154
TOTAL SENEFITS                        O        22874        45650        88615        114276       182402       218994       310584       329696
ECONOiIC COETS
CIVIL WORF.S                  301125         20983         1351         1351        84622        329965       217089        78216       155553
VENICLES AND EOUIPMENT         23197          5164          139         4268        15258          4268         3628        13231         428s
LOCAL STAFF SALARIES           13113         19920        20573        20573        33873         33873        33873        33873        43042
EXPATRIATE: SALARIES            13096        26190        26190        13095        13095         13095        13095        13095        13095
OTHER OPERATING COSTS           8800         14061        15691        15228        18905         20432        24812        20738        38486
MONITORINGI 1 EVALTN             1194        13807        11200        119'13        B221          7572         8199         8022         8018
FARM INPUlS                    10663         15486        22847        29706        44297         58535        52115        46735        83792
INCREMENTAL LABOS                   O        11934        16012        22917        27500        41113        54046         61282        6029B
TOTAL COSTS                     371188        127445       114003       119051       245771        508813       406857       275232       406550
NET BENEFITS                   -3711s8      -104571        -68353       -30436      -131495       -326451      -155583        35652       -76854
TEAR             1989         1990          1991         1992         1993         1994         1995   1996-2020
PRODUCTION (TONNES)
PADDY                            4060         5316         7611         8053         8076          8163         8253         8324
COTTON                            699          689          689          689           689          689          689          689
ORGHUn                            -45          -45          -45          -45          -45           -45          -45          -45
MAIzE                             275          275          275          275           275          275          275          275
MINI CASH CROPS                    45           45           45           45            45           45           45           45
PAIRS OF OXEN                     1lo          176          356          318           404          356          318          318
ECONOiIC FARNMATE PRICES
PADDY                              66           66           66           66            68           66           66           66
COTTON                            110          111          112          112           112          112          112          112
WRObMu                             71           71           71           71            71           71           71           71
MAIZE                              76           76           76           76            76           76           76           76
RINOR CASH CROPS                   49           50           51           51            51           51           51           51
PAIR OF OXEN                      106          106          106          106           106          106          106          106
ECONOMIC SEHEFITS
PADDY                         267960        350856       502326       531498       533016       538758        544698       549384
COTTON                         75790         76479        77168        77168        77168         77168        77168        77168
SOROHUn                        -3195        -3195        -3195         -3195        -3195        -3195         -3195        -3195
MAIZE                          20900         20900        20900        20900        20900        20900         20900        20900
rINDR CASH CROPS                 2205         2250         2295         2295         2295          2295         2295         2295
OXEN                           19186         18656        37736        33708        42824         37736        33708        33708
TOTAL DENEFITS                  382846        465946       637230       662374       673008        673662       675574       680260
ECONOMIC COSTS
CIVIL WORKS                   610076        412233       194664             0            0            o            O            0
VEHICLES AND EOUIPMENT           3629  .      5400         5400         5400          5400         5400         5400         5400
LOCAL STAFF SALARIES            43042        43042        43042        43042        43042         43042        43042        43042
EXPATRIATE SALARIES             13095        13095        13095             0            0            0            0            0
OTHER OPERATING COSTS          41033         55130        42703        45000        45000         45000        45000        45000
M NONITORING S EVALTN                B439         8262         7832          8000         BOOO         8000         8000          8000
PAFRi IMPUT13                  87577        126093       101744       102048       110714        113300       114502       113841
INCREMENTAL LABOR              76003        92783        120873       118900       118703       118165        117518       116900
TOT4L COSTS                     882893        756038       529353       322390       330859        332907       333462       332183
NET BENEFITS                   -500047       -290092       107877       339984       342149        340755       342112       348077



PAGE5
ANNEX 3
1ABLE2
U*9ER V/CTA - 8IENA DIONKELE RrtE OEVELOPMENT PROJECt
ECO»ONIC AIALYSIS 0F PILOT PROJECT - SUMMARY 0F COSTS AND BENEF Il'
0FAF '000 IN 1980 rORNS
YEAR              1980          1981          1982          19783          1984          1985          1986          190           1980
PRODUCTION (TONNES)
PADOnY                                O           338           544           697           832           868           881           887           89?
COTTON                                O            46           161           384           446           6t89          689           68V           6e9
SORGHUM                               0           -39           -52           -32           -30           -45-           45            -45~         -42,
MAI2E                                 O            38            70           153           243           275           275           2751-         27'>
8IN0R CASH CROPS                      O             3            10            28            41             45           45             45            45
PAINS OF OXEN                         O             O             O            43            52            67           109           40209
ECONOMIC FARMGOATE FPRICES
F40115                                0            59            59            61            62            63            l5            A65>
COTTON                                O            66            72            82            89            97           105            C',          108
50R0HUM                               O            68            69            70            70            70            71             '1           71
MAIZ0                                 0            72            72            74            74            ?5             75            '876
MIN0R CASH CROPS                      O            50            51            50            46            4?            47            8?            48
PAIR 0F OXEN                          O           104           101            96            89           102           106           106           106
ECINOMIC SIENEFITS
PADDY                                 O         19604         32096         42517         51584         54684         52265         5'655         58305
COTTON                                O          3036         11592         31488         39694         66833         77'345        7.3723        74412
5080H0M                               O         -2652         -3588         -2240         -2100         -3150         -3195         -3195         -3195
MAIZ0                                 O          2736          5040         11322         17982         20675         20625          090          20900
SINOR CASH CROPS                      O           150           510          1400          1968          2115          2115          2i1~1         2160
OSEN                                  O             O             O          4128          5148          6834         11554         17596         22154
TOTAL BENEFITS                          O         22874         45650         88615        114276        147941        160709        168?94        174736
ECONOMIC COSTS
CIVIL W08RK                     301125         20983           1351          1351             O             O                           O             O
VEHICLES AN0 EQUIPMENT           23197           5164           139          4268          6000          6000          6000          6000          6000
LOCAL STAPF SALARIES             13113         19920         20573          205373        20573         20573         20573-        20573         20573
EXPATRIATE SALARIES              13096         26190          26190         13095         13095         13095,        13095         13092,            O
DTHER OPERATINO COSTS             n000          14061         15691         15228          8000          8000          8000          8000          8000
MONITORING I EVALTN                1194         13807         11200         11913          8J221         7~572         8199          8022          8016
PARM INPUTS                      10663          15496         22847         29706         30516         21865         25720         258971        25463
INCREMENTAL LABOR                     O        11934         16012         22917          27000         29401         29399         29356         29341
TOTAL COSTS                       371108         127445        114003        119051        113905        106~506       1109835       110943         97393
NET 8ENEFITS                    .-371188       -104571         -68353        -30436           371         41435         49724         57851         77343
TERA              1989          1990           1991          1992          1993          1994          1995   1996-2012,
PRODLICTIIN (TONNES)
PADDT                               920           929           929           929           929           929           929           929
COTTON                              689           689           689           689           689           689           689           689
SORGNUM                             -45           -45           -45           -45           -45           -45           -45           -45
MAllE                               275           275           275           275           275           275           275           275
MINOR8 CASH CROF'S                   45            45            45            45            45            45            45            453
PAIRS 0F OXEN                       181           176           356           318           404           356           318           3183
ECONOMIC FARMGATE PRICES
F8001                                66            66            66            66            66            66            66            66
COTTON                              110           I11           112           112           112           112           112           112
SORGH08                              71            71            71            71            71            71            71            71
MAIZE0                               76            76            76            76            76            76            76            76
MI180R CASH CROPS                    49            50            51            51            51            51            51            51
PAIR OP 050N                        106           106           106           106           106           106           106           106
ECONOMIC BENEPITS
F8005Y                           60720         61314         61314          61314         61314         61314         61314         61314
COTTON                           75790         76479          77168         77168         77168         77168         77168         771683
SOROHUR                          -3195         -3195          -3195         -3195         -3195         -3195         -3195         -319~5
98IZE                            20900         20900         20900          20900         20900         20900         20900         20900
MINOR CASH CR0PS                   2205          2250          2295          2295          2295          2295          2295          22953
OSER                             19186         18656         37736          33708         42824         37736         33708         33708
TOTAL BENEFITS                     175606        176404        196218        192190        201306        196218        192190        192190
ECONOMIC C0STS
CIVIL W8R88S                          O.            O             O             O             O             O             O             O
YEHICLES 8N0 EOOIPMENT            600m           6000          6000          6000          6000          6000          6000          6000
LOCAL STAFF SALARIES             20573         20573         20573          20573         20573         20573         20573         20573
EXPATRIATE SALARIES                   O             O             0             O             0             O             O             O
DTNER OFERATIRO 00858             8000           8000          8000          8000          8000          8000          8000          8000
MOINITORING 1 E00ALTN             8439           8262          7B32          8000          8000          8000          8000          8000
PARK INPUTS                      27375         31205         30430          35285         34455         31080         27485         29620
INCREMENTAL LA50R                29323         29308         29308         29308         29308          29308         29308         29308
TOTAL CE055S                        99710        103348        102143        107166        508336        102961         99,566       105501
NET RENEFITS                        758I96        73056         94075         85024         94970         9325?         92874         806899



-56 -ORDARD 
UPPERVOLf01/RiARTE-V90TA,
NIER  DIONl£ RI0CR DEBICCe55NT PROJC,T0/PRWJfl DE DrECOWPP3aflC BOOCOLE DO NIChA DIIONKEE
Fceal  Mmtte Prîtes./Prix  -eeusa  produteur
<C-.totu  1980 Teeo/ts-s-ae//Ter,e   -.nteete de 1980/tosae
---------1980----- -----           1981        198o        1985       19900u
Fisaiel/         8        Reoctal                                             et aprè
01aI-eer   Fer. Eob./ Eetee
Revisse <fl~~ O.8s)
fiai 59 Broies PCB longlels - DD                                  4D9.6        441.3       457.6      467.6       503.0      Oa! 56 brisures6  00  457D6    -736
ldotstfor Qusl:tty bifeese     is(64.4<                                                        <66,2<      <68.6)      <73.1,     <15.6<       eute   eritOae   eqa
Ceeue Pr-iglet <Desd  sd Etu... re43.4                                                                4,3,4       43.4        41.4       43.4       Fe   tetraesrttrr   I
CI1' A01id0-  SD4                                                                       4o3.6        418.5       411.4      457.9       451.6      CrF 11413je -  E
CL' Abidat-  CliP  ti 010                                  85,8o6                   6_,0o6       07,085*    9o,8o4      96,159      99,016        CAP Abidjas - fQF5, b 211
Hseliîtg -d Dort Charges                                     6,360      iDO           6,360   <Frais portuaires et eu-et-ri-r
Ouore  - sgit .. 5%                                    4,6oe       111           4,600   <21,190        f0,190     02,190      D2,19C         Marge aux inottuo. 21~
Rail Tro-epet to Bobs Dis.I.lsee                            11,400        90         1-1,230                                                       T-Oass-r Osrcor    Bobo iusu
frire te Wbole...le bt-r  - Bobe                           l08,166                  1.07,998     110,075    111,994    118,349    111,026           f1,aegaiOsgro-lb
2~dT~   .I  &  -dig  Mi1-B~o6 kes)                <1,130<       80          <1,067)     <1,0671    <1,067)    <1,067)    <1,O67<           rser   ote  et  aeetr.ixru--t
Rsod Trnsor &.l" Msniil  <MiîBAR17,66                                               106,929      109,808    111,907    1,17,061    120,159          Pree-ir, sE   lu tu
RaOytubcîa5  - 64%                                          68,5o2                   66,435       69,765     71,633      75,0610    76,90           Ouilt  e,.raddy - 641
Mili Charge EI-udleg tige Race                              <7,700)       55          <7,180<                                                                          --ri   eriei.su   -porit
beau - 95 66 at 0262 761/kg                                    687         R            584   )                                                     2- - 93 lut à FCOA ?63/kug
bel TPra..p-rt Fsssgate-Mill - 120                          ( 3,300)     do          <3,2001)  <10,606<    <10,604)   <10,604<   <10,604<           Orssstroier Prdrexr,re    u 
Bes-toaîr  aad Leo.ditg                                       <950)        2            96                                                         D-sèche-et et  ogse
Paddp-.Bsg  - On-Ca-e Isputs                                                                                                                        Sers per R0ddy - inttrat, s4ri-oie
Psce}saieg Ageet - Paser  OssB                                                                                                                     Agest dacio.t  C-   érutire
-osuir  ocgote frire ef haddy -o NEve                      57,259                    57,831       59.161     6i,119      64,556     66,098         frs   -sai-or  prudo-t-e  de p500f treurst
Fiediag Morket ut tro sbarb  à   B
SEM2 COTmu                                                                                                                                           000IA1
-ieoee - St -/6  CRi' N-rth  esp                                                      1,780        î,866      2,010       2,3619      2,440        teoiai  Rt î-i/i6" 011 Rero- du bru -   7
A    1--tf  -116"  Dff  0.         8 -1%                                        1,477        î,549       î669       1,966       2,025         PDurctis- Four    î fére-e       ut'''
Nsflîag fiee eF Mat - Opte at 010          ~~~~310,178               310,170      15,9        350,491    411,360    425,250          brio de resu  de la fi-ure      A    2C
L_s  CPU  Caaaîe      %                                      6,ooî      100           6,02 3       6,566      7,010       8,057       i,sos        MUis- em§sic 0712 - 
Les, Oslito c-sto                                           56,s55       97.5        56,337       56 337     56,33f      56,337      5b,l3f        Moiss frais dexetue
fiee-Ciecio01731                                                                 4760       o6o44       287,143    3413,066    360,401         fris  oss
i.e-  Gîssrs ceste                                          29,4o0       55          26,483       26,483     26,483      36,483      26,4833       tis rssdute
frire  .tat G0-aerte    - ts  lits                         218,919                  221.147      035,964    26o,66c,   3111761    133,115          Prio ar-t oiecuue
o0.365 - fre/S- d Cettue                                   77,905                   80,719       86,127     95,141    117,451    11i,363          O 0.365 prutteux-ue
Loe CslIe-tie std  'rtrrtiereu20,350                                     55          18,976       18,976     16,376      1-8,976    l0,376         Moisa frsis  -aos   t  r'ox-,u
frire at Paungese<                                          57,555                   61,7432      67,i51     s6,î6s      98,475    1,17            fio us produteu- s
fr,ire  f Ostet.  Seed PCB Abidjat - 20%/tu                                             161          167        176         111         223        brio du                POPagaie  C  Abiuj-r Pt  ot
- 001/tes tt 210         33,810                   31,310       13,052      16,660     40, 930y    403,011                                                     usA i il
Ser  Be.ggltg, Or--epxt uni b-t Gurget                      21,340        90         01,0O1       01,000     21,000      21,211      21,000        Mrise erabg,errfre   rfu-  pu
frire seOatre/tt ttu  Seed                                  11.470                   11,610       14,070     15,96t      1.9,110     17,011        pli.  xuivuueux
o0.34 5 fri-e/tse S-e  Cotise <b)                           4,242                    4,355        4,788      5,406       6,783       9,011        o 0.34, 0 rrio/utteri- ~     .
ce-seir  arsgaiv frire rF eed Crises <a b)                  61,795                   66,096       71.939     61,591    125,258    111,1198           rxéouuqea   rdrerB   uu-:ie' 
-irut  Orrglu UR Ne. 2 Ye1se PCB Golf Porte                    i42.5    t00             145.5        î4_.3      148.4       153.8       156.5      §70g%u, fi N  2 Jssu  Fil, port  Ou doleu  sou
- 10R0 ta  1979                                                                                                                                     - toto ti 19r9
flue   re-  Pr-ight ) SaSOkd  nd-àrrsc                          43.4    100              43.4         03.4        43.0       43.4        43.4       flue fret etasrtxsriie <set,
CIF Abidjat-  USo                                              183.9                    183.9        189.0       180.0      197.B       199.3      CAF Abidj-s  $E3U
COIF A7ridjn-  CfAp ut 201                                  38,619                   36,61.9      39.711     4o,32o0      i 41,11    41,6,53       CAF Abidjas - CFA 4 210
Rat1iiig sel Ott Cha,ros                                     6,366      100           6,360        6,36o      6,î66       6,360       6,36o          ci   oruie  ci es~ttet
leporser', Cargit - 50 of OIC                                2,500      123           2,500        2,511      2,511)      0,500       2,500        Marge er. iprsscr  - 5` al Ci?
Roil T-sp-et taoslu  ir-la-s  - 811 Ma                      î,400         90         11,230       11.210     i1,203      11,030      11,230        Or-peert Csrretiuir  b Brio Ooulerox-  02( lu,
Rosi Tranport 46 ederu.la - 110D Iot                         3,300        80          3,2011       3,200       3,000      3,000       3,000         Orunspe.ru rotier b Ill-rx   - iS1er
Wblsel -e agie                                        7,000O        O          5,190        59,110      5,110      5,190       5,110o       Merue  -u  -ede          etru
E-u-eir PaagtePixe 51 S-rglo                                67,179                   67,859       68,972     69,560      70,65,2    71,293          brio  rtmqea  pr-d-te-r de  urgf.u
US  0.::~ Ycîlur fOt O.lF Ports - !BRD                         159.0                    159.0        îbî.6       169.6       174.9      178.3       eU070 2 j-55  FOR Prrsu ix Ix1fe dl Mertou  - loRD
mas' 1979 - US$                                                                                                                                    ta  1979 - 3121
Plus  re-  Freight )S-cked) -s  Torar                           43.4                     43.4         43,        43.4        43.4        43.'s     flt-rt et a-uaW aites<xer
70F Abidjoc  - 00%/sua                                         202.4                    201.4        205.0      213.0       i13.3       222.3       CAP Abidjun-  8E2/tru.e
C1F Abid7au - CPA  ai 010                                   42,504                   42,s04       43,070     44,730      45,043      46,633         CU, Abidjas   F004 b 210
Flue lun  os-tt os f.e Surgheu                              30,560                   29,040       29,240     29,240      29,266      29,240         flue sê.ea rodas que cees du rurgh
Exosxuic Psrsgate frire uf Malt                             73,o64,                  7.1,744      70,201     73,970      75.401      p2,1            roéouiu   urrode-'-r du unît
lrodst-asrrigia, CIF eRsiecda                         441                      441          447         4/9         ilî        452           rese-rgetseélie  0200 RxtterOd
r-tatu  1977 024/Itue - 000D Mai 1979                                                                                                             800 de 1977 rersstustu     20  est 109
oedeu                                                          111                      100          101.4        99.5       93.2       1011       IOd-
A-snd 10044 Mulet Value uF a tans,, li.C,                                            10,1~O       1,00 5071  49,150      46,600W     51,D00         Faisu  aupouade d'u.e sott  0e psiteit-u- eu.
Cite  CotA Crrp.t ai  durel -d,l'O  reste as urrh  de Ndurua -P1                                                                                                                        I
OXF'N ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BOEUF S
Frsze  Arqesti.e tsuseule         .eF OeDrrteO               l'ois                    1,013          990         941      1,037       1,o42         àrx       iit    rett  b-sge lad-rtrjej, export
tx 009 - US$/tss ot 1<977 Crassant Pricea                                                                                                          à la CE d-s NeuF - 6/tteexpri  ruuaes
028 Rap 1979                                                                                                                                        3e 1977 - toto ext 19103
Osdeu                                                          100                      111           97.8        92.3      101.9       100.4       Xsod-
lss-oe  local Racket 'tal'u  sE sRir ef                    11i0D          0,000                  101,700     95,911    107,976    106,496          Valures-     ué  d'un  poire de bue-e au -hrrb
Brt aidiRrla - 320 kg                                                                                                                           de Nd-rla - 320 kg
D-rber 19, 1979



UPPER VOLTA
NIENA DIONKELE RICE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART
Relationships with Ord and Ministry of Rural Development
MINISTER OF RURAL DEVELOPMENT
SECRETARY GENERAL                                                      PROJECT                                  OTHER ORD ACTIVITIES
EX ECUTIV E                              Secretariat
COMMITTEE                                Community Development  -  Village Shons
Rural Radio
Functional Literacy
Rice Industry Advisor                                                        Training and Extension     -  Audio Visual Aids
- 3 Management Trainees
- Senior Evaluation Officer
r  - Cooperative Specialist                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~Finance and Administration -Procurement
r-_   Cooperative Specialist             .                                   Finance and Admin s        -  Stock Accounting
I                                                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- General Accounting
!                                                                                                                        -  Crop Purchase
DIRECTOR -ORD HAUTS B3ASSINS                                                                                         Agricultural Credit       -  Agricultural Equipment
D IRETOR   OR   HAT<ASN                                                                                                                       draft)
Livestock Production      -  Veterinary Clinic
-  Vaccination Program
.____________________________________________________________________________        -  Marketing
. -  -  -  - -                                                                                Rural Engineering          -  Topographic Survey
[T                         h    !-  Rural Construction Programs
PROJECT MANAGER             PROJECTMANAGER              PROJECT MANAGER             OTHER ACTIVITIES           Production                -  Vegetable
NIENA DIONKELE                KOU VALLEY                    BANZON               ORD - HAUTS BASSINS                                    -  Smallscale Rice
t   /                          ~~~~~~~~~- Rice Schemes
-Rice MilIls
-  Arcoma) drf    iet
Cor ema)drfeqpen
COMMAND                                                                                                             -  Cold Storage
ADVISORY 
World Bank - 21418



UPPER VOLTA
NIENA DIONKELE RICE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART
Relationships at Project Level
SecretarY General
Miniistry of Rural Development|
I     ~                I
Director of Planningperaives                                         DirjeetAcounan             Drecuto rnic ORDnnqDs                                                                       A
I ~ ~               ~              ~              ~             ~            . I
ice Indust y Advisor
.   Secretary General i                                                                                 
F    o                                                                                                       roe  a1gDret,CERCI
KOu VaIIev               Va~~ eNiena DieonekeExen,n                                                                                                                                          emntrtsnReeec
Rice Ms)  SQ  ec                                                                                                     ;ocsety  )Ndorola/Teoulc)  Rsce SpecsOts                                                                      roeptPojc
Com n d                         rojc Acountant                    Manage,
,                         r Ad-vi        - - - - _ _ _ _r1,                                                                                                          r y
s              K~~~ou valyNca                                                                 Farm Ser'ice                   Livest.ck                      *                           emntation                        CERCl
~Command
M _ _Advisory
CERCI à Centre d'Etudes et de Recherche sur les Cultures Irrigués
1i Position not yet formallv established                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ) 7:
OCTOBER 15, 1979                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Wocld Bnk - 20987



UPPER VOLTA
Niena Dionkele Rice Deve4opnwnen Projoct
Managements and DeveIoprnent Tima-Tab4
1979                   ~     ~ ~~~F-trea  Y..,                     PUof, Yrpn   .., f                           Pli., C,ossp,n  Y.a, 2                        ,o Cown  Y.., S                             pt0    1  Ctoçsng Y'. f
Mj  j  A,   SOt    O  J         F IMI          J  J  AISO    NSD  J  F            M AI.1      J  A45S0f N             j J      M  AM    J  J   ASO              O  L       M   A   M J   J        A   SO0N    O                  m E  M  A      5T01ta 
Baeo 0fd ff,o St-l Ba11sl
A,d  f Hi- M'il StB.                                                                      I
A-de Mi1i Stodo
oL to  0f. CERCI SaSftat,O                                        *f 
00,50  BnRidit  ~',
Saf  Ph-s Il Projtot                                       îmfI                                                                                   f                                                                              
A~ p oo nt an   0  PrIf, ct  Panaga M I . .I                                                                                                                                  Iut  m   m  m       -   M   m    M m       m   u
Adortranantf0 Oapue P,oî.t Mange,
OPM Con-lfa  Confract
Adttscatf0, PBAn Ind bO   RIAM  nP-s
Ad~~ett f0, 0000 SBaoîaiînt                                                                         L O
Ad.,sennettn  f0uInMne,                                                                                                                                                                   i
dOtfaatf , oa Stf                                                                                                Il~                                                         I  m1m       
m'Il Mf,stefl f,  Consltan  Dnf,net                                                          If                                                                                               I
Oa,Snt- o  ontMna -nn                                                                                                       ag                                          MM
CSetff T.n.gOfProi       SiJn f                                                                                              lwo
AI-             0.et f   ,-jc                                                                         onoCn,nfe    
APre-,,- 0f Acoud.n   osf- 
App,SoaI 0f Budgets. W-, P,O9g   ,,ntBd M-1n Scaoa                       ii1                                                                                            
W.,ld Ba-k  20734



xo               ______________________                                                               I   X            ANNX'8gEXI
'-=  VX-                                                                                            m
-' 7                                                             _ _m   -     `a            ; -          _   
O~~~~~~~___                                                                    luf_    --||__ X        _f
r~~ ~~~~~~____________ -______________________ *_______________________ *i 
7 E_o_ _cl0                                                                                               --- 00- 
_ô_--       --                                                                      - -  -i             -j_ 
_ ____               _.      __                    .i                                  __
A           Â<il'____                    -t-t                   --A--



-6l-                          ANNEX 5
Pa&e
UPPER VOLTA
NIENA DIONKELE RICE DEVELOP!fENT PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in Project File
A. General Reports and Studies on Sector
AI.   Institut de Recherches Agronomiques Tropicales et des Cultures
Vivrières (IRAT) - Rapport de Synthèse 1977
A2    ORD de Bobo-Dioulasso - Rapport Technique 1977/78
A3    Hydraulique Villageoise - Inventaire - Aout 1976
A4    Prix de Cession du Matériel Agricole Campagne 1978/79 - ARCOMA
A5    Activités du Secteur No. 7 de Santé Rurale au Cours de l'Année 1978
A6    Donn/es Actuelles sur l'Association de l'Agriculture et de l'Elevage
en Haute   Volta - IRAT - Mai 1969
A7    Autorité des Aménagement des Vallées de Volta (AVV) - l'Experimentatio3
Agronomique d'Aménagement Résultats 1977
A8    Association en Participation République de Haute-Volta (CFDT)
Le Campagne Cotonnière 1977/78 - Rapport Annuel Juillet 1978
A9    Centre d'Experimentation du Riz et des Cultures Irriguées- CERCI
Riz et Cultures Irrigués Synthèse 1976
A10   Institut de Recherches Agronomique Tropicale et des Cultures
Vivrières (IRAT) - Zones Homogène Proposition des Systèices de Cultures
Vulgarisables - Avril 1978
A-l   Strategy Paper - WAlC - June 1979
A12   Evaluation du Projet d'Embouche Bovine dans le Vallée du Kou
Banque Ouest Africaine de Développement - Février 1978
A13   Rehabilitation of the Kou Valley Irrigation Perimeter - Permanent
Interstate Committee for Drought Control in the Sahel (CILSS) -
September 1978
A14   French translation of above
A15   Association Pour le Développement de la Riziculture en Afrique de
l'Ouest - Rapport de lission en Haute Volta - Avril 1977
A16   Proposition de Pret pour le Financement du Projet de Developpement
de la Vallée du Kou - Juillet 1979



-62-                                ANNEX 5
Page 2
B. Reports and Studies Relating to Project
Bl    Reports of the Preparation Mission for the Niena Agricultural
Development Project in Upper Volta - FAO/World Bank Cooperation
Program - Investment center - June 7, 1978.
B2    French translation of above
B3    Etude de Factibilite de la Premiere Tranche d'Estimation
Projet de Mise en Valeur Agricole de la Plaine de Niena
Dionkele - Sociit6 Centrale d'Equipement du Territoire
(SCET). Etude d'Elevage; Etude de Mise en Valeur Agricole;
Rapport Général
C.  Selected Working Papers
cl    Civil Works and Land Development
C2    Agricultural Potential
C3    Climatology, Hydrology, Water Supply and Demand
C4    The Human Factor
C5    Organization and Management
i) Project Advisory Committee, Executive Committee and ORD
Administrative Council
hi) Terms of Reference of keyPersonnel
iii)  Aide-memoire to Project Manager Designate
C6    Terms of Reference - Consultancies
i) Pre aration of Phase II Project
ii) Kou Vallev Rice Mill Study
iii) Rice Industry Policy Statement
iv) Training Overview
v) Schistosomiasis Study
C7    Monitoring and Evaluation
C8    Reporting
C9    Marketing



IBRD 14301
.Were                                                                                                       MALI   ;    .'\ NIGÊR
____-~~~\_   __-----_____O~~    Kaya c,|'<
_-                                       |  \                         ii    5~~~~~~~ UPPER VOLTA               `_
Karamassaso                                                             i                                       Bob. Doulsso -' 1
NORTH                                                                                              N / n -   >   /   \  _ VORY COAST
Ndorola\                                                                                       I                 f Id
UPPER VOLTA
sou\TH                                                                                           Niena Dionkoele Rice
L! -,e7-                                              ~~~~~~~~Developmnent Proiect
Service cenhers
1st phaàse pilot project
.4 .wap deve.opmentwth bnds  400 ha
s,.Niena                                                                     .      2nd ph-se pro.ect-1,060 ha
K: K- :u  :0:              i                    ~~~~~~~~3rd phaise prolect ltentat ive) - 2,000 ha
f St2nd & 3rd phase project - reclibration of
rivers
lst phase pilot projent- roads to be
paved in lateinte
Existing rods -latente
XJ-- - f                    IExstig irackse p-ot paved
R Ivers
# Existing slirce
O     Villages
=   7                                               \           D~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~igouera/
/                ~~~~ingassSo                                               \
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~11-4]'\V /70o
KILOMEIERS O        1        2       3        4       5
\           /                     |                                AII~~~~~ ~     ~ ~        ~      ~      ~      ~~~~~~~~ILESOi2i
T-, -op ho, te- -'p'db seW4  oosSafeoo,,l f~, St ots,e
/          v                            7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~fhls,mph  eo,stf,e poovofl,sY h 6h'oet, esrheo TOC deno ons, 't,   d 000 OSe
\   v                   /  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o,,a,,o,oI rté   ny t,gg   n55 ho s,,, 0055 os,aPo  S poat,°y th e W,shr drnk soo et,
Kouroumla                                                                       ~
4-50'                                                                                                                                                       440       r 






*              4°              -           -               - '    20         -,.    >                                 do 0°Z                                             i
4-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- 
UPPER VOLTA /HAUTE VOLTA                                                                -                                        -
NIENA DIONKELE RICE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT --                                                                                                  )
PROJET DE DEVELOPPEMENT AGRICOLE
DE NIENA DIONKELE  z                                                                                                            N IFR
L J   PROIFCT AREA } ZONE DU eROJET                       i                                                                                                                                    0 N
-M      MAJOR ROADS I ROUTES IMPORTANTS
-  RAILYUAY I CHEMIN DO FER              . *
RI VERS P IVIERE9 Stv                                                                                                          e
INTERNATIONAL BOUTDA.IES FRONTIERE8                                                                                T/-
Kooua                                                                  J/             \'I
xvl  A   l  t  §  a       D:   /\                         <                                                                                    NX .~~~~A  N  
, acl OgorA5u 
-                                                                          1-O-O D- -  th. OUAGA OUGO          K p                     t,o ul a
1t'~~~~~~~~~~~~~''9\~~~~~~                                     ~~                    ~         ~         0~ -~                          0 0''     I0 r 
hy ,<d9hI-s  Il Dlonkel  ' , ,'  w                                                                             f
P.  "'m                                                           CA Fs  C A
t                                                                                 E.- °                                               100
1~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~40 80o0. pi cOo ce/o 40 /ho ,1 0, )000                                                                                      _.o deooo,o s/p
5  /  t._,, r A .v ,2~~~~~~~~~~~*                                                                                                                                                            1 7  ~, 
o    0 T                                                                                                                                            s    _' J V ORE
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~îOf V1 fO Ro4è~ Y c' I~r00cO A004 do T440 \9ulfsemltde/Da 0toqo UMood jo/                    U      --         0MR t2 _
COTE              D'IVOIRE                                                          20 ete409lRufmnteesntlllnrçlntsnfUterncfotEe.                                                             2"       ce 



