Document of                  FILE  CQ?-
The World Bank                     F           C
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2768-UV
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF UPPER VOLTA
FOR THE
NIENA DIONKELE RICE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
April 10, 1980
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit               CFA Franc (CFAF)
US$1                        CFAF 210
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
I metric ton                0.98 long ton (2,205 lbs.)
1 hectare (ha)              2.47 acres
1 kilometer        =        0.62 mile
ABBREVYIATIONS
BND         National Development Bank
CERCI       Irrigated Crops Research Center
FAC         French Fonds d'AiLde et de Cooperation
FAU         Financial and Administrative Unit
MRD         Ministry of Rural Development
ONBI        National Dams and Irrigation Department
ORD         Regional Development Organization
PMU         Project Management Unit
SOFITEX     Textile Fiber Company
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
UPPER VOLTA
NIENA DIONKELE RICE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            The Republic of Upper Volta
A            Amount:              US$6.5 million equivalent
Terms:               Standard
Project
Description:         The project is a pilot phase of a possible three phase
program to convert swampland to more productive use.
The main objectives of this first four-year pilot
phase would be to (a) test key assumptions regarding
future development of swamp areas and (b) address price
structure, marketing and economic issues of the rice
subsector. In addition, the project will assist Government
to promote institution building in the subsector through
organizational, training and-evaluation components; define
a national rice policy; and create a market structure to
ensure farmer confidence in rice production and train
future rice industry managers. Four hundred hectares of
swampland will be developed through construction of simple
flood protection works. Support to the rice industry will
be provided through provision of technical experts'
services to the Ministry of Rural Development and, to the
Kou Valley Rice Mill, and through an evaluation unit and
studies to review policy and practice in the industry.
Eight hundred farm families would benefit directly
from introduction of swampland water control and
improved extension service and access to farm inputs
and credit. Indirect benefits would result from the
technical assistance and training programs affecting
the staff of the Ministry of Rural Development, the
cooperative program, and farmers. Technical and
sociological data gathered by the project would be
valuable for the rural sector as a whole as well as
the rice subsector. Risks arise from a potential
slow adoption rate of recommended cultural practices,
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
the unknown responsiveness of people to technological
innovation, changes in farming practices and sociolo-
gical factors; and the unknown effectiveness of revised
crop marketing arrangements. The project design incor-
porates safeguards against these risks by adopting modest
yield levels, creating an intensive extension service in
the project area and providing staff and farmer training,
linking research to practical needs, providing a Monitor-
ing and Evaluation Unit for early problem identification
and establishing assured rice marketing for project
farmers.
Estimated Cost:      Project costs exclusive of taxes are detailed in the table
below:
Local           Foreign         Total
… ------ ----- -US$ 000- -
A.   PRODUCTION COMPONENT
1.  Swamp Development              438              657            1,095
2. Management, Extension
and Farming Methods          480              645           1,125
3.  Farm Service Centers           106                75             181
4.  Farm inputs                    210               139             349
5.  Demonstration Unit              60                14              74
6. CERCI Research
Sub-station                   41               12              53
Subtotal               1,335             1,542           2,877
B.   RICE INDUSTRY SUPPORT
7.  Rice Industry Support
Group                        368              688           1,056
8.  Monitoring and Evaluation    311                407              718
9.  Kou Valley Rice Mill           116               378             494
10.  Studies                         95               380             475
Subtotal                 890             1,853           2,743
C.   TOTAL BASE COSTS             2,225            3,395            5,620
Physical Contingencies         173              197              370
Price Contingencies            468              663            1,131
D.   TOTAL PROJECT COSTS         _2866              4,255           7,121



- iii -
Financing Plan:
IDA           Government          Total
-------------  US $   '000…
Local Cost                     2.2               0.7               2.9
Foreign Cost                   4.3                -               4.3
6.5               0.7              7.1
Percent                         90                10               100
Estimated Disbursements:
FY     FY      FY      FY      FY     FY
1980   1981    1982    1983    1984   1985
------- s--  S$'000------------------
Annual                         0.1    1.2     1.9     1.6      1.2    0.5
Cumulative                     0.1    1.3     3.2     4.8     6.0    6.5
Rate of Return:                9 percent
Appraisal Report:              No. 2746-UV
Map:                           IBRD 14301






INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPIENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECO11MENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE
REPUBLIC OF UPPER VOLTA FOR THE NIENA DIONKELE
RICE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Republic of Upper Volta in an amount equivalent
to US$6.5 million on standard IDA terms to help finance the Niena Dionkele
rice development project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        An economic report entitled "Economic Memorandum; Upper Volta"
(2146-UV) was distributed to the Executive Directors on March 14, 1979.
Information from that report is incorporated in the paragraphs which follow.
Annex I contains country data.
Socio-Economic Background
3.        With a per capita GNP of US$160 in 1978, Upper Volta is one of
the poorest African countries and is classified among the 29 "least developed
countries" by the United Nations. The economy is overwhelmingly rural,
with agriculture and livestock providing a livelihood for over 80 percent of
the population. The constraints to development of the economy include extreme
variability of rainfall, generally poor soils, few exploitable minerals, long
distances to the nearest seaports, uneven population distribution with regard
to available land resources, a shortage of skilled manpower, and limited
potential for industrialization. From 1974-78, growth of real GDP stagnated
as the agricultural and livestock sectors recuperated slowly from the effects
of the drought of 1973/74, and a domestic inflation rate of 12 percent, fueled
by agricultural supply shortages and high import prices, erased nominal
increases in national output. As a consequence, per capita income actually
declined during much of the decade. Performance of GDP shows signs of improving
in 1979 and with population growth projected to decline from 1.6 percent to
1.0 percent in the 1980s, a more favorable rate of increase in per capita
income may be anticipated.
4.        Almost two-thirds of the population is concentrated on the Mossi
plateau, comprising one-third of the arable land. Agricultural production on
the plateau rarely exceeds subsistence requirements. The resulting pressure
of population on the limited area under cultivation has prompted some 250,000
people, or roughly 20 percent of the male labor force, to migrate annually to
neighboring countries for seasonal employment. Internal spontaneous migration
to less densely inhabited areas has been on the rise in recent years. A 4
percent annual increase in urbanization also accounts for much of the popula-
tion movement within the country, accelerated by the extreme deprivation
arising from drought in the rural areas.
1/   Identical to the President's Report for the Upper Volta Forestry Project
No. P-2690-UV.



- 2 -
5.        The generally low producti-ity of the primary sector is indicated
by its relatively small contribution to GDP - averaging 40 percent from
1974 to 1978 - relative to the shar,s of agricultural employment. The
secondary sector contributed about 15 percent to domestic output in the
same period and the tertiary sector, 45 percent, of which 10 percent is
attributed to Government. The greater part of the industrial sector's
share of national income is stiLl a-counted for by traditional small scale
production, although modern manufacturing output is expanding rapidly with
the aid of fiscal incentives and protection.  About 50,000 persons, or
about 2 percent of the economically active population, is engaged in
salaried employment. Consumption typically absorbs 95-100 percent of GDP,
implying that fixed investment, which averages about one-quarter of GDP
annually, must be met by foreign inflows. The resource gap has remained
steady at about 25 percent of GDP o-ver the past five years, being financed
mainly by emigrants' remittances an,d aid transfers.
Recent Developments
6.        The most serious setback to the economy of Upper Volta in recent
years was the prolonged drought, culminating in 1973, which severely
curtailed agricultural and livestock production.  A recurrence of bad weather
in 1976/77 and continied emigration of young male f-armers contributed to
a slow recovery by the primary sector.  Real growth in government services,
comaerce, construction and industry averaged a healthy 6 percent over the
1974-78 period, however%
7.        A combination of unfavorable developments has led to a rapid
deterioration of the trade balance since 1972. From 13.0 billion CFAF
(US$51.5 million) in 1972, the trade deficit more than dou'bled to 30.5
billion CFAF (US$142.3 million) in 1975, again reflecting the effect of
drought on food production and on exports, the latter consisting almost
entirely of agricultural and livestoDck products. Additional factors
enlarging the deficit included unusual credit expansion and rising domestic
investment, whiclh enhanced demand for imports, while steep increases were
felt in the prices of fuel and other imports. Until 1975, however, private
transfers, including particularly workers' remittances, and increasing aid
flows kept the overall balance of payments in surplus. From 1975 to 1977,
balance of payments deficits of 1 or 2 billion CFAF (US$4.3 million to US$9.4
million) have been recorded annually, as a result of growing consumption
spending, Government's policy of encouraging private investment, and a
decline in the inflow of official grants in real terms.
8.        During the period 1968-74, the Government generated large budget
surpluses through its pursuit o1 conservative fiscal policies.  A sizeable
surplus of 3.1 billion CFAF (US$12.9 million) appeared in the overall
budget in 1974, leading the Go-vernnent's accumuLated cash balances to rise
to 9.3 billion CFAF (US$38.7 million).  However, this trend was reversed in
1975 when the border conflict with  4Iali and rising expenditure on personnel
led to a deficit of 3.7 billion CFAF (US$17.3 million). Despite a doubling
of government current revenues ::rom about 16 billion CFAF (US$74.7 nillion)
in 1975 to 31 billion CFAF in 1978 (US$140.9 million), an overall budget
deficit of at least CFAF 2 billion (US$9.1 million) appeared each year
since 1976.  This iimbalance has resulted from a slowdown in trade receipts,



-3-
public sector wage increases, extraordinary expenditures associated with
the parliamentary elections in 1978, and an effort to clear accumulated
payment arrears by the Treasury.
9.        To accelerate development through public sector investments,
the Government established the Caisse Nationale des Depots et Investissements
(CNDI) in January 1975. CNDI mobilizes savings from public and private
bodies and channels them into public infrastructure projects and other
economically and financially profitable undertakings. Although the CNDI
initially aimed at annual commitments of around CFAF 3.0 billion (US$13.5
million), commitments fell below CFAF 1.0 billion (US$4.5 million) during
the agency's 1978/79 fiscal year. The decline in lending activities is
largely a result of the Government's efforts to reduce credit expansion as
a means of controlling the growth of imports.
Foreign Aid
10.       In the years after 1972, the trade and services deficit in the
balance of payments was increasingly financed by external assistance.
Official grants rose from 8.4 billion CFAF (US$33.3 million) in 1972 to
20.8 billion CFAF (US$97.2 million) in 1975, while concessionary loans also
rose sharply. Private transfers (mainly emigrants' remittances and pensions
paid by France) and private capital inflows also rose, but at a slower
rate: in 1972 these inflows were as important as aid flows, but by 1975
were only about half as large. In 1976 and 1977, official grants fell
below the 1975 level in nominal terms, and only slightly exceeded it in
1978. Principal foreign donors are France, FED, Canada, Germany, USA, the
Association and the UlDP, with most aid in the form of grants. New donors
include several of the Arab countries.
Development Policies and Prospects
11.       Since most of the potential for economic development in the medium
and long term lies in the agricultural sector, emphasis should be put on
increasing agricultural productivity in the rural sector and on improving
support services. An important component of the country's long-term develop-
ment strategy is to redistribute population from the Mossi plateau, which is
relatively poorly endowed with respect to rainfall and soil quality, to more
fertile and relatively underpopulated zones in the southwestern part of the
country. At the same time, the improvement of production, land fertility and
general living conditions in the region of greatest population density through
financing agricultural development projects and research will also receive
special attention.
12.       The absence of trained manpower at all levels is a principal factor
which has limited the success of development projects. The training of local
personnel, the development of local training expertise and the provision of
scholarships to enable those in positions of responsibility to upgrade their
skills will be receiving increased attention.
13.       National investment planning in Upper Volta is largely a process
of compiling development projects for donor financing. The Second Five



- 4 -
Year Development Plan (197276) proposed an outlay of 63.2 billion CFAF
(US$269.1 million). While continuing to give high priority to investments
in infrastructure, it placed greater emphasis than the First Development
Plan on agricultural and rural dev(elopment. The Plan also accorded somewhat
greater importance to the "modern" sector, consisting mainly of industry,
organized commerce and communications. The Plan depended very largely on
external assistance as its source of financing. Although Plan expenditures
exceeded forecasts, physical implementation was much slower, the difference
being explained by the steep rise in prices and investment costs from 1973
onwards. Progress towards the realization of the modest growth objectives
was affected by the prevalence of drought during the first three years of
the Plan.  The Third Development Plan envisages a total investment of 354
billion CFAF (US$1.6 billion) over the 1977/81 period. The Plan aims to
progressively satisfy the basic needs of the popu:Lation and gradually to
modernize the economy; this is to be achieved by developing agriculture and
water resources, with infrastructure and the industrial sector as the next
highest priorities.
14.       Foreign capital and technical assistance will continue to play
a vital role in the development of Upper Volta for some time to come. In
view of the country's poverty and limited growth potential, it will be
appropriate for external lending agencies to provide assistance on highly
concessionary terms and to finance a high proportion of project costs,
including a substantial amount of local costs.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
15.       To date, the Bank Group's commitments in Upper Volta amount
to US$123.1 million and cover nineteen IDA projects: eight in agriculture,
five in transportation, two in education, two in telecommunications, one
small- and medium-scale enterprise, and one urban development project.
Agriculture and transport represent the largest share (34 percent) of our
past commitments. Annex II contains a summary statement of IDA credits and
IFC investments as of February 29, 1980 and notes on the execution of
ongoing projects. Although shortage of personnel and local funds has
resulted in delays in project implementation in several cases, Bank Group
experience with past lending has generally been satisfactory (see para 22).
16.       The Bank Group's strategy in Upper Volta is dictated by the
extreme poverty of the country, its limited trained manpower and the need
to raise productivity in agriculture and livestock, on which the bulk of
the population depends for a livelihood. Basic infrastructure, necessary
to the economy, is being developed with the assistance of IDA projects for
road construction and upgrading, and for telecommunications. Association
lending, in line with Government priorities, is primarily directed to
projects in agriculture, education and rural area improvements, with
emphasis given to improvements which will encourage the movement of people
away from the over-populated and ecologically disadvantaged central plateau
to the southwest, where conditions are much better. Ongoing projects in
this area include a livestock project and two integrated rural development



-5-
projects.  The Banfora - Bobo Dioulasso - Hounde road constructed under the
Third Highway Project (Cr.653-UV) provides the most important transport
link in this region of substantial agricultural potential.
17.       The main objectives of future Bank group lending are to:  (a)
promote agricultural development so as to help the country attain a greater
degree of food self-sufficiency; rehabilitate poor and overexploited soils;
facilitate the movement of the rural population from the Miossi Plateau to the
Southwest and help with their integration into their new environment; (b)
strengthen infrastructure facilities; (c) promote the training of skilled
technicians at all levels and employment; and (d) mobilize resources from
W            other donors through co-financing.  These objectives are consistent with the
Government's stated priorities in the Third Development Plan. In keeping with
these objectives, future projects include a forestry project, a third telecom-
munications project, a highway maintenance project, an integrated rural
development project for the Koudougou ORD, a follow-up project for the Bou-
gouriba ORD and a Third Rural Development Fund Project.
18.       Upper Volta's external public debt amounted to US$337.3 million
at the end of 1978, (including an undisbursed amount of US$146.6), with
about 33 percent held by the Association. The debt service ratio (amortiza-
tion and interest to exports of goods and services) was 6.2 percent in
1978; this is not likely to increase by very much over the next several
years as most of the loans to Upper Volta have been accorded on concessionary
terms and a number of donors have recently converted their outstanding
loans into grants.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Overview
19.       Agriculture is the dominant economic sector, providing a livelihood
for 80 percent of the economically active population and producing some 40
percent of GDP and 90 percent of recorded exports. Industry, much' of which
is based on agricultural products, represents about 15 percent of GDP.
Gross value from agriculture is estimated at US$215/family/year or US$40
per capita (1977). Crop farming produces 25 percent of GDP, and provides 60
percent of official export earnings. Cotton is the country's most important
cash crop, and a major export.  Livestock employs another 6 percent of the
population, produces 10-12 percent of GDP, and provides 30 percent of official
export earnings. The basic food crops, sorghum, millet and maize, account for
some 85 percent of the cultivated area and, on average, 80 percent of total
production value, but little is marketed.
20.       The foodcrop subsector faces considerable problems.  Since 1975,
Upper Volta has become a substantial importer of grains. Imports amounted to
52,000 tons in 1977, a portion of which was supplied as food aid. A return to
self-sufficiency in overall grain production is a goal which is attainable in
years of reasonable rainfall. Domestic production of rice reached 45,000 tons
paddy in 1976/77 (23,000 tons rice equivalent after deducting on farm losses).
Expected trends in population growth and per capita consumption of rice
(increasing at a rate of 1 kg every four years) put rice requirements in 1990



-6-
at about 75,600 tons. This would be the equivalent of about 154,000 tons
paddy. Therefore, an additional 104,000 tons of domestic production of paddy
would be required by 1990 if the country were to become self-sufficient.
However, given the almost total reliance on rainfed agriculture, the achieve-
ment of production sufficient to cover demand in poor seasons poses difficult
technical problems. Current domestic production comes from traditional
sources (76 percent), developed swamplands (8 percent), and irrigated areas
(16 percent). Traditional rice growing is generally carried out in swamps or
areas with impeded drainage. Because of the absence of water control, produc-
tion is unreliable and thus receives little cultural attention. Rice is
of special interest because imports are expanding to meet urban demand.
Commercial imports of rice have risen from 3,000 tons in 1974 to 20,000 tons
in 1978. The value of rice imports is now equal to 10 percent of the
country's export earnings.
21.       The Government's strategy for the rural sector can be summarized
as giving priority to: (a) developing rainfed agriculture by promoting
improved farm practices while integrating cropping anid livestock activities;
(b) stepping up migration from the densely populated and relatively infertile
north central plateau to areas in the west and southwest which have low
population densities and good agricultural potential; (c) gradually increas-
ing the development of swampland and irrigated agriculture, thus helping to
protect the nation against the cat-astrophies of major drought; and (d)
assuring national self-sufficiency in foodcrops, particularly to replace
rice imports. These priorities ares overlapping to a considerable degree,
and are being pursued by a variety of projects financed by external donors.
22.       In line with these priorities, IDA has financed seven rural develop-
ment projects of which three are completed. These three completed rural
development projects were essentia:Lly consecutive efforts. The Rural Develop-
ment Fund (RDF) Project (Cr. 317-UV) was started in 1972 and the Project
Performance Audit Report (PPAR) confirmed that the project had been innovative
and successful in implementing diversified and scattered subprojects including
small area (10 ha) rice developmenl: projects, wells, feeder roads and soil
conservation measures. The rate of return was estimated at 19 percent com-
pared with 16 percent at appraisal. The Drought Relief Fund Project (Cr.
442-UV) using the RDF organization, successfully developed clean water sup-
plies for 105 villages and 307 km of feeder roads. The PPAR noted that this
project's components had already been introduced in the RDF Project and that a
main contribution was'to put the project organization to a successful test.
No rate of return was computed for this project. The Completion Report on
the Cotton Project (Cr. 225-UV) noted that substantial improvements in farming
practices had occurred and that, as a lesson of experience, the ongoing
follow-up project is based on an integrated rather than a single-crop focus;
the rate of return, 37 percent, also exceeded the appraisal estimate of 31
percent partly due to an increase in cotton prices. The RDF II and West Volta
Agricultural Development projects have been making good progress and there are
indications that Bougouriba I, after a slow start, is beginning to be
effective. The Livestock Development Project aims to improve animal health
and establish ranches for pastoralists.  The former has gone well but because
of organizational and other problems the number of ranches has been cut from
9 to 3 and the Credit reduced by US$3 million. As a general conclusion it



- 7 -
has been noted that the problem remains of the Government having insufficient
financial resources to maintain services established under the IDA financed
projects after the project period had ended. To deal with the problem in
this project a cost recovery system is being instituted under the proposed
project (see para 47).
The Development of Rice Production
23.        Schemes to increase rice production have centered on water
control of the swamplands and on irrigation. To date 2,200 ha of irrigation
have been developed.  There are an estimated 30,000 ha of swamplands
suitable for development schemes, and the considerable river water resources
provide the opportunity for at least 130,000 ha for irrigation. Although
promising, there is as yet no completely successful large-scale scheme.
The first major scheme, involving improvement of swamp drainage and control
of water levels was initiated with French financing in 1958 in the Niena
Dionkele flood plain. About 1,500 ha of rainfed rice was developed; but
the scheme failed after three years due to poor flood control, bad design
and operation, and inadequate support and marketing services. Subsequently,
some 3,040 ha of swamplands in small schemes of 5 to 20 ha have been
developed in various areas of the country under the Association-financed
Rural Development Fund I and II projects (Credits 317 and 640-UV). These
schemes have been generally successfully initiated with yields of about 1-3
tons/ha. The subsequent performance of these developments however, has not
yet been measured and there is now a need to see whether larger swamps and
bottomlands such as Niena can be developed successfully.
24.       The first major irrigation project including the use of permanent
river flow was developed, between 1969 and 1973, by a Taiwanese mission at
Kou (26 km northwest of Bobo Dioulasso) in Hauts Bassins ORD.   This
double-cropped rice project originally covered 1,000 ha but has been
reduced to 870 ha. Some areas with unsuitable soils were deleted, and some
land was lost because a lake expanded as a result of inadequate drainage
facilities. The project produces 6,000-7,000 tons paddy, contributing
about 14 percent of national rice production. Farmers grow about 1 ha of
rice each with many using oxen for cultivation. Seed and fertilizer are
provided by the scheme's cooperative and cultural practices are good.
Yields are 3,500-4,000 kg/ha per crop and high returns to farmers continue
to be obtained. There are also some problems: declining soil fertility;
inadequate drainage; inadequate maintenance of irrigation structure;
inexperience in cooperative society management and financial control; and
poor crop marketing, as well as inefficient operation of the Kou rice mill.
Rehabilitation of this scheme is being financed by the West African Development
Bank (BOAD) through a loan of US$1.7 million, signed in July, 1979.
25.       With half of present rice demand being met by imports, Government
is keen to exercise its options in the development of this subsector.
Given the major constraint imposed by a limited quantity of sociological,
technological, environmental, economic and marketing information, a pilot
approach would be appropriate in new fields such as medium-scale swampland
development before funds are committed to larger projects. Such an approach
would be carried out for swampland such as Niena where present data support
the feasibility of development. For large irrigated schemes, preparation
of a master plan for the Black Volta and Sourou river systems will be



- 8 -
financed by the French Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (FAC). Feasibility
studies will be included to examinie indepth those areas suited to irrigated
and rainfed development.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
26.        At Government request, an Association mission identified a possible
irrigation project at Niena Dionkele in 1974; FAC' financed a feasibility study
and the FAO Co-operative Program undertook preparation.  The Association pre-
appraised the project in October 1978. In April 1979, the Association granted
an advance of US$120,000 from the Project Preparation Facility in order to
help with the preparation of the proposed project. Appraisal took place in
May 1979. (Annex III contains supplementary project data). A Staff Appraisal
Report entitled "Upper Volta: Niena Dionkele Rice Development Project" No.
2746UV, dated. April 10, 1980, is being circulated separately to the Executive
Directors. Negotiations took place in Washington from February 7 to 13, 1980.
The Upper Volta negotiating team was led by Mr. Sanon Salia, Secretary General
of the Ministry of Rural Development.
Project Objectives
27.        The proposed project would be a four-year pilot phase of a
possible three-phase program for converting a swampy area to more productive
use. The two primary objectives would be (i) to test key assumptions
regarding the future development of swamp areas and (ii) to address the
rice subsector issues and promote institution building in the rice sector
through strong evaluation, organizational and training components. In the
first phase, 400 ha would be developed for cultivation by 800 families. It
will also assist farmers in the development of 2160 ha of existing upland
crops, principally cotton, sorghum, millet and maize.  If this first-phase
pilot project is successful, the project could be extended in second and
third phases to about 3,500 ha for about 3,900 families, some of whom would
come from outside the area.
Project Description
28.        The pilot project would be implemented over three cropping
years, 1981/82-83/84, with an infrastructural build-up in 1980-81.  It
would involve:
(a) A production component to improve a representative portion
of swampland by developing 400 ha of the North Dougo
swamp for single crop rainfed rice production and 2160 ha of
upland crop; providing management staff, a trained extension
service, and promotiLng better farming through improved
husbandry, credit, i-arm inputs, oxen and equipment; construct-
ing and operating two farm service centers and promoting a
Niena Dionkele Cooperative Society; establishing a field
trials unit with demonstration, seed production and training
functions; establishing and operating a research substation
to undertake research in project-related matters; and



- 9 -
(b) Support for the rice industry by strengthening the Ministry
of Rural Development with technical assistance including a
monitoring and evaluation unit; and studying further develop-
ment of the project area and of the national rice industry and;
strengthening the management of the Kou Valley rice mill and
provision of possible physical improvements;
Project Execution
29.       Swamp development would consist of flood protection works,
i.e. retaining banks to prevent water flooding back from the river and
perimeter ditches on the outside to divert runoff from uplands.  The 400 ha
would be subdivided into 0.5 ha plots which would be marked out, levelled,
deep ploughed and bunded to retain rain water. This swamp development would
be relatively inexpensive in terms of the civil works. Moreover, only 14 km
of new feeder roads are required including an additional road section through
Teoule to Niena. Hence, development costs for the pilot project would be kept
to a minimum. The project infrastructure is relatively simple and aligned to
existing practices of the ORD Hauts Bassins. In the event that no further
phases, were carried out, project components would revert to the ORD with a
minimum of organizational or administrative disturbance. If, on the other
hand, the result of the pilot project leads to expanded phases, the project
organization and infrastructure would be continued and moderately expanded to
cope with the increased development program.
30.       The Office National des Barrages et Irrigation (ONBI) would survey
and peg out the area. The construction of interception drains and dikes would
be carried out either by private contractors or by ONBI using heavy machinery
procured under the project. Farmers would construct 120 km of internal
bunding using their own labor. Farmers would be required to maintain the
internal bunding as a condition of creditworthiness for future loans.
Maintenance of interception drains and protecting dikes would be carried out
by hand labor supplemented where necessary by machinery provided under the
project and operated by ONBI.
31.       Farm inputs, such as seed, fertilizer, oxen and equipment, would
be provided through cash and credit sales. About half the farmers are
likely to use seasonal credit, and all oxen and equipment will be purchased
with medium-term credit. Credit would be extended at an 8.5 percent annual
interest rate, the maximum allowed by regulations of the West African Central
Bank of which Upper Volta is a member.  This compares with a past rate of
inflation averaging 12 percent for the 1976-78 period but expected to decline
to an average of 9 percent during the next three years period in keeping with
international inflation.
32.       Farm Service Centers.  There is an existing input supply center
at Ndorola operated by the ORD. Under the pilot project, the Ndorola
center would be managed by the project and would be improved. A second
center would be constructed at Teoule. These centers, which would serve
both project and non-project farmers, will provide all project farmers with a



- 10 -
Farm Service Center within 8 km of their rice holdings. The Farm Service
Center would consist of a store, office, house for the supplies assistant,
and a well, and would supply a variety of goods on cash and on credit.
33.       Cooperatives.  A cooperative society would be progressively de-
veloped based on the existing village groups which would continue to func-
tion and to which all rice growers would belong. It would guarantee agri-
cultural credit taken by members and would ultimately handle input supply
and the marketing of agricultural. products. A cooperative specialist pro-
vided under the project would help establish and supervise the cooperative.
34.       Demonstration Unit.  A 5 ha Demonstration Unit would be established
to carry out practical trials on improved farming techniques and encourage
a greater involvement in the fartaing cycle by women whose traditional involve-
ment has been limited to a modest: input at harvest time.
35.       Research.  The project would also fund the establishment and
operation of a 2 ha research substation to be operated by the Centre d'Etudes
et de Recherches sur les Cultures Irriguees (CERCI) alongside the project-
managed Demonstration Unit. CERCI would conduct crop research on agricultural
aspects such as variety selection and cultural priorities. As a condition of
Credit Effectiveness title will have been obtained for land required by the
project for the above mentioned research substation, the Demonstration Unit
and general building construction (Section 5.01(a) of the Credit Agreement).
36.       Training.  The project's training program, supervised by the
Deputy Project Manager, would be closely integrated with the training facility
provided under the West Volta Agricultural Development Project (Credit 706-UV)
and would be held at the training center at Bobo Dioulasso.  This center is an
experienced producer of training aids for the cotton farmer, and would expand
its program to include the rice iarmer. Farmer training would be innovative
in that much emphasis would be placed on training-by-demonstration, through
the Demonstration Unit. Cooperative training would be developed taking into
account social constraints and sensitivities of the participating villages in
accepting the practices of organized cooperation.
Rice Industry Support
37.       Experts' Services.  The project would provide support to the
Ministry of Rural Development to assist with its development of a national
rice industry through the provision of four expatriate technicians (totalling
12 man-years): a Rice Industry Advisor to the Secretary General, a Senior
Evaluation Officer, the Manager of the Kou Valley Rice Mill and a Cooperatives
Specialist. A Voltaic social-ani-hropologist would assist the Monitoring
and Evaluation Unit for the first 18 months. Funds would also be provided
for vehicles, equipment and operating costs to carry out monitoring and
evaluation, a rice industry policy study, and a career advancement program
for rice industry specialists.
38.       Monitoring and Evaluation.  A monitoring and evaluation unit will
be established which will in its monitoring role assist the production



- 11 -
component in implementing its development program, and in its evaluation
role provide those essential data required for the preparation of future
projects.
39.       Studies.  Twenty-three man-months of consultant se%vices would be
provided under the project to undertake or assist with three studies: (i) a
review of alternative lines of action for the improved management and operation
of the Kou Valley rice mill (see para 56). Funds for the start of this review
are provided under the Project Preparation Facility; (ii) a rice industry
policy study, would examine the present rice industry and make recommendations
on policies to be followed to promote its development; and (iii) preparation
of a Phase II project, which would reflect the lessons of experience during
the first three years of the pilot phase as well as findings from the rice
industry policy study. In addition, consultants would be engaged to provide a
periodic overview of training activities at all levels. If necessary consult-
ants would be used to determine the need for and eventually prepare terms of
reference for a study of the incidence and control of schistosomiasis in
swamplands.
40.       A career-advancement program would be initiated under the project
with three Upper Voltan university graduates, preferably with some employment
experience, who would be responsible to the Secretary General, Ministry of
Rural Development. The objective will be to produce senior level managers
for the rice industry over a three-year period. As a condition of credit
effectiveness, at least two of these junior managers will have been selected,
with approval of the Association (Section 5.01 (c) of the Credit Agreement).
Project Management
41.       The project would be the responsibility of the Ministry of Rural
Development (MRD) and would be implemented by a semi-autonomous self-account-
ing Project Management Unit (PMU). This Unit would be established under the
ORD Hauts Bassins, with a Project Manager being responsible to the ORD
Director. The management of physical activities would be delegated to a
Deputy Project Manager. Accounting and credit administration would be under
the PMU. A Rice Industry Support Group, established in the Ministry of Rural
Development, would be charged with the cooperative's program, monitoring and
evaluation, administration of the junior management advancement program and
rice mill management.
42.       There would be a Project Executive Committee (PEC) at national
level composed principally of MRD Department heads which would have a
budgetary review and approval function. At Regional level the Director
ORD Hauts Bassins would coordinate departments and organizations directly
concerned with the project. At local level a Management Committee would
control land use and credit approval and an ad hoc group would advise the
project manager on matters related to the farming community. Assurances were
obtained at negotiations that both the PEC and the Management Committee would
be established by June 30, 1980 (Section 3.02 of the draft Credit Agreement.)



- 12 -
43.       A Rice Industry Support Group will be formed to provide support
to the MRD, and to the Director of the Regional Development Organization (ORD)
Hauts Bassins. It would consist of a suitably qualified head, a cooperatives
specialist, a senior evaluation officer assisted by a social anthropologist
and a mill manager. Apart from its supporting functions, the group would
carry out a Rice Industry Policy study and would be responsible for other
consultancies and studies and for the career advancement program for junior
managers.
44.       The pilot project would employ five internationally recruited
staff for 15 man-years; (Rice Industry advisor to the MRD, Senior Evaluation
Officer, Kou Valley Rice Mill Manager, Cooperatives Specialist and Deputy
Project Manager); four senior Voltaic staff for 11 man-years, and 50 interme-
diate and junior staff for a total of 158 man-years. In addition, the project
would finance several staff of the National Dams and Irrigation Department
(ONBI) for water control works: two senior staff for three man-years, three
intermediate staff for six man-years, and five junior staff for 10 man-years.
Three junior managers would undetrgo a management training program covering
nine man-years. At negotiations Government gave assurances that suitably
qualified and experienced Voltaic staff would be recruited for posts to be
filled locally - notably Project Manager, Project Accountant, and three junior
managers. For internationally recruited positions, specific arrangements are
planned for an orderly changeover to Voltaic staff. At negotiations assur-
ances were obtained that where international recruitment was undertaken,
persons with qualifications and experience and on terms and conditions of
employment satisfactory to the Association would be appointed. This is likely
to apply to the posts of Deputy Project Manager, Rice Industry Advisor to the
Ministry of Rural Development and the Kou Valley Rice Mill Manager, Senior
Evaluation Officer and Cooperatives Specialist (Section 3.02(d) of the Credit
Agreement).
Cost Estimates and Financing
45.       Project costs exclusive of taxes (Government has notified the
Association of its intention to exempt the project from import duties and
identifiable taxes) are estimated at US$7.2 million with a foreign exchange
component of US$4.3 million (60 percent). Cost estimates are based on prices
and quotations obtained during appraisal in May 1979, revised to allow for
anticipated price increases to March 1980. Estimates for land clearing and
deep plowing are based on force account operations, but implementation will be
by contractors if this is feasible at lower costs; other land development
costs are on the basis of implementation by contractors.  Physical contingencies
are 15 percent for civil works, 10 percent for vehicles, equipment and furniture
and 7.5 percent for local salaries and operating costs. Price contingencies
have been calculated for 1980, 1981, 1982-83 at 9 percent, 8 percent and 7
percent respectively compounded for all items. Technical assistance costs, in
line with recent experience in the West Africa Region, are estimated at
US$96,000/man-year, of which US$69,000 represents salary and direct benefits.
Consultant costs would average US$9,300/man-month, including subsistence and
travel.
46.       The proposed credit of US$6.5 million would finance 90 percent of
project costs, representing 100 percent of foreign exchange with US$2.2
million of local costs. Government would contribute US$700,000.



- 13 -
Cost Recovery and Financial Implications
47.       At negotiations Government agreed to the principle of cost recovery
which would be introduced on a progressively increasing scale. In his first
cropping year a farmer will pay CFAF 8,000/ha which will increase to CFAF
20,000/ha for his third cropping year (Section 4.04 of the Credit Agreement).
By the sixth year this could be increased to CFAF 30,000/ha but such a deci-
sion would be influenced by the findings of the Rice Industry Support Group.
Farm budgets indicate that the above scale of land use charges could be
supported. Such a scale of charges would cover all the recurrent costs
associated with the land development and would liquidate 74 percent of the
development cost of CFAF 450,000/ha in 50 years at the opportunity cost of
capital of 8 percent. In respect of farmers benefiting from water control
improvements outside the Project Area, Government agreed that charges would be
maintained at levels sufficient to recover all recurrent costs plus such
proportion of investment costs that farm budgets indicate can reasonably be
borne by farmers. Government further agreed that all land use charges would
be reviewed annually and would seek to maintain their level in real terms.
48.       The pilot project Government cash outflow, including IDA Credit
repayments, would be fully covered by the land use charges (CFAF 12 million/
year) and cotton revenue, as of year 20. Until this time, while extension and
support services may still be required, and assuming no second or third phase
project, there would be a net outflow.
Project Special Account
49.       Because Upper Volta has difficulty in prefinancing expenditures,
a revolving fund of US$400,000, established with an advance from the credit,
would be deposited in a special bank account, under the joint control of the
Project Manager and the Director of the Financial and Administrative Unit
(FAU) established under the West Volta Project (Cr. 706-UV). Unless agreed
otherwise by the Association, all disbursements in local currency would be
effected from the special account and reimbursement made by the Association to
that account. The Association would replenish the account on receipt of these
statements together with evidence that disbursements have been made only for
allowable expenditures. Should any disbursements be miade from the special
account which are not acceptable to the Association, the Government would
deposit the corresponding amount in the special account (Sections 2.02(b),
(c), (d) and (e) of the Credit Agreement). The opening of the special account
would be a condition of credit effectiveness (Section 5.01(b) of the Credit
Agreement).
Procurement
50.       Procurement of civil works for drainage, land clearing, and deep
plowing, houses, and offices (totalling US$1.9 million) would be by competi-
tive bidding in accqrdance with local procedures, which are acceptable to



- 14 -
the Association or, with the agreement of the Association, by force account.
Experience in Upper Volta has shown that works of this size in remote areas
do not attract international firms. Vehicles and equipment (totalling
US$0.5 million) including equipment required for civil works undertaken by
force account but excluding farm draft equipment, would be procured through
international competitive bidding in accordance with the Association
guidelines for contracts over US$100,000; through competitive bidding in
accordance with local procedures which are acceptable to the Association
for contracts between US$30,000 and US$100,000; and by competitive shopping
for contracts less than US$30,000. Farm draft equipment for sale on credit
or cash (totalling US$200,000) would be procured by competitive bidding in
accordance with local procedures. Farm inputs including fertilizer and
urea (totalling US$100,000) would be procured from the Textile Fiber Company
(SOFITEX) or by competitive bidding in accordance with local procedures in the
case of contracts between US$30,000 and US$100,000 or by competitive shopping
for contracts less than US$30,000. Domestically manufactured goods would be
allowed a preference of 15 percent or the level of applicable import duty if
lower. Internationally recruited staff and consultants (estimated cost US$2.0
million) would be obtained following procedures acceptable to the Association.
Remaining project costs (US$2.4 million) would involve (a) wages, salaries
and related allowances; (b) operating costs of vehicles, equipment and
offices; and (c) scholarships, audits and training, and (d) credit for oxen
purchases by farmers.
Disbursement
51.       The IDA Credit of US$6.5 million would be disbursed over four
years against 100 percent of foreign or 88 percent of local expenditures
for civil works, vehicles, equipment, local staff salaries and operating costs
(US$2.93 million); salaries and allowances of internationally recruited staff,
consultant studies and audits (US$2.0 million); and credit for oxen, draft
equipment and incremental farm supplies and inputs (US$400,000). US$120,000
would be used to reimburse the Project Preparation Facility advance, US$400,000
would be deposited in the project special account and US$650,000 would remain
unallocated. Applications for withdrawals from the credit account would be
fully documented except for civil works carried-out by force account, credit
for oxen, local salaries, and operating costs, which would be submitted with
certified statements of expenditures, whose supporting documentation would be
retained for inspection and certification by the independent auditors, and for
inspection in the course of project supervision.
Accounts, Audits and Reports
52.       The accounting system would be prepared, installed and supervised
by the Financial and Administrative Unit (Section 4.01(b) of the Credit
Agreement) in 1980. In due course, responsibility for supervision of the
agricultural credit accounts would pass to the Caisse Nationale de Credit
Agricole, which is being established. At negotiations, assurances were
obtained from Government that all project accounts would be maintained in
accordance with sound and recognized accounting practices; that accounts would
be audited annually by independent: auditors acceptable to the Association; and



- 15 -
certified copies of audited accounts and the auditors' report would be
submitted to the Association within six months of the financial year ending
March 31. The audit report would include a statement as to whether or not
Association funds had been used for their intended purpose, confirmation
that summary statements of expenditure correctly reflect detail, records,
and supporting documentation, and a statement on the adequacy of the accounting
system and internal controls (Section 4.01(a) and 4.02 of the Credit Agreement).
Markets and Prices
53.       Cereals marketing is undertaken by the National Cereals Agency
(OFNACER), the Voltaic Marketing Company (SOVOLCOM) and by private traders.
Both OFNACER and SOVOLCOM are parastatal agencies established within the
MRD and the Ministry of Commerce respectively. OFNACER is endeavoring to
ensure that farmers receive the official price for cereals (uniform throughout
the country for each product) and that official consumer prices are effective
at retail level. OFNACER is also charged with managing large reserve cereal
stocks (provided by foreign aid). OFNACER has its headquarters in Ouagadougou
and has just completed its first year of operations. It is understood that at
present the organization is running at a loss, and that Government intends to
continue to meet shortfalls in operating costs. SOVOLCOM is a major wholesal-
ing and retailing organization, dealing in a wide variety of goods. It
purchases locally, imports, and retails agricultural produce. It operates
mainly in Ouagadougou and Bobo-Dioulasso and functions profitably. There are
also a considerable number of private traders who operate effectively nearer
the main consumption areas.
54.       Regarding rice grown by traditional methods very little of it finds
its way into the organized marketing channels. What does is usually handled
by small traders, although OFNACER may in future play a greater part. The Kou
Valley scheme is the major organized source of production, and these farmers
have had increasing difficulty in selling their surplus production despite
OFNACER purchasing some (1,860 tons) of the 1979 dry season crop (3,800 tons).
Up to 1978/79 the ORD was involved in purchasing the crop on behalf of
OFNACER. The ORD's financial difficulties have led to dissatisfaction by
OFNACER with this arrangement, as obligations of the ORD have not been met on
schedule, in turn leading to delays in the crop being purchased. Except for
such purchases by OFNACER, farmers have usually received less than the offi-
cial price. Part of the problem has been due to financial difficulties
between OFNACER and the ORD as purchasing agency. The other is that it has
been more profitable for SOVOLCOM, the Army, OFNACER and traders to import
rice for sale to the urban areas than to go to the trouble and risk of pur-
chasing rice from Kou - especially after the official producer price was
increased in 1978 (to above world prices) at the same time as world prices
decreased. In addition, the lack of institutional capability in the Ministry
prevented a proper analysis of the rapidly expanding rice market and failed to
regulate imports. The project has taken this experience into consideration.
55.       The pilot project would produce by Year 5:  879 tons paddy, 1,270
tons maize, sorghum and millet; 850 tons cotton; 130 tons minor cash crops,
such as groundnuts, sesame and cowpeas; and 8 tons meat equivalent. No
marketing difficulties are expected for the modest non-rice production of this



- 16 -
pilot project which involves commodities enjoying well established markets in
Upper Volta. Overall, the prevailing producer prices of these commodities are
satisfactory. No unmanageable difficulties are envisaged in disposing of the
rice from this pilot project. The incremental volume is small (2 percent and
3 percent, respectively of domestic production and imports); the quality is
expected to be superior to that of traditionally-grown rice. The present
paddy price of CFAF 63/kg is sufficiently remunerative to induce the expected
participation in the project. The Government has also agreed to set up
transitory marketing arrangements including (i) the designation of the National
Cereals Agency (OFNACER) and the Voltaic Marketing Company (SOVOLCOMI) as the
purchasing agencies for locally produced rice and to guarantee their borrowing
from the National Development Bank, (ii) to set up a Cereals Marketing Technical
commission to make recommendations on a system of rice imports, and (iii) will
review prices annually. In this respect Government gave assurances that
OFNACER will act as buyer of last resort.
Rice Milling
56.       There are three large-scale rice mills in Upper Volta, a 3 tons/
hour mill at Kou and two 1 ton/hour mills within 10 km of Bobo Dioulasso. A
smaller mill is located at Banfora, to the south.  Elsewhere in the country,
there are a number of 0.5 ton/hour mills. The two mills at Bobo are both old
and operate well below capacity on account of poor maintenance and spares
availability.  It is currently under ORD control.  MIanagement requires
upgrading, and an excessively large labor force is employed.  This mill would
have adequate capacity for production from both the Kou Valley scheme and
from the proposed Niena Dionkele scheme up to the end of the second phase
(3,000 tonnes paddy/year). At that time (1987), an increase in the capacity
of this mill, or construction. of another mill, would be necessary. In the
short term production from the pilot phase will be milled at the Kou Valley
rice mill. The mill is badly in need of attention. The project would
therefore provide the services of an expatriate mill manager for three years
for rehabilitation and improved management of the mill.
Benefits and Justification
57.       The pilot project, if successful, would lead to further phases
which, at full development, would increase the income and living standards
of 800 farm families (4,200 individuals). The net cash income of participat-
ing farm families (at the traditional level) would increase from their
current level of about US$65 per year (1980 prices) to about US$166 per
year at a direct cost per benefiting family of about US$766 (excluding
costs due to price increases). Net benefits per family member rise from
US$80 for a traditional farmer to US$172 for an average of intermediate
farmers. This compares with the absolute poverty level for the rural areas
of US$53 per capita. By providing an ample supply of water, modern farm
inputs, improved extension services, better acccess to credit, and better
market access, the project would support directly by year 10 increased
production from 400 ha of paddy and 1,000 ha of upland crops. The incremental
annual production at that time is estimated to be about 2,450 tons of paddy
valued at about US$0.9 million, 163 tons of coarse cereals valued at US$70,000,
and 668 tons of cotton valued at US$375,000. The pilot project would utilize
480 incremental man-years of on-farm employment.



- 17 -
58.       In addition to direct benefits, there are very significant
indirect benefits from the institutional and training components. Further,
the technical and socio-economic data generated by the project would be
valuable for future development of rice and development of the rural sector
as a whole.
59.       The swamplands represent a valuable potential asset in Upper Volta
given the pressure on agricultural land in the north, and there are no alter-
native more profitable uses, known at this time, to which this or similar land
can be put. The design aim of the production component of the pilot project
is to test certain assumptions; the rate of return on the pilot phase, which
includes both rice and farmers upland crops, is of limited value as a crite-
rion for judging the project's acceptability because the pilot project bears
high overhead costs relative to size. Nevertheless, the rate of return of the
pilot project is nine percent. This rate of return argues for a close
evaluation of the results of the first phase, and review of rice indus-
try policy before embarking on further investments. The present arguments in
favor of rice development, which will be explored in depth in the study,
fully support initiating a carefully planned pilot production and study
effort. They include (i) the substantial, presently unquantified, benefits
to the national economy from improved food security, in the form of reduced
costs of food shortages due to major drought (common every 7 to 10 years).
If such benefits could be properly quantified, the rate of return for the
rice component would be higher; (ii) the reduction of population pressure
and associated soil degradation in the north by opening up new settlement
possibilities; and (iii) the need to satisfy the growing urban demand for
rice. It is prudent for a land-locked nation such as Upper Volta to protect
itself from major fluctuations in food supplies produced locally under
drought-prone conditions, and from food shortages that may occur in particular
years on the world market. As necessity for more food security is clear,
there is a related need to fully explore all reasonable possibilities, one of
which is rice production.
60.       The rate of return on the envisaged three-phase program, including
the two further phases which represent the current best estimate of the
possible larger scale investment that might follow a successful pilot is a
valid indicator to be used to confirm that conceptually at this stage one
can foresee the scope for viable follow-up projects. Because (i) no account
has been taken of net benefits from possible upland productions or other
crops during the second and third phases, and (ii) of the uncertainties
surrounding certain key assumptions, the present best estimates on most-
likely yields are 2.2 ton/ha at full development, and on this basis the rate
of return of the three phase program is 9 percent. However, should full
development yields be 2.8 ton/ha the ERR would be 13 percent. These higher
yields could well occur in the light of results at the Rural Development Fund
Swampland development schemes, and the irrigated Kou Valley project, and with
the introduction of higher yielding rice varieties. In addition, if the
benefits to the natiQnal economy from improved food security in the form of
reduced costs of food shortages due to major drought, (common every 7 to 10



- 18 -
years), could be properly quantified, the rate of return would be higher.
Should, on the contrary, yields decrease by 9 percent, the rate of return
would be reduced to 8 percent.
Risks
61.       Inherent in the uncertainties which the pilot project will
explore are risks associated with labor availability, the unknown responsive-
ness of the people to technical innovation and social change, and effective-
ness of the proposed crop marketing arrangements. The pilot project design
incorporates safeguards against these risks through adopting modest yield
levels; delaying introduction of farmers from outside the area until later
phases; operating an extension service with a high extension worker to
farmer ratio; providing adequate staff training and farmer training through,
for example, the Demonstration Unit; linking research to the practical
needs of the project; operating a Monitoring and Evaluation Unit to identify
problems for action by management; and establishing marketing arrangements
to assure farmers an outlet for their production.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
62.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic
of Upper Volta and the Association and the Recommendation of the Committee
provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the
Association are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
63.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. Conditions of effectiveness include (a) opening of the Special
Account; (b) appointment of two junior managers and; (c) acquisition of
title to land required for the construction and operation of facilities of the
project (paras. 49, 40 and 35).
64.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
65.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
By Ernest Stern
Attachments
April 10, 1980
Washington, D.C.



- 19 -
TABLE 3A
UPPER VOLTA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
UPPER VOLrA                REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED ALERAGIS
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                  - MOST RICEXT ESTIMATE) '-
TOTAL            2 74. 2                                                  SAME        SAME     SEr HIGHER
AGRICULTURAL     193.7 1PST RECENT                                     GEOGRAPHIC   LiCONE        LNCOKE
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE  b      REGION j    GROLP /d   GROUP  e
GYP PER CAPITA (USS)                   50.0        80.0     160.0            306.1      209.6       467.5
eNERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)       5.0         13.0      18.0             80.6       83.9       262.1
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-Y-EAR (MILLIONS)      4.2         4.9       5.5
URUAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL)  5.0          6.8       7.5             17.1       16.2        24.6
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEMR 2000 (MILLIONS)                       10.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                         24.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                  2170
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. m0.                       15.0         18.0      20.0             18.4       49.4        45.3
PER SQ. KgH. AGRICULTURAL LAND    22.0         26.0      28.0             50.8      25Z.0       149.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         42.4         42.8      44.0            44.1        43.1        45.2
15-64 YRS.                         54.8         54.4      53.0            52.9        53.2        51.9
65 YBS. AMD ABOVE                   2.8          2.8       3.0              2.8        3.0         2.8
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               1.9         1.6L.     1.6LI            2.7        2.4         2.7
U.RSAN                               ..         5.3       3.6             5.7         4.6         4.3
CRUOE BIRTH RArE (PER THOUSAND)      49.0        43.0      48.0             46.3       42.4        39.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      27.0        24.0      22.0             17.2       15.9        11.7
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                ..         3.2       3.2              3.1        2.9         2.7
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (TOOUSANDS)        ..          ..        ..
USERS (PERCENT OF MARIED WOHEN)   ..             ..        ..               ..       12.2        13.2
FOOD AND NUTRITION
LNDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)          87.6        102.0      87.0            94.3        98.2        99.6
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OP
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   85.0         78.0      78.0            89.5        93.3        94.7
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          66.0         66.0      59.2            55.8        52.1        54.3
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE          ..        16.2/f    15.2             17.9       13.6        17.4
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE      41.0        35.0      32.0             22.3       18.5        11.4
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    37.0         40.0      42.0             47.0       49.3        54.7
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                          263.0           ..        ..               ..      105.4        68.1
ACCESS ro SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..           ..      10.0             20.3       26.3        34.4
D2.8AS                              ..           ..      48.0            53.9        58.5        57.9
RURAL                                ..          ..       5.0             10.1       15.8        21.2
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..          4.0       4.0            22.5        16.0        40.8
URBAN                               ..         49.0      47.0            62.5        65.1        71.3
RURAL                               ..          ..         ..             13.9        3.5        27.7
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN        100000.0      92760.0   61798.0          17424.7    11396.4      6799.4
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON     4090.OL&    4230.0    4893.0           2506.6      5552.4      1522.1
P0PULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                           181O0.0L   1670.0    1518.0             502.3      1417.1       726.5
URBAN                               ..        300.0        ..           201.4       197.3       272.7
RURAL                               ..       2580.0        ..          1403.6      2445.9      1404.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..          ..      31.0             23.4       24.8        27.5
SOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               7.5h         ..        ..              4.9        5.3         5.4
ARSAJ                                ..          ..        ..             4.9         4.9         5.1
RURAL                               ..          ..         ..              5.5        5.4         5.5
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                               ..           ..        ..
URBAN                                ..          ..        ..               .           ..
RURAL                               ..           ..        ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                               ..           ..        ..               ..       22.5        25.1
UR8AN                                ..          ..        ..               ..       17.8        45.1
RURAL                               ..           ..        ..               .          ..



- 20 -
Page 2
TABLE 3A
UPPER VOLTA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEE^
UPPER VOLTA                 REFRENCE GROUPS 'AD3J'STED A'IERAGES
- MOST RECENT ES-StATE) -i
SA.ME        SAMSE     NEXT RIG:!Ei
hOST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC    INCOME         I'CO.E
1960 /b      1970 /b ESTIMATE lb        REGION Ic   GROUP id    GROUP /e
EDUCATION
.ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:      TOTAL                   8.0         13.0       16.0              59.0        63.3         82.7
MALE                   12.0         16.0       20.0              64.2        79.          87.3
FEMALE                  5.0          9.0       12.0              44.2        48.4         75.8
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                    0.5           1.0        2.0              9.0        16.7          21.4
MALE                    1.0          2.0        3.0              !2.0        22.1         33.0
FEMALE                  0.3          L.0        L.0               4.4        10.2         15.5
VOCATIONAL ENROL., (Z OF SECONDARY)  21.0            15.0       17.0              7.0         5.6           9.8
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PR LMARY                             47.0         44.0        48.0             42.2        41.0          34.1
SECONDARY                            20.0         23.0       20.0              22.9        21.7          23.4
ADULT LITSRACY RATE (PERCEN)            1.5/i         5.0/f       ..             20.8        31.2          54.0
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            0.4          1.0         1.6              4.0         2.8           9.3
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            1.0         16.0       17.0              44.3        27.2          76.9
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            0.1/h         1.0         ..              2.9         2.4          13.5
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCt'LATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                       ..         0.4        0.3               5.6         5.3          18.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..              0.2         *-              0.4          1.1          2.5
L-ABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (TMOUSANDS)        2500.0       3000.0    3300.0
FE.MALE (PERCENT)                    47.3         46.6       46.4              31.9        24.8         29.2
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)                91.5         86.8       84.0              77.6        69.4         62.7
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                    5.4          8.5       11.0               7.9        10.0         11.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                  57.7          55.7       54.3             40.8         36.9         37.1
MALE                                   60.9          59.5       58.4             53.9         52.4         48.8
FEMALE                                 54.5          51.9       50.2             25.6         18.0         20.4
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                 0.8           0.8        0.9               1.2         1.2          1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS        ..            ..         ..                ..         ..          15.2
HIGHEST 20 PERCEN1,T OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..             ..         ..               ..          ..          4S.2
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS        ..           ..          ..               ..          ..           6.3
LOWEST 40 PERCEN'T OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..            ..         ..               ..          ..          16.3
POVERTY .ARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
UBAN                                   ..           ..      108.0             187.6        99.2        241.3
RLURAL                                 ..            ..      53.0              96.8        78.9        136.6
ESTLMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..            ..         ..            138.4        91.9         179.7
RURAL                                  ..            ..      37.0              71.0        34.8        103.7
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW A3SOLLTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
UR3AN                                  ..           ..       35.0              34.5        44.1         24.8
RURAL                                  ..            ..      39.0              48.7        53.9         37.5
Not available
.Hoc applicable.
NOTES
Ia    The adjusced group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most popul.ated country in each group.  Coverage of countries amon8 the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
Ib    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961: for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimace, between 1974 and 1977.
/c    Africa Souch of Sahara;   /d  Low :ncome (5280 or less per capita, 1976);   /e  Lawer Middle Income
(5281-550 per capita, 19767T  If  1972;   ,j  1963;  /h  1964;  /i  1962;   Tl  Due to emigration,
growth rare is lower than natural increase.
Host Recerc Estimate of GNP per capita is f'or 1978.
August, 1979



-21-
DDEnhIlTIl  0? SfOCIL ifICATORS                                                                     Pege I
Noe.  lthoagh the data ac  dr-e  from  -ouoe  ge.er-11y 5udad the  et sotho-itatie  end reliable, it should else be noted that they may  oo be iOos-na-
tioma.ly copr ble  eri   of the lenk of et.dardimed defisltios sd concepts iaad by different cotctiee incolctn   the data. Th. dtne ee, asnethele-,
useftol to descibe order, of magnitude, indicate treed., end chssterior certain lajor difftrenoes betosn cutis
The  dueted syonc  -vrz. so,r eech itic-tor are popeitio-e-ghted geomtric flea, -olriuig the  otr-.m   c~ai. of tie lotdioator end tie ouct populated
to"otry  ls    k   _,:ii  ice to lend of data, groap  -reege  of eLi tdloatore  for Capital So-plc.. Oil Exportere sad of inicators of ACess. to Water end  on-eta
Disposal, Housing, Toots Distribution  end Pas-rty for other country groups are Pppatiom-eighted geemtric  -mesa  etihoat exoluatim of tie  entre.m rakes ad
the eet poPuAted oContrY.  SInCe the C-oreree of countrise1 emn   h   niaosdces  naol lt   fdt   dtontonfr.octo    ut be e-erot-d
onlao  t a  iemn   he00 7ad refessmeitoe
10 P      (thousmd sq-ba.                                                                     ACcees to flreta11  Disoa   pretoVpplto)-ttl!ain   n   -r. 
AgFis,tur.l       M.%s recet estimate of egsicultusrl area ceed temprarily                     por-stsgs  of their repective popoiatons  Eooreta dioposal scy iolode
or permnetly for os-ope, peoturee, eak-et ad hitchen gardens or tc                           the collection  an  disposal, cith or  ithocut treot-et, of huas  s-rote
lie  P suc.                                                                                 sod e t-aerby cater-bone  system   or the one of pit ps-byte, sod oscsal
- IP  ercopesesimaornocosen   arht p-lss           gpujgo,q1 .,paoF  - Popuation divided by outer of preoticuog phipaiiso
te .ysme oeessonmthod a  World lank &ta. (1976-78 hais                            'PI qoIiflMfdR Aaeidi        scola  oie-it           'rn
1960, 1970. end 1.978 data.                                                                  PoPultion nor Nursing Person - Popclationh dieidrd b.y oute   ofpractlitp  ..o
IlRYCiKtaTON PEn CAPITA   A-.Acal comaoption of osecis1 ..e.                            enW  d femal  graduate  uss  protical curses, en  eoiotanttos.
(calsd ginie  ptit     co    otrl  a  edpyro,mabr o1                                   Poslainte  garo1            e  -tta,oren   odrra dPplalc    tnsy.o-tr
thermal elentrivuty) to kilogr-en  of co.I eqoi-ab-t pee capita; igd                            odcra)diiedb  thei   repetive outer ofi-yso trio  nealals  i
1970, ccd 1976 iota,                                                                           public sod private geces-sl sod sPecilized hootputtol     shcreabilitatio-  o-ottoc.
Hoopitaln ore ectabliahoesco  permnotly otnitri by no best  ot  plyobicci.
POPoLeLTtee AND VITAL 'TiTtiTICi                                                                 Eoonilinhi.ento  providing prcis- iply custodial.  vs0  ncoo Inoue    o
Tvtn  PopIntln  Mi-Len- (sllioo) -Ac of July 1; tl60, 1970  sod                    hospittobo, ince, inoluir bonitO  nod nedion.          etoo   o  pes-esnotlpon
1077 ito                                                                                    by aphyi-oii     [but by a aedi.al  -csi _tec._coos, nici t,co.  ubuobh .ffs-
oR                   ~~~~~~UllIs  Prunit ysretof totalk           c1   fo-s  t   om    ouain                         .     t-vtuetcooacitiun sod provide o jitobod s-gop  ofndloal ftoIlti-.
.iferl-oct def-oit-o  of _.si_  a_set  osy ofet coopa-aibioty uf data                     Ad-nicu-  Per H-P-1itedi    - ocal vinier of  -ui-..o. to or discbo-gr, f.s-.
-oc   :itre:It,1975, n-  i975 doto.                                                     b.ovittli oloided by the mothe   I beds.
Poooioco  in v nt 000-      eo-rti porulatoo   projectiacs  -r  ta.ec on          HOUSitIN
1975    cals-vs-iiatoo  y age en   c   o   hi-estaoy ad fertility                                                                                            -aseoSo    fiuood(e-os  c   oscl)-o.s.so    o  r-is-tI -
rots-. DeSoiop-rnt-r  for eurtaiioy rates oe.prise of there                               A  coil   oeoo   fagopo                    liuualc. coo ooo-  liclos ocarocr  nu
ivo-ic aeaicg lif  e.opeotoccy ct birth boo-s-oing  ithc countsy-pc                       thiur nabt neal.  A border or lodges -oy or scy cot lo  it-o-,i   ._ ti
psrato  ove  lee,sd fe-ale life c_yrtanoy otmbilicag ct                              to-s-bob  for-     sioo. Ps-pus-c.
77.5 p-s-o.  The parcotert for fertility rote ac bh-  three levels                      As-es-,csIoub       P--ofenn   ps-  re-ootclt   us-Is. cod s-orl-csnesuo
nocuing  eolor 0  Ir-tility cs-crding tc income levl sod pat                        of perco    vcro=o11o-hn   n  cor   -oooivd  ocr.vct.:c   oll,
fenil .olsocci   performane. tarn country io then nosigoed one of thes.                    c-pe-tiley.   nellingo  enoludeco-onec tt tuco-rv   ci  --cops-, 't
cioc  cotnoolns  f -sutality coo fest-tlty ts-etdo  for pr-i-tico                 Acoem        l! t rtlcs-cty  ~son   fdelno            totn1,  rs-icc  -odurl-   o
"purp.e.                                                                                 ve!.titn-l deeliog   cot  eltr  iciy In. ilio   (c-rts-r   opvot
ovaoosorycorsicoo   - o aocioncyPoul.tt-o  there is no g-oth                     total, cs-io  cod s-ms-  dcmllicpcr-epeticciy.
uo.rs-cue roniococotnt. Thic is achised only after frstlbuty s-atm              tDUCATIC
ooloetl o1eso-n-t level of unit net -ep-distio. s-ate, cien                          Aodo Etri icruin t Rctocs
coo  georoanto  of ocee  repbsoec icet   ea-ly.  The staticosy popo-                      Pr-may cohoo  - tota    aecd fele,            - 2,0c  tccl, ca   co  foocl  ens.1-ot
L:it   c  se rtinated o h. bo iasi  of thetprojected cshecteriction                    noto   llI  grat tie pror   evlt  ysocsge   o  repoti :   s-s-cy
of cte, pooaoctotoyo 000, cod cho vat- o  dedc o- f f-tollity                               cobolI-age  oocoltioos; -rocaly ociud-c children eyd~L o'-. tot
r te toopas-eo    _eon                                                                    odjotostd for differeoc  lengtho  of ps-so-y  ducatico: 000 --0000:  cct::
Poo  cosi.ory  opln isoi  recobd - The psa-  ton  octio-ry pop.i-oic                                     I'idsso   ed toioc Icro.tr-t co  e-oed ISO peroecoo:vcco-,.:
ooe boo   eo vs-hood.                                                                      arc Os-to  or scre tie  Mfflc~l cohoolge.
p,oooco  le-cty                                                                                                             ..cir  c l-toa,oie soc female - toaputeo:ti-d   .->oty
ir-:.ic.-ci'd-poar     s ~oo icPersq-o30a-eolcntor  bOO ih-oarco  of                    daticsqursto I-oot four ponc ofoppr-cd piapIiOit
s- goO.  d-lcst,i-ul larid -Coputed so abc-  Fr agriouttu-l 1cod                       _ooIly of 12 to 17 yeas-c of age;   os-cpnorouo0r--cly
otiS>                                                              rociodod.~~~~~~_,    t                    r            --
l5i-_Fyeas-ct, cod  etisdc  yeras-ncd coo-I) cc Po ctagra of old-year                         trob-'tl   dloduorlii, or  tlos  prgr ic0 h0  -rs.s-tc  ooooot   0n
populooc   119,190,co  177daa                                                                   opoi-tyno  of cocoar  toctitutic_s
yaoc itatoo   for lis-S-i   1707,co17-7                                                  oor   o   ecdr i-s-veis OoIrdo ;iFtoiciLorot.  te-eooocooo rs-
Pooattl   Os--robOtt   porrri)- oro A. annua  grocth rote. of  rio                   pycoding te-elo.
poputo.tions fur11 190o,1607,nd170~-75.                                                      hiuit'lit.evoy s-ate  Psr-s-ccc  -  itsrterl  odolto  nIbe to seatco  sit)t
CrudebirthFour  ces-thoucani) - Aoc-a  lIce lis-toc pery tiousod of nod-                     Pos-congo. o,f  oto.  tiolt pop,dciootj-        I  p.nvo co  00cr.
Eotpylttc    70  1970, cod 1977 usta.
erode  s-au   ote  ortioosod  - bnal dentin  ps-v tbouesc  of cic-ye                CSNISHPTTUN
posolaloc  Do, ~70,co  197  octa                                                     Pt-s-ger Cs-o-  per th.-cucd pcpluda.ico   - Pc-rgsro 000  00000 - v   ti
Ir..cs  ccrootion  atoos-'oos-ste  _sbor of dtsgtb.. o oornc   ill boor                       os-ting  t0c1c  right rere..o.  voloseilor    cs-co-c  o:clt
Osvco-lo-procoi s proo           le, rn-p-ri-- pr-s-co  ag-                         rioloc.
yPe-:fic fort_Lity rots-u:  _coIly foc--poor ocrsero  coding in 1960,                    tai:Po-ocr   Pe ii-- boood p-coubo  n) - ill tyov- 
197,cd t9177.                                                                            Orou-ott to gealc2ioprtOouucod of Pop.I,ibobt   c    eos-..lco:
f-iyPlco_i_-Aboootor          `1oo    rthoc-do) - Acoo1 conies- of                        os-orirro-  consu-cod icpoo.               o s.r  -cp   rt:o    1 v-> :0  -c.
ocoly Plecobog- Uoro  ~po-cot  r' or-,ied or             -Per-ortego of  -tried             TV is-vos-oco  (re  tiouccc popultoi-) - Ti  ---oer  for bs:iots-.-.
oo-u of child-beans-p       e ccc  154  yearn)  h.c c-   As-ti-cotrol devioeu-              pubLis  per ticiccad 'populatjion; ..ocludec siiocrV    seoicrs-r  or.-0t0.r-s
co d   onrered 0      irs-cnoe groop.                         .                              d .0 ps-no  obho regict-atioc  Of TV c-to co  in effect,
Neecpois Circulation (s-es  thou-     ipclto)-ioosovo.or.Ai
d      Per C.pit~~c0-7l=10)                                              - .e  prcptIs-oted priroily to  ecdn   eoo   r0. tlceocooc    'looty
uncoolprcoigoxcoof al  food -c ditiec. Prodtntioo cooludes iced cod                   If icons-s-nr  c  lesot fou  tloro o cr00.
foocd ic -onoc roos  year bnai.  Ccanditoescoe--  priesry go-dc                       Ctic-on      .. At-o t Ooo-oco p-v apita no   s-r   nd:     ric tc,br of  -ko-c
is-p. c_g-oco   -ooted of cogno  ohioh cs-C OdilO  cod ...tciO outs-is-oc                   -oid  -tovg tie year   -icudiog colc oct-s-c-o                -l o  tnd coo,t 50
* .y   ofocct c   or-col-ited).  ASggrs-gtr prodoocio  0) s-hsoboutry                icitc
00 icoed  -oiab_n  tre-ge produces- s-rite oeigt.
- cv  e-pIta ..poip ofotro;        orttof   o-ul-oe CoI- tputci from                    LABOR FORCE
ocergy eto--ol-t  fll oscfodcopio  vuci               _Iccatry s-ers-opita              Cotal labor Forc   ty  asso Ec      - tcooiotly oct-o por-oco, ooui             at-
per diy.  Acoilablo opltiec coops-ice d-etco   produntoc,  -ps-ro  Iec.                   lo-rceo co- oe-od    Otcold-gp tocats coc-otc, '0.oooOo:
_   -_co d oth-pec  0ook   Not oupp-li-o -cc lde coio   feed, cs-coo -                 n- ocarccc -t-os. or .ct  -po-brclo.
ou-Ltit_   sod is- food pr-ccoin1g, cod iocoec  0, dios-tlibti-c ROe0oirs-              Fs-nod  (eros-nt) - Fen1i  lubor force cc per-tosg   ot toctlu csi   f c-c.
- s-oo  csre  otomacod by FA0 In-e  -t phycioLpical c-s-dc for..- ocr-nal                                    .   - leborosoro  ario    f.ss-cry, Osoivo cc
00     h    ht~cdOcit  Coc...vo    -tols  tontcl tea,p-tratv, body c-gito,         fslutci  cc Pe-ootge, of total 1biros- foce
ago  o   scSoOooic       s-pudnco.t , cod ollociopg 10 Port-ct for                      bdor   trvC-lb:ooo    00O,                         oc-uo  0.oiocort   0
bo   aie  00   fpsccs  gosp- ds)                      -t- P    :  cott-t  t1 per          Porti,otis-aio  bete (pororot) -totui, mete,  -ai cools  - [e-t,crc:.c
apotetot cuppy oY  f fi -dper dsp.gbt cpply of food is defiorsd noc-ti-oy rote.  or  conpted ta -tota, male,  -c  cool.  boos- force noer
oos-. .tooirenettc for all o-triec, etbclinhd by USDA provide for a                        -etaec of total, eels- cd feonis  Ppceubcouo of oi   pcr11coey
4itiic  allocco-   of 60 gr-c of tooci  _toeic prr day ad 20 gran  of                     _565  1970, cod 1975 deco.  7hoe ar  IlCo' purtc-p~t-ic-tno ref-lotnog
soiel cod pulse pr-teoc, of cb it gramshuboud be soteo  protein.                          nge-occtrootur  of tie populatic, cod lon-g tuo-  sr-s-d.  A :0- etclmO-o
Theese otdardc are Locor than thoe of 75 ps-en  of ts-tel protein sad                     ar  footicoal            cs
23 gs-ncof so-ca  p-ot-n at   fc-e gePr tic  o-ld, proposed by PAO                      Ecnmc     meedoy hatic  -  Patio of pcpulctocc. sur-   15 cod t5 cod over o
i.tOhs- Third Worcs-d Food  rS.-py.                                                       tO   aorfo  in ag  group of 15-do year..
Pr decc  protei  c-pc  sc son  end pulse - Orcet-  supply of food
ae.;ve  frcsiaosdpie  i   sesse  s.tOME DISTRIBJTION
Obld   ges Iu   rs-toit daeorOsoo       ssl doaths per tbhocand                          PePtazfPrvt   ccc(mbi.                       ahcd  idstrsicdO   uit
oage group i-c  s-rct  chldren, In thi   ge grop; for east des-ri-                        5percet, riches.      0pret   poorect 20 y.res-rt, eA pooscot  S ps--cent
os-mg oo...tfies date derived f-os  bie tabl.,                                              ofhousehold..
HEALTH                                                                                      POVER-OT  TAPIcG? Is-COPY
tis ue-taYoptat. birth (pns.  -brings curb-   If ys-  of Life                          latioiotd haoePos-tloerI-ce   25$ csrcsoo      rbo  -o  rs-al.-
rs-eanls-  at  irth  176, i7   cd_l1977. dte.                                         Alclcte poverty is-cor  level iote tco  l-o  beoclcci-aa
.ccoOrtsllty tots  (sc- otoh-d ) A- oc    deaths of infunto undoo ice                     c toiuio lyd  deqats- diet PI-uc.eoct"i  co-food  -eq---cc  0  o
psa   f ago yes- thc-sd lice bbs-ti                                                       affc-dablo.
bosc  oOf-Wte   essotf popultico-   totl=Ion, end s-ora  -                          teont,ed ORlatice Po-rsty Ic-slo Le 11$U po-otoita) - os-it  nod rurl-
Ounber of ps-s-pl  (total, usbrcdrrl-oo   enohras-eco cbrnreeio   p c-es-o  booe, Ien i   scOi-   faeaeprcpt
-fc oats-s so-ply jinciadre treated sos-fr  tote-s or untreated but.                        pr .l inome of tic  -toccy. drbIc tre,l 4c de-c-d foot tic rura  Leon
snoct-i..t d sates-conh e- tan frog Protected bos-eile, springs,                           dcit  sdo.jueat for higher  s-ot of Living ic uriar oct-
sod onoitary  ello)sopers-etagoc cf thine  reopeotice s-opoitlc-   Co                     te -ti   d Pos-laciom  Belc  Absolte. Poocty icc-e  Iceb, irs-cot  -u-'s-u 
sous  cresta public funtein cr etondpoet located  oct enrr thb                             ua      Preto  pocaobon 0urs  sod rura) ab   r    ioooPo0
200 aterf -r on    hum- may is conidered.a  icing ubttito  rocobie
moeo   fthat  os . I  rutra  steno reaco-ble Moaess -ucd ietply
t.ts tichooecf  or   mor  of tl~he-bosebd do not sre  to spend e                                                                       ---ei  cod So--i Ctot  D-v:-
dlarcriotP-ar of the ins  in fetching the famIly'. soeter ..eedo                                                     EOc.o..oc Aolycic cod Proj-e.-t  ep-st-tot
Asnus t979



- 22 -                           ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
COUNTRY DATA - UPPER VOLTA- GNP PER CAPITA
IN 1978: US$ 160
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1978
US$ MILLION            %
GNP at Market Prices                                906.4              100.0
Gross Domestic Investment                           215.5               23.8
Gross National Savings                               32.3                3.6
Current Account Balance                             183.2               20.2
Exports of Goods, NFS                               123.6               13.6
Imports of Goods, NFS                               356.8               39.4
OUTPUT ANb ECONOMICALLY ACTIVE POPULATION IN 1977
Value Added         Economically Active Populatic-
US$ million    %            (t(00)    _____
Agriculture                                         243.2      40.5         2772         84.0
Industry                                            107.4      17.9          363         11.0
Services                                            250.2      41.6          165          5.0
Total                                               600.8    100.0          3300        100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Government
CFAF billion                  % of GDP
1977        1978           1977       1978'
Budget Revenues                                  28.6         31.2           17.0       16.7
Budget Expenditures                             -26.5        -30.1          -15.8      -16.1
Budget Surplus or Deficit                         2.1          1.1            1.2        0.6
Net Treasury Operations                         -6.0          -2.9           -3.6       -1.6
Overall Balance                                 -3.9          -1.8           -2.4       -1.0
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES                       1974    1975      1976      1977      1978
(CFAF billion at end of year)
Money and Quasi Money                          17.53   24.32    31.4       35.58    42.52
Bank credit to Public Sector                   -9.27   -4.90    -6.95    -7.74    -3.29
Bank credit to Private Sector                  15.38   21.59    32.41    45.75    54.81
PERCENTAGES OR INDEX NUMBERS
Money and Quasi Money as %/ of GDP             15.3    19.2.    22.7       21.2      22.8
Low-income Price Index (1958 = 10)           182.4   219.2    186.9    265.8    286.9
Annual percentage changes in:
General Price Index                                     20.2    -14.7      42.2       7.9
Bank Credit to Public Sector                            47.2    -41.8    -11.3       57.5
Bank credit to Private Sector                           40.4     50.1      41.2      19.8
x/ Provisional  -   ..!  Not available  -  ./  not applicable
January 19S')



- 23 -
ANNEX 1
Page 5 of 5
COUNTRY DATE - UPPER VOLTA
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
(In millions of current US$)
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS               1976    1977'   l978'   MERCHANDISE EXPORTS
Exports of Goods, NFS             97.1    104.9   123.6
Imports of Goods, NFS            249.0    292.7   356.8
Resource Gap (deficit = -)    -151.9   -187.8  -233.2   (Average of 1974 - 77)
Workers' Remittances (net)        48.6      54.7    67.7   Livestock          14.5      31.0
Other Factor Payments (net)        1.9    -14.7    -9.1   Cotton             14.8       31.6
Net Transfers                     -1.4      -5.7    -8.6   Oilseeds          12.5       26.7
Balance on Current Accounts   -102.8   -153.5  -183.2   all other              5.0      10.7
total            46.8     100.0
Direct Foreign Investment (net)  2.5         6.9    13.2   EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31 1978
Official Capital Grants           71.2      77.6   100.0
Net MLT Borrowings                14.5      38.8    36.4   Public Debt, incl.
guaraateed         337.3
Disbursements                    (15.3)   (40.0)  (38.2)  Non-guaranteed Private
Repayment                        (t0.8)   (-1.2)  (-1.8)            Debt
Total outstanding and
Other items 1/                    10.3      20.8    -2.3            disbursed          190.7
Change in Reserves (increase-)   4.3         9.4    35.9
Fuel and related materials                                  DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1978!  21
Public Debt incl.
Imports, c.i.f.                                            guaranteed
of which: Petroleum       11.0     18.0    29.1   Non-guaranteed private
debt
Exports                                            Total outstanding and
of which: Petroleum        -        -        -             disbursed             6.2
IBRD/IDA LENDIYG November 1979
Outstanding and
Disbursed               78.6
Undisbursed                 30.0
Outstanding ircl.
Rate of Exchange                                               undisbursed             108.6
1971:   US$1.00 = CFAF 277.03
1972:   US$1.00 - CFAF 252.21
1973:   US$1.00 - CFAF 222.70
1974:   US$1.00 - CFAF 240.50
1975:   US$1.00 = CFAF 214.32
1976:   US$1.00 = CFAF 245.00
1977:   US$1.00 - CFAF 245.00
197E:   US$1.00 - CFAF 220.00
I/  Including errors and omissions  -  2/  ratio of Debt Service to Exports of Ccods and nor
x    preliminary   -    ..  not available   factor services.
not applicable
January 1  eO



- 24-
AI'liEX II
Page 1
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN UPPER VOLTA
A.   Statement of IDA Credits (as of February 29, 1980)
(US$ million) a/
(less cancellations)
Number   Year       Borrower            Purpose              IDA      Undisbursed
Six Credits fully disbursed                                18.5             -
430-UV   1973   Republic of   Education                     2.9            0.15
Upper Volta
316-2-UV 1974   Republic of   Roads                         1.3            0.04 /b
Upper Volta
496-UV   1974   Republic of   Bougouriba Agricul-    8.0                   0.50
Upper Volta   tural Dejelopment
557-UV   1975   Republic of   Livestock Develop-            6.0            3.18
Upper Volta    nerLt Project
579-UV   1975   Republic of   Rural Roads                   7.5            3.69
Upper Volta
640-UV   1976   Republic of   Rural Development             9.4            4.69
Upper Volta   Fmnd II
653-UV   1976   Republic of   Roads III                    20.0            0.25
Upper Volta
706-UV   1977   Republic of  Wlest Volta Agricul-    3.6                   1.54
Upper Volta   tural Development
744-UV   1977   Republic of   Railway                       5.2            3.30
Upper Volta
759-UV   1977   Republic of   Small & Mledium               4.0            3.40
Upper Volta   Scale Enterprise
766-UV   1978   Republic of   Urban Development             8.2            6.91
Upper Volta
956-UVc/ 1979   Republic of   Education II                 14.0          14.00
Upper Volta
982-UVc/ 1980   Republic of   Forestry                     14.5           14.5
Upper Volta
TOTAL                                               123.1           56.15
of which has been repaid                            0.10
TOTAL now held by TDA /a                            123.00
TOTAL undisbursed                                                   56.15
/a   Prior to exchange adjustment of US$0.2 million.
/b   US$42,261.03 undisbursed.
/c   Not yet effective.



- 25 -
ANNEX II
Page 2
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of February 29, 1980).
Amount in US$ millions
Year    Obligator      Type Business      Loan      Equity           Total
1978    Sovoplas          Plastic          .41       .13              .54
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Credit 316:    Road Project.  US$4.15 Million Credit of June 26, 1972 (As
amended on March 25, 1974); Effective Date: December 31, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
The project originally comprised: (a) the reconstruction of the
Solenzo-Koudougou (70 km) and Hounde-Bereba (27 km) roads, and (b) feasibility
studies for about 400 km of primary roads, and engineering of those sections
found to have the highest priority. Due to currency realignment and to cost
overruns on the road construction part of the project, the dollar cost of the
project increased. Consequently, to enable project completion, on March 25,
1974, the Association approved an increase in the amount of the credit from
US$2.8 million to US$4.15 million. Construction of the Solenzo-Koudougou
road began in March 1974 and is now completed.  Construction of the Hounde-
Bereba road was deleted from the project as cotton production did not merit
the construction of a ginnery at Hounde and without the ginnery there was
no justification for the road. These funds were reallocated to finance drain-
age works and contracts have been awarded. Construction should be completed
by June 1980. Regarding part (b), out of four proposed roads only those
from Banfora to Bobo-Dioulasso and from Bobo-Dioulasso to Hounde (a total of
190 km) were selected for feasibility and detailed engineering studies as
these were the only roads which showed a preliminary satisfactory rate of
return. Construction of these roads has been completed under the Third
Highway project (Cr. 653-UV) on the basis of the above mentioned engineering
and feasibility studies.  As outstanding withdrawal applications for expendi-
tures made are already in excess of remaining funds, we have not postponed
the closing date.
Credit 430:    Education Project.  US$2.85 Million Credit of September 28,
1973; Effective Date:  June 27, 1974; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980
The project was designed to improve the quality and enlarge the
scope of rural education in the ORDs of Dedougou, Koudougou, and Kaya. The
project originally provided for: (a) the construction and equipping of 40
centers, and the equipping of 80 existing centers for the training of young
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors on the pro-
gress of projects in execution, and in particular, to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 3
farmers (CFJAs); tb) the organization, equipping, and servicing of 150 post-
school cooperative groups for young farmers over 18 years of age; (c) the
creation of three rural development training centers; (d) the provision
of science laboratories for 21 slecondary schools; and (e) related and support-
ing technical assistance for project implementation. Physical implementation
of the project is almost completed and the credit funds are expected to be
fully disbursed by June 30, 1980, about a year behind schedule. Implementa-
tion of the project was delayed by start-up management difficulties, shortages
of critical materials, the slow work of the small local building contractors
and financing problems which are holding up completion of the 10 science
laboratories financed under the project and other problems related to its
innovative nature. The Ministry of Public Works is taking action to ensure
completion of these laboratories. The rural education component, the most
important component, is innovative, has good local participation and is making
reasonable progress.
Credit 496:    Bougouriba Agricultural Development Project.  US$8.0 Million
Credit of July 19, 1974; Effective Date: July 18, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project aims to develop the natural and human resources of the
Bougouriba ORD. While infrastructure improvements (roads and wells) have
shown good progress, the impact of the project on the major cash crop, cotton,
has been well below projections due to a slow build-up of services and farmers'
emphasis on food crops. Food crop production, however, has increased more
than expected. The project has started to implement the Training and Visit
System for extension. A follow-up project is expected to be appraised in
February 1980 with interim financing being provided by an EEC Special Action
Credit currently being processed.
Credit 557:    Livestock Development Project.  US$6.0 Million Credit of
June 18, 1975; EfEective Date: November 24, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project is assisting cattle production in the Dedougou and
Bobo-Dioulasso ORDs through group ranch development, improvement of veterinary
services, livestock marketing and meat processing facilities and the provision
of technical assistance. The veterinary program continues with success
and the civil works program is nearing completion; the method of slaughter
must be discussed with community leaders to enable opening of the newly
completed abattoir. The modified group ranch component, is proceeding in line
with its revised implementation schedule; currently, however, the incidence of
tsetse at the ranches' sites is being closely observed.
Credit 579:    Rural Roads Project.  US$7.5 Million Credit of August 13,
1975; Effective Date: February 11, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981
The project will improve and subsequently maintain 1,200 km of rural
roads. MIaintenance will also be provided to 2,100 km of additional rural
roads, institutional support is given to the road organization, highway equip-
ment has been procured, and a study is carried out to assess the impact and



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 4
effectiveness of road components included in agricultural development projects
financed by the Association over the last five years. Despite an eighteen
month delay in project start-up, the rate of project implementation now
matches appraisal estimates: one third of the improvement program has been
completed and annual light maintenance corresponds to appraisal targets.
Bridge and culvert construction will be carried out by force account due to
lack of satisfactory response from local contractors.
Credit 640:    Rural Development Fund II Project.  US$9.4 Million Credit
of June 21, 1976; Effective Date: January 24, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The project provides a line of credit to the Rural Development Fund
for investment in small-scale rural projects, the main purpose of which would
be to increase crop production and improve village water supplies. Program
activities will include: bottomland development (2,700 ha); erosion control
works (9,200 ha); small-scale irrigation and improved bottomland development
(500 ha); construction of 520 wells, 180 tubewells, 400 village warehouses and
20 village centers; provision of medium-term credit for agricultural equipment
(US$0.5 million equivalent); and provision for unidentified projects. The
project is well managed and is making good progress in implementation of all
its components. Design improvements at bottomlands and anti-erosion sites and
more emphasis on agricultural follow-up will ensure higher quality and increased
farmers responsiveness though quantitative targets estimated at appraisal
may not be reached.
Credit 653:    Third Highway Project.  US$20 Million Credit of July 15, 1976;
Effective Date: December 15, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The project consists of: (a) reconstruction of the Banfora-Bobo-
Dioulasso-Hounde road (183 km); (b) procurement of vehicle weight control
and traffic counting equipment; (c) road maintenance study; (d) preinvestment
study of the Ouagadougou-Kaya-Dori road; (e) technical assistance to the
Department of Transport (DOT); and (f) technical assistance to the domestic
contracting industry. Two contracts for the construction of the project
road were awarded in January 1977. The Bobo-Dioulasso-Hounde section was
completed in June 1978, and the Bobo-Dioulasso Banfora section in May 1979.
Equipment for vehicle weight control and traffic counting has arrived in
Ouagadougou in November 1979. The technical assistance to the DOT has been in
place since January 1977. The Association has approved Government's selection
of BCEOM for the Road 2faintenance Study which is nearly completed. Arrangements
for providing technical assistance to domestic contractors have not been
finalized. In view of a project cost overrun due to currency realignments and
the need to reconstruct four bridges, initially not included in the project,
supplementary financing of US$3.5 million is being provided through the EEC
Special Action Account.



28 -                       ANNEX II
Page 5
Credit 706:    West Volta AMricultural Development Pro-ject.  US$3.6 Million
Credit of May 23, 1977; Effective Date: December 28, 1977;
Closing Date: Jtne 30, 1982
The project strengthens the ORDs of Bobo-Dioulasso and Dedougou
through provision of technical assistance and equipment; establishes a
Financial and Administrative Unit to assist project accounting and
financial control; finances a ginnery and training facilities for project
extension workers; supports an annual extension program; develops low cost
irrigation schemes; implements a pilot settlement project and a pilot women's
project. Production and yield increases are slightly ahead of appraisal
estimates. The training and viEsit system for extension staff is being
introduced. An EEC Special Action Credit has just been granted which will
finance cost overruns for the ginnery, medium term agricultural credit and a
financing shortfall due to international currency realignments.
Credit 744:    Regional Railway Prolect in the Ivory Coast and Upper Volta
US$5.2 Million Credit of November 14, 1977: Effective Date:
December 20, 1971; Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The project finances priority items of the 1978-1979 portion of
RAN's 1977-1982 investment plan.. It includes track alignment and renewal of
track material in the Ivory Coast; track improvement in Upper Volta; procure-
ment of locomotives; freight cars and track maintenance equipment, provision
of training facilities and consulting services for technical training and
management improvement and to carry out feasibility studies. Major contracts
for civil works have been awarded and works began end November 1978. All
other   physical components of the projects are being implemented, albeit with
some delay. The feasibility studies provided for in the project are under way
and consultants for training and the management improvement program have been
selected and have been working since early 1979. RAN's management is presently
reviewing its investment program in consultation with the Bank. It is expected
that, due to delays in implementation of this project, the closing date will
be extended until December 31, 1981.
Credit 759:    Artisan, Small arnd Medium Scale Enterprise Project.  US$4.0
MIillion of January 12, 1978; Effective Date: April 12, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project provides a line of credit to the National Development
Bank (BND) for small and medium scale enterprises; technical assistance,
project preparation and follow-up and training for the National Center for
the Promotion of Rural Artisans (CNPAR) and the Organization for the Promo-
tion of Upper Voltan Enterprises (OPEV); technical assistance to the BND; a
study on industrial incentives; and a training program at the Department
of External Debt at the Treasury. CNPAR has prepared its first set of subproj-
ects and has bulk purchased the necessary inputs for the credit in kind
program. OPEV has recruited a training advisor and is implementing its full
training program. BND's financial situation has improved as a result of the
projects technical assistance effort, but subproject submissions have been
-much slower than anticipated.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 6
Credit 766:    Urban Development Project US$8.2 Million of March 23, 1978;
Effective Date: February 2, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
The project consists of upgrading of approximately 7,000 plots in
Ouagadougou and Bobo-Dioulasso; preparation and servicing of 1,100 lots in
Bobo-Dioulasso; water supply facilities for an additional 2,500 families in
Ouagadougou who are not living in areas to be upgraded; housing construction
and improvement loans; community facilities, social services and technical
assistance to the municipalities of Ouagadougou and Bobo-Dioulasso and the
Department of town planning. Project start-up activities were financed under
the two Project Preparation Facility advances and the budget of the Ministry
of Public works. Surveys and detailed engineering proceeded very slowly
due in part to the Ministry of Public Works tendency to shift away from
previously agreed upon design standards. As a result the project was classi-
fied as problem project on April 1979. The last mission in December 1979
resumed contacts with Government, after about 9 months of interruption and
reached an agreement a) to proceed on a pilot basis with the upgrading in the
Cissin neighborhood with particular attention being paid to affordable stan-
dards, minimizing demolition and relocation, and community participation and
b) to hire a municipal engineer as Deputy Project Director. Design of the
pilot upgrading is progressing well and community consultation in the area has
began in March. Regarding the Deputy Project director, interviews for this
post were held in Paris in February 1980 and the appointment should be made
shortly. Over all the project is on track although we must continue to
super-vise it very closely.



- 30 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF UPPER VOLTA
NIENA DIONKELE RICE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I:   Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare the project: 48 months
(b)  Agency that prepared the project:  FAO
(c) Date of first presentation to the Bank: 1974
Date of first bank mission to consider the project: April 1975
(d) Date of departure of Appraisal Mission: May 20, 1979
(e) Date of completion of Negotiations: February 12, 1980
(f) Planned date of effectiveness: August 31, 1980
The delay between first presentation to the Bank and the departure of
the appraisal mission was due to the time taken for detailed engineering and
hydrological feasibility studies, discussions with other interested aid agen-
cies, and preparation of the project by the FAO cooperative program.
Section II:   Special Project Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
(i) Interest rates on both short and long term agricultural credit
would be increased to 8.5 percent p.a., the maximum permitted
by the six nation West ALfrican Central Bank (para. 31);
(ii) The Management and Projetct Executive Committees would be
established no later than June 30, 1980 (para 42);
(iii) suitably qualified and experienced Voltaic staff would be
recruited for posts to be filled locally - notably Project
Manager, Project Accountant, and three Junior Managers
(para. 44);
(iv) where international recruitment was undertaken persons
with qualifications and experience and on terms and con-
ditions of employment satisfactory to IDA would be appointed.
This is likely to be applicable to: Deputy Project Manager,
Rice Industry Advisor to MRD, Kou Valley Rice Mill Manager,
Senior Evaluation Officer and Cooperatives Specialist
(para. 44);
(v) Government will progressively introduce cost recovery for
project farmers who in cropping year 3 would pay CFAF 20,000.
Non project farmers benefiting from water control measures
would be charged a rate to recover all recurrent costs plus
a reasonable proportion of investment costs (para. 47).



- 31 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(v)  Accounts would be audited annually by independent
auditors acceptable to the Association with reports
submitted to the Association within six months of the
financial year ending March 31 (para. 52); and
(vi)  As conditions of effectiveness:
-    the project Special Account would be opened (para. 49).
-    two junior managers would be appointed (para. 40).
-    land title would be acquired for land required
for construction and operation of facilities
of the project (para. 35).






IBRD 14301
4°50'                                                                                                          ;,                             AUGUST 1979
r
Wre                                                                                             M[ALf                            NIE
1150'                 -  - -                    -       …       -  0~~~~~~~~~~~~~Kaya   1OIGE
_'                              '-       UPPER  VOLTA         '
Karamossaso                                                                                                     V rBENItsN
Gln'    OANA    eTOGO-
4 4  40'
Dionele6l I                 o
\  A -    -_ Ndanc/       *
\           . M~ORTH     0Dokid                                                               d
Ndorolo\a                                                                             I ' *
\  \4- -DOUG (X>e'>/< \ >~7                                                         N04
.  x_ . .~g  <UPPER VOLTA
.ISOUTH  2   l  #Niena  Dionkele Rice
Development Project
Service centers
- -*  -|           1 st phase pilot project
I             ~~~~Swamp development w,th bunds -400 ha
Nienot    -       -      2nd phase projeci-l,060 ha
X   ,4z   . -. . K- .UW  . .       j                   3rd phase project (tentative) - 2,000 ha
-_---- - 2nd &3rd phase project-recalibraton of
/               ~~~~~~rivers
.     1st phase pilot project- roads to be
/                ~~~~~~paved in laterite
Existing roads - laterite
----/  Existing tracks-not paved
J  |  p +   /  ~Rivers
4ne.6d  /                  #~~~~~4   Existing sluice
Villages
<               lO~~~~~ingasso                                                                                                     |
fl- 40' ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~W0
KILOMETERS 0      5       2       3       4      5
Th -P h- be eped by the Wo,ed 8- Ie -f    ,e t_ ,
4-SeasaO'                                                                                                                                           o
4u0   ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--lh~.  b-                                                     h I,b h   l - -      v,1



