CREDIT NUMBER 1013 UV
Development Credit Agreement
(Niena Dionkele Rice Development Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF UPPER VOLTA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                               , 1980


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1013 UV
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated            '?               , 1980, between
REPUBLIC OF UPPER VOLTA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association
to assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement (hereinafter called the Project) by extending
the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) by letter addressed by the Association to the Minister
of Finance of the Borrower on April 19, 1978, the Association
granted an advance to the Borrower in the amount of $120,000
for the preparation of the Project; and
(C) pursuant to the terms of said advance, the amount
thereof is to be refunded to the Association out of the proceeds
of the Credit provided for in this Agreement;
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter
alia of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974,
with the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth
herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).
Section 1.02.  Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:


﻿-2-
(a) "Ministry" means the Ministry of the Borrower respon-
sible for rural development;
(b) "Project Management Unit" means the unit to be estab-
lished under Section 3.02 (a) of this Agreement for the management
of the Project;
(c) "Management Committee" means the committee to be estab-
lished under Section 3.02 (a) of this Agreement;
(d) "Executive Committee" means the committee to be estab-
lished under Section 3.02 (a) of this Agreement;
(e) "Project Area" means an area of about 600 square kilo-
meters located in the Niena Dionkele plain;
(f) "Special Account" means the account to be opened by
the Borrower under Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and
(g) "ORD" means the Organisme R6gional de Developpement
of Hauts Bassins.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equi-
valent to six million five hundred thousand dollars ($6,500,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
this Section and of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule
may be amended from time to time by agreement between the Borrower
and the Association, for expenditures made (or, if the Association
shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of
goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open a Special Account in a commercial bank on terms and condi-
tions satisfactory to the Association. Disbursements from the
Special Account shall be made exclusively to finance the costs of
goods and services required to carry out the Project.


﻿-3-
(c) The Association shall, promptly after the Effective
Date, withdraw on behalf of the Borrower from the Credit Account
and deposit in the Special Account an initial amount in the
currency of the Borrower not exceeding $400,000 equivalent.
Thereafter, at the request of the Borrower, the Association shall
further withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit in the
Special Account such amounts as shall be required to reimburse the
Borrower for payments made out of the Special Account for expen-
ditures for the Project eligible for finanting under the Devel-
opment Credit Agreement, but only to the extent that the amount of
any such deposit, together with any amount remaining on deposit in
the Special Account as of the date of such request, shall not
exceed in the aggregate the equivalent of $400,000.
(d) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association in
respect of each payment out of the Special Account such documents
and other evidence as the Association shall reasonably request,
showing that the payment was made on account of the reasonable
cost of goods or services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(e) If the Association shall have determined that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for any expen-
diture not eligible for financing by withdrawal from the Credit
Account; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
pursuant to paragraph (d) of this Section, the Borrower shall,
promptly upon notice from the Association and prior to any further
deposit in the Special Account by the Association, deposit in the
Special Account an amount equal to the amount of such payment.
(f) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (c) of
this Section, no further deposit in the Special Account shall be
made when the Association shall have determined that all further
withdrawals can be made under paragraph (a) of this Section or
when the total amount withdrawn from the Credit Account shall have
reached the equivalent of $6,100,000, whichever shall be sooner.
Withdrawal of the remaining amount of the Credit shall follow
procedures agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
(g) Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to itself the amount required to repay the principal
amount of the advance referred to in the preamble to this Agree-
ment withdrawn and outstanding as of such date and to pay any
unpaid charges thereon. Any unwithdrawn balance of the authorized


﻿amount of such advance shall automatically be cancelled on the
same date.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be governed by the provisions
of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1984
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service chqrgs shall be payable semiannually
on March 1 and September 1 in each year.
Secticii 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each March 1
and September 1 commencing September 1, 1990, and ending March 1,
2030, each installment to and including the installment payable
on March 1, 2000, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one
and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Condi-
tions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project
through the Ministry with due diligence and efficiency and in con-
formity with appropriate economic, administrative, financial and
agricultural practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
purpose.


﻿-5-
(b) The Borrower shall include in its budgets for each
year the amounts necessary to cover its financing of the Project.
Section 3.02. Pursuant to Section 3.01 above, the Borrower
shall:
(a) establish and operate a Project Manag,ement Unit, a
Management Committee and an Executive Committee, all with such
authority, responsibilities and staff as are set forth in Schedule
4 to this Agreement, the Management Cc'mittee and the Executive
Committee to be established not latec than June 30, 1980;
(b) provide the Project Management Unit, the Management
Committee and the Excutive Committee promptly with such funds,
facilities, services and other resources as are required for their
operation;
(c) employ qualified and experienced senior staff to fill
the positions of Project Manager and Project Accountant and
shall employ three junior managers; and
(d) employ consultants and other experts, whose qualifica-
tions, experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Borrower and the Association.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall ensure that:
(a) its National Dams and Irrigation Service (ONBI) super-
vise the carrying out of the civil works included in the Project;
and
(b) its Secondary Road Maintenance Service (SERS) carry out
the construction of roads included in Part A.1 of the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by
the Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively for the Project.


﻿-6-
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules for
the Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Association's accredited representatives to visit the
facilities and construction sites included in the Project and to
examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the
Association at regular intervals all such information as the
Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, its
cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it,
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and
services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the
Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial
operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to
be derived from it, the performance by the Borrower and the
Association of their respective obligations under the Development
Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit.
Section 3.06. Agricultural credits for the purchase by
farmers of draft animals and equipment and annual inputs shall be
granted under the terms and conditions set forth in Schedule 5 to
this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to
be maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with


﻿-.7-
consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices the
operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project,
of the Ministry and of any other department or agency of the
Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part
thereof.
(b) Pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower
shall cause (i) the Project Management Unit to maintain separate
accounting systems, each with a separate bank account, in respect
of (A) Part A of the Project, except for farm inputs and agricul-
tural credits, (B) farm inputs and (C) agricultural credits; and
(ii) the Rice Industry Support Group to maintain a separate
accounting system and bank account for Part B of the Project, all
under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
(c) The Borrower shall retain, until one year after the
Closing Date, all records (orders, invoices, bills, receipts
and other documents) evidencing expenditures for the Project on
account of which withdrawals were requested from the Credit
Account on the basis of certificates of expenditures and shall
enable the Association's accredited representatives to examine
such records.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall: (i) have the separate
accounts referred to in Section 4.01 (b) of this Agreement for
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors accept-
able to the Association; (ii) furnish to the Association, as soon
as available, but in any case not later than six months after the
end of each such year, a certified copy of the reports of such
audits by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall have reasonably requested, including, without
limitation to the foregoing, a separate opinion by said auditors
as to whether the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn from the Credit
Account have been used to make payments for goods received, or
works or services performed, and that such goods, works and
services were eligible for financing under this Agreement and were
used in the carrying out of the Project; and (iii) furnish to the
Association such other information concerning said separate
accounts, records and expenditures and the audits thereof as the
Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall cause all facilities in-
cluded in the Project to be adequately maintained and all neces-
sary renewals and repairs to be made thereto; and shall provide,


﻿- 8 -
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the purpose.
Section 4.04. (a) The Borrower shall establish by Decem-
ber 31, 1981, and thereafter collect from farmers benefiting from
water control improvements throughout the country, such charges as
shall be necessary to recover all recurrent costs of the land
development plus such portion of the investment costs as farm
budgets indicate is feasible for the improvements in question.
(b) The Borrower shall review such charges annually with
the objective of maintaining their levels in real terms.
(c) Charges established in the Project Area pursuant to
paragraph (a) of this Section shall be fixed for the first year at
8,000 CFA francs per ha and shall be increased progressively so as
to reach 20,000 CFA francs per ha in respects of the third crop-
ping year.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) land or rights in respect of land required for the
construction and operation of the facilities included in the
Project have been acquired;
(b) the Special Account has been opened; and
(c) two of the three junior managers referred to in Section
3.02 (c) of this Agreement have been selected.
Section 5.02. The date  Z4                  is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Article
IV of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on
which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a
date fifteen years after the date of this Agreement, whichever
shall be the earlier.


﻿-9-
ARTICLE VI
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of the Borrower responsible for
finance is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrouer:
Ministere des Finances
Ouagadougou
Upper Volta
Cable address:                      Telex:
MINIFINANCE                        MIFICOM
Ouagadougou                        5256
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the


﻿- 10 -
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF UPPER VOLTA
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
Western Africa


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)  to be Financed
A.   PRODUCTION -
Part A of the Project
(1) (a) Civil works        )     1,530,000        88%
(b) Vehicles and      )                      100% of for-
equipment        )                      eign expendi-
)                       tures or, if
)                      purchased
)                      locally,
)                       88% of local
)                      expenditures
(c) Local staff       )                      88%
salaries and     )
operating costs )
(2) Salaries and allow-            300,000        100%
ances of interna-
tionally recruited
staff
(3) (a) Credits for        )       400,000        100% of dis-
oxen             )                      bursements
(b) Draft equip-      )                      100% of for-
ment             )                      eign expendi-
tures or, if
purchased
locally, 88%
of local
expenditures


﻿- 12 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in      .Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(c) Incremental       )                        The lesser of
farm supplies    )                        (i) 100% of
and inputs       )                        foreign ex-
penditures or,
if purchased
locally, 80%
of local ex-
penditures;
or (ii) 100%
of the price
charged or to
be charged to
farmers
B.   RICE INDUSTRY SUPPORT -
Part B of the Project
(4) (a) Civil works        )     1,400,000          88%
(b) Vehicles and      )                        100% of for-
equipment        )                        eign expendi-
)                        tures or, if
)                        purchased
)                        locally,
)                        88% of local
)                        expenditures
(c) Local staff       )                        88%
salaries and     )
operating costs )
(5) Consultants' services,       1,700,000          100%
studies, audits and
salaries and allow-
ances of interna-
tionally recruited
staff
C.   GENERAL
(6) Reimbursement of prin-         120,000          Principal out-
cipal of advance for                           standing at
Project preparation                            Effective Date


﻿- 13 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)  to be Financed
(7) Initial deposit in             400,000
Special Account
(8) Unallocated                    650,000
TOTAL              6,500,000
2.   Any unpaid charges on the advance for the preparation of
the Project withdrawn pursuant to Section 2.02 (g) of this Agree-
ment will be taken from Category (8) above.
3.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures
in the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than the Borrower; provided, however, that if the currency of
the Borrower is also that of another country from the territory
of which goods or services are supplied, expenditures in such
currency for such goods or services shall be deemed to be "foreign
expenditures"; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
4.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.


﻿- 14 -
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expen-
ditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
6.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated
that the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category
will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to
the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent
required to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit
which are then allocated to another Category and which in the
opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other expen-
ditures; and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the
estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals
under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.
7.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that
the procurement of any item in ahy Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way restric-
ting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Associa-
tion under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the
Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Asso-
ciation's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such
expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is a four-year pilot undertaking, to convert
swamp land to more productive use, and to support government
institutions involved in the rice sub-sector. The main Project
objectives would be: (a) to test a number of technical, organiza-
tional and socio-economic assumptions regarding future swamp
development; and (b) to address rice sub-sector issues including
pricing, marketing and economic aspects. The Project includes:
Part A:   Production
1.   Developing 400 ha of the North Dougo swamp for single-crop
rainfed rice production;
2.   providing a trained extension service, and promoting better
farming through utilization of improved husbandry, agricultural
credits, farm inputs, oxen and equipment;
3.   constructing and operating two farm service centers and
promoting a Niena Dionkele Cooperative Society;
4.   procurement of farm inputs and oxen and equipment for sale
on cash or credit;
5.   establishing a demonstration unit, with demonstration,
seed production and training functions;
6.   establishing and operating a research substation to under-
take research into Project-related matters; and
7.   operating a program of agricultural credits to permit farmers
to purchase draft animals, equipment and annual inputs, as set
forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Part B:   Rice Industry Support
1.   Strengthening the Ministry with technical assistance,
charged amongst other things with the preparation of a rice
industry policy study;
2.   establishing a monitoring and evaluation unit;


﻿- 16 -
3.   strengthening the management of the Kou Valley rice mill
and providing for possible physical improvements; and
4.   carrying out studies of further developments in the Project
Area and of the national rice industry.
The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 1984.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Parts C or E of this Schedule, goods
and civil works shall be procured under contracts awaided in
accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in the
"Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans aid IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called
the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive b,'dding
as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the *-sis of irter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirement" of
paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare ind
forward to the Association as soon as possible, and in any event
not later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to txe
public of the first tender or prequalification documents relatin7
thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in suc.
form and detaii and containing such information as the Association
shall reasonably request; the Association will arrange for the
publication of such notice in order to provide timely notification
to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods and
works in question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary
information to update such notice annually so long as any goods or
works remain to be procured on the basis of international compe-
titive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported
goods, or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other
goods, offered in such bid; and (ii) customs duties and other
import taxes levied in connection with the importation, or the
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken
into account in the evaluation of the bids.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in


﻿- 18 -
Upper Volta may be granted a margin of preference in accordance
with, and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Upper Volta if the bidder shall have established to
the satisfaction of the Borrower and the Associa-
tion that the manufacturing cost of such goods
includes a value added in Upper Volta equal to at
least 20% of the ex-factory bid price of such
goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest eva-
luated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a
result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph
3 above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it


﻿- 19 -
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group
C which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for civil works as well as contracts for farm draft
equipment, farm inputs and other goods estimated to cost less than
$100,000 but more than $30,000 equivalent, may be procured on the
basis of local competitive bidding procedures.
2.   Contracts for civil works, farm inputs and goods estimated
to cost $30,000 equivalent or less and not included in the pre-
ceding paragraph may be procured by negotiated purchase after
solicitation of quotations from suppliers in accordance with the
Borrower's procurement procedures.
3.   Notwithstanding the above, contracts for inputs, regardless
of value, may be procured through the Societe Voltalque pour
les Fibres Textiles.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equiva-
lent of $100,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations
to bid and the specifications and other bidding documents,
together with a description of the advertising procedures to be
followed for the bidding, and stiall make such modifications in the
said documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in


﻿- 20 -
sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the evalua-
tion and comparison of the bids received, and such other informa-
tion as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association
shall, if it determines that the intended award would be inconsis-
tent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the
Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to
furnishing to the Association the first application for withdrawal
of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph 1, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
promptly after its execution and prior to furnishing to the
Association the first application for withdrawal of funds from the
Credit Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies
of such contract, together with the analysis of the respective
bids, recommendations for award and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it
determines that the award of the contract was not consistent with
the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver
of the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an exten-
sion of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 10% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Association of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if it
determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the
provisions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for its determination.
E.   Procurement without Contracting
Civil works may be carried out under force account with the
prior approval of the Association.


﻿- 21 -
SCHEDULE 4
The Project Management Unit,
the Management Committee
and the Executive Committee
The Project Management Unit
The Project Management Unit would be established within the
Ministry of Rural Development for the purpose of implementing Part
A of the Project. The Unit would be based at N'dorola and would
consist of a Project Manager, Deputy Project Manager, Accountant
and appropriate extension, credit, accounting and other supporting
staff. The Project Manager would be administratively responsible
to the Director ORD Hauts Bassins. The Unit would be supported by
the Rice Industry Support Group established under the project
within the Ministry of Rural Development.
Management Committee
A Management Committee will be formed and chaired by the Sous
pr6fet of N'dorola. The Committee would: (i) advise the Project
Manager on all matters relating to the social customs, tradition
and sensitivities of the local people; (ii) act as a sounding
board for the Project Manager to determine attitudes to proposed
actions; and (iii) encourage an involvement by the people in
project planning and implementation.
The Committee will consists of its Chairman, the Sous Prefet
of N'dorola and the following members: the chief of the District
and representatives of the ORD, the National Dams and Irrigation
Service, the Directorate of Agricultural Services and the Office
of the Cooperative, two representatives of the traditional chiefs
and three representatives of farmers.
Executive Committee
This Committee will: (i) approve the budget; and (ii) review
progress reports and examine Project performance against the
budget. The committee will meet not less than twice each year.
The Composition of the Committee will be as follows: The
Prefet of Hauts Bassins will be the Chairman; members will
comprise the Secretary General of Rural Development; the Directors
of Rural Works and Water (HER), Agricultural Services, the ORD,


﻿- 22 -
the National Agricultural Credit Fund (CNCA) and the Irrigated
Crops Research Center and the Directors General of the National
Cereals Agency, the National Dams and Irrigation Service, Com-
merce, Treasury and Planning.


﻿- 23 -
SCHEDULE 5
Agricultural Credits
A.   Conditions for Granting Medium Term Credits to Farmers
1.   Credits to purchase oxen and equipment will be made available
to members of village groups, upon the recommendation of the
group, and of the head of the Co-operative.
2.   Credit applications will be approved by the Project Manager.
Credit applications for each farmer shall if possible include
annual farm budgets for the period of the proposed credit, showing
that the farmers' cash income from agricultural activities (either
from cash crops, sale of livestock or from sale of surplus sub-
sistence crops) will be sufficient to cover both his farming cash
needs and his repayment obligations, and to provide an adequate
surplus for his family cash needs. If an individual budget is not
prepared, the application should be classified as conforming to an
appropriate standard budget.
3-   Credits will not be extended to individuals who are in
arrears on previous credits, whether financed under the Develop-
ment Credit Agreement or otherwise, or who are in arrears on
paying their land use charge.
4.   Credits will not be extended to individuals who have in
the past not shown a willingness to follow recommended agricul-
tural techniques.
5.   Credits will not be extended to members of village groups
when, as of the end of the next-to-last season, the proportion of
actual repayments received from the group as a whole, compared to
the repayments then due, was below 90 percent.
6.   The interest rate on both short- and medium-term credits
will be 8.5 percent per year.
7.   In the case of credits for the purchase of oxen, the farmer
will be required, at the time of taking out the credit and at the
due date of each installment until the credit is repaid, to pay
10% of the price of the oxen in question to a Project Insurance
Fund managed by the Financial and Administrative Unit of the
Ministry.


﻿- 24 -
8.   Farmers will be required to contribute a minimum of 25
percent of the cost of draft animals. No minimum down payment
need be required for equipment purchased on credit.
9.   Minimum repayment terms for oxen will be three equal yearly
repayments, starting at the end of the first season for which the
animals were purchased.
10. Minimum repayment terms for equipment will be an interest-
only payment at the end of the first season for which the equip-
ment was purchased, followed by four equal yearly repayments
covering both interest and principal.
11. The head of the village group, the Veterinary Assistant and
the draft animal expert will have to approve any oxen to be
purchased by a farmer on credit. The farmer will agree to follow
the advice of ORD staff regarding animal health and other cultural
practices.
12. The head of the village group, the village extension worker,
the draft animal expert and the Veterinary Assistant will all have
to agree that a claim for payment from the Project Insurance Fund
is valid. The Project Manager will then decide on meeting the
claim, after consulting the head of the Co-operative. Payments for
claims would be limited to the amount available in the Project
Insurance Fund.
B.   Conditions for Granting Seasonal Credits to Farmers
1.   Conditions A.1, A.3, A.4, A.5, A.6 will apply.
2.   Credit applications will be approved by the Project Manager,
who will verify that the amount of annual inputs to be purchased
on credit is reasonable.
C.   Accounting and Reporting for Agricultural Credit Operations
1.   The Financial and Administrative Unit will be responsible
for designing detailed aspects of the accounting and reporting
systems, and for supervising that procedures and controls are
correctly followed. The procedures will be discussed with the
Caisse Nationale de Credit Agricole.
2.   With regard to both short- and medium-term agricultural
credits financed under the Development Credit Agreement, all


﻿- 25 -
operations and accounts shall be kept entirely separate, at all
levels from other operations of the Project or of the ORD.
3.   Particular attention will be paid in designing the accounting
and reporting system to the correct treatment of the use of the
Credit to purchase equipment to be resold to farmers benefiting
from agricultural credits.
4.   The system will ensure that all repayment transactions
are correctly classified against agricultural credit transactions
for the particular season involved.
5.   Annual and semi-annual reports on credit transactions will
be sent to the Ministry and to the Association by the Project
Manager.
6.   Repayments received shall be credited to the account for
agricultural credits and shall, unless the Association shall
otherwise agree, be used to finance further credit operations for
farmers in the Project Area.
7.   It is contemplated that the operations and responsibilities
described above will be transferred to the Caisse Nationale de
Credit Agricole when this body commences operations. The details
of this transfer will be agreed between the Borrower and the
Association.


﻿INTERNATIONAIL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
'copy of the original in the archives ofthe Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the           day of
FOR SECRETARY


