Environmental                                                                                                lw
Assessment/,Analysis
Reports                                                                                  __ _ _ _ _
Report E 0008
,;-i.    i-z ; : i... . .   .   .   . . . . . . .   . .   . . . . .. -- .   - .!  .; -z:--X--.................................... 
.   . ..    ...:   .  ...     .--- :--   - : - 0    -,
- - - w---w } w - ,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.   E.   . --..-  ...     . .-..  -,
:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. ..- ... .- .. J=....-----
Forest Manaement and
CSonservation Poect-;-0X t-
*   .   .  .  .  .  .  ,    ,    ,    .   .   ,  .,  ,,, ... ,, ., D . .C                  .         ..... .. ..... E, .
EA Category B 
*   ..      .                     ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~.  .    .  - .- .   ..    .. ................ t  0           .f,  
{.~~~~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ . .e ... .. .. .:'  ........'.'' "     i 0 -    0 
.                                                                                   .   ,  -   .  . .   .   .   . f   -  f   ff 0 - ; -0 - - ...... . i- i X -f s=m:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.    .   . .. .. . . .
* ' ' f 0 - ''- i' f -::,ft: .' : :- - - i: -<': ': . ... . .. ..-                          .....     ... .. ... . .
.       ..     ...   ..    .     ....   .. .. .   .                                                .   .. .. .
' :ff ...    .   '.....   ' - -:. .. ..   .   .
-:   '  -  '  -f~ ..   .......                                                 -  -                            -   ..  .-t  ....f fff   
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.             '.   .. .. .   f.-f...
This report has been prepared by the World Bank



LAO PEOPLE's DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
FOREST MANAGEMENT AND CONSERVATION PROJECT
ENVIRONMENTAL ANALYSIS
DECEMBER 20, 1993
Agriculture and Natural Resources Operations Division
Country Department I
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office



Table of Contents
Paae No
EXECUTIVE  SUMMARY  .    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . .
BACKGROuND    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .                                         1 .  .  .  .  .
Analytical  Themes                .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 1
Resource  at  Risk    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 1
Government  Response                  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 1
THE  PROJECT   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   2
Objectives    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   2
Components    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   2
Design    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   4
Location    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   S
Funding          .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   5
Implementation    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   S
POLICY, LEGAL AND REGULATORY FRAMEWORK.                                                                        . . . 6
Current  Situation                .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   6
Project Activities.   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7
ITpact    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   8
Risks and Safeguards .- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -  8
COMMERCIAL  FORESTRY  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   9
Current  Situation                .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   9
Project  Activities    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  11
Impact    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  13
Risks  and  Safeguards    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 15
COMMUNITY-BASED  FORESTRY    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 16
Current  Situation                .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 16
Project  Activities    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  16
Impact    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  19
Risks  and  Safeguards    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 20
BIODIVERSITY  CONSERVATION   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 23
Current Situation .  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -   23
Project  Activities    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 24
Impact . - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 25
Risks and Safeguards . - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 26
INSTITUTIONAL  STRUCTURE  AND  CAPACITY    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 26
Current  Situation                .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 26
Project  Activities    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 27
Impact    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 28
Risks  and  Safeguards    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 26



Executive Summarv
Analytical Focus
1.          Five themes are the focus for environmental analysis of the proposed
Lao PDR Forest Management and Conservation Project (FMCP):
*     Forest policy, legal and regulatory framework
*     Commercial forestry
*     Community-based forestry
*     Conservation and biodiversity protection
*     Institutional structure and capacity.
2.          These themes embrace a broad spectrum of concern and wide array of
remedial action that center on one of the largest remaining intact high forests
in the Indo-Malayan and Oceanic regions. Without such action, the high forest
could disappear over the medium term.
Putting Frameworks in Place
3.          FMCP is the most recent in a series of Government initiatives since
1989 to put in place fundamental policies and structures to regain control of its
forest resource in order to sustain balanced economic use and ecological
protection. FMCP will cover an estimated total forest area of 500,000 ha, mainly
in the central and southern regions where the forest is largely intact. The
project will be funded jointly by IDA, the Global Environment Trust (GET),
FIINNIDA, and Government.
4.          The cornerstone of project preparation has been formulation of a
Forestry Decree, recently ratified (November 1993) pending promulgation of formal
legislation anticipated in 1996. The decree's implementing regulations are to
be further discussed between Government, IDA and other parties under the project.
Project objectives closely parallel those of the decree, namely to:
*     Institute a new resource management system for balanced and
sustainable use, conservation and protection.
*     Implement a clear forest policy that fosters sustainable use
and guardianship.
*     Underpin policy with requisite legal assurances on critical
issues of forest access and use.  Provide regulatory and
enforcement mechanisms to back the legal framework.
*     Implement policy-based incentives for all stakeholders --
commercial loggers, villagers,' and government -- to adopt
sustainable practices.
i



*     Unify goverrment forestry institutions.
5.          Beyond policy, legal/regulatory and institutional reform, the project
creates new capacity among government institutions and commercial and community
forest-users to plan, manage and use forests sustainably. It also underwrites
three national programs on forest inventory and zoning; economic use and
environmental conservation; and a system of protected areas for biodiversity
conservation.
Proactive by Design
6.          By design, the project is proactive in three important respects, each
of which is time-consuming, calls for patienee in execution, and demands humility
on the part of planners in the face of beneficiaries' capacities and assertion
of needs:
*     Use of incentives to enlist support and gain compliance from
loggers, forest communities, and government at various levels.
*     Participation of local beneficiaries in resource planning and
management-
s     Process-orientation in project preparation and implementation
-- with emphasis on building capacity and providing for
flexibility in decision-making, response and revision, as
geeded.
Incentives Are Kev
7.          Incentives  are key to the project.    For commercial  loggers,
mechanisms include revised contract/licensing systems for logging and wood-
processing within the context of sustainable yields; uniform pricing of all logs,
whether used domestically or destined for export, and based on border parity;
consolidated forest taxation; and marketing reforms.
S.          For villagers dependent on forest resources, incentives involve legal
protection of customary access and use, empowerment to help formulate and manage
local land use plans and larger-scale resource management plans that subsume the
local plan, and support for small-scale works within village development schemes
to create stable, alternative livelihoods. No resettlement occurs under the
project. No roads are to be built with project funding.
9.          For government, project incentives include support for the nationally
unified structure of forestry administration, new or amplified field capacity,
assured funding of operations, extensive training opportunities, and creation of
new or revised funding mechanisms to fund forestry operations beyond the project.
Impact on Policy and Lecral/ReoulatorV Frameworks
10.         The project's support of the new forest resource management policy
is expected to yield significant benefits over time to the resource base,
economy, and well-being of forest communities. The project's approach to
ii



implementation is cautious but confident.   Substantial learning-by-doing is
involved, which demands continuous monitoring. An important project safeguard
in this respect is support for establishment of a forest management information
system as a critical tool in monitoring and evaluation. Indicators will be set
for environmental, socio-cultural and economic, legal and institutiornal, and
commercial impacts.
11.         Prudently, a two-year period for testing and gaining feedback on the
major policy and legal/regulatory aspect of the interim Forestry Decree and
companion implementing regulations will be observed. During this period, all
stakeholders will be involved in a public awareness campaign to educate and
solicit their reaction to features of the new policy and regulations affecting
them.
Impact on Commercial Forestry
12.         Major changes under the project on how commercial operations are
regulated and controlled are expected to yield sizable long-term benefit. In the
short term, implementation may be slow and not felt substantially with the
project's five-year timeframe. Logging contracts based on sustainable yield of
specific forest stards will severely curtail current levels of damage and
excessive extraction. A system of forest ranges, manned by rangers and guards,
and checkposts and surveillance teams will be the initial means of an enforcement
scheme to reduce exploitation, illegal logging, and surreptitious export.
13.         Strong tools for altering commercial practices in the direction of
sustainability involve pricing and tax reforms.  Border parity pricing for both
domestic and export logs is likely to correct evident inefficiencies in logging
and especially wood-processing.    Operations which have mushroomed beyond
sustainable extraction levels are likely to face pressure of closure. Stopgap
assistance may be considered. Without legal/penal sanctions for enforcement and
strong Government will to regulate the forest resource, wanton logging will
continue. Easing in the contract/licensing changes and regulatory/enforcement
scheme will take time.   To prevent accelerated extraction before then, a
transition plan will be put in effect within the project's first six months.
Imnact on Community-Based Forestrv
14.         To replace a situation where traditional norms for forestry use are
breaking down and no legal protection to traditional users is available, the
project implants legal incentives, based on secure access and use, and endorses
community involvement and empowerment in resource planning for sustainable
outcomes.   Local land use plans, resource management plans, and village
development schemes will be largely the handiwork of those affected, in
conjunction with government guidance. Special project activities focus on the
role of women and ethnic minorities.   Project safeguards involve community
outreach, information campaigns, and local monitoring as integral elements of
project implementation.   Putting a lid on the amount of funds available for
village works, appropriate to each setting, will temper project activities.
iii



Impact on Conservation and Biodiversity Protection
15.         By integrating concerns for biodiversity protection and conservation
into planning and management throughout the project, genuine conservation is more
likely to result. The system of protected areas will decidedly reduce damage and
destruction of habitat-  As the uniqueness of the country's forest resource
becomes more secure and known, possible ecotourism may develop.   Project
safeguards include extensive training for biodiversity conservation throughout
layers of government and within communities. An important addition under the
project will be a much-improved database on Lao PDR's forest and its yet-
uncharted biological diversity.
Imnact on Institutional Structure and Cavacity
16.         The unified administrative structure for forest management, bolstered
by new field capacity, new skills, and assured funding for DOF operations,
addresses chronic problems nagging the sector -- fragmentation, low absorptive
capacity and limited resources-  Government' s commitment to a recentralized
structure will be tested. To strengthen its resolve and ability to deliver, the
p5roject zeroes in on budgetary stability, develops skills at the village and
provincial levels, and focusses on central-p.ovincial cooperation -- the weakest
link, inasmuch as provincial governments are losing control of the pursestrings
over forest operations previously within their domain.
iv



ENVIRONMENTAL ANALYSIS
BACKGROUND
Analytical Themes
1          This environmental analysis of the proposed Lao PDR Forest Management
and Conservation Project (FMCP) centers on five themes that coincide with
Government's focus and priorities for managing its most significant natural
resource:
*     Forest policy, legal and regulatory framework
*     Commercial forestrv
*     Community-based forestry
*     Conservation and biodiversity protection
*     Institutional structure and capacity.
2.          Discussion  will  elaborate  on  policy,  legal  and  regulatory
underpinnings needed for husbanding the country' s forestry resource for balanced
economic use and ecological protection; the impact of policy-based incentives and
project activities regarding commercial forestry, village-based use and
conservation, and set-asides of protected areas; and the capacity of government
institutions to plan, manage, and regulate forest use, foster and enforce
sustainable practices, and protect designated areas.
Resource at Risk
3.          At issue is the extent, quality, productive capacity and endurability
of the country's high forest, one of the largest intact and most biologically
diverse in the Indo-Malayan and Oceanic regions. At the same time, the bulk of
the population (4.2 million) is heavily dependent on the forest resource for its
livelihood (15% of GDP, 54% of export value, and 80 of fuel consumption, 1991).
Forests are increasingly subject to encroachment, due to population growth (2.9%
annually), clearing for agricultural land (about 20,000 ha annually, mainly for
upland rice), forest fires, and shifting cultivation on some 300,000 ha.
Importantly, commercial exploitation, often illegal, and featuring excessive
logging, destructive practices and no attempt at restoration, causes significant
deforestation (roughly 30,000 ha annually) and degradation. Loss of valuable
habitat and diminished productivity result, with detrimental effect on
communities. Present levels of use are unsustainable. High forest cover is
rapidly declining and, without remedial action, could disappear over the medium
term (Tropical Forestry Action Plan, 1991).
Government Response
4.          In follow-up to recommendations of a First National  Forestry
Conference in 1989 and adoption of the resultant Tropical Forestry Action Plan
(TFAP) in 1991, Goverrnment has initiated several actions and reforms both to
thwart deforestation and to institute sustainable use and protection as a viable
alternative.



-2-
5.          Key Actions.  In sequence, actions include:
*     Initial framework for forestry land use and management (1989
MAF Decree No. 117);
*     Suspension of logging operations and initiation of a country-
wide audit of forests, review of logging quotas, sawmill
operations, and forestry tax collection. Though ineffective,
the ban is technically still in force (1991 -- Council of
Ministers, Decree No. 67);
*     Macroeconomic reforms affecting natural resource management,
including a policy of disengagement for state enterprise,
opening the way for possible divestment of state and
provincial forest enterprises; recentralization of economic
and fiscal management 1991;
*     Reorganization  of line ministries    to  improve  resource
mcbilization, budgeting and investment planning, including
sweeping reforms of the role, structure, and operations of the
agricultural and forestry administrations at all levels
(November 1991 -- Prime Minister's Decree No. 84);
*     Establishment of 18 national biodiversity conservation areas,
putting about 12% of total area under protection (October 1993
-- Prime Minister's Decree No. 164); and
*     Management and Use of Forests and Forest Land  (Forestry
Decree) providing the interim basis for a legal and regulatory
framework, pending its casting into final form by 1996
(November 1993 -- Prime Minister's Decree No. 169).
THE PROJECT
Obiectives
6.          The project  (FMCP) aims at assisting Government to develop and
implement a new resource management system for sustainable use and protection of
its forest resource.   Project activities support Government's  efforts to
transform the way forest resources are used and managed, shifting its role toward
management, regulation, and provision of core services, rather than direct
control over investment and production.
Comoonents
7.          Designed as the first of a series of operations that IDA may support
over the next 10-15 years, it focusses, at this stage, on fundamental sector
reforms, operational capacity, and three programs that will serve as building
blocks in the new management system -- stocktaking of the resource, a balanced
approach to extraction and conservation, and a scheme for protected areas.



-3-
8.          Components of the five-year project involve:
*     Formulating and implementing an effective forest policy and a
legal/regulatory framework for the sector;
*     Implementing a unified institutional framework and creating
new operational capacity in resource management;
*     Implementing national programs on:
-     forest inventory, zoning, and planning:
-     sustainable economic use and environmental conservation
by all forest-users;
-    management of a system of protected biodiversity areas;
*     Human resource development; and
*     Technical assistance.
Desicm
9.          Innovative and complementary features of project design are an:
*     Incentive-based  approach  to  resource  sustainability  for
stakeholders -- commercial loggers, forest communities and
government at all levels;
*     Participation of local beneficiaries in resource planning and
forest management; and
*     Process-orientation toward preparation and implementation,
providing for flexibility in decision-making and timely
response and revision, as needed.
10.         Due to the sector's poor database (and the time it would take to
build up an adequate one) and Government's yet-tentative steps toward the new
resource management system, prior detailed project desicrn is not feasible.
Instead of preparing a "blueprint" and specifying targets in advance, the
project's emphasis on the process of capacity-building and participation by
beneficiaries allows for project activities to be tailored to local capacity and
specific needs.
11.         Through regulation  and incentives,  the project  supports  more
sustainable practices by all forest users. Mechanisms include improved capture
of rents from revised contract/licensing agreements for logging and wood-
processing; pricing, tax, and marketing reforms for commercial operations; and
protection of customary access rights for villages, as well as village
development schemes to create more stable, alternative land uses, such as
perm3nent agriculture, agro-forestry or forest plantations.   By empowering
affected communities to help formulate und manage local land use plans, it
emphasizes resource management and protection at much lower levels of access than
at present.



-4-
12.         Project incentives to government include support of a nationally
unified structure of forestry administration, new or amplified field capacity,
assured funding for operations, extensive training opportunities, and creation
of new or revised funding mechanisms to sustain operations beyond the project
(e.g., Forest Management Fund and Conservation Trust Fund -- paras 14, 54 and
115).
Location
13.         The project will cover an estimated total forest area of about
500,000 ha, located mostly in the central and southern regions, which have a
relatively large portion of intact forest and include several areas designated
for protection.   Forest area is to be zoned and delineated into protection,
conservation, production, rehabilitation and degraded forests, with the first
four categories placed under sustainable management and protection.
Fundinc
14.         The project will be jointly financed by IDA  (US$8.7 million
equivalent); the Global Environment Trust (GET) Fund (US$5 million equivalent);
FINNIDA (US$5.6 million equivalent) and the Government of Lao PDR (US$1 million
equivalent). IDA will finance equipment and incremental operating costs
associated with implementation of field operations and small civil works in
support of village development. GET will finance the establishment and management
of four protected areas, community mobilization programs for forest conservation,
technical assistance and training in conservation management, environmental
monitoring and evaluation and design, and establishment of a Conservation Trust
Fund. FINNIDA will finance technical assistance and human resource development
for production and village forest areas, and GET for the protected areas.
Implementation
15.         Lead Agency. The Department of Forestry (DOF) within the Ministry
of Agriculture and Forests (KAF) will implement the project.  Main project
activities will be executed within the existing DOF structure and no new
institutions will be created.  At the field level, project offices will be
established in two provinces -- vientiane and Savannakhet -- through upgrading
and strengthening existing services.  Each office will consist of two units
charged, respectively, with inventory, land-use zoning, and forest management
planning; and regulation and control of forestry operations and community
forestry activities. The protected areas program will be implemented directly
by the National Office of Nature Conservation and Watershed Management in
Vientiane.
16.         Coordination.  A project coordination committee will be formed; it
is to. be headed by MAF's vice-minister in charge of forestry and with
representatives from the Ministry of Finance (MOF), Ministry of Commerce,
Committee for Planning and Cooperation, the project director and participating
cofinanciers. It will address policy issues and overall project orientation and
implementation. At the operational level, regular quarterly meetings chaired by
the project director and attended by representatives of concerned agencies at
central and provincial levels will be held.   In addition, a mechanism for
coordinating implementation at regional, provincial and district levels will be
established.



17.         Donor  Cooperation.    Many  external  donors  are  involved,  and
increasingly so, in the country's forestry sector. It is necessary to ensure
that their efforts are consistent with national forestry policies and programs
and coordinated with each other. In collaboration with other donors, the project
will help strenythen DOF's capacity in this regard. The SIDA-supported Lao-
Swedish Forestry Program (LSFP)is playing a key role in the implementation of a
broader human resource development strategy for DOF. Given the close linkage
between the project and LSFP, implementation of both projects' activities will
be under the responsibility of DOF's newly established Office for Planning and
Cooperation.
18.         Cooperation among donors implementing forestry projects in Lac PDR
will continue under present arrangements of annual meetings organized by MAF.
Annual sector reviews by a special Consultative Group, to be appointed by
Government and consisting of government officials, grassroots organizations,
NGOs, and donor agencies will also monitor the project and other sector
activities.  Monitoring results from DOF and local communities will be discussed
at these annual meetings.
POLICY. LEGAL AND REGULATORY FRAMEWORK
Current Situation
19.         Continuing resource decline.  Coverage of the country's valuable
high-forest continues to decline rapidly -- by about 1i annually. Furthermore,
the remainder is suffering significant degradation (e.g., crown-density reduction
on about 425,000 ha between 1982 and 19891. Preliminary estimates over the past
10 years put the average annual economic loss due to forest depletion at about
11% of GDP1.
20.         Lack of clear forest Policy.   Ambiguity on several issues --
allocation of forest land to various uses, community rights to forest access,
requirements for sustainable use -- has abetted unsustainable exploitation.
Appropriate remedies have been evolving, stemming, in part, from TFAP
recommendations and IDA-supported studies on possible action plans for
sustainable use of forestry resources, encompassing economic use, protection of
soil and water values, and biodiversity conservation. Initial preparation of
FMCP, supported by the Japan Grant Fund (JGF), was a response. Articulation and
Government ratification of the new resource management policy were a crucial part
of project preparation.
21.         Lack of leazal framework for natural resource manaaement.   Also
looming as companion issues are the lack of legal classification for forest
lands, lack of legally enforceable forest use and access rights, and absence of
laws, regulation, and penalties to control forestry operations.
22.         Government's first attempt at a comprehensive law on forestry (1989)
had a few serious shortcomings, among them, inadequate provision of land area for
community use and absence of tenure.   To ameliorate, TFAP recommended the
elaboration of a legal framework, regulations, rules and procedures for forest
use. Specifically, it recommended that a forestry law be enacted, granting legal
See World Bank, Lao PDR - Environmental Overview, 1993.



authority to DOF to enforce the forestry law and its regulations; establish rules
for ownership of forest land and its products, a legal and contractual basis for
use of public forest land, and rules and regulations for Government intervention;
define the legal character of forest management plans; and ensure consistency of
rules and regulations on export and import of forest products.
23.         As part of pre-implementation activities, JGF supported Government
in developing the policy, legal and institutional framework for sector reform.
Early drafts were prepared with SIDA support. The Forestry Decree will provide
the urgently needed legal basis for implementation of the new resource management
policy.
Proiect Activities
24.         Resource manaqement for sustainabilit.   The project will assist
Government with implementation of its new resource management policy.  Anchor
points of the policy are a:
*     Shift from forest extraction towards sustainable resource
management;
3     Unified structure and national jurisdiction for resource
planning, management and enforcement;
*     Uniform, national zoning and resource planning;
*     Incentives for resource-users to move towards sustainable
management;
-     New contract system for commercial management, prescribing
sustained yield cuts from production areas;
*     Reforms in forest product taxation, pricing and marketing;
*     Biodiversity conservation in production, community-managed and
protected forests.
25.         A core element of the new policy is a body of incentives, involving
significant policy and institutional changes aimed at altering how commercial
loggers, local communities, and local governments use and manage forest
resources-
26.         Legal foundation.  Implementation of the Forestry Decree will be a
key part of the project. By endorsing central authority in granting forest
management contracts, establishing clear contractual arrangements requiring
sustainable practices, and providing penalties for non-compliance, the decree
addresses major causes of unsustainable exploitation.
27.         The decree provides a framework for sustainable resource management
and a legal/regulatory framework to underlay it. In conjunction with implementing
regulations to be refined and adopted under the project, it will classify forest
lands and determine a zoning process emphasizing community participation in
resource planning and development; protection for customary forest land use and
allocation of production forest to local communities which will be involved in



-7-
its management and harvesting; and requirements for forest management planning
and contracting in forest operations.
28.         Implementing regulations of the Forestry Decree will be finalized
under the project covering, inter alia, a process by which affected people
participate in defining customary access and use rights; registration of all
forestry operations; collection of revenues; and contract conditions to be set
out in regulations and permits. The same process of consultation with central
and provincial authorities, grassroots organizations and external aid agencies
to review the regulations, as was carried out for the decree, will be followed.
29.         The Forestry Decree also i nvides the legal basis for biodiversity
protection. Regulations already draftet- with support of the World Conservation
Union (IUCN) articulate the objectives of nature conservation, regulate
conservation management, provide general guidance for establishing, managing and
regulating protected areas, regulate hunting and fishing, and stipulate
appropriate penalties for violations. These regulations will limit uncontrolled
exploitation as well as excision by outsiders, thereby reducing the destruction
of forests and biological resources.   Incentives for local participation,
including protection of traditional access and community involvement in land use
zoning and forest management, will also help guard against exploitation in
situations  of  open  access  to  forest.    Specific  regulations  for nature
conservation however, remain to: be finalized.
30.         The project will provide a vehicle to test, evaluate and refine the
new resource management system defined by the decree and its implementing.
instruments before it is enshrined in permanent forestry legislation, anticipated
by 1996.
Impact
31.         The project's support of the new forest resource management policy
is expected to be positive, as it aims at reducing uncontrolled forest
exploitation and unsustainable pressure on forest resources. Core incentives are
designed to spur commercial loggers, local communities, and local government, in
consort with DOF, to use and manage forest resources more efficiently and
sustainably.    Integration  of  concerns  for conservation  and biodiversity
protection into primary planning and management makes the project's approaches
to balanced economic and ecological use of forests more viable. And for the
first time, critical legal protection and regulatory mechanisms are being put in
place, in order to enforce sustainable commercial and community-based practices.
Overall, these policy and legal/regulatory improvements are expected to yield
significant benefits over time to Lao PDR's resource base, its economy, and
livelihood of its forest communities.
Risks and Safeguards
32.         Slow-but-sure approach.  The new system of resource management and
the projects' approach to implementing it require cautious, but confident
implementation. A major drawback is the inadequacy of the database on the forest
resource, commercial operations, and communities dependent on forestry.  The
project's emphasis on process and local participation involves substantial
learning-by-doing, which calls for continuous testing and monitoring to identify
problems and institute corrections in a timely manner.



33.         Manacwement information system.   Since DOF lacks the mechanism,
capacity and resources to monitor and evaluate implementation of the new forest
management policy, the project will support establishment of a forest management
information system, complementing LSFP s efforts with DOF in this activity. The
database will cover current logging operations, forest management plans, and
timber harvests, which are not adequately monitored. DOF staff will be trained
in specialized fields of conservation biology and monitoring and evaluation
techniques.
34.         Proiect monitorincT    Annual workplans and semi-annual progress
reports will form the major basis for monitoring and evaluation. The project
manager will be required to submit annual workplans in advance, including
statement of objectives and targets for the coming year, description of project
area and resources (human, financial, and physical) available or to be acquired,
how objectives will be achieved, and an annual budget. Also to be included is
a review of past performance. An internal monitoring system will require the
project manager to provide semi-annual project progress reports, focussing on key
parameters of performance and impact as outlined in the workplan. Indicators for
monitoring and evaluation will be set for: (a) environmental impact; (b) socio-
cultural and economic impact; (c) legal and institutional framework; and (d)
commercial forestry.
35.         IDA/FINNIDA will conduct semi-annual proiect supervision missions to
review progress on project implementation; these will be scheduled concurrently
with SIDA review missions. A mid-term review of the project will be conducted
by IDA/FINNIDA to assess overall progress, also review needs for change in
project direction and activities, and, as necessary, in agreement with
Government, reallocate funds/activities.
36.         Feedback on interim decree.   A two-year period for testing and
gaining feedback on the major policy and legal/regulatory aspects of the Forestry
Decree and its yet-to-be determined implementing regulations is a prudent step
by Government. It allows for cautious implementation of sweeping reforms and
provides time to communicate the combined features and regulatory conditions to
commercial interests and local communities, as well as for DOF and local
governments to absorb them. Careful explanation and understanding by all will
limit risks of abuse.
37.         The  project s  participatory  approach  for  land  use,  resource
management and village development planning should help to reduce the decree's
potential adverse impacts on local communities and the environment.
38.         Public awareness campaiqn.  Under the project, this will be a key
activity to educate communities and involve them in a dialogue on resource
management. This process cannot be rushed, for unless local communities fully
understand the decree and how it works, there will be no solid basis for
community participation in resource management.



-9-
COMMERCIAL FORESTRY
Current Situation
39.         Excessive logging.  Official annual log harvests have increased
steadily over the past four decades, averaging 75,000 m3/yr during the 1960s,
140,000 m3/yr during the 1970s, 270,000 m3/yr during the 1980s, and reaching
significantly more than 300,000 m3/yr during the latter half of the 1980S.
Following recentralization and the central government's renewed control over
natural resources, official log quotas have stabilized at an average of 280,000
m3/yr in the 1990s -- approximately the annual allowable cut (AAC) adopted by
TFAP.   Illegal logging, including smuggling across the border, however, is
estimated  to  amount  to  another  100,000-150,000  m3/yr.    The  system  is
characterized by poor coordination of log production with consumption,
indiscriminate cutting by illegal and legitimate forest enterprises alike,
insufficient management planning, high waste and degrade of logs, and a high
incidence of damage to residual forest. The wood pricing and taxation structures
encourage malfeasance and subsidize an inefficient wood industry, resulting in
losses of rents to Government.
40.         Until the 1991 ban on logging, about 72% of all production forest
activities were outside central government jurisdiction and subject to minimal
regulatory control at the provincial level. The devolution of authority to grant
logging concessions to provincial authorities had encouraged them to grant more
concessions in order to boost their budgets. According to a World Bank-supported
study,2 licensing procedures were unclear and contractual agreements were
unenforceable. Lack of enforcement of the annual quota system discouraged long-
term planning to match sustainable timber supplies from the forest to sawmill
capacity.
41.         Short-term perspective.  Current forest management plans are short-
term and based on low-intensity surveys that provide minimal resource
information.   Annual logging quotas are derived by dividing the estimated
standing timber volume by duration of concession agreement, sometimes only 15
years;  this  type  of  calculation  induces  unsustainable  practices.    The
determination of AACs, or sustainable timber yield, of a given forest area
requires information on forest type and age class, standing volume, annual growth
rate and present condition of each forest type represented in the production
forest. Sustainable AACs, based on a gradual harvesting of mature forest areas
and realistic growth rates for regenerating immature forests, should use longer
rotation periods (35-40 years).
42.         Inadequate control. Forestry enterprises have been poorly managed,
very much due to the lack of firm control by the authorities. Forest management
plans are inadequate and rarely complied with.   Concessionaires have not
prevented encroachment or destruction in their areas, nor carried out
reforestation and other silvicultural activities as required. There is little
information on the value of residual stands and few measures to protect them.
Consequently post-logging areas are encroached upon by settlers and the remaining
forest stands are often cleared. The tendency is for a gradual movement of
Carle, J.B.,  Control  of the Loci Production and Marketing Sectors
including Pricinq and Methods of Sale, report prepared for the World Bank
(May 1990).



-10-
shifting cultivators into new areas of forest and a subsequent degradation of
these areas and corresponding possible loss of biodiversity.
43.         Poor loFcrqincF methods.   Current methods of commercial harvesting
result in the loss of a significant percentage of the wood harvested. Logs are
often trapped in the forest and on first landings (dry weather roads) during the
rainy season. Even when logs are stored on second landings (all weather roads),
delays of up to 12 months from felling to use are common. The long storage
results in degradation of logs affecting volume and value. It is estimated that
30-40% of wood volume and value is lost from stump to sales point, so that the
actual volume cut amounts to 140% of the amount extracted.  A recent stud9
estimates that commercial timber yields in Lao PDR are 15-25 m3 per ha, which is
considerably lower than in neighboring countries and reflects the high degree of
species selectivity and wastage in the Lao logging process.
44.         Absence of field capacit . There is presently no DOF field capacity
for the regulation and control of forestry operations. Due to lack of resources
for both the Customs Department and DOF, there are few official checkposts and
no mobile checking units. DOF resources consist of only three mobile teams for
measuring logs at central log yards. Illegal traders wishing to avoid the few
official regulation and control posts located along the major routes simply
bypass them. With such severe limitations on patrol capabilities on the Mekong
River and many roads which parallel both the Thai and Lao side of the river,
avoiding the official checkposts is not difficult.   Sawmill capacity has
increased substantially, to levels much in excess of official logging volumes.
45.         Lack of standards. Detailed control is in any case not possible due
to the absence of guidelines and standards, and deforestation caused by poor
logging practices is not subject to monitoring.   Furthermore, there is no
systematic documentation for checking origins of logs from felling registers, log
tally sheets and log transport documents. The system is bound by many checks,
approvals and documents. Each checkpost works in isolation, so malpractice is
common. There is no workable system relating volumes of allowable cut quota to
those scaled at first and second landings and volumes transported to processing
plants or to export yards. Furthermore, DOF is not involved in the control of
export of logs and wood products, which is under the Customs Department.
46.         Skewed pricing.  The current log pricing system which relies on a
combination of resource, tree and export taxes results in a large price
differential between logs destined for domestic processing and logs destined for
export. The domestic industry receives logs substantially below their border
parity price. This has not only resulted in significant losses of Government
revenues, but also encouraged a highly inefficient domestic industry prone to
enormous wastage. It has furthermore encouraged surreptitious exports, as logs
purchased for the domestic industry are often secretly exported, with windfall
profits going to the illegal exporters.
3/    Wan Razali, Forest Management and Silviculture of Natural Forest in Lao
PDR, short-term consultancy report, Lao-Swedish Forestry Program (December
1992).



-11-
Proiect Activities
47.         The project will support three main reforms in commercial forestry:
*     Changes to commercial contract/licensing as part of the new
resource management system;
*     Establishment of a regulatory and control system; and
*     Restructuring of pricing and taxation.
48.         LogQincr contracts for sustainable yields.  Under the project, the
current concession system for log extraction will be replaced by a contracting
system which rewards sustainable yield management and adequate post-harvest
treatment of affected areas. The Forestry Decree requires that contracts be let
only if supported by approved forest management plans. These plans will identify
the silvicultural system under which each forest type is to be managed
(selection, seed tree, etc.) and specify AACs and areas to be harvested and
reforested, limits on clear-cutting, measures for riparian and watershed
protection, appropriate silvicultural practices, and annual requirements for road
construction, forest nurseries and other works. Decisions on post-harvest stand
treatment will be based on a regular program of post-harvest surveys to assess
the status of the residual Eorest. AACs will be based on realistic estimates of
forest productivity and sufficient rotation periods to permit regrowth of the
volumes harvested. The management plans will also identify appropriate zoning
for core protection and buffer zones.
49.         Wood-processing licenses. Proliferation of wood-processing factories
(sawmills, factories and other processing equipment) will be controlled under the
project, as sawmill operations will be regulated under the Forestry Decree. The
decree provides that only MAF has the authority to issue licenses, and operators
must have approved log supply contracts with MAF. These measures should help to
ensure that processing capacity does not exceed sustainable log supplies.
50.         Forest area divided into rances. At each forest range, a Forest
Rancer will be posted permanently for the management and supervision of forestry
operations on the range. The ranger will report directly to DOF headquarters,
but will work closely with district and provincial forestry services. The size
of a state-managed forest range may vary between 20,000 ha and 100,000 ha, and
average some 30,000 ha. A range may be divided into smaller units to enable
stricter supervision and depending on terrain conditions, tree species,
population pressure and level of harvesting operations. It is estimated that a
sub-range will be about 5,000 ha in extensively managed natural forests. Each
sub-range will be patrolled by a Forest Guard.
51.         Reculation and control. The project will support regulatory control
activities in the first year by focussing on the recruitment and training of
staff. Scalers and graders will be appointed in districts with forest ranges,
and together with rangers and guards, will be trained in regulations, log-scaling
and grading, species identification and recording and reporting procedures.
Additional staff will be recruited to establish the export checkposts, followed
by road checkposts. District inspectors will be appointed, as needed, and also
trained. The mobile teams will initially carry out spot checks on movement of
forest products along roads, and in the second and third year of the project,



-12-
will monitor compliance with forest management plans for the priority log
production areas.
52.         Specific tasks will be to:
(a)   monitor all production activities  in  the project  area,
including logging, log transport and export, wood-processing,
forest management, deforestation and reforestation, and forest
fires;
(b)   monitor compliance of logging contractors/concession-holders
with forest management plans and operational guidelines
regarding cutting-diameter limits, tree marking, felling
procedures, use of heavy equipment and road and skid-trail
construction;
(c)   control felling and marking of logs at felling sites and
scaling and grading at first landings;
(d)   operate mobile and stationary check points at strategic
locations, including wood-processing plants and export points
to verify volumes, grades, origin and ownership of logs and
other forest products; and
(e)   monitor compliance of village communities with agreements made
on forest management, use and protection.
53.         A system of log-flow monitoring from felling to road checkpost will
be prepared as soon as possible for field testing.   It will be implemented
starting at first landings and subsequently be extended to include monitoring of
logs from tree marking through mill-gate or export point. By the end of the
second year, units will be fully staffed and the log monitoring system will be
in place. Monitoring of compliance with forest management plans and forest
protection regulations will then commence.
54.         Border parity vricinc and consolidated taxes. The project will
support the introduction of border parity pricing applicable to all logs. The
same taxation structure will be applied to all logs -- those destined for export
and those to be processed domestically.   A Forest Management Fund will be
established from sectoral tax revenues are other sources to finance DOF's
management, regulation, control and reforestation activities.
ImDact
55.         Manacrincr to limit damacre.  Project support for forest management
based on sustainable yields is expected to have a positive environmental impact.
If properly designed and executed, substantial limits to environmental damage due
to commercial logging activities should be achieved by: (a) limiting logging on
a given block to a sustainable annual cut and increasing the rotation period to
35-40 years; (b) significantly reducing damage to remaining stands as a result
of improved logging practices (low-impact logging); {c) improving conditions for
regrowth due to adequate post-harvest treatment and protection of harvested areas
from encroachment; and (d) appropriate construction of logging roads. To reduce
pressure on the very few tree species that are logged at present, which may lead
to a decrease of forest biodiversity, the use of lesser-known species will be



-13-
promoted after a sustainable management system becomes operational. A ban on
logging will be placed on tree species determined to be endangered. Logging
based on new-style forest management plans should also help to reduce the
significant waste of timber under current logging practices. Better planning of
roads should help to reduce landslides and soil compaction and prevent
deterioration of water quality from increased sedimentation and disruption of
streamflow due to decreased infiltration and groundwater recharge.
56.         The shift from a concession system wherein rents fully accrue to the
concessionaire, thus encouraging mining of the forest resource, to a contract
system wherein the state still owns the resource is expected to be positive.
57.         Only modest results stemming from implementation of the improved
forest management system are expected to be achieved by the end of the project.
The cycle of recruitment and assignment of staff, training, procurement of aerial
photography, carrying out detailed field inventories, preparing new management
plans, and the bidding and signing of contracts are expected to take up to two
years. The number of improved forest management plans to be prepared under the
project, and contracts signed based on these plans, is therefore expected to be
low.
58.         Benefits from requlation and control. Establishment of on-the-ground
regulatory capacity through a network of checkposts and mobile surveillance units
is expected to have positive environmental impact. It should help to reduce the
scale of illegal operations and improve efficiency of authorized harvesting. The
higher yields and lower volume losses should relieve pressure to harvest more
area. The improved regulatory functions under the project, together with cbanges
to the log marketing and pricing arrangements, are expected to reduce evasion of
reforestation and resource rent taxes through illegal trade and transfer pricing.
Standardized log handling, grading, and scaling should result in reduced log
degradation and volume loss and improved linkages with the marketplace in terms
of species, grades, and dimensions.
59.         Pricina efficiencies. Under the revised timber pricing system, all
logs (whether used domestically or exported) will be subject to the same charges,
reflecting border parity prices. Elimination of the export tax is not expected
to lead to higher exports, as the new taxation system reflects border parity
prices and allows Government to maximize revenue collection, only allowing for
a modest margin to exporters. Prices for logs destined for domestic processing
will be subject to the same taxation structure, resulting in substantially
increased domestic log prices. The currently inefficient domestic industry
will be pressured to improve efficiency and reduce wastage. The uniform price
structure will also eliminate incentives for surreptitious exports. In
combination with effective monitoring and enforcement mechanisms to be
established under the project, the revised pricing structure is thus expected to
have a positive environmental impact, as it will call for more efficient use of
resources.
60.         Studies in East Asia4 also show that adjustment of log prices to
reflect their economic value is key to reduce logging and that log export bans
4/    See Malaysia Forestry Subsector Study, Report No. 9775-MA (September 25,
1991): Resource Rent Collection and Improved Field Controls on Rate of
Forest Resource Depletion in S.E. Asia, World Bank (June 1993).



-14-
alone will not in the long run reduce forest depletion. Subsidies to the local
wood-processing industry are at the expense of national economic efficiency. Log
export bans in Indonesia and Malaysia, in effect since 1980 and 1985,
respectively, resulted in an immediate but short-lived decline in depletion
rates; within a few years, pre-ban levels of wood-processing capacity were built
up. Without corresponding increases in log prices, the ban on log exports simply
transferred the Orent-seeking" pressure into additional wood-processing capacity
aimed at extracting the excess rents through the sale of sawnwood rather than
logs. Moreover, 50-90% of rents accrued to private timber licensees in the form
of excessive profits, which fuel pressure for increased rates of harvest.
Increasing the local log prices in Lao PDR to international levels will remove
excessive profits from logging and sawmilling, eliminate inefficient operators
and discourage new entrants, thereby reducing harvesting pressure on the forest.
61.         Mixed Policy coals.  Government policy is to promote development of
the local wood-processing industry and to limit the export of logs. While this
policy is laudable, as it will in the long run contribute value-added to the
forest industry, it does not maximize the capture of economic rents from the
resource; local sawmills and wood-processing factories are mostly inefficient and
contribute little value-added. There is concern that increasing the domestic
prices of logs will lead to the closure of some processing operations, resulting
in the loss of jobs. In the long run it will be more economic for Lao PDR to
build up a competitive and efficient wood-processing industry than to continue
to subsidize inefficient operators. Low resource pricing is not an effective
instrument to develop efficient local industries.    If necessary, a support
program to assist these industries over the transition period could be
instituted.  It is clear that unless the forest resources are priced at their
true value, their unsustainable use will continue.
Risks and Safequards
62.         Makinc controls effective.  Effectiveness of the new management
system for commercial forestry and related regulatory activities will depend very
much on Government commitment to bring forestry operations under control. Sharing
of authority between central and provincial governments in resource management
is essential, but for this to happen, the provinces must be involved in the
project from the outset. Powerful vested interests operating at all levels will
seek to maxntain the status quo and will be opposed to greater control and
transparency of the process. It is essential therefore that the new system is
applied to all parties in the forestry sector.
63.         Lecal/nenal sanctions. Effective enforcement relies on restructuring
of the legal/penal system to create an effective judiciary, in conjunction with
statutory penalties for violation of regulations. Absence of a well-established
penal code to back up the forest management and protection staff might make the
application of sanctions very difficult. Plans to establish the Forestry Police
are not clear and will still take time to be implemented.   In case of
infractions, DOF has recourse to cancel contracts, and it should have the
authority to do this for international contracts, which are also under the
authority of higher levels of government. The pr6ject will monitor this issue.
64.         Multi-level monitoring.  External review of project performance,
finances, and impact will be a critical element in project implementation to
ensure feedback and correction, as needed. The special Consultative Group (para
14) will closely monitor financial, environmental and socio-cultural indicators



under the project. For its part, Government, through MAF/DOF, will strengthen
monitoring capacity at all levels, with focus on the provincial level which is
close to the ground regarding forest activities.   Also, village monitoring
committees will play an important role as watchdogs of local commercial forestry
operations and in reporting cases of malfeasance. Villages will be allowed to
manage small blocks of forest for sustainable production, which will be an
incentive to manage harvesting in a more sustainable manner than can
realistically be expected from a commercial company.
65.         Gan in coverace.  In this project phase, there are no plans to
implement regulatory activities in the northern part of the country, which may
lead to increased logging in that region. Even in the project area, some logging
areas may not be reached by project activities, and may therefore operate outside
the project's regulatory framework. It is unlikely that government will be able
to restrict such operations until the project reaches the area.  During the
transition phase, the project will carry out monitoring activities.
66.         Preventing accelerated extraction.   In anticipation of forestry
reforms and regulations, as well as enforcement capability, commercial logging
could accelerate. To prevent this, a transition plan will be implemented within'
the first six months of the project to enable existing logging concessionaires
to comply with requirements for revised forest management contracts under the
decree. A concern centers on what should be done with existing logging contracts
for which the project will not yet have the capacity to prepare improved forest
management plans. Current Government position is that only DOF is authorized to
prepare forest management plans; there is no capacity anyway outside the
public sector to do so.
COMMONITY-BASED FORESTRY
Current Situation
67.         Rural communities in Lao PDR have traditional systems that regulate
access to forest land, but these norms are increasingly breaking down due to
population growth that compels demand for cultivable land, agricultural
encroachment by outsiders, and illegal logging. There is no legal classification
of forest land, which is officially owned by the state and administered by MAF.
Traditional usufruct rights to forest land, covering access to a large variety
of non-wood forest products for domestic consumption and sale and wood for
construction, are not protected by law. Thus, local communities have little
incentive to participate positively in the control and management of the forests.
The stability of the secondary forest is being jeopardized by the shortening of
crop-fallow periods, in many cases, to less than three years. There are no
financing mechanisms in place for investment in participatory forest management
or sustainable agricultural programs, nor are there any effective means to gain
access and consult with affected communities.
Proiect Activities
68.         Under the project, communities living in or near protected and
production forest areas will be given necessary incentives and opportunities to
participate in improved natural resource management. In addition to protecting
local communities' traditional access to forest resources, buffer zones will be
established around production and protected forest areas. The Forestry Decree



-16-
provides the legal basis to protect customary rights of access to forestry
resources traditionally controlled by local communities. Land use and forest
management plans will be developed jointly by local communities and provincial
and district forestry services, with the active participation and involvement of
local community development organizations, such as the Lao Women's Union. In
this way, a flexible process is initiated, in which the concerns and realities
of diverse ethnic groups and remote villages are incorporated into the forest
management plans. These participatory activities will result in the preparation
of a consensus land use plan, a resource manage-..ent plan, and a village
development plan.
69.         Land Use Plans. The Land Use Plan (LUP) will take into consideration
present land use practices and customary land tenure patterns in the subject
village and neighboring villages, characteristics of the forest, soil and
wildlife as identified in the land-use planning process for the area, and whether
any of the subject lands have been identified for inclusion in conservation or
protection forest categories- The LUP will, where appropriate, set aside areas
for long-fallow shifting cultivation, as well as areas for intensive paddy
agriculture, livestock production, perennial crop production and/or timber
production. Community representatives will participate directly in discussions
or negotiations with district and provincial forestry officials to formulate a
final LUP. The plan will specify the rights and responsibilities of the land-
user groups and will be coordinated with the LUPs of neighboring villages and be
congruent with national priorities for land use planning and resource
development-
70.         Resource manacement plans.  A single Resource Management Plan (RMP)
for the forest range will combine LUPs from all adjacent communities, along with
management plans for other classes of forest. Representatives of all affected
communities will be included in discussions leading to the RMP's adoption, to
assure that affected communities understand how management of their village
forest fits into overall management of forest resources, and that their rights
and responsibilities are comparable to thcse of their neighboring communities.
Management plans for production forests and protected forests will be included
at the same time and in the same discussion, so that communities are informed of
safeguards against encroachment by other users, as well as being given the
opportunity to contribute to the overall RMP as it affects their social and
natural environment.   Making the planning process open and equitable will
increase the motivation of affected communities to comply with their own LUP, to
respect the rights of neighboring communities, and to report incursions to public
lands as well as to their village forests.
71.         Villaqe development schemes.  The present level of conversion of
deforested land to agriculture is no longer sustainable as it results in
increasing permanent loss of forest area.  To address the issue, Government
policy seeks to limit further loss by promoting alternative livelihood schemes
outside forest areas. Increasing the productivity of these areas is expected to
diminish the intensive economic dependence of forest communities on the forest.
72.         The project will support this policy by providing grant funds to each
subject community for small-scale village development projects, mainly to
increase agricultural productivity.   The projects will be selected by the
community during the land use planning and development process.   The actual
amount of funding for each village will depend on the size of the community and
the nature and scope of the projects. These might include small irrigation



-17-
systems, introduction of perennial cash crops, livestock development, rice banks
or rice mills. They will be designed and implemented with volunteer labor, with
appropriate technical supervision from the district, province, or other agencies
already involved in the promotion of such activities.
73.         Community mobilization and outreach activities.  Under the project,
these activities will be initiated, but will take considerable time to implement,
for many villages are remote and have had little contact with outsiders. There
is little understanding by outsiders of cuLstomary land use practices, traditional
environmental norms, and village resources. Because of this, the first step in
the process of building up a participatory resource planning system is to
establish Community Mobilization and Training Teams (CMTTs), to be contracted,
preferably to NGOs. The contracting NGOs or consultants should have substantial
experience in grassroots rural development and conservation activities in Lao PDR
or neighboring countries in Southeast Asia. At least two CMTTs will be required,
and each team will consist of three specialists: (a) a social scientist with
training and experience in participatory community-diagnosis techniques; (b) a
resource management specialist with experience in social forestry and upland
cultivation systems; and (c) a women-in-development specialist with experience
in rural training, capacity-building and dissemination skills. All members of
the CMTTs must be competent in Lao or Thai and preferably minority languages.
The CMTTs will train provincial, district, and village forestry staff, and
community organizers (COs) in the aims and methodology introduced by the Forestry
Decree. Forestry staff currently do not have skills in community mobilization
and development. A CMTT will support outreach teams, which will consist of one
district forest technician and two COs in addition to themselves. At the village
level, a village forester will be recruited from the community to form part of
the outreach team.
74.         Implementation of community mobilization will be divided into two
phases, a preliminary phase of intensive information collection combined with the
development of village land use agreements, followed by an implementation nhase.
The preliminary phase will consist of detailed studies of 30 to 40 villages
selected as representative of the full range of ethnic groups and objective
living situations found near the priority protected areas and priority production
forests.  These village studies will include information on village history,
social structure and social relations (including gender-based division of labor
and resources), local settlement and land use patterns, customary rules of land
tenure and past and present patterns of use of forest resources, and
relationships with neighboring villages and ethnic groups. The information from
the village studies will be incorporated into the training of new COs and
forestry staff, and also provide a typology of existing customary resource
management practices.
75.         The  outreach  teams  will  be  responsible  for  informing  local
communities about national policy regarding forest and resource management;
conducting socio-cultural and ecological surveys; identifying, mapping and
physically demarcating village lands and forests; designing, in cooperation with
villagers, alternative livelihood and income-generating activities; and generally
monitoring the social and environmental effects of the forestry reforms on the
local  level.   The CMTTs will train COs and village  foresters,  but the
implementation of project activities must be carried out by the local communities
themselves so as to discourage foreign dependency, which will be to the detriment
of long term self-reliance and sustainability.



-19-
76.         Maior role of women. A SIDA-supported study on the role of women in
forest use,5 carried out by the Lao PDR National Institute for Social Sciences
(NISS), found that most Lao women are subsistence foresters, gathering food,
medicinal plants, and other forest products for family use, and occasionally for
barter or sale. In upland forested areas, women are the prime agriculturalists
and forest-users. They perform at least 50%, and among Lao ethnic groups 60-70,
of the production tasks. Few Lao women are commercial foresters. Commercial
exploitation, however, is encroaching on the forest resources of many villages.
Communities that are particularly dependent on forest resources may experience
severe economic disruption as enterprise logging increases. Women are likely to
be disproportionately affected by the changes. There are also few Lao female
officials  and  technicians.    Since  few  village  women  feel  comfortable
communicating with outside male visitors, be they Lao or foreign, a female women-
in-development specialist will form part of each CMTT in order to ensure the full
involvement of women in planning and implementing sustainable use of forest
resources and developing more diversified village economies. This will help to
promote not only equity but also efficacy and sustainability.
77.         InvolvincT ethnic minorities.   Ethnic minorities, represented by
almost 50 groups, make up about 50% of the total population in Lao PDR, but a
larger proportion of the rural population. Due to their heavy dependence on
forest resources, changes to the traditional forest management system will have
impact on their livelihood.  At present, there is little socio-cultural ana
economic information available on these groups. They are also under-represented
in technical positions in forestry, agriculture, justice, and community
development.    Government policies  strongly  advocate  the  involvement and
integration of minorities and their fair and equal treatment, but implementation
of these policies has been a challenge due to educational, geographic, cultural,
and linguistic barriers.
78.         An IDA-supported study6 carried out in eight villages in Attapeu and
Vientiane provinces as part of project preparation confirmed that the absence of
clear rules of land tenure is one of the main sources of anxiety among these
rural communities, and, like TFAP., recommended clarification of the legal
framework as incentive to act as conservers of forests.   The study also
documented the highly diverse ethnic composition of rural communities and noted
that the most appropriate form of resource management and land tenure system may
vary from community to community.
79.         As the four protected areas to be established with GET support under
the project will be in remote locations, the project's focus on community-based
resource management, empowering communities to fully participate in resource
allocation and to tailor resource management and village development plans to
their needs, is specially relevant to these ethnic minorities, due to the
important socio-cultural differences among them. Given the diversity of the
project area, detailed follow-up studies for the preparation of socio-cultural
and economic profiles of the village or groups of villages will be carried out
under the project.
SJ    The Role of women in Forestry in the Lao PDR, SIDA (1989).
6/    Evans  and  Boonmathya,  Report on  the  Possibilities  for  Community
Participation in Forest Areas Selected for Conservation in Laos,
consultants' report to the World Bank (July 1991).



Impact
so.         On traditional forest access and use. The protection of traditional
access to forest resources, establishment of village forests for community use
and the development of permapent agriculture and rural infrastructure, as
envisaged under the project, are expected to have positive impact on rural
communities as well as forest resources used by them, as deforestation will be
reduced. The project will improve beneficiaries, income security as it
establishes a legal basis for land use rights (including access to forest lands
and products); introduces sustainable management of community forest resources;
and promotes and funds community development (including improved agriculture,
water supply and income-generating activities).
a1.         On ethnic minorities. Similarly, project impact on ethnic minorities
and indigenous populations is expected to be positive. Under current conditions
these groups will continue to suffer, as encroachment by outsiders undermines
their access to resources necessary for survival.  The project, through the
Forestry Decree and implementing regulations, extends legal rights of access to
traditional community resources and guarantees enforcement through a revamped
judicial system and increased monitoring.   Since the communities are fully
engaged in the process of planning resource use, their needs are paramount in the
design of management plans. Forest management plans cannot be enforced without
agreement of the community in question, and the regulations proviae for
corrective action should a plan prove inadequate. This approach is consistent
with the Bank,s O D. on ethnic minorities. Minority and indigenous groups, which
are often among the poorest, will substantially benefit from funding provided by
the project for small-scale community development projects.   Improving their
welfare, as well as continuing support of their languages, will ensure that these
cultures are not compromiscd due to impoverishment and resource scarcity.
82.         On women.  Inclusion of a women-in-development specialist in each
CMTT should enable gender issues to be specifically addressed. The project will
also  ensure  adequate  gender  representation  in  staffing.  On-site  gender
assessments will be carried out as part of socio-cultural profiles. First, a
preliminary on-site gender assessment will be carried out to examine local
women's institutions (the Lao Womens Union is in the process of significant
structural and political changes, and is weak and rot as effective in the more
remote provinces), new gender-related laws and constitutional provisions, the
effectiveness of birth-spacing programs, and other programs for women. Second,
all project staff and trainees should attend gender-sensitivity training. Third,
all project activities will specify requirements for gender balance, particularly
in training and staffing. Fourth, the Lao women's Union should fully participate
in the project with financial support from it, and also be represented in
monitoring committees, including the Consultative Group.
83.         Village studies and development plans will include an assessment of
the demographical situation, including ongoing birth-spacing and family planning
programs, and training and propaganda efforts will include proper information
about birth spacing and family planning. Involved government and aid agencies
will participate in addressing this important issue. CurDing of the high
population growth rate (though 2.9% nationally, in many upland areas the rate is
substantially higher). A sustainable resource management system cannot be
realistically implemented if the population issue is not also addressed.



-20-
Risks and Safeguards
84.         Emoowerincr villages.   The Forestry Decree intends to empower a
community to manage local resources by legally recognizing local land tenure and
use rights, and providing the means for the local population to develop, with the
assistance of DOF, village-level sustainable resource management plans. However,
the active involvement and cooperation of communities in developing resource
management systems will depend on whether government, both at central and
provincial levels, understands and respects their customary common property
management systems, and guarantees their access to sufficient forest and other
related resources to maintain the village standard of living. Provincial and
district staff, who are used to dictating to communities what ought to be done,
may be reluctant to consult and seek the prior agreement of local communities on
land allocation (as they are required under the Forestry Decree) and defeat the
purpose of the new resource management system.
85.         Preventing zoning abuses.  The zoning and land allocation process
will need to be carefully monitored, as it will be carried out under a system of
dialogue and consensus-gathering. There is the risk that officials may use their
authority to impose unacceptable  land use allocation plans on the local
population, and that the project could become a means of alienating some rural
communities from traditional lands and restricting them to limited marginal
agricultural lands in the name of conservation. While the Forestry Decree and
its implementing regulations provide for the right of appeal against any unfair
decisions, local communities may be unaware of their rights or the procedures for
appeal, which may not be functional in remote provinces.   To reduce such
occurrences, the village monitoring committee (para 64) will act as a watchdog
and report to the rest of the community at least yearly. It will send a detailed
report regularly to the district forestry staff on the performance of project
activities for the village.   Modifications to a land use plan, a resource
management plan, or a village development plan, may be proposed by the village
if the monitorina information indicates that the objectives of these plans are
not being met or that the provisions of the initial plans are unworkable.
86.         Local  training.    Slow  prog-ess  on  the  development  of  local
institutional capacity will affect the performance of the community forestry
program.   The project will help strengthen elected village administrative
committees and local groups through training and will sensitize the people
towards sustainable resource management through a public awareness program. The
community organizer and the village forester to be appointed under the project
will play key roles in training and mobilizing local groups in the preparation
of the land use, resource management and village development plans.
87.         Keeping villages informed.  Despite its efforts to empower local
people to manage their resources, the project risks being perceived by the
intended beneficiaries as "foreign intrusion" or a "gift from foreigners" because
the villages are so remote that contacts with outsiders have been minimal. Local
people may also perceive forestry staff as "policemen" excluding them from their
traditional resource base. To help change this perception, the public awareness
campaign is critical and will help re-orient 'both groups towards working
together. At the outset, outreach teams will explain to the people, through a
series of community meetings, national policies regarding forest and resource
management and the objectives of this project. The communities will be involved
in the ecological and socio-cultural studies, and the results will be used to
develop training programs to sensitize outreach team members and all project



-21-
staff on ethnic and gender issues, and on traditional common property management
systems.
88.         The project will promote the involvement of immigrants with no clear
patterns of land use. Leaving them out of the resource management process could
undermine community forest management.   These people, most of whom practice
shifting cultivation, have no incentive to adopt sustainable land use practices,
and very little is known about their own land use practices. Under the project,
their concerns will be addressed, in order to help them identify with the
project.
89.         Finding alternatives to forestry.  While a key project element is to
promote sustainable alternatives to shifting cultivation, at present, no tested
alternative upland farming systems have been developed in Lao PDR. The land use
plans must, therefore, be based on existing farming techniques rather than
expectations of improved upland farming systems which may not be available in the
near future. In some areas land resources may not be adequate or of appropriate
quality to support sustainable swidden cultivation for the entire existing
population. Rural populations are also increasing at a hich rate and it may be
extremely difficult in some areas to accommodate the need for increased land area
for cultivation.   Land use plans developed in such situations must either
recognize the community's need to expand cultivated area into existing forest or
provide a rapid and guaranteed technical solution to food production, for
example, by developing paddy fields at a reasonable distance from the village if
possible.   These agreements will include enough land and will protect the
community's rights of access to it to satisfy local needs for construction and
commercial timber, fuelwood, and other non-wood forest products in specific
forest areas on a sustainable basis.
90.         Making implementation more even.  Without signifIcant inputs of
additional technical support, the village development schemes foreseen in the
project will not be implemented at the same rate as land use planning.
Provincial capacity to manage the design and construction of any irrigation
scheme is limited.   Development of alternative agricultural systems is also
likely to require significant time to plan and carry out, particularly if they
involve community resources and require continued group management after their
completion. Additional time will be necessary for the community to develop
consensus on project configuration and organizational structure for continued
management-   Funding for any civil works must include appropriate design
assistance and technical supervision to prevent the funds from being wasted on
inappropriate projects or poor quality construction. Contracting with private
suppliers  and/or  providing  training  courses  for  village  development
representatives may somewhat alleviate this problem, but it is unlikely that the
budgeted amount can be spent constructively for all villages within the five
years of the project. However, there is flexibility for extending the project
period if justified.
91.         Setting apnropriate level of assistance.  There is a risk that too
high a level of assistance might subvert the system and become counter-productive
by increasing the attraction for outsiders to move into the area to benefit from
project assistance. It is therefore important that the principle of self-help
be adhered to at all times, and that the levels of resources to be allotted to
each village should not be too high. The process must be completely transparent
to avoid any perception of corruption, as this may have significant negative
effects. Disbursement of funds will depend on joint signatures of district and



-22-
village representatives to ensure that works meet appropriate technical
standards, projects agree with village priorities, and funds are not
misappropriated-
92.         No resettlement.  There will be no resettlement under the project.
Other adverse impacts are not expected, because only limited funds are available
in small-scale and integrated farming systems, which de-emphasize use of chemical
inputs and promote soil conservation measures. No roads will be constructed
under the project.
93.         Need for villaqe monitorinc.  The village monitoring committee set
up under the project will report its findings on project progress and impact at
least yearly to the rest of the community. Pooling of all this information by
district, provincial and project staff for discussion during supervision missions
and the Consultative Group meetings will be an important project activity. It
will provide the early warning mechanism to identify adverse impacts and take
corrective action.
BIODIVERSITY CONSERVATION
Current Situation
94.         Rich biodiversity under threat.   Along with extensive areas of
relatively undisturbed forest, Lao forests contains a rich diversity of
ecosystems and species under increasing threat which makes it a high-priority
country for conservation.   Increasingly rapid degradation of the country's
forests has placed significant pressure on efforts to conserve biological
diversity. In addition, hunting, gathering of non-timber products, and most
logging operations are uncontrolled. Although little information is available
on the extent and magnitude of these activities, anecdotal evidence suggests that
resources and diversity are rapidly declining. Forests around critical habitats,
headwaters of rivers and springs, and along rivers and other water courses are
being cleared for agriculture and there is evidence that streamflow has become
less regular. Erosion is also a mounting problem in certain locations.
95.         No legally protected forests. Lao PDR is one of the few countries in
Asia which did not yet have legally protected areas; in October 1993, the first
step was taken on protection (Decree 164). The absence of protected areas and
enabling legislation had prevented development of a meaningful program for
conservation of biodiversity.  Current Government policy is to allocate 2.5
million ha of forest to nature conservation. Since 1988, some modest level of
activity had been supported under LSFP, largely to assess the wildlife and
natural resources of the country and prepare a plan for a national system of
protected areas. However, given the rapid rate of forest destruction, it is
unlikely that many species and ecosystems will survive in their natural
environments without establishment of the protected area system.
96.         Very poor database.  Absence of a conservation database has slowed
down conservation programs-  Present informatioii on biological resources is
limited to type of cover and presence or absence of major wildlife species.
Conservation priorities in the country are based on very broad definition laid
out by McKinnon and McKinnon (1986), using existence of sites with intact forest
and distribution of some conspicuous species as a proxy for forest condition and
conservation value. There is no list of plant or animal species for Lao PDR.



-23-
The on-going SIDA-supported national forest inventory is the only scurce of data,
and this only for a small part of the country.   Inventories have so far
concentrated on areas being managed for timber production. Yet information on
overall forest cover, deforestation, areas under shifting cultivation, status of
forest, biological value, etc., is of fundamental importance in determining land
allocation policies, strategies for conservation of biodiversity, management
planning and  resolving resource  conflicts.    The monitoring of  long-term
biological trends and rates of destruction due to various practices, including
logging, shifting cultivation, and conversion to other uses, has not been
established.
Proiect Activities
97.         Protected areas sVstem.  Within the project, GET will support the
establishment and management of four priority protected areas, selected from the
national program being established by IUCN under the SIDA-supported Forestry
Resource and Conservation Project (FRCP), and of associated buffer zones.
Criteria   for   selection   are   size,   completeness   of   forest   cover,
representativeness, regional priorities and degree of threat. These areas have
been formally set aside by Decree No. 164 and protected under conservation
legislation enacted under the Forestry Decree.
98.         Improved management of protected areas will be supported by community
mobilization programs aimed at giving local people living within and adjacent to
them incentives and opportunities for sustainable use.   Like the community
forestry activities described earlier, the project will ensure that planning,
design, and resource management involve a full participatory process actively
engaging local communities in the preparation of land use and resource management
plans.
99.         Conservation outside protected areas. The project addresses the
considerable scope for biodiversity conservation outside the protected area
system by incorporating sustainable management practices in forest management
plans. The absence of such measures has adversely affected biodiversity in Lao
PDR. Many species of plants and animals and many environmental functions can only
be conserved if considerable areas of near-natural forest are maintained, in
addition to totally protected areas. Selectively logged forests, if protected
from encroachment, will serve as important habitats for many wildlife species and
many of the environmental functions of natural forests.  In addition, small,
isolated protected areas will only be viable if they are surrounded by near-
natural habitat, including selectively logged areas. Ecosystem conservation
objectives could therefore be well served if large areas of forest are
sustainably managed whether for timber production or as protected area.
100.        Project support for integrating biodiversity conservation into all
forest management plans includes the introduction of improved logging methods to
reduce damage to fauna and flora, prohibition of logging on steep slopes and in
critical habitats, regulation of road constructions, strict protection of
portions of managed areas, and post-logging silvicultural methods.  Selected
forest management areas will be zoned and delineated according to soil type and
land use, as well as biological and sociological data. These plans will specify
and prescribe, where appropriate, silvicultural systems and treatments under
which each forest type will be uanaged. The management plans will identify and
delineate protection and buffer zones within the different forest types and
define prescriptive measures for them. They are expected to bring about highly



-24-
desirable changes to the way local people and loggers exploit the forest. Also.
environmentally sensitive areas will be identified and placed under protection
as part of formal agreements with local communities. These areas, which will not
be gazetted by the Government, will include corridors of forest along streams,
steep slopes, areas with unique flora and fauna, and will be excluded from
logging and conversion to agriculture.
Impact
101.        All project activities are expected to have a positive impact on
biodiversity conservation.  The project will not create new institutions or
overlap with the protected areas program of FRCP. Rather, it will complement and
operate under the FRCP planning framework which has developed a strategy for
planning and establishment of a national protected areas system. The integration
of donor efforts in biodiversity conservation within a national program framework
should have a synergistic effect on the effective use of resources.
102.      . On reducing destruction within protected areas.  Establishment of a
protected area system under the project is considered the single most important
tool for biodiversity conservation. Given the rapid rate of forest destruction,
it could be considered unlikely that many species and ecosystems will survive in
their natural environmrents without them. The protected areas will be legally
protected from human activities.  To cater to needs for customary access to
forest resources, buffer zone forest areas will be delineated and set aside for
continued use at the same level by communities.
103.        On conservation outside protected areas.   The introduction of
conservation considerations into management plans for all types of forest
categories is expected to have no adverse impact, provided it is ruled by
environmental and social considerations, as expected under the project. Success
will in large measure be determined by the level of cooperation and collaboration
between local people and planners. Information campaigns to be introduced must
be specifically tailored to win the support of the local people and loggers in
meeting the defined goals.
104.        Possible ecotourism.  Set-asides of protection forests will have
positive environmental impact, especially by encouraging improved land use among
communities  in  designated areas.   Direct  benefits will  arise  from  the
preservation of wildlife and flora, some of which are on the endangered list,
which may offer potential for developing an ecology-based tourism industry in the
long term. Protection will stabilize critical watershed areas and assure clean
water supply to downstream users. Corridors of forest and areas along streams,
agreed by communities for protection, will provide habitats and refuge for animal
and plant life.
Risks and Safecuards
105.        Maintaininc livelihoods.   Establishaent of protected areas and
stringent legislation to protect them could restrict or deprive some local
communities, rights of use and access to traditional forest resources -- a clear
disincentive to cooperation with authorities regarding the protected area. In
designing protected areas, the project will ensure that local communities are not



-25-
displaced nor deprived of access. The Forestry Decree sets the legal basis for
allocation of land to forest communities and protects customary use and access
rights to land traditionally under community control. Prior to definition and
demarcation of protected areas, socio-anthropologists will conduct surveys on
demographic features, patterns and systems of resource use, customary rights to
forest use, land tenure issues, etc., to ensure the continuance of traditional
rights and practices.   The project will also provide support for rural and
agricultural infrastructure in the buffer zones of these protected areas and will
explore alternatives to livelihoods now based on unsustainable practices.
106.        Collecting and standardizing data. The development of a conservation
database will be an important tool for monitoring and planning conservation
activities. It will be supplemented by maps on topography, soils, forest cover,
biological resources and ecologically sensitive areas. Although some limited
data are available, this information is dispersed, of different scales and
variable quality, and not readily useable.
107.        Trainina  for  effectiveness.    Introduction  of  monitoring  and
evaluation will ensure that program activities are carried out according to
agreed management plans and in keeping with conservation and sustainability
criteria.    The  magnitude  of  the project's  success  will  depend on  the
effectiveness of implementation and the extent to which regulatory and control
functions are complied with. Specific training in conservation management for
forestry staff assigned to the conservation program is expected to enhance
efforts in conservation, protection, and wildlife management and facilitate
implementation of community buffer-zone activities.
INSTITUTIONAL STRUCTURE AND CAPACITY
Current Situation
108.        Like all sectors in Lao PDR, the forestry sector is seriously
affected by weak institutions and low human capital, issues to be addressed
urgently but only to be fully resolved in the long term. The sector is
characterized by unclear institutional arrangements between central and
provincial authorities for resource management, absence of a field capacity for
management and regulation of forestry operations, poorly trained and inadequately
paid staff, and lack of financial and material resources.
109.        Fraqmentation.  Until recent centralization of public services, DOF
had no control over provincial and district forestry services, which operated
independently. This fragmentation led to forest exploitation, particularly when
provincial governments resorted to logging to boost their budgets. Recent
institutional reforms have aimed at consolidating central, provincial and
district agriculture and forestry administrations into a unified structure.
However, the lack of resources and technical capacity has so far largely impeded
implementation.
110.        Low absorztive canacit .  The low technical base of forestry staff
is a serious constraint to the absorptive capacity of DOF. These staff include



-26-
a small core of trained foresters at headquarters and a larger number of poorly
trained forest technicians in the provinces. The highest level of local training
is for forest technicians (post-secondary); there is no in-country tertiary-level
training. The quality of trainers, physical facilities and curricula and the
access to teaching materials in forestry schools are inadequate.   There is
overemphasis on timber harvesting and inadequate attention to general forest
management, ecology, and environmental issues.
111.        Limited resources.   DOF operations are also hampered by serious
budgetary constraints, although LSFP is contributing a substantial share to DOF's
budget. Payment of salaries, particularly in the provinces, is often delayed.
Funds to purchase and operate vehicles and equipment and to cover operating costs
are chronically lacking. DOF capacity to bring production forests (and the
establishment of forested areas) under adequate management and regulatory control
is extremely limited. DOF has the right to use revenues from the tree tax to
finance its operations. However, the tree tax amounts on average to only about
US$6/m3, while the resource tax amounts on average to about US$100/m3. These tax
proceeds currently go directly to the Treasury and, to access these funds, DOF
makes an annual request to MOF which approves the release of funds. Although
these resources supplement DOF's appropriations from the regular Government
budget, the combined sum is not high enough to cover its operating costs.
Proiect Activities
112.        Unified national structure.  Under the new policy framework the
central government will reassume control over the country's natural resources,
as well  as administrative  and  fiscal matters.    DOF will  gain national
jurisdiction over Forest resources. Local governments will budgetarily rely on
a system of special purpose grants from the central government, reducing
dependence on provincial forestry enterprises as a source of revenues. Provincial
governments will furthermore lose the right to grant logging concessions, which
will revert as the sole right of central government. The project will support
consolidation of the central, provincial and district agriculture and forestry
administration. Provincial and district governments will become an integral part
of the unified structure and assume full responsibility for implementing national
programs, including those supported under the project at the local level.
113.        New skills at all levels.  The project will emphasize strengthening
of DOF's weak human resource base through training programs and will also target
local community skills regarding resource management.  DOF staff training to
upgrade field program will cover forest production and protection management and
community forestry, a new area of involvement for DOF. Emphasis will be on on-
the-job training.   Formal training courses in existing local and overseas
institutions and field exercises will be provided as needed. Training programs
will be implemented through project offices and be fully integrated with SIDA-
supported training activities. The Forestry Training Office will be responsible
for coordination of all training programs.   Training activities for forest
management project staff will be supported by FINNIDA, and for protected areas
staff and rural population by GET.
114.        Conservation management training for staff assigned under the project
will be provided, in part, through the ongoing Lao Protected Area Management



-27-
Training Program directed at developing basic understanding of the principles of
ecology and conservation.   The project will also provide fellowships for
undergraduate and graduate-level training in conservation management and related
areas in overseas institutions, and specialized short-term courses in protected
area management for field staff. It will support village-level education on the
new resource management system, including aspects of land tenure, resource
sharing, planning, zoning and sustainable forest management.
115.        Assured funding. The project also aims at addressing DOF's funding
constraints that hamper current operations by (a) financing incremental operating
costs associated with project implementation on a declining basis (100% in year
one and declining thereafter to 50% in project year 5) and (b) supporting the
establishment of a Forest Manacement Fund which will fully cover DOF's operating
costs by the end of the project. The Fund, anchored in the Forestry Decree, will
be fuelled by proceeds from sectoral tax revenues and other sources. To assure
availability of funds to cover recurrent operating expenses of the protected
areas after project completion, a Conservation Trust Fund will also be
established.
Impact
116.        Together  with  adequate  training  in  forest  and  conservation
management, the provision of necessary equipment, materials and operating funds
by the project will provide a significant incentive for DOF staff to manage
resource and conservation programs effectively.
Risks and Safecuards
117.        Developing effective institutional structures and capacity is a long-
term process. In the meantime DOF's weak capacity and low levels of skill at
provincial and village levels may affect project performance-
118.        Testing a unified svstem.  The unified national structure (central-
provincial-district-village) for public administration still needs to be tested.
Reversals of Government policy on centralization/decentralization of resource
management have occurred in recent years, and changes of direction may yet occur
during project implementation, with potentially highly negative effects. A fully
centralized system of resource management has not worked, as central government
neither has the staff nor financial resources to administer and supervise
provincial operations. Nor has a decentralized system worked; without central
monitoring it led to uncontrolled resource use and inadequate concern for
national priorities and programs. For this project to work, close collaboration
of DOF and the provincial services is required. Provincial staff have to be
brought into the process at the start, beginning with preparation of work plans
and budgets.
119.        Central and provincial cooperation.  Under the project, efficient
two-way communication between central and pro7vincial governments will be
established. Adequate budgetary provisions will be made for both levels and
aareed in advance bv concerned ministries. as the most effective wav of ensurina
provincial cooperation. However, the budget allocation process is not clear and
is likely to be influenced by complex political and other considerations.



-28-
Complete central control over resource management may not be the optimal
arrangement, for it appears to be causing resentment by provincial governments
over the loss of authority within the past few years. Incentive to conserve the
resource (that is no longer perceived as theirs to manage) may be diminishing.
Therefore, while central control of granting forest management contracts is aimed
at having a positive environmertal impact by imposing some order in the system,
the project will ensure that pravincial governments are fully involved in these
activities.
120.        At provincial and district levels, there are sufficient forestry
staff to be trained in regulation and control.  However, staff development for
community mobilization and development activities is a more complex issue. DOF
does not yet have a regular structure to handle these activities, although a
Community Forestry Unit is being established with NGO support.   Progress is
expected to be slow initially while the staff (particularly at district and
village levels) are trained in these new skills and are able to participate fully
in the outreach teams.
121.        Village-level skills.  Strengthening local administrations is key,
as the participatory approach supported under the project is relatively new to
Lao PDR. Responsibility for resource management is being devolved to the local
level, i.e. below district to village level, including village forestry officers
from  local  communities.    Institutional  capacity  is very low,  and local
communities must be trained. This is likely to be a slow process. Through the
recent Prime Minister,s Decree on Village Administration (July 1993), Government
confirmed the importance of community participation. These regulations clarified
village authority and administration (the village chief is elected, and a
government official cannot hold that function) and should facilitate
implementation of the community forestry component.
122.        Budcretarv stability. Secure long-term financing of ns4tional forestry
programs is an important incentive under the project to achieve sustainable
forest management through improved institutional performance.   Due to the
Government budgetary crunch, there is risk that the Forest Management Fund may
not be fully operational during project implementation or that budgetary
allocations to it may be inadequate. This issue is not specific to the project,
as it reflects the macroeconomic situation. To address the problem, IDA will
finance all incremental project operating costs up to March 1997; the level of
support will be reduced to 50 for the remaining years of the project. As IDA
funding is phased out, budgetary increases or allocations from the fund should
make up the difference. The fund's operations will be one of the parameters to
be monitored by the Consultative Group.
123.        While the present low salaries of forestry staff must be increased
to motivate them and discourage corruption under the project, it is not feasible
to address this issue, as it cuts across the civil service.   Civil service
reform, including a revised compensation system, is envisaged under the proposed
UNDP-financed technical assistance program. In the meantime, the project will
finance the payment of field allowances and per diems to forestry field staff as
an incentive.



.                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~-29-
:-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  
LAO PDR
FOREST MANAGEMENT AND CONSERVATION PROJECT
MATRIX OF ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES. MITIGATION AND MONITORING MEASURES
Envirornental Issues                           Potential Neaative lnmacts                  Mitigation and Monitorina Measures under Proiect
A. Prolect Aoproach. Design and Scope
1.' Weak database for forestry sector.              Affects effective analysis of issues and    Adoption of a "process'" approach to project planning and
project planning.                                implementation and low physical targets for project.
B. Policy. Institutional and Legal framework
2. Forestry policies still in a stage of            Prevent clear di-ections to address             Annual public debate and consultations on sector
development.                                        issues.                                          policies and issues to be supported under the project.
3. Unified structure for forest resource            Unclear authority of central and                 Full involvement of provincial govermnents in project
management not yet in place.                        provincial guvernments in resource               planning and provision of adequate budgetary resources
management, resulting in poor                    for project activities.
performance.
4. Majority of forestry staff poorly                Lack of capability to implement project.         Initial concentration on on-the-job training with higher                   a
trained.                                                                                             level training implemented in the longer term.
5. Inadequate budgets for DOF.                      Restrict DOF operations on the ground and   The project wilt initially fund all project operating
prevent effective management and control    costs up to 1997, and 50X of these costs thereafter
operations to be carried out.                   until end of project.  A Forest Management Fund and a
Deforestation will continue.                    Conservation Trust Fund will be established.
6. Forestry staff poorly paid.                      Affects their motivation and encourages         Civil service compensation being addressed under UNDP-
corruption, resulting in uncontrolled           supported activities.  Project will motivate field work
forestry operations.                            through payment of field allowances.
7. The Forestry Decree introduces a new             The Decree maV have unpredictable               (a) The Decree will be implemented only on an interim
resource management system.                        negative envirorinmental and social              basis to test the new system and to obtain feedback for
impacts.                                        the design of more permanent forestry legislation.  A
project conditionality Is that GOL formulates a Forestry
Law by September 1996.
(b) The project supports a fully participatory process
which requires the consent of affected groups on
resource management decisions.
8. The draft implementing regulations have          These regulations might not accurately          After the promulgation of the Decree, the draft
not gone through the same process of                translate the spirit of the Decree and          regulations will be put up for public discussion.
consultation as for the Oecree.                    might have adverse environmental and
social inpacts.



- 30-
C. Commercial Forestrv
9. The concept of sustainable use Is not yet   The project may actually promote, rather    (a) The project does not fund any commercial forestry
developed due to the weak database.                than reduce, unsustainable comnercial           operations.
logging.
(b) The project will support monitoring activities to
ensure that the annual allowable cut (MAC) of 280,000 m3
per year recommended by TFAP and SIDA consultants is not
exceeded.
10. The nascent forest management planning         The project cannot expect early results         (a) A target of 2 Improved forest management contracts
system will take a long time to be                 In management planning and there Is a           has been set for September 1995 to expedite the process.
developed.                                         risk that unsustainable forest
exploitation practices will continue.           (b) A plan of action for existing contracts will be
required in the transition period before DOF can prepare
liproved management contracts for all contractors.
Cc) The Decree will give priority for forest management
to local comminities which may have more incentive for
sustainable management than private contractors.
11. Vested interests at both central and           Continuation of uncontrolled legal and          The project will fully Involve provincial goverrments in
provinciaL govermnent level may prevent the    illegal logging activities.                         planning of project activities and implement a public
effective implementation of the regulatory                                                         information campaign on the new resource management
and control system,                                                                                system and the project.
12. The project will not be implemented in         Uncontrolled forestry operations may            The monitoring of forestry operations in the north will
the north.                                         expand In that region.                          be Included in the overall monitoring program.
13. Uood processing enterprises are not            The number of enterprises might Increase    (a) The Decree gives sole authority for licensing of
effectively regulated.                             and put more pressure on log supply (and    wood processing enterprises to MAF.
deforestation) if the absence of a
regulatory and control system continues.    (b) Enterprises must have approved log supply contracts
with MAF before licenses can be issued.
14. The prides of Logs for the domestic            There is a risk that some processing            The adjustment of domestic prices will be Implemented
market will be increased.                          enterprises, particularly the more              gradually.
inefficient oner, will close and result
in the loss of  .os.



,1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ . 
,.,.,                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~-31-
D. Cowmunitv ForestrY
15. Local communities wlil be empowered to          Provincial authorities may percelve this    The project will fully support provincial Involvement in
manage locat forest resources.                      as a loss of authority and respond by            project planning and Implement a public information
imposing unacceptable land allocation           campaign.  Project activitles will be closely monitored.
plans on local communities, with negative
social Impacts.
17. Community mobilization will be a long           Little significant Impact on sLowing down   The project will support a cautious and methodical
process.                                            deforestation can be expected In the             process in view of the complexity of the situatiom.
short term.
18. There Is no institutionial capacity at          Progress will be slow and there are risks   The Forestry Decree provides for the appointment of a
the village level.                                  that the project may not be well                 village forester.  The project will support pubilc
understood and correctly Implemented,            Information and training programs at village level.
with negative social and enviroinental
Impacts.
19. A zoning and land allocation plan will          The land allocation plan may not take            The Forestry Decree protects customary land use and
be Implemented.                                     Into account customary access to forest          requires that, in the land allocation process, the needs
Land and forest products and may reduce         for land and forest resources for each community are
traditional shifting cultivation areas.         fully satisfied and the plan Is approved by the
comTunI ty.
19. VilLage development schemes will be             (a) These schemes may Involve                    There will be no resettlement under the project.
Implemented.                                        resettlement.
(b) A high level of village funding may         The project will limit the level of funding and
be counter-productive, by encouraging           encourage a policy of self-help.
immigration by outsiders and accentuating
the resource use problems.
(c) Infrastructure development activities   The project will not provide enough funding for, or
may have adverse environmental Impacts.          support, major works, such as road construction.
20. No overall development plan has been            Ethnic minorities might be penalized in          The participatory process will fulLy Involve all local
prepared for ethnic minorities.                     the land allocation process, or may be          communities, including ethnic minorities, in the
forbidden to continue traditional               planning and management of their local resources.  This
activities, such as hunting, in protected   will ensure that each community will prepare its own
areas.                                          specific plan.  Their needs will be fully addressed in
the estabLishment of buffer zones where they will be
allowed to continue their traditional activities.
21. The population Is growing at a high rate   High population growth rate will increase   A specific women-in-development emphasis to be supported
In some areas.                                     pressure on forest resources.                    under the project wilL include education In birth
spacing programs.
E. Blodiversitv Conservation
22. Legally protected areas will be                Access of forest communitfes to forest           In the delineation of protected areas, land areas In
estabLished.                                        resources, particularly those living or         which forest communities are living will be excised and
close to protected areas, will be               kept for their continuing use.  In addition, forest
restricted.                                     buffer zone areas will be estabifshed for these
commnities where they will have continued access to
forest resources.



-32 -
23. Protection forests (not legally               Access to forest resources in these areas   The project will lmplement a public information campaign
protected)  will be established.                  will be restricted, thereby affecting         to educate the local communities on the need to protect
local conmunities which previously            these resources with critical envirorunental value.
depended on these resources.
F. Prolect Coordination and Monitoring
24. Many donors are Involved In the forestry   This may result in competing and                 The project will support DOF efforts to strengthen
sector, particularly SIDA.                       conflicting demands on DOF's limited           coordination through:
Institutional capacity, straining It and
affecting Its performance and                 (a) organization by HAF of annual coordination meetings
effectiveness.                                of donors In forestry sector;
(b) establishment by MAF of a Consultative Group for the
project, composed of representatives of central and
provincial government agencies, grass roots
organizations, NGOO, and bilateral and multilateral
organizations;
(c) close coordination of SIDA and IDA/FINNIDA
supervision and programming missions;
(d) establishment of villaae monitoring committees; and
Ce) implementation of a mid-term review of the project.



CHINA                                '                    |AM
ViEr NAM
MYANAMAR                  GSALD                                                < 
1'S11)~~~LA PEOLE
-.   a            / t--OUDOPAI   4VNG       0   
tA8OUz z h f K.HO4G 
jTHAILAND . 
_v  v 5 \           V        I       ET~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~VE
} *t w MEfIE   f   -p  CTL RE OF  
/  ff            ~~~~~~VIE^NTIN'E        -     - -  NAMU
KHAI:- \
AO PEOPLE'S 
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC 
FOREST MNAGEMENT AND
CONSERVATION PROJECT                             -7 _
MMAERYE FOREST AU-AS                         - 
NONiWF;RIEST ARE^S
o FROVW H&RDQUAR5   ';
P lWoVNCE BOUNDAiaES 
-iNnATIONALK BOUJNDA.ES                    r     _ 
v__z -                                       __0__\    
z _,.    _-S_S_,__                    ~~~~~~~~~~~CAMBODIA  -                       N. 
ro  .f   f              v                        _                      _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
,    ,2 



CHINA                      CHINA
+ CHINA                               ;                             MYANMAR
22  CHINA                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LAO
PEOPLE'S
2   i  <  wJ)   VIET NAMjl  }     iDEM REI
VET
THAILAND
CAMBODIA
ANNVAM            S^ IA61A IRI SON MONTI CHIN             INENTOA BOUNDAIE
CENRA INOHN (TOIA LOWAN PLAINSIHW -)                                            / 
'   OOIEa S1YAF.TON ZOE =,,ONTA  TEPRA S ECTOR 
=    5  _      _     g-    a                                                                                2 =NG
-   FtLN ... .erNwbN . no' -- -. .-.o   ........-.cr
,a  ,,,                         VIENTIANE               \U, xee    NhU
KHOUANGMMLUE 
THAILAND   ~        LA  PEPL'                                     o> --F 
FORESTENMANAEMETADls_
CONSERVATION ~~~PREJECTLR OF                      OF
DRRYEMOCRTIC CONEPUBIONAE5C                                 -- SANKE 
RtR CONSERVA TION PROJECT                                      3 
SP    FOR FURHER STUDY wA43,L
_, ~~~REcoMMENDIED FOR DEVELOPMENT UNDER  VAE~_
FOREST RESOURaES CONSERVA:not PROJKcT _ ,
Wa TO BE CONSDOERED FOR DE'VELOPMENT UNDER ThlS PROJE-CT  O  PR- ._E HEAOUATR         
0   NATIONAL CAnTALM                s*N    
BIOGEOGRAHI BOUNALS OF THE WDO-MLAYAN REALM      -PRONCE BOUNDARIES                               SE3 ~5KOWC 37  _
ANN^IM WQAW TRUING SON MOUWWN CHAIN:                 INTERNATIONAL BOUND^ItLCS  wa     ---          SEKONG-_
f  CHAMSASSAK              /
CENTRAL INDOCHm4A (TROPAL LOVVLAND PLWNS,                                     SF-    D33
NORUEN INDOCHINA "UY StUBnOPCAL SEFCTCOR                                     S      5 
INWVCINIA TRI SON ZONE (MONTANE EPEATE SECTOW                                %        K          ArrOPEU 
Soh ad fir0man  ZC 1969!                                
ta             X~~~~~MocMnmmand  Mtd4, tUCN 19151i                             /           3     -/                         _
i t@ @-._ V Sw *_ w_@ ,,V s4._, { 9_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~362R 
>,                                                                    CA-_ .- )GMBODLA        ~ 2t  
~~~~>_  _  .  , . >~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C






