Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 10276-LA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
FOREST MANAGEMENT AND CONSERVATION PROJECT
FEBRUARY 23, 1994
MICROGRAPHICS
Report No:         109276 LA
Type: SAR
Agriculture and Natural Resources Operations Division
Country Department I
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performfance of
their offici'al duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



l
CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
(November 1, 1993)
Kip 1.00 = $G.0014
Kips 715 = $1.00
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 kilogram (kg) = 2.20 lb
1 metric ton (m tc.n)  = 0.98 long ton
1 kilometer (km)  = 0.62 mile
1 hectare (ha) = 2.47 acres
1 cubic meter (cu m) = 35.31 cubic feet
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB         - Asian Development Bank
CMTT        - Community Mobilization and Training Team
CO          - Community Organizers
DOF         - Department of Forestry
FAO         - Food and Agriculture Organization
FID         -  Forest Inventory Division
FINNIDA     - Finnish International Development Agency
FMA         - Forest Management Area
FRCP        - Forest Resources Conservation Project
FT          - District Forest Technician
FTO         -  Forestry Training Office
GEF         - Global Environmental Facility
GET         - Global Environment Trust Fund
ICB         -  International Competitive Bidding
IDA         -  International Development Association
IPU         -  Inventory and Planning Unit
IUCN        - World Conservation Union
LCB         - Local Competitive Bidding
LSFP        - Lao-Swedish Forestry Program
MAF         - Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry
MOF         - Ministry of Finance
MOJ         - Ministry of Justice
MPU         - Management and Protectior Unit
NEM         - New Economic Mechanism
NGO         - Non-Government Organization
NRMS        - New Resource Management System
PFE         - Provincial Forest Enterprise
RMP         - Resource Management Plan
RMT         - Resource Management Technician
SFE         - State Forest Enterprise
SIDA        - Swedish International Development Authority
TFAP        - Tropical Forestry Action Plan
UNDP        - United Nations Development Program
FISCAL YEAR
October 1 - September 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
LAO PDR
FOREST MANAGEMENT AND CONSERVATION PROJECT
Credit and Proiect Summary
Borrower:                  Lao PDR
Amount:                    SDR6.3 million (US$8.7 million equivalent)
Terms:                     Standard IDA terms with 40 years' maturity
Project Description:       The  project  aims  to  assist  Lao  PDR  with  the
introduction of a more sustainable natural rebource
management system and conservation of the country's
forest resources. As the first of several sequential
operations that IDA may support in Lao PDR over the
next 10-15 years, the project will focus at this stage
on completing forestry sector reforms, developing the
Department of Forestry's operational capacity, and
implementing programs in forest inventory and
planning,   sustainable   forest   management   and
protection, and establishment of protected forest
areas for biodiversity conservation.   Specifically,
the   five-year   project   would   support:    (a)
implementation  of  an  appropriate  institutional
framework and formulation of the necessary regulatory
framework for the forestry sector; (b) implementation
of national programs in forest resource inventory and
planning,   sustainable   forest   management   and
protection, and establishment and management of
protected   forest   areas;   (ci   human   resource
development; and (d) technical assistance. GET would
finance the protected areas activities, including
technical assistance and human resource development.
FINNIDA wouid finance technical assistance and human
resource development for forest management and
conservation activities outside tie protected areas
system.
Benefits and Risks:        Benefits  have  been estimated  only  from  improved
efficiency in forest management and rent capture. The
Net Present Value of the potential rents that could be
captured under a ten-year phased program of improved
forest pricing, taxation and regulation would amount
to US$30.5 million at 12% discount rate, including
US$16.6 million from parity pricing and taxation,
US$8.1 million from reduction in the mis-specification
of export logs, and US$5.8 million from reduced log
wastage and degradation. Benefits of maintaining the
integrity of watersheds, biodiversity, and non-wood
forest products, and of the positive impact of reduced
loss of forest cover on the potential for hydro-
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
electric development, have not been quantified.   If
the project is not implemented, pressure on the forest
from population growth and uncontrolled forest
exploitation is certain to lead to continued and
extensive forest degradation.   The main risks would
arise from delays and inadequate implementation of the
regulatory   framework,   including   only   partial
acceptance of the national program approach to sound
management    by    provincial    governments,    and
administrative weaknesses.
Estimated Proiect Costs                                Local       Foreign    Total
---------(US$ million)-----
Inventory and Planning                              0.3        1.0         1.3
Management and Protection                           2.1        4.S         6.6
Protected Area Estab'ishntent                       0.6        1.9         2.5
Human Resource Developmcnt                          C.3         0.4        0.7
T'echnical Assistance                               1.3         5.0        6.3
B.ase Costs                                4.7        12.8        17.5
Physical Contingencies                              0.1        0.2         0.3
Price Contingencies                                 0.7        1.8         2.5
Total Proiect Costs                        5.5        14.8        20.3
Financing Plan                                         Local       Foreign   Total
--------(US$ million)------
Government                                       1.0          0.0        1.0
FINNIDA (Grant)                                  0.9          4.7        5.6
GET (Grant)                                      1.2          3.8        5.0
IDA                                              2.4          6.3        8.7
Total                               5.5         14.8       20.3
Estimatei IDA and GET Disbursements
FY                  1995      1996      1997     1998      1999
--------------(USs million)-------------
IDA            Annual               0.4       1.3       2.9       1.7      2.4
Cumulative           0.4       1.7       4.6      6.3       8.7
Economic Rate of Return; Not applicable
Poverty Category: Program of Targeted Interventions
a/ The project is exempt from taxes and duties. Figures have been rounded.



LAO PDR
FOREST MANAGEMENT AND CONSERVATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
PaQe No.
Loan and Project Summary  . .i-
I.  SECTORAL BACKGROUND   ......  .  ..  ..  ..  ..  .  ..  .  .  1
General  .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .  1
The Forest Resource   ......  ..  ..  ..  ..  ..  ..  .  .  1
Forest Conservation Management  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
Institutional Issues ................... . 4
Forestry Sector Policy Reforms  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
Donor Involvement in Forestry   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6
IDA Assistance in Agricultural Sector In Lao PDR  . . . . . . 6
Rationale for IDA Involvement   . . . . I . . . . . . . . . . 7
II.  THE   PROJECT  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  .  .    .    8
Project Objectives and Description  . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8
Detailed Features   .......  ..  ..  ..  ...  ..  ..  .  9
Implementation of Forestry Policy Reforms   . . . . . . . . 9
Forest Inventory and Management Planning Program  . . . . . 10
Management and Protection Program   . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
Protected Areas Program ................ . 12
Human Resource Development    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
Technical Assistance .................. . 14
III. ORGANIZATION AND IMPLEMENTATION   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
Project Organization ................... . 14
Project Coordination ................... . 15
Project Implementation .................. . 16
Monitoring, Evaluation and Reporting  . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
This report is based on the findings of an IDA appraisal mission which visited
Lao PDR in November 1991, and updated by IDA/FINNIDA post-appraisal missions in
April and December 1992, respectively. The appraisal mission comprised Messrs.
Y. Wong (Mission Leader), J. Blakeney (Forestry Specialist), and D. Hulse (Forest
Conservation Specialist, Consultant). Messrs. E. Hurtig (Program Officer), H.
Rissanen (Forestry Adviser), and T. Oksanen (Forestry Adviser) of FINNIDA, and
Mr. R. Salter (Forest Conservation Specialist, Consultant) participated in the
post-appraisal missions. Peer reviewers were Messrs. H. Wagner (AGRNR) and C.
Rees (ENVLW). The document was cleared by Ms. Pamela Cox (Chief, EAlAN) and
Mr. C.E. Madavo (Director, EA1)



- iv -
IV.  PROJECT COST AND FINANCING ................ . 19
Project Cost ....................... . 19
Financing  . ....................... . 19
Procurement     .  .   .    .    .   .  .    .   .    .  .   .    .  .  .    .  .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .  21
Disbursement   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
Accounts and Audits    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
V.    ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL IMPACT, BENEFITS AND RISKS    . . . . 23
Environmental Impact  .....  ..  ..  .             ..  .  ..  ..  .   .   . 23
Commercial Forestry    .....  .           ..  .  ..  .  .  ..  .  .  .   . 23
Community Forestry  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25
The Impact on Ethnic Minorities and Indigenous People    . . 26
Local Governments    .....  ..  ..  .            ..  .  ..  ..  .   .   . 26
Department of Forestry  .....  .            .  .  ..  .  .  .  ..  .  .   . 26
Conservation and Protection    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27
Environmental Monitoring and Training    . . . . . . . . . . 27
Impact on Women    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27
Poverty Impact  .......  ..  ...  ..  ...  ..  ...                       . 28
Project Benefits   ......  ...  ..  ..  ..  ..  ..  ..                   . 28
Protection Management    .....  .           .  .  ..  .  .  .  ..  .  .   . 28
Forest Management and Regulation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29
Risks    .    .     .     .    .     .    .     .     .     .    .     .     .    .     .     .    .     .     .     .    .     .     .     .     .     .     .   29
VI.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION   . . . . . . . . . . . 30
ANN'EXES
1.     Forestry Sector Reform Conditionalities Matrix .  . . . . . . 33
2.     Forestry Policy Framework   ....  .           ..  .   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   . 35
3.     Forestry Sector Data  ...........                     .....       ...    .  37
4.     New Resource Management System  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 43
5.     Project Implementation  ......  ..  ..  ..  ..  ..  ..                   . 47
6.     Protected Areas Establishment and Management  . . . . . . . . 57
7.     Human Resource Development Programs    . . . . . . . . . . . . 63
8.     Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance    . . . . .  . .  66
9.     Detailed Cost Estimates    ......  .             ..  ..  .  ..  ..  .    . 72
10.     Analysis of Benefits  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 76
11.    Disbursement Schedule  . ................. . 79
12.     Implementation Schedule    ......  .             ..  ..  .   ..  ..  .   . 80
13.     Supervision Schedule  .......  ..  ...  ..  ...  ..                      . 81
14.     Environmental Analysis Summary  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 83
15.     Documents in the Project File    . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  108
CHARTS
1.     Organization of the Forestry Sector   . . . . . . . . . . .  109
2.     Project Organization  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  110
MAPS
1.    Natural Forests of Lao PDR (IBRD 23388)
2.     Priority Forest Conservation Areas (IBRD 23534)



I. SECTORAL BACKGROUND
General
1.1       The Lao economy is among the least developed in the world, with an
average per capita income of about US$200 (1990). With a population of about 4.2
million people for a total area of 236,000 sq km, the country has a low
population density of 17 persons per sq km, but population is growing at 2.9% per
year.   About 89% of the people live in some ll,OCO rural villages.   The
population is commonly divided into three broad groups: the Lao Lum, the Lao
Theung and the Lao Sung, according to whether they live in the lowlands, middle
or upper highlands.   Up to 75% of the land area is hilly to mountainous,
predominantly in the north and east, and due to the shortage of lowlands, there
is increasing forest encroachment in these areas. About 3% (700,000 ha) of total
land area is regularly c-tivated: some 400,000 ha are devoted to lowland paddy,
about 300,000 ha are under shifting cultivation, with upland rice as the major
crop, and other upland annual and perennial crops make up the remaining
cultivated area.
The Forest Resource
1.2       Resource Imnortance and Use.   Lao PDR is heavily dependent on its
natural resource base to provide a livelihood for the bulk of its population and
to earn foreign exchange.   In 1991, wood products accounted for up to 54% of
official exports, while the share of forestry in the Gross Domestic Product was
estimated at about 15%. Moreover, some eO% of domestic energy consumption is
wood-based, while the forests also provide a host of minor products, foodstuffs
and medicine which are also exported. However, the forest cover of Lao PDR is
declining steadily. In 1940, about 70% of the country (satme 16 million ha) was
covered by forests, but by 1981 this had fallen to only 48% (some 11 mill.on ha),
corresponding to an average annual forest area loss of 120,000 ha, or about 1%
of total forest area per annum. The Tropical Forestry Action Plan (TFAP) for Lao
PDR, which was completed in 1990 with multi-donor support, reported that of the
annual area of 300,000 ha unde- slash-and-burn cultivation, about 100,000 ha
involve clearing of forest land.  Another 100,000 ha are degraded by forest
fires, while about 150,000 cu m of valuable logs are removed through illicit
felling. Unsustainable commercial exploitation, featuring destructive logging
practices and no attempt at restoration. also significantly contributes to forest
degradation and reduces the overall productivity of watershed areas and their
consequent capacity to sustain communities.
1.3       Commercial Exploitation.   Log production volumes have fluctuated
considerably from year to year (260,000, 160,000 and 257,000 cu m in 1987, 1988
and 1989, respectively). An annual allowable cut (AAC) of some 280,000 cu m,
proposed by TFAP, was adopted by Government in 1990. This basically tallied with
official removals but did not include illegal and non-commercial operations,
which were conservatively estimated at not less than 250,000 cu m in that year.
The annual log quota system did not encourage long term planning by forest
enterprises, which aimed at maximizing short term profits and showed little
commitment to sustained yield management. The quotas were also not matched to
the sustained management capability of the forest resources or the production
capacity of the forest enterprises.



-2-
1.4       Harvesting is conducted in the dry season from October to April, when
the logs are felled and snigged from the forest to first landings (dry weather
roads) and transferred to second landings (all weather roads) before the wet
season. As harvesting activities are poorly coordinated, volumes of logs are
often trapped in the forest and first landings during the rainy season.  Even
when logs are stored on second landings to ensure uninterrupted supply to the
wood industry, delays of up to 12 months from felling to use are common. The
long storage results in loss of both value and volume of logs. Wastage in second
landings and mill yards has been conservatively measured at 20% of volume, and
loss of value due to degradation at around 20%, resulting in an overall loss of
value due to storage of up to 40% of volume.  Residues, including stumps and
branches, represent an additional 15% of volume. Significant potential financial
and economic benefits can thus be gained from improved forest management
techniques.
1.5       Commercial forestry operations by both the public and private sectors
have operated on a concession system which has failed to achieve sustained yield
management, i.e. maintaining consistent annual yields of commercial timber from
each forest management unit in perpetuity.   Licensing procedures have been
unclear, and contractual agreements have been unenforceable. Prior to 1991, the
policy of provincial autonomy in forest exploitation had resulted in about 72%
of all production forest activities being outside the jurisdiction and regulatory
control of the national Government, and thus subject to minimal regulatory
control at the provincial level. The divestment of state enterprises under the
Government's New Economic Mechanism also reduced the capacity of provincial
forest enterprises (PFEs) to mobilize resources and intensified reliance on the
forestry resource. The result was the continued and uncontrolled expansion of
logging operations.
1.6       Forest  Products  Trade.    Savannakhet,  Khammouane  and  Vientiane
Provinces have been the most important centers for legal and illegal logging
operations and trade both through Thailand and Vietnam, and Champassak Province
for flows of Cambodian logs and sawn timber into Thailand. Despite the potential
for crossborder control due to the limited number of transfer points, in practice
little effective post harvest regulation and control is applied.  This is largely
due to the lack of jurisdiction by a single agency, poor implementation capacity,
and lack of adequate control procedures at existing check points.
1.7       Domestic  Processinq.      The  previously  under-utilized  domestic
processing capacity expanded rapidly from 1989 to 1991 in the central and
southern provinces to over three times the level of 1991 logging quotas. At the
same time, additional capacity to service illegal and legal log exports was also
established across the Mekong River in Thailand, mainly opposite export points
between Vientiane and Savannakhet. This expansion of local capacity, due to the
lack of national jurisdiction over the industry, exacerbated the inefficient
local operations, and increased log wastage and degradation. The application of
a high export tax encouraged inefficiency and minimal value added from rsBource
use by undervaluing and subsidizing poor quality domestic processing activities.
The overall result has been a continuous pressure on harvesting.
1.8       Taxation and Pricing.  Until recently, the tax structure for logs and
sawnwood (Annex 3, Table 4) included a tree tax (per stem felled), a resource
tax, and a high export tax. This taxation system has, together with ineffective



- 3 -
regulation, encouraged malfeasance through the transfer of logs purchased at low
domestic prices into export markets. It has also allowed transfer pricing by
encouraging exports of high quality logs which underwent simple conversion to
benefit from lower rates of taxation.
-..9      Trading Margins.   Indicative margins analysis carried out for two
typical cases, one with a compo:,ite "run-of-the-forest" species mix (Annex 3,
Table 5), and the other with high-value Dalberria,  Pterocarpus and Afzelia
species with the trade name 'rosewoods"  (Annex 3, Table 6), shows attractive
margins to loggers in both cases on the domestic market (about 35% and 100%,
respectively). Export takes place mainly through Thailand, where an inflow of
logs from Cambodia and Myanmar has kept prices of regular grade logs on an
international level.   The combination of competit-ve export prices and high
export taxes has effectively stopped legal export of logs of Controlled I and
lower grades. While the tables show an apparent lack of margin for export to the
Thai market, even for rosewoods which are mostly exported, in reality the margin
is substantial because of misdeclaration and avoidance of taxes. The analysis
highlights the incentives for malfeasance and the need for effective regulation
and control.
Forest Conservation Management
1.10      Protected Areas System1.  The country's extensive areas of relatively
undisturbed forest contain a r-ch diversity of ecosystems and species which are
under increasing threat. Government programs to conserve the biological resource
are based on the establishment of protected areas and on maintaining ecological
processes for the conservation of forest resources. The Swedish International
Development Authority (SIDA) is supporting Government's protected areas program
under a Forest Resources Conservation Project (FRCP), which is moving from
planning to implementation by the World Conservation Union (IUCN). A total of
69 potential protected areas have been identified, reconnaissance field surveys
are being conducted, and management plans are being developed and implemented for
selected sites.  Priority has been given to areas having original vegetative
cover of at least 50,000 ha, considered to be the critical size necessary to
prevent species' extinction in the richest habitats.   The issuance of Prime
Minister's Decree No. 164 in October 1993, establishing 18 National Biodiversity
Conservation Areas, put under legal protection a total area of 2,825,000 ha, or
about 12% of the total area of the country.
1.11      Village Forest Manacrement. Most villages have well-established access
and use rights to forest and agricultural land within areas under their
traditional control.   Villagers enjoy traditional usufruct rights to land,
heritable by the family and transferable to third parties, covering access to a
large variety of non-wood forest products for domestic consumption and sale and
wood for construction. This traditional village forest area is usually well-
U    A protected area is defined (MacKinnon and MacKinnon, 1986) as a territory
with legally defined boundaries, established to afford protection to
certain characteristics of particular value and interest. A protected area
system is a network of protected areas providing representative coverage
at a national or regional le-vel.



4-
managed under a sustainable shifting cultivation system.  An elected village
administrative committee is recognized by Government as the official village
level administraticn unit and is empowered to act on its behalf (e.g., to collect
local agricultural taxes) and to carry out local level planning and program
implementation. The committee also has the authority to plan, regulate access
co and settle disputes on community land and forest use.   Its decisions on
resource partitioning are complied with to a large extent, but the system breaks
down when outsiders engage in illegal logging and agricultural encroachment. The
absence of clear rules and legally enforceable rights to forest land is a major
concern of rural communities when threatened by outsiders moving into the area.
Institutional Issues
1.12      Organization  and  Delivery  of  Services.    Government  has  been
ineffective in ensuring sustainable forest resource management, due to the lack
of adequate management, regulatory and incentive systems.  Additional factors
have been the lack of resources, weakness of national and provincial agencies,
and the disenfranchised communities. Excising of forest areas for exploitation
by concession operators and private entities has prevented community control of
forest use. Forest management plans have been scarcely used, and this only for
concession areas with little control.
1.13      Availability of ManaQement Data.   Effective management of forest
resources is constrained by the lack of quantitative data for practical
applications. The National Forest Reconnaissance Survey, recently completed by
the Forest Inventory Division of the Department of Forestry (DOF) with SIDA
support, is useful for broad planning, while the National Forest Inventory, also
supported by SIDA and started in the southern provinces in 1991, is being carried
out on a province by province basis and will not be completed before 1996. The
preparation of operational forest management plans would need additional data.
1.14      Human Resource Development.  Training programs in the forestry sector
are characterized by an emphasis on quantity rather than quality of trainees,
lack of resources and incentives for trainees, and poorly designed training
programs. The major problem has been the lack of a strategic framework for the
use of skilled manpower. The Forestry Training Office (FTO) of DOF, with SIDA
assistance, has attempted to improve the effectiveness of training by reducing
intake for the regional Forest Technician Schools to upgrade quality and by re-
evaluating objectives and curricula.
1.15      Lecal and Reculatory Aspects.   TFAP underlined the inadequacy and
inconsistency of the legal and regulatory framework for natural resource and
forest management and recommended the elaboration of a comprehensive forestry
law. The lack of such a framework makes regulation and enforcement of forestry
contracts virtually impossible. Government has recognized this need for more
effective long term legislation.   However, as a short term measure and with
technical assistance provided by IDA under a Japan Grant Fund, Government issued
on November 3, 1993, Prime Minister's Decree No. 169 on the ManaQement and Use
of Forests and Forest Land (the Forestry Decree) . Government's promulgation of
this Decree is a condition of effectiveness of the Credit (paras. 2.5 and 6.1).
in addition, the project would support the drafting and presentation to the
National Assembly of satisfactory land and foxestry legislation by September 30,
1997 (paras. 2.5 and 6.2).



-5-
Forestry Sector Policy Reforms
1.16      Policy Evolution.  The First National Forestry Conference held in May
1989 recognized the important role of forestry in the socio-economy of the
country. It concluded that unless a new system of sustainable forest management
was implemented, the forest areas risked being destroyed in the medium term and
that indiscriminate felling and burning of forest must be curbed.  In August
1991, Government promulgated Decree 67, suspending all logging operations and
initiating their country-wide audit.   The auditors reviewed compliance with
logging quotas set by central and provincial authorities, and inspected sawmill
operations and forestry tax collection. They reported on the lack of regulation
and control of the forest industry, and recommended the continued intei "ction
of forest operations if not supported by proper inventory and forest y    .ment
planning.
1.17      Further policy changes followed with the approval of the TFAP in
September 1991, which identified six core national programs to provide the
implementation framework for the restructuring of the sector. These programs
include zoning and delineation of land and forest use into different land use
categories, provision of incentives to resource users to improve conservation
management and environmental protection, and :easures to increase institutional
capability and improve the efficiency and performance of the wood industry.
1.18      New macroe=onomic policies introduced in 1991 also affected natural
resource  management.    They  included  the  disengagement  policy  for  state
enterprises, which opened the way to the possible divestment of public sector
involvement in state and provincial forest enterprises and wood industries, the
recentralization of economic and fiscal management, and the establishment of a
new taxation and fiscal system which would remove the pressure on provincial
governments to rely on inefficient PFEs and forest industries. The export tax
has recently been eliminated, with the aim of establishing border parity pricing
for domestic and export logs, and a forest management fund would be established
from forestry taxes and other sources to fund DOF operations.   In 1992,
Government commenced a major program to consolidate gains already made in the
reform of economic management. The reorganization of the previous Ministry of
Economy, Planning and Finance and improvement of resource mobilization, budgec
management, macro-economic and public investment planning were the main elements
of the program. Government also prepared sweeping reforms of the role, structure
and operations of the agricultural and forestry administration at all levels.
1.19      Natural  Resource  Policy  Priorities.         Government  issued  its
Environmental Action Plan in November i:93, which supports the following new
policy framework for natural resource management:
(a) change of emphasis from forest extraction to sustalinable management;
(b)  government to provide forest regulatory services at the national
level;
(c)  institution  of  a new  system  of  natural  resource  planning  and
management;
(d)  national jurisdiction of DOF over forest resources;



-6-
(e) implementation of national programs of forest management and
conservation, including the development of a protected area system;
(f)  replacement of the current concession system by a contract system
providing incentives for sustained yield management;
(g) reform of the post-harvest marketing, pricing and taxation systems to
maximize capture of rents by Government  from sustainable  for.est
management; establishment of a forest managemnent fund from tax
revenues to secure financing of DOF operations; and design and award
of forest management contracts incorporating sustained yield and
conservation by competitive bidding; and
(h) emphasis on community mobilization and the provision of incentives to
communities for resource management, including the development of a
clear system of use rights and local land use and management
contracts.
Donor Involvement in Forestry
1.20      The forestry and related upland farming and agroforestry systems are
a major focus of donor assistance. Together with SIDA and ADB, the International
Development Association (IDA), the United Nations Development Program (UNDP) and
the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) assisted Government in the
preparation of the TFAP in 1991. SIDA is providing substantial financial and
technical advisory assistance to DOF at the central level for forest inventory
and management planning, silviculture research and development, and training.
It also supports conservation management and environmental protection, for which
IUCN is the executing agency.  At the field level, SIDA proposes to continue
assistance for the implementation of management of protected areas and test
community  forest  management  models  in selected  field areas.    The Asian
Development Bank (ADB) also provides assistance through its Second Forestry
Project for forest industry support. The remaining donor assistance is aimed at
upland farming, agroforestry and community forestry development to reduce
deforestation and slash-and-burn cultivation. The European Economic Community,
UNDP, FAO, the International Fund for Agricultural Development, the United States
Agency for International Development, and Non-Government Organizations (NGOs) are
involved in these activities. The proposed Forest Management and Conservation
Project focuses on the improvement, at the operational level, of the management
and conservation of the state production forest area and its buffer zone village
forest areas situated mainly in the south and center. As per Government plans,
no other donor is involved in this sector, and overlapping of this project with
other donor activities is expected to be minimal.
IDA Assistance in the Agricultural Sector in Lao PDR
1.21      IDA has supported five agricultural development projects,  four of
which  have  been  completed.    The  First,  Second,  and  Third  Agricultural
Rehabilitation and Development Projects, and the Agricultural Production Support
Project, supported by IDA Credits Nos. 760-LA (US$8.2 million), 924-LA (US$14.4
million), 1021-LA (US$13.4 million) and 1395-LA (SDR5.4 million) closed in 1986,
1987, 1988 and 1990, respectively.   A fifth project, the Upland Agriculture
Development Project (IDA Credit No. 2079-LA, SDR15.4 million), co-financed by



- 7 -
Australia and France, is still under implementation. These projects supported
a broad range of agricultural development activities, including research,
extension, seed, crop and livestock production, irrigation, agroprocessing, and
feeder road improvement. Technical assistance and training were provide(d. The
first four projects were implemented under a centrally-planned economy, and
project implementation was generally constrained by inappropriate macro and
sectoral policies, weak institutions, absence of the necessary legal framework,
and a poor human and infrastructural resource base.
1.22      Current IDA Sector Stratecw.  IDA's strategy in the forestry sector
is to support Government efforts to transform the way in which the forest
resources  are used and managed.    It is based on the  transformation  of
Government's role from that of direct control over investment and production to
one of management, regulation and provision of core services, the empowerment of
communities to protect remainina forest areas, and the provision of incentives
to all resou.ce users to carry out sustainable management.   The strategy
recognizes that much of the natural forest has been degraded through poor
management practices, and that urgent reform of these practices is needed for
sustainable resource development and contirued contribution to economic growth.
Increased emphasis must be placed on forest protection management at much lower
levels of access to the resource than at present. Mechanisms of rent capture
must be significantly improved through sustainable management activities,
including better regulation, pricing, and marketing arrangements, and replacement
of the concession by a contracting system. The project is fully consistent with
this framework.
Rationale for IDA Involvement
1.23      The objectives of IDA's country assistance strategy are to support
Government efforts to move towards a market economy, develop physical capital to
expand production, ensure sustainable use of natural resources and develop human
resources.   The project reinforces this strategy.  The rapidly deteriorating
status of natural forests is the central. natural resource issue facing Lao PDR.
Given the economy's reliance on forest earnings, it is also a major economic
issue. This project will continue IDA support to Government to address these
problems by assisting in implementing an appropriate institutional framework and
formulating the necesQary reaulatory framework for the introduction of a new and
improved system of natural resource management (Annex 4) and by establishing the
field capability to implement the new system.  The scope of the problems, and the
need for a national approach make IDA a key donor in tackling these issues. In
addition, IDA has been the major agency assisting Government in reform activities
through support to TFAP, to the National Environmental Action Plan, and to
current JGF-financed technical assistance. The contribution under the Global
Environment Trust Fund to the project will support Government plans to establish
a protected areas system for which funding is presently inadequate.   This
activity is an integral part of the approach to forest resource management and
biodiversity conservation, which is fully consistent with the Bank's Forest
Policy. The approach includes the introduction of a land and forest resource
zoning and management system, protection of traditional access of users to forest
resources, involvement of communities and the private sector in resource
management,  reliance on an incentives-based system for sustainable resource
management and protection, and support to measures to address deforestation
through broader rural development activities.



-8-
II. THE PROJECT
Project Objectives and Description
2.1       The project aims at assisting Government to implement a new resource
management system in Lao PDR to better achieve the sustainable economic
development and conservation of the country's forest resources. The integrated
project is designed as the first of a series of forestry operations that IDA may
support over the next 10-15 years. This first phase foct'ses on completing the
forestry sector reforms;, developing the Department of Forestry's operational
capacity, and implementing programs in forest inventory and planning, sustainable
forest management and protection, and establishment of protected forest areas for
biodiversity conservation. Project activities in production and village forest
areas would be supported by IDA, while the establishment and management of
protected areas would be funded under the Global Environment Trust Fund (GET) for
a Wildlife and Protected Areas Management Project, which remains a component of
the overall project.   The Finnish International Development Agency (FINNIDA)
would fund technical assistance and human resource development for production and
village forest areas, and GET for the protected areas.
2.2       As the project introduces  in Lao PDR a new system of resource
management which is still being tested, a flexible and pragmatic approach to
project design and implementation has been adopted. This approach is in line
with recommendations of recent national workshops in community forestry. With
the assistance of project staff, village communities will carry out land use
planning at the local level, with the assistance of project staff, will test
interim forest legislation, and will implement community development plans. The
process nature of this project distinguishes it from the usual investment
projects as the detailed planning of project interventions will be carried out
during implementation.   The project would cover an estimated total forest area
(Maps 23388 and 23534) of about 500,000 ha, to be zoned and delineated into
village, protection, conservation and production forests (para. 2.9), and placed
under sustainable forest management and protection.   The project areas are
located mostly in the central and southern regions, which still have a large
proportion of relatively intact forest resources and include several proposed
protected areas for biodiversity conservation.
2.3       The five-year project would support:
(a) implementation of an appropriate institutional framework and
formulation of the necessary regulatory framework for the forestry
sector;
(b) implementation of national programs on : (i) forest resource inventory
and planning; (ii) sustainable forest management and protection; and
(iii) establishment and management of protected areas;
(c) human resource development; and
(d) technical assistance.



-9-
Detailed Features
2.4       ImDlementation of Forestry Policy Reforms.  An important objective of
the project would be to assist Government to implement ongoing forestry sector
reforms. The policy framework, which is aimed at sustainable management and has
been articulated at various national conferences, in several Government decrees
and declarations, and in the Environmental Action Plan, is now well-accepted.
Institutional reform, particularly of the Department of Forestry, is being
implemented. However, the legal framework to underpin the new system of resource
management has only now been established. This system emphasizes resource use
sustainability, the provision of incentives, including protection of traditional
access of users to forest resources, establishment of a unified structure and
national jurisdiction for resource management, and land use zoning.
2.5       Technical assistance provided under a Japan Policy and Human Resources
Development Fund grant has assisted Government to formulate and issue a Prime
Minister's Forestry Decree (para. 1.15).  Government recognizes that this Decree
constitutes only an interim arrangement to introduce the new system of resource
management and to enable the project to commence and operate, and will need to
be replaced by the necessary comprehensive land and forest legislation as
experience is gained during implementation. It was agreed at negotiations that
the promulgation of the Decree would be a condition of effectiveness (para. 6.1).
The project would coordinate with and provide institutional support, as
necessary, to the UNDP-financed and Bank-executed legal technical assistance
provided to Government under the New Economic Mechanism Program in the drafting
of  land and  forestry legislation.    It was  acreed at negotiations  that
satisfactory land and forestry legislation would be presented to the National
Assembly by September 30, 1997 (para. 6.2), and issuance Df implementing
regulations to the Forestry Decree would be a condition of diE;bursement under
Category 4 of Schedule 1 of the Development Credit Agreement (para. 6.2).
2.6       The  project  would  support,  through  the  Forestry  Decree,  the
establishment of an incentive system for sustainable resource use.   The
protection of customary access to forest land by users in areas traditionally
controlled by the village (para 1.11) would be a significant incentive for proper
resource use. While providing protection from increasing uncontrolled excision
by outsiders, it would reduce the accelerated depletion of forest resources and
the communities would be required to engage in improved management practices
under community agreements. Another incentive would be the village development
schemes to be supported under the project, aimed at promoting more stable
resource use such as permanent agriculture, agro-forestry and forest plantation
development.   Incentives for DOF and the provincial governments would be the
provision of adequate levels of operating funds from the Forest Management Fund
(Annex 4, paras. 6-7) to be established under the Decree from resource taxes,
enabling them to carry out their mandate more effectively. The elimination of
the export tax on logs and introduction of border parity pricing of logs for both
domestic and export markets, would be an incentive to export valuable logs rather
than to subject them to inefficient domestic processing.   It was acreed at
necotiations that: a uniform pricing and taxation system to ensure parity pricing
for the sale of logs for both the domestic and export markets would be
established by June 30, 1995 (para. 6.2). Finally, the implementation of forest
management contracts including payment for sustained yield and conservation
practices would be an incentive to sustainable forest management, while the award



- 10 -
of these contracts by competitive biddirg would maximize capture of rents by
Government.   It was agreed at negotiations that a minimum of two contracts
incorporating sustained yield and conservation practices would be awarded by
competitive bidding by March 31, 1996 (para. 6.2).
2.7       Field Programs  Implementation.   The project would establish two
Prolect Offices in Vientiane and Savannakhet to coordinate and supervise the
implementation of the programs in forest inventory and planning, and management
and protection in the central and southern areas of the country.  These would be
established by upgrading and strengthening the present forestry services of these
two provinces. Each project office would consist of two units: the Inventory and
Planning Unit (IPU), and the Management and Protection Unit (MPU), to implement
programs in these areas.   The protected areas program would be implemented
directly from the National Office of Nature Conservation and Watershed Management
in Vientiane.
2.8       The forest inventory and management planning program (Annex 5, paras.
3-7) would be implemented by the Inventory and Planning Unit, which would be
built up from the existing field staff and facilities of the National Office of
Inventory and Planning in Vientiane and Savannakhet.   As needed, additional
numbers of staff would be assigned to the project by DOF from the provincial and
district forest services in the project area. Some minor expansion of physical
facilities would be supported under the project.   The Unit would have two
sections, one for forest inventory and the other for forest management planning.
Both the inventory and the forest management sections would include five field
survey teams, consisting of a leader, one technician and four laborers.  IDA
would fund civil works, aerial photography, vehicles, equipment, materials,
development costs and a portion of the recurrent operating costs for the project
offices, while FINNIDA would support external technical assistance and human
resource development under parallel cofinancing arrangements.
2.9       The main task of the Unit would be to carry out land use and forest
resource zoning and forest inventory, and prepare management plans for a
designated forest area2.   The sequence of actions would include:   (i) map
delineation of areas; (ii) demarcation and zoning of planning areas, together
with village communities; and (iii) production of management plans for
sustainable  development  of  production  forests,   and  assisting  village
representatives to prepare sustainable development plans for villages located
within or bordering the production forests. Depending on land use practices,
management plans for production forest areas (or ranges), covering a total area
of about 300,000 ha, would specify management and conservation requirements,
annual allowable cuts, limits on clear-cutting, measures for riparian and
21   The Forestry Decree's Article  9 proposes  the  zoning of  five  forest
categories: (i) protection forests, for protection of watershed catchment
areas; (ii) production forests, for sustainable supply of timber and other
non wood products; (iii) conservation forests (protected areas), worthy of
conserving for biological diversity or other subjects of environmental,
scientific or cultural value; (iv) village forests, for the continued
sustainable supply of forest products to concerned communities; and (v)
degraded forests, which are no longer capable of yielding forest products
but can be alienated for productive purposes, such as agriculture.



- 11 -
watershed protection, appropriate silvicultural practices, and other post-harvest
requirements. Training and operational guidance on the use of the management
plans would be provided to users, and close supervision would be provided by the
National Office Por Forest Inventory and Planning.
2.10      The management and Protection program (Annex 5, paras. 8-35) would
include two sub-programs: (a) village forest development, through provincial
and district  forest services;  and  (b)  forest regulation and control,  in
production and protection forest areas.
2.11      The village forestry development sub-program  is aimed at giving
communities living in or near protected and production forest areas the necessary
incentives and opportunities to participate in the improvement of natural
resource management. This is particularly important in Lao PDR with its diverse
ethnic population, and need to adapt approaches to local communities.
Delineation of forest uses would be based on a detailed process of land use
planning with the active participation of all sectors of the community. The end
results would be an agreement between the village administrative committee, on
behalf of the community, and DOF on behalf of the Government, based on land use
allocation and forest management plans prepared by the community, with the
assistance of community organizers (COs) and forest technicians.   Compliance
would be monitored by the community as well as by regulation and control staff
at project office and district level (see Annex 5 for a detailed description of
the process) . These agreements would include enough land and would protect the
community's rights of access to it to satisfy local needs for construction and
commercial timber, fuelwood, and other non-wood forest products in specific
forest areas on a sustainable basis.   In addition to the protection of
traditional access of users to forest resources, buffer zones around production
forest and protected areas would be established.
2.12      Depending on the opportunities offered by each location, the project
would finance activities designed to demonstrate alternative land use and
livelihood schemes to replace unsustainable forest exploitation and reduce
pressures on forest areas. Such activities could include agro-forestry, crops,
livestock, aquaculture and village infrastructure projects such as small scale
irrigation and crop storage. The development of critical physical and social
infrastructure, such as village roads and water supplies, would be planned in
accordance with the principles of community participation, enhancement of village
lifestyle and acceptance of conservation discipline with regard to the forests
and incorporated into the community management plan. The project would provide
a total amount of US$4.5 million of IDA funds as a grant for these village
projects, as well as farm equipment and materials for buffer zone areas of
production forests and for village forest rehabilitation. The villages would be
required to provide labor for these activities, but if local labor is not
available for some works, hired labor from outside could be funded. COs, located
at district and province level, would be trained to act as catalysts in the
process of mobilizing local communities to identify specific needs in relation
to the availability of funds.  Much of the initial identification would take
place during the village study and land use planning process, while the CO may
continue a longer involvement with the village after the land use plan has been
completed, in order to carry identified projects to completion. Local village
representatives who were identified during the village stuey and land use
planning process would continue to work with the CO on these projects. Initial
p.



- 12 -
information regarding the new resource management system would be presented to
the communities by the district forest technicians and COs during the land use
planning process;   additional information would continue to be provided over
time.
2.13      The forest management and protection sub-Dro ram would consist of
regulation and control of forestry operations fcr both production and protection
forest areas.   Project staff would provide support to DOF's forestry police
system which is being established at provinciai and district level to enforce
forestry regulations3.    Regulatory and control  functions  would  include  a
combination of permanent and mobile surveillance of forest management, logging,
transport,  handling,  grading and scaling,  and trading operations.   Mobile
surveillance would cover log supply and trading routes as an important back-up
for operations audits and permanent surveillance.   The project would provide
technical assistance, training, vehicles, equipment, materials, and funds for
field operations.
2.14      This sub-program would also support,  under IDA financing,  forest
conservation activities outside the protected area system (para 2.15), including
identifying environmentally sensitive areas and placing them under protection as
part of the formal agreements with communities. These areas, which would not be
subject to Government gazettement, would include corridors of forest along
streams, steep slopes or biologically rich areas with particular features, to be
excluded from logging and conversion to agriculture.   Conservation practices
would be designed in management plans to minimize damage to residual forest and
soil in logging and road construction areas and to stimulate forest regrowth in
silvicultural activities.
2.15      The protected areas proqram under GET funding would support the
establishment and management of at least four protected areas, environmental
monitoring and evaluation, the design and establishment of a Conservation Trust
Fund, and technical assistance and training.   The plan for the first site,
Nakai/Nam Theun, was completed in September 1993.  The remaining three sites
would be selected from the list in Table 1 below as additional inventory data
become available during 1993-94.  These sites are included in the list of 18
National Biodiversity Conservation Areas established under Decree No. 164 (para.
1.10) . The management system would be described in preliminary management plans
to be prepared under FRCP. Staff of the National Office for Nature Conservation
and Watershed Management assigned to the project would, with technical support
provided by GET, develop these plans further through detailed field surveys and
consultations with local communities.   GET would provide an amount of US$5.0
million for the establishment and management of the protected areas, survey and
inventory, ecological studies, management planning, civil works, equipment and
materials, including an amount of US$1.3 million to be allocated as a grant to
community development activities (para. 2.11) in the buffer zones of the
protected areas.
31   Ministerial  Decree Number 728,  October 4,  1991;  Jurisdiction of  the
Forestry Police provides for the establishment of a national service of
forest police that are responsible for control and policing of forest
industry operations.



-13 -
2.16      Environmental monitoring and evaluation would cover a range of key
parameters for environmental and socio-cultural change. It would be an integral
part of monitoring and evaluation for the whole project (para. 3.10), and about
the fourth year of project implementation, the effectiveness of project design
and management plans for the protected areas in achieving project objectives
would be evaluated. In order to sustain conservation management, GET would
provide funds for external technical assistance to design and establish a
Conservation Trust Fund. This fund would provide longer term funding for the
network of protected areas, community based mobilization activities, and
conservation training.   Human resource development and technical assistance
activities under GET funding are presented in paras. 2.18, 2.19 and 2.21.
Table 1: INDICATIVE LIST OF PROTECTED AREAS
Location          Province                  Area (ha)
Nakai/Nam Theun    Khammnuane               405,600
Phou Xang He       Savannakhet               69,200
Dong Amphane       Attopeu                   162,500
Phou Dene Din      Phongsaty                 222,900
Nam Ma             Luang Namtha              144,800
Phou Xiang Thong   Saravane                  116,400
Source: Salter et. at. (1991)
2.17      Human Resource Development.   The project would support training
programs to assist the process of transformation of the forestry service and to
upgrade skills of forestry staff for field programs implementation. Training
would cover both forest productiorn and protection management, including wildlife
and protected area management, and emphasize on-the-job training, but would
include formal training courses in existing institutions and field exercises.
The training programs would be implemented through the project offices and would
fully integrate with SIDA-supported training activities, including short courses
in specialist subjects and in English which are being conducted at the Forestry
Training Office at Houei Nhang near Vientiane for the central and northern
provinces, and at Savannakhet or Xepone in the south (Annex 7).   Training
activities for forest management project staff would be supported by FINNIDA
(Annex 7, paras. 4-5), and for protected areas staff and rural population by GET
(Annex 7, paras. 6-11).
2.18      GET  support  for  training  would  include  a major  expansion  of
conservation management training programs, a relatively new course in the Lao
forestry training curricula. This would be closely coordinated with the SIDA-
supported conservation training program. Two approaches would be followed: (i)
support to on-the-job training for conservation field managers; and (ii)
fellowships for in-country and external trairing.  The first approach would
essentially be directed towards field level staff and aim at teaching the basic
concepts of ecology and conservation management. The Forestry Training Office
would be responsible for production and delivery of all training programs and
materials related to conservation management. The second approach would involve
the development of tertiary training programs aimed at upgrading the skills of



- 14 -
wildlife and protected area staff and would be broken up into three courses: (i)
a one-year preparatory module taught at Dong Dok Superior Forestry Technical
School as a preparation for higher-level training abroad; (ii) a six-month
intensive conservation course at Kasetsart University in Bangkok, or some other
similar institution in the region; and (iii) an eight-week field training module.
2.19      The project would also support grass roots level training of the rural
population in forest protection and sustainable forest management. The program
would begin with a public awareness campaign on the new resource management
system, which would initially be implemented by project forestry officers and COs
as an integral part of the village study and land use planning process in
selected communities, supported by DOF and the Ministry of Justice. It would
start with forest communities within and around the protected areas to be
established under the project and afterwards extend to the rest of the project
area. Project staff would also be trained. GET would provide US$200,000 to the
Ministry of Justice for vehicles, educational aids and operating costs.
2.20      Technical Assistance.  Detailed technical assistance requirements are
shown in Annex 8. Technical assistance would be used in both advisory and line
management positions.   The majority of the technical expertise would, in the
initial stages of the project, be involved in joint implementation with their
counterparts, but would concentrate on training their counterparts in taking over
their functions in the medium term.
2.21      Long term technical assistance for the management of the project
offices, silviculture, regulation and control, strategic planning, community
forestry, harvesting control, and training would amount to 29 person years.
Short term technical assistance, mainly in the fields of management and
operational planning, harvesting, silviculture, village forestry, forestry
regulation, inventory and design, land and forestrr policy and legislation, and
other technical areas as required, is estimated at bO person months. Both these
technical assistance inputs would be financed under a grant from FINNIDA
amounting to US$5.6 million. Additional technical assistance for protected areas
establishment and operation would be financed under the GET grant.   It would
include long term assistance of 9 person years and 54 person months of short term
assistance to implement community mobilization, protected area management and
conservation in production and protection forest areas activities.   Emphasis
would be placed on the recruitment, under both the FINNIDA and GET financing, of
NGOs for the technical assistance for the community mobilization programs.
III. ORGANIZATION AND IMPLEMENTATION
Proiect Organization
3.1       The project would operate within the framework of the reorganized
Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, as laid down in Prime Minister's Decree No.
84/PM of November 1991. The reorganization created one single vertical structure
for central, provincial and district agriculture and forestry administration and
established national MAF jurisdiction on resource management.   MAF assumed
authority over planning and program implementation, personnel administration and



- 15 -
resource allocation for the public agriculture and forestry sectors from national
to local level.
3.2      'The Department of Forestry is now headed by a Director and two Deputy
Directors.   The Director is responsible for overall administration, policy
formulation and implemenLation, budget management and human resource development.
One Deputy Director is in charge of planning and operations, and the other of
forestry regulations and enforcement.   The Department would implement six
national programs throug} three recently established National Offices for: (i)
Forest Inventory and Management Planning; (ii) Nature Conservation and Watershed
Management; and (iii) Forest Management and Protection.
3.3       The project would establish small project coordination offices in
Vientiane and Savannakhet, respectively. All forest management and protection
activities, including village forestry, wculd be implemented through DOF's
existing administrative structure and its staff at provincial and district level.
Harvesting operations would be tightly supervised from DOF headquarters in the
initial stages of the establishmnent of permanent administrative state forest
areas (ranges).
3.4       Project staff would be placed in the DOF organization according to
their functions.  For inventory and forest management planning work, staff would
be located at the National Office for Forest Inventory and Planning in Vientiane
and Savannakhet. The field work would be carried out during the dry season and
compilation of data during the rainy season. Except when doing field work, no
inventory and management planning staff would be based at provincial or district
level. Forest management and protection staff would work within the existing DOF
organization according to their functions.
3.5       In line with Government policy to deploy the majority of Ministry
staff to the field, DOF aims at reassigning significant numbers of its current
staff to the project offices in Vientiane and Savannakhet. As a result, a large
number of staff would be available for the implementation of the national
forestry programs in general and the project in particular.   Thus,  field
positions at province, district and range levels would be staffed with personnel
reassigned from headquarters, provinces and districts, and with new graduates
from the technical forestry schools. As the program implementation arrangements
would focus resources on field planning and management, reorientation of district
forestry officers towards these positions would be an integral part of project
implementation.
Project Coordination
3.6       A national Proiect Coordination Committee, headed by the vice minister
of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry in charge of forestry and including
representatives of the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Commerce, the
Committee for Planning and Cooperation, the Project Director, as well as
participating   external   project   co-financiers,   would   be   established.
Establishment of the Project Coordination Committee would be a condition of
credit effectiveness (para. 6. 1 (b)). The Committee would address forest policy
issues  and overall  project orientation and  implementation matters.    For
coordination at the operational level, regular quarterly meetings chaired by the
Project Director and attended by representatives of concerned agencies at central



- 16 -
and provincial level, would be held.   In addition, a mechanism for project
implementation coordination at regional, provincial and district level would be
established. Cooperation between donors implementing forestry projects in Lao
PDR would continue under present arrangements of semi-annual meetings organized
by MAF.
Project Implementation
3.7       The project would be implemented by the Department of Forestry, with
the Department Director or a Deputy Director as Project Director, assisted by a
full-time Project Manager and supporting staff who will coordinate project
execution from the project office in Vientiane. Field implementation would be
carried out through the Department staff at province, district village and range
level. Since this project is expected to be the first of several IDA operations
in the sector, a solid base for continuous development has to be established.
Thus, the project would be jointly managed by a Lao Project Manager and the
expatriate team leader. To assist the Project Director in monitoring project
implementation and in ensuring that IDA procurement guidelines are being
followed, the expatriate team leader would review all procurement and
disbursement documents before they are submitted for the Project Director's
approval.
3.8       An overall prolect implementation schedule is presented in Annex 12.
While the project aims at establishing an effective national regulatory and
control system as soon as possible, resource management activities would be
developed more gradually, starting in the south and the center where the largest
areas of forest land are located and priority areas have already been identified.
3.9       In order that the regulatory system may operate, an effective Forestry
Police needs to be in place, as is the rapid training and recruitment of project
field staff in regulation and control. However, the Forestry Police is not yet
operational, and the emphasis would be on providing incentives for sustainable
forest management during the early phase of implementation.   Nonetheless,
recruitment, training and field assignment of staff associated with the control
of logging activities would be concentrated during the first and second project
years.
MonitorinQ, Evaluation and Reporting
3.10      Project monitoring and evaluation would be an important activity of
the project, aimed at providing timely and up-to-date information for management
decision making and also at evaluating the project impact on the environment and
on the livelihood of forest communities (para. 2.16).   It would include the
establishment of a forest management information system. Monitoring activities
would start at the project offices, where basic information would be collected
on key parameters of project performance at unit level and aggregated for the
project. At the start of the project, a thorough analysis of M&E needs would be
carried out, including the selection of environmental parameters, formulation of
the methodology for M&E, and the conduct of baseline surveys.
3.11      The  Project  Coordination  Committee  would  conduct  semi-annual
implementation reviews. DOF would prepare semi-annual project progress reports
for submission to IDA and FINNIDA, and other reports as may be required by



- 17 -
FINNIDA. Not later than October 31, 1997, MAF and IDA would carry out a mid-term
review of the project (para. 6.2). Within six months of the final disbursement
under the IDA Credit and GET Grant, DOF would prepare a project completion
report, including the findings of the M&E studies for the project. A schedule
of project supervision by IDA/FINNIDA is presented in Annex 13.
3.12      Coordination and Monitorina of Donor Forestry Activities in Lao PDR.
The project would support initiatives by MAF for coordination and monitoring of
donor activities in forestry at the sector, program and project levels. These
are highly necessary if efforts and resources being applied to sustainable forest
management and conservation are to be effectively used. Thus, the project would
provide technical assistance to build up institutional caoacitv, which is
presently absent, at MAF and DOF, and to establish the forest manaaement
information system and keep it up to date.
3.13      At the sector level, the project would provide both financial and
technical resources to MAF for its annual forestry donor coordination meetinas,
which would also have a key monitoring function. Staff of FMCP and LSFP would
prepare summary progress reports, particularly quantitative data on key
indicators on sectoral, environmental and socio-cultural impacts, and on project
performance.  As needed, the project would provide specialists to assist MAF and
facilitate the annual meetings, which -"ould focus on issues on forestry policy,
legal and institutional framework, sector financing and administration, logging
operations  (compliance with cvotas and management plans, extent of illegal
logging and smuggling), monitoring of forest destruction and community forestry,
and socio-cultural and environmental impacts.
3.14      These  annual  sectoral  reviews  would  provide  information  for
independent monitoring and reporting on the project and for public discussion of
forestry policy and issues.   Not later than December 31, 1994, the Project
Coordination Committee would form an advisory Consultative Forum consisting of
government officials, and representatives of grassroots organizations, NGOs and
donor agencies, to monitor project activities (para. 6.2). An important input
to these reviews would be data compiled from grass roots organizations and
village monitoring committees on the state of the forestry sector in the project
area.
3.15      At the program level, semi-annual meetings with SIDA would be held to
coincide with the semi-annual supervision missions of IDA/FINNIDA.   Joint
programming  of  field  missions  would  facilitate  these  meetings.    Formal
coordination would be under the responsibility of the Director of Forestry or the
Deputy Director responsible for Planning and Operations. Informal discussions
would be held directly between FMCP end LSFP staff at any time. To reinforce
understanding of each other's activities, joint field reviews would be organized
as often as possible between the two teams of advisers but also specifically
during the semi-annual supervision missions. At the end of each mission, the
results of discussions and agreements reached on any topic concerning LSFP and
FMCP would be recorded in each mission's Aide Memoire.
3.16      Exchange of information between LSFP and FMCP would cover, inter alia:
(a) project budget allocations and expenditures from each financing
source, including detailed data on the construction of these budgets;



- 18 -
(b) local staff requirements and allocations to project;
(c) training plans and proposals for execution;
(d) use of technical assistance;
(e) forest inventory and forest management planning;
(f) community forestry development; and
(g) protected area establishment and management.
3.17      At the nroiect level, coordination is more an internal requirement of
the Project Director to monitor project performance and to ensure that project
activities throughout the project area are closely coordinated. It is essential
that everybody working on the project, including officials from central
government level down to local level, external advisers, participating NGOs, is
well-integrated in the system, and that a two-way information system is actively
operating. This is critical if the project, which is process-oriented, is to
succeed. Thus, feedback on the performance and impact of the project should be
timely and comprehensive, and these coordination meetings should be held at least
every three months. Where project activities are closely linked, for example in
forest inventory and management planning, coordination would also include the
participation of SIDA advisers in these meetings.
3.18      The indicators to be monitored can be divided into these main groups:
(a) environmental: shifting cultivation areas, forest fires, logged over
areas, illegal logging, smuggling, harvest and post harvest practices,
wildlife protection (at landscape, population and species levels),
hydrology, land use patterns, fallow periods, soil erosion;
(b) socio-economic and socio-cultural: family incomes (from forest
products and from permanent agriculture), access to forest land and
other resources, introduction and exp&-sion of permanent agriculture,
impact on forest communities (ethnic minorities), migration, access
to social services;
(c)  leaal and institutional: land tenure and security, land use conflicts,
regulatory framework, provision of support services;
(d)  commercial:   logging  contracts,   concessions,   quotas,   pricing,
Government revenues, budgets.



- 19 -
IV. PROJECT COST AND FINANCING
Prolect Cost
4.1       Total project cost, including physical contingencies and expected
price increases, is US$20.3 million, of which about US$14.9 million or 73% is
foreign exchange. Unit price estimates for buildings, vehicles, equipment, fuel
and materials are based on recent contracts awarded in Lao PDR.   Physical
contingencies of 10% have been applied to civil works. Price increases have been
assumed at 5% per year for both domestic and foreign prices from 1993 throughout
the project period.   Project cost estimates are summarized in Table 4.1 and
detailed in Annex 9, Tables 1-4.
Table 4.1: PROJECT COST SUMMARY BY COMPONENT
-----Kip Million -------USS '000 -------   %    % Total
Local Foreign Total  Local Foreign Totat Foreign Base Costs
inventory & Planning        239  702  942    339   995  1,334    75        8
Management & Protection    1,518 3,142  4,660   2,149  4,451  6,600    67    38
Protected Areas             444  1,353  1,798    630  1,917 2,547    75    15
Hunan Resource DeveLopment  204  292  496    290   413  703    59          4
TechnicaL Assistance         890 3.561  4.451   1.261  5.044  6.305    80    36
Total Baseline Costs       3,296  9,051 12,347   4,668 12,820 17,488    73   100
Physical Contingencies      68  166  234        96   235  331    71       2
Price Contingencies         507  1,283  1,790    718  1,817 2,535    72    14
Total Project Costs        3.870 10.500 14.370  5.482 14.872 20.354    73   116
Financinc
4.2       The proposed IDA credit of US$8.7 million would finance 43% of total
project cost, including 41% of total foreign exchange requirements and about 46%
of total local costs. Local cost financing by IDA and GET is justified by the
urgent need to bring under control the rapidly deteriorating status of the
remaining natural forests in Lao PDR and initiate management on a sustainable
basis, and by the current severe shortage of counterpart funds in Lao PDR. These
operating costs include: (a) the development costs associated with the field
operations to carry out resource surveys, delineation of boundaries and
inventories, prepare state and village forest management plans, and develop a
forest resource data base, and (b) incremental recurrent costs, such as salaries
and allowances of permanent staff, office materials, and operation and
maintenance of equipment. IDA and GET financing of incremental operating costs,
including salaries, allowances, fuel and materials, would be on a declining
basis. GET would finance, on a grant basis, civil works, vehicles, equipment,
materials, technical assistance and human resource development activities
associated with protected areas establishment and management.   FINNIDA would
provide US$5.6 million as a grant for technical assistance and human resource
development for forest management and conservation activities in production
forest areas.  Effectiveness of FINNIDA and GET cofinancing would be a condition



- 20 -
of credit effectiveness (Dara. 6.1) and cross default conditionalities in respect
of FINNIDA cofinancina and the GET Grant Agreements would apPlV to the IDA credit
(Dara. 6.2). The remaining project cost of about US$1.0 million would be provided
by the Lao PDR Government. The financing plan is presented in Table 4.3.
Table 4.2: PROJECT COST SUMMARY BY CATEGORY
-----Kip Million-----    -------USS  000 -------           %        % Total
Local  Forein  Total       Local   Foreign  Total   Foreign   Base Costs
Civil Works                                887   2,069   2,957       1,257   2,932   4,189          70        24
Vehicles & Equipment                       464   2,616   3,080         656   3,706   4,362          85        25
Fuel and Materials                         244     974   1,218         345    1,380   1,725         80        10
Salaries and Allowances                    706    ----      706      1,001     ----   1,001         --         6
Human Resource Development                 192      181     372        272      256      528        48         3
Technical Assistance                       801   3,2D8   4,282       1,136   4,545   5,680          80        32
Total Baseline Costs                    3.296   9.051  12.347        4668  12.820  17.488           73       100
Physical Contingencies                   68      166      237         96      234      331        71         2
Price Contingencies                     507   1,282   1,790          718   1,817   2,535          72        14
Total Proiect Costs                     3.870  10.500  14.370        5.482  14.872  20.354          73       117
Table 4.3: FINANCING PLAN (USS '000)
GOL             IDA           GET          FIN         Total
Civil Works                                   --           3,897          1,382         --          5,279
Vehicles & Equipment                          --           3,359          1,123         249         4,731
Fuel and Materials                            636             759           252         318         1,965
Salaries and Allowances                       414             670            82         --          1,166
Human Resource Development                    --              -             599         190            789
Technical Assistance                          --              --          1,588       4,836         6,424
Total                                    1.050          8s685         5.026       5.593         20,354



- 21 -
lahLe 4.4: PROJECT EXPENDITURE BY PROCUREMENT CATEGORY
(USS mitlion)
Total Cost
including
Category of Expenditure         IS         LCB     Other       NIF    Contingencies
CiviL Works                        -        1.2       4.1        -         5.3
IDA                             -       (0.8)     (3.0)       -         (3.8)
GET                             -       (0.4)     (1.0)       -         (1.4)
Vehicles & Equipment              3.9       0.6        -        0.4        4.9
IDA                           (3.1)     (0.3)       -         -         (3.4)
GET                           (0.8)     (0.3)       -         -         (1.1)
FueL & MateriaLs                  0.6       0.4        -        0.5        1.5
IDA                           (0.6)     (0.2)                 -         (0.8)
GET                             -       (0.2)                 -         (0.2)
Salaries and Allowances            -         -        1.2        -          1.2
IDA                                               (C.7)       -         (0.7)
GET                             -                 (0.1)       -         (0.1)
Human Resource Development         -                  0.6        -         0.6
GET                             -         -       (0.6)       -         (0.6)
Technical Assistance              1.6        -                  5.2        6.8
GET                           (1.6)       -                   -         (1.6)
Total                6.1       2.2       5.9       6.1        20.3
IDA                           (3.7)     (1.3)     (3.7)       -         (8.7)
GET                           (2.4)     (0.9)     (1.7)       -         (5.0)
other = Not subject to procurement, or by direct negotiation; NIF  = Non IDA- and GET-financed.
Procurement
4.3       Prccurement arrangements summarized in Table 4.4 for IDA and GET
financing would be a mixture of international competitive bidding (ICB) and local
competitive bidding (LCB).  Civil works contracts for village development of a
median value of US$10,000 and amounting to about US$3 million to be financed by
IDA and about US$1 million to be financed by GET, would be negotiated directly
with village administrative committees and would not be subject to bidding.
Remaining civil works for project office buildings, forest ranger stations and
housing, for a total amountt-n-f t-sti   A million to be financed by IDA and US$0.4
million to be fiiian%.ea by GET,- would gcnorallir be small and scattered in place
and time, and would be awarded on the babis of LCB under procedures acceptable
to IDA.   Contracts for vehicles, equipment, fuel and materials, in packages
F        exceeding US$50,000 each and amounting to a total of US$3.7 million to be
financed by IDA and US$0.8 million to be financed by GET, would be awarded under
ICB, in accordance with IDA procurement guidelines. Smaller contracts for these
items, amounting to a total of US$0.5 million to be financed by IDA and US$0.5
million to be financed by GET, would be awarded under LCB under procedures
acceptable to IDA.  For ICB, as a minimum tenders would be advertized in an
English language newspaper in a neighboring country where international firms are
well represented. Domestic bidders competing under ICB will be granted a margin
of preference of 15%, or the import taxes and custom duties, whichever is less.
Incremental operating expenditures of the project offices and forest ranges would



- 22 -
not be subject to procurement. For all contracts estimated to exceed US$100,000,
and amounting to a total of US$3.7 million, prior review by IDA would be
required. To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped into
bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of US$100,000 or more.
Consultancies under GET funding would also be selected in accordance with IDA
procedures.   Prior review by IDA shall not apply to consultant contracts
estimated to cost less than US$20,000.
Disbursement
4.4       Disbursement of the IDA credit would be for:
(a) 100% of the cost of civil works;
(b) 100t of foreign exchange expenditures for imported vehicles,
equipment, and spare parts, or 100I of the factory price of locally
manufactured equipment, or 80% of the cost of imported equipment and
parts purchased locally;
(c) 100% up to September 30, 1997, and 50% thereafter, of incremental
total expenditures for fuel and materials to be financed by IDA; and
(d) 100% up to September 30, 1997, and 50% thereafter, of incremental
total expenditures for salaries and allowances to be financed by IDA.
4.5       Disbursements against contracts for civil works, vehicles, equipment,
fuel and materials less than US$50,000 and for all salaries and allowances would
be made against itemized statements of expenditure. Documentatiorn supporting
these statements of expenditure would be retained by the implementing agency for
review by IDA missions. All other expenditures would be fully documented. A
Special Account would be established at the Banque pour le Commerce Exterieur Lao
to facilitate payment of eligibl. IDA expenditures.   This account would be
maintained in US Dollars with an authorized allocation of US$800,000, and would
be used for both local and foreign expenditures of less than US$80,000 under all
categories.   All other expenditures above these amounts could be submitted
directly to IDA for payment.   The project would be physically completed by
September 30, 1999, and the credit would close on September 30, 2000.   An
estimated schedule of disbursements is presented in Annex 11. The disbursement
schedule is based on the actual rate of disbursements obtained for the
Agricultural Production Support Project (Cr. 1395-LA).
Accounts and Audits
4.6       The Department of Forestry would submit annual project accounts to MOF
not later than December 31 of each year, and MOF would submit annual audit
reports to IDA for the project on the project accounts, the Special Account and
Statements of Expenditure within nine months of the end of each fiscal year.



- 23 -
V. ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL IMPACT. BENEFITS AND RISKS
Environmental Impact
5.1       The project's main objective is to help support a program of policy
and institutional changes which provide the framework for sustainable use of Lao
PDR's forest resources. By addressing the main causes of forest resource
depletion, the new resource management system to be introduced under the project
will address a key environmental issue in Lao PDR and is expected to have a
positive environmental  impact.   The project components would not  include
financial support to logging operations in tropical forests, but would establish
an institutional, regulatory, and monitoring framework to ensure that such
operations are planned and implemented in a sustainable manner.   Physical
investments under the project will be limited to small scale agricultural
infrastructure and soil conservation works in support of village derelopment
plans, and materials and equipment to enhance DOF's capability to effectively
implement the new resource management program. The project will not lead to any
resettlement of people.   Where people and forests interact,  participatory
management programs would be supported and traditional access to forest resources
would be protected.  Overall, the main environmental impacts are expected to
result more from the effects of the implementation of the new forest management
policy than from actual physical investments.
5.2       A core element of the new forest resource management policy is the
provision of incentives to engage in more sustainable use of the forest
resources. The introduction of this incentive framework involves significant
policy and institutional changes aimed at affecting how different groups -
commercial loggers, local communities, local governments and the Department of
Forestry - use and manage forest resources. The key elements of this strategy and
its expected impact on the use of forest resources, and hence the environment,
are outlined below.4
5.3       Commercial Forestry.  Lao PDR is highly dependent on forest resources
as a source of foreign exchange and income for a large share of its population,
but commercial extraction of timber resources currently fails to be carried out
on a sustainable basis, significantly contributing to the rapid decline of the
country's forest resources. To change this, the commercial forestry sector must
be provided with incentives to extract resources on a sustainable basis. This
involves three sets of changes which the proposed project will support.
5.4       First, the current concession system which provides loggers with the
incentives to maximize extraction during the life of the contract and leads to
environmentally destructive behavior will be replaced with a contracting system
which favors sustainable yield management and adequate post harvest treatment of
affected areas. Under the new system Government will only let harvesting
contracts that are supported by approved forest management plans. These plans
will be based on detailed forest inventories and incorporate sustainable yield
and sound silvicultural and conservation practices. Compliance with the approved
41   The detailed Environmental Analysis is presented in Annex 14.



- 24 -
management contracts will be monitored closely (para. 5.7) and contractors who
fail to adhere to the conditions set out in their contracts will face stiff
penalties. Logging based on adequate management plans will also help reduce the
significant waste of timber (amounting to a net present value of US$ 5.8 million,
see para 5.22), which currently occurs because logging activities are poorly
coordinated.
5.5       Second, the current pricinQ system which results in logs destined for
domestic processing being sold aL a much lower price than logs destined for
exports (because logs destined for exports are subject to a high export tax) will
be revised. The current system protects an inefficient local sawmill industry and
encourages wasteful use of forest resources. Because logs destined for domestic
processing are sold at a price which is significantly below border parity prices
and thus fails to reflect the timber's true cost, wasteful use of highly valuable
forest resources is encouraged. In addition, the current large wedge between
domestic and export prices encourages illegal logging and malfeasanc-.e, as
enormous profits can be made by declaring that such logs are processed and used
domestically, when they are in fact exported surreptitiously. The current system
also results in significant losses of government revenues, as loggers and millers
capture a large share of potential tax revenues by engaging in diversion of
shipments and illegal logging. Under the revised system all logs will be subject
to the same charges, reflecting border parity prices. This is not only expected
to discourage the diversion of shipments through the protected and inefficient
local industry, but in combination with effective monitor_ng and enforcement
mechanisms to be established under the project, it will also discourage illegal
logging as incentives for this activity will be significantly reduced. The
effects of this policy reform will be closely monitored, but are expected to be
positive (para 5.7).
5.6       Third, while the project will not support any logging activities, it
will help establish reQulatorv and control mechanisms to ensure that sustainable
management principles are complied with in forestry contracts let by the
Government. DOF's human resource base will be expanded and strengthened through
adequate training and the project will provide the facilities and resources
necessary to intensify DOF's monitoring and enforcement capability. A forest
policing force will be established under the project. DOF's strengthened
enforcement capacity is expected to enhance the effectiveness of the above
discussed policy reforms and help bring illegal logging and surreptitious exports
under control.
i.7       The environmental impact of these reforms is expected to be positive.
The measures will increase government revenues from the forestry sector; increase
local log prices to international levels, thus providing the incentives needed
to develop an efficient local wood processing industry, and remove excess profits
from logging and sawmilling, thus decreasing pressure for increased harvesting.
More effective forest regulations, planning, and management will allow reductions
in the size of annual log quotas, with improved levels of return. The system of
FMAs and uise of contractors through competitive bidding under strict DOF
supervision will improve the standard of logging operations, marketing, and
trading activities undertaken in compliance with annual plans, regulations, and
contracts. Improved harvesting yields together with reduced volume loss will
relieve pressure to harvest more area. The improved regulatory functions under
the project, together with changes to the log marketing arrangements, will reduce



- 25 -
evasion of reforestation and resource rent taxes thrcugh illegal trade and forms
of transfer pricing.   Standardized log handling, grading, and scaling would
result in reduced log degradation and volume loss and improved linkages with the
market place in terms of species, grades, and dimensions. The changes to the
concession system and improved regulatory framework would act to reduce the
opportunities for monopsonistic trading practices and backwards integration up
the supply chain by domestic and international log traders.   By introducing
improved regulation, control and resource pricing arrangements linked to
sustainable harvest management, the project would significantly reduce the scope
for illegal logging and trading and thereby improve the level of rents accruing
to Government while protecting forest resources from over-exploitation.
5.8       Community Forestry.  Communities would be given incentives to improve
the management of forest land which they have traditionally controlled through
the provision of enforceable use and access rights. Many villages have customary
norms for access to land and forest resources which have operated well under
conditions of low population density and lack of compe-ition from outside groups.
However, increased population and the frequently resulting encroachment on lands
which were traditionally considered part of a village ecosystem, together with
the fact that commercial timber operations fail to recognize village claims on
forest resources, have caused a breakdown of the traditional village resource
management system. The project's focus on community-based resource management
will assure that concerned communitie3 will be involved in the resource
management and land use planning process from che very beginning, thus assuring
that areas which communities have traditionally used are set aside for this
purpose. Communities will be granted legally enforceable use and access rights
to land traditionally under their control in exchange for adherence to a jointly
developed resource management plan. Under the project, the Government would work
with local communities to develop and implement plans to more effectively manage
village resources (Annex 5).
5.9       As there currently are no tested alternatives to shifting cultivation
in Lao PDR, the project will not aim at forcibly ending shifting cultivation, but
it will mobilize the communities in the mutual search of environmentally
acceptable alternatives. Shifting cultivation areas will be delineated and
reserved for the community's continued use. In areas where currently available
land resources are not adequate to support sustainable swidden agriculture for
the entire community, the local land use plan will either recognize the need for
the community to expand cultivated area into existing forests or provide for
alternative solutions to increase food production, such as the development of
irrigated paddy fields at a reasonable distance from villages. The project will
make available grant funds to each community for small scale development projects
aiming at replacing unsustainable use of forest resources and increasing
agricultural productivity. All village development schemes will be identified by
concerned communities themselves during the land and resource management planning
exercise (para. 2.11 and Annex 5).
5.10      The project's focus on community based resource management, empowering
communities to fully participate in resource allocation and to develop resource
management and village development plans tailored to their needs, is of
particular importance because of the large ethnic diversity (almost 50 different
ethnic groups have been identified in Lao PDR) and resulting socio-cultural
differences in Lao PDR. During project preparation, survey work carried out by



- 26 -
socio-anthropologists concluded that no single model for community forestry would
be appropriate in the case of Lao PDR and that a process whereby communities
design their own development plans is indispensable. This approach is fully
consistent with the Bank's guidelines on indigenous peoples. Community based
resource management is expected to yield positive environmental impacts to the
extent that it will help reduce deforestation by restricting access of illegal
loggers and encroachers to village controlled areas and by improving the way in
which villages use and manage the area.
5.11      The impact on ethnic minorities and indicenous People, given the
above, is expected to be positive. Under current conditions these groups will
continue to suffer as encroachment by outsiders undermines communities' access
to resources necessary for survival.   The project,  through the Decree and
implementing regulations, extends legal rights of access to traditional community
resources and guarantees enforcement through a revamped judicial system and
increased monitoring. Since the communities are fully engaged in the process of
planning resource use, their needs are paramount in the design of management
plans. Forest management plans cannot be enforced without the agreement of the
community in question, and the regulations provide for corrective action should
a plan prove inadequate. Minority and indigenous groups will also benefit from
funding provided by the project for small-scale community development projects.
These groups are often among the poorest and would therefore benefit most from
these funds. Improving the welfare of minority and indigenous communities will
ensure that these cultures are not compromised due to impoverishment and resource
scarcity.   The project will allow groups to exercise control over their own
development path.
5.12      Local Governments.   The reform process which reassures the central
Government's control over the country's natural resources, as well as over
administrative and fiscal matters is also expected to have a positive
environmental impact. In the face of fiscal and administrative autonomy,
provrincial governments often resorted to granting provincial forestry enterprises
logging concessions in excess of sustainable annual cuts to help boost the
provincial budget. Under the new policy framework local governments will rely on
a system of special purpose grants from the central Government for budget
purposes, which will reduce their dependence on provincial forestry enterprises
as a source of revenues. Furthermore, provincial governments will lose the right
to grant logging concessions, which will be the sole right of the central
Government. Under the reorganized system of Government the provincial and
district governments are an integral part of the unified Government structure and
therefore represent the Governiment at the local level. They have full
responsibility for implementing national programs, including those supported
under the project.
5.13      Department of Forestry.  DOF's incentives to implement the new forest
resource  management  policy  will  be  based  on  strengthened  financial  and
institutional arrangements. Under the Forestry Land Use Management Decree, a
Forest Management Fund would be established from forest revenues and retained by
DOF to finance its operations at all levels. Together with adequate training in
forest and conservation management, the provision of necessary equipment,
miaterials and operating funds will provide a significant incentive for DOF staff
to manage resource and conservation programs effectively.



- 27 -
5.14      Conservation and Protection.   The project will have an important
environmental impact by expanding biodiversity through the establishment of four
protected areas covering a total area of more than 500,000 ha. This will
significantly expand the area to be set aside for biodiversity conservation under
the SIDA-supported project, and represents more than 209 of the national target
area for conservation. The project will also enhance biodiversity conservation
by introducing conservation measures in all types of forest management
activities. In addition, upper watershed areas and corridors along forests and
streams would be set aside for protection. Integrated protection management
activities would stabilize critical watershed areas and assure perennial clean
water supply to downstream users and preserve hydro-power development potential.
The protected area schemes would also have a positive i.npact on adjacent
communities who would enjoy improved livelihoods from sustained management
programs in buffer zones and, in some cases, inside protected areas. Through the
establishment of a conservation trust fund, the project would help seek ways of
securing long term financing for protected areas and the expansion of pro-active
protection management approaches.
5.15      Environmental MonitorinQ and TrainincT. As the project is process
oriented and there presently is no adequate data base on the dynamics of
deforestation, it is not possible at this stage to fully quantify the expected
environmental impact of the project. However, as the project focuses on
environmental protection, environmental monitoring is built into the project.
Baseline surveys will be conducted at project start up to assess the pre-project
situation at the different levels where the project will have an impact,
including commercial forest exploitation, community forestry, shifting
cultivation and biodiversity conservation. The project's environmental impact
will subsequently be monitored and evaluated based on these surveys. An annual
Consultative Forum (para. 3.14) will assist in monitoring the project as well,
and provide an opportunity for disseminating monitoring results and adjusting
project activities. The forest management information system to be established
under the project will allow DOF to better monitor the growth and yield of forest
types during pre- and post-harvest periods, and the effects of resource use at
a community and commercial level (para 3.10). Besides training in forest
management and conservation, the project will also provide training in community
mobilization and environmental monitoring.
Impact on Women
5.16      Rural women depend to an important extent on the forest for food and
other products for family sustenance and income, as they are the main food and
fuelwood gatherers from the forest.  A study has shown that 37 types of food
items (bamboo and other plant shoots, tubers, mushrooms, edible leaves, fruits,
berries), 68 types of medicinal products, 18 types of product for use (rattan,
resins, bamboos, sticlac, benzoin), and 18 types of animals (shrimps, fish,
rodents, birds, squirrels) were extracted from the forest. This source of food
represents an important safety net in years of drought and rice shortage, but it
is being threatened by increasing deforestation.   Reduced deforestation, the
protection of traditional access to forest resources, the establishment of
village forests for community use and the development of permanent agriculture
and rural infrastructure, as envisaged under the project, would benefit women.
As the project also introduces and supports a bottom-up planning process fully
involving local participation, including that of well-represented grass roots



- 28 -
organizations like the Lao Women's Union, women will have an increased role in
resource management and village development decision-making.   By including a
women-in-development specialist in each Community Mobilization Training Team, the
project will ensure that women are active participants in community planning for
the use of forest resources.
Pcvertv Impact
5.17      The main project beneficiaries would be among the poorest people in
Lao PDR. Although statistics on poverty are only now being collected in Lao PDR
(as a basis for a poverty assessment to be carried out by the Bank in 1994), the
country has one of the lowest per capita incomes in the world. Within Lao PDR,
large differences between rural and urban incomes are evident, and within the
rural sector, there are differences between upland farmers practicing shifting
cultivation, and more settled lowland farmers with access to irrigation. The
project would improve beneficiaries' incomes through establishing a legal basis
for land use and land rights (including access to forest lands and products -
para. 2.6); promoting and financing community development (including improved
agriculture and income generating activities - para. 2.12); and introducing
sustainable management of community forest resources  (para. 2.11) .   Forest
villages will be an integral part of the land use planning process; communities
will develop their own land use and community development plans (with assistance
from NGOs and project staff) and will be consulted on forest management and
conservation plans  for adjacent  forest areas  (Annex  5).   Thus,  project
beneficiaries would also be empowered to make decisions on use of their
resources.
Project Benefits
5.18      The project would result in significant improvements in sustainable
resource management and protection of biological diversity and in the efficiency
and returns from the sustainably managed commercial operations. The directly
quantifiable benefits would be increased rent capture through more efficient and
accountable commercial harvesting operations regulated and controlled by DOF.
The conservation management component would yield major long term benefits from
both the establishment of protected areas and adoption of conservation management
approaches in commercial and community resource use.
5.19      Protection ManaQement.  The component would generate improvements in
land use among communities in designated protected areas. The protected area
management system would yield significant economic and social benefits from the
preservation of biodiversity. Direct benefits would arise from the preservation
of wildlife and flora, some of which are on the endangered list, which may offer
the potential for developing an ecology-based tourism industry in the long term,
and from the preservation of the culture of traditional forest dwelling ethnic
groups. International benefits may result from the development of transnational
protected areas with Vietnam and Cambodia.
5.20      Ex-ante  quantification  of  benefits  from  intangibles  such  as
preservation of biological diversity and downstream benefits from watershed
protection is difficult. The economic value of biological species is difficult
to assess, and benefits from parks and protected areas are dependent on



- 29 -
hypothetical future investments and expansion of related activities such as
tcarism.
5.21      Forest ManaQement and ReQulation.  The financial and economic benefits
from establishment of a national system of production forest management and
improved regulation, control and taxation of commercial forestry operations are
expected to accrue in terms of increased economic rents.  They are, however,
difficult to estimate because the extent of illegal logging and sales, and the
associated pricing arrangements,  is not known.   IDA-financed studies have
indicated that illegal logging and pricing malfeasance may result in annual
foregone rents as high as US$30 million, or 120% of the value of official timber
exports for 1989.
5.22      The Net Present Value of the potential rents which could be captured
by GOL under a ten-year phastd program of improved forest taxation and regulation
supported by the project is estimated at US$30.5 million at 12% discount rate
(Annex 10). This figure includes:
(a) US$16.6 million from phased adoption of parity pricing of logs to
eliminate the present practice of paying significantly lower domestic
charges and diverting the logs to illegal export;
(b) US$8.1 million from reduction in mis-specification of export logs in
which high value species are often declared as lower value species to
avoid higher taxes; and
(c) US$5.8 million from reduced log wastage and degradation due to
efficient removal of logs from the forest.
5.23      These estimates are based on constant 1991 prices and include only
rents foregone on legal logging operations (280,000 cu m/annum).  They do not
include capture of rents from illegal logging operations (estimated at 150,000
cu m/annum), transfer pricing and other forms of pricing malfeasance. Also not
included are benefits from reduced post-logging degradation from encroaching
farmers.
5.24      From this limited economic analysis, the indicative results show that
the project can generate sufficient returns from improvements in the forest
management and regulation component to justify the total investment even under
modest assumptions about the pace of implementation of the sustained yield
management activities and improvements in regulation of the illegal logging
activities. The inclusion of the significant unpriced benefits from conservation
management makes the project viable in economic and social terms.
Risks
5.25      The risks associated with the project arise mainly from delays and
inadequa_e implementation, including only partial acceptance of the national
program approach to sound management by the provincial governments, and
administrative weaknesses. The major concern is that the comprehensive policy
framework, including the key organizational reforms, is not translated into an
effective regulatory instrument.



- 30 -
5.26      The incorporation of genuine community participation and control over
land and forest resource management would reduce the risk that the project adopts
a top-down and bureaucratic response to complex traditional community level land
and resource management. Sustaining the process of community mobilization and
participation would be aimed at by training personnel at community level in these
activities and in the implementation of a public information campaign at grass
roots level.   If community participation is not developed and respected by
district and province authorities in the land use planning process and agreements
on village land use plans, there is a significant risk that the project will
become a means of alienating rural communities from their traditional lands and
restricting them to limited and marginal agricultural lands in the name of
resource conservation. Also the proposed use of the Conservation Trust Fund to
provide ongoing finance for the protection management component would ensure
delivery of protected area systems, effective community mobilization, relevant
conservation training and the broadening of conservation approaches to commercial
forestry, and thereby significantly reduce the risk of incomplete and unsustained
implementation.
5.27      A significant risk is continued pressure on forest resources, due to
inadequate export revenues, that would lead to unsustainable levels of resource
use. The soonest forest operations are brought under sustainable management, the
smallest the potential damage of uncontrolled exploitation. Another risk is the
continued shortage of budgetary funds that would undermine the efficacy of DOF's
operations under the project. Until the Forest Management Fund is established
and fully operational, IDA and GET financing of incremental operating costs
during the first years of the project would reduce the risk.
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.1       Conditions of Credit effectiveness include:
(a) the Forestry Decree shall have become effective (para. 2.5);
(b) establishment of the Project Coordination Committee (paras. 3.6,
3.10); and
(c) the FINNIDA Cofinancing and the GET Grant Agreements shall have become
effective (para. 4.2).
6.2       Covenants in the Development Credit Aareement include:
(a) award of a minimum of two forest management contracts incorporating
sustained yield and conservation practices by competitive bidding by
March 31, 1996 (para. 2.6);
(b) presentation of satisfactory land and forestry legislation to the
National Assembly by September 30, 1997 (para. 2.5);



- 31 -
(c) issuance of implementing regulations to the Forestry Decree would be
a condition of disbursement under Category 4 of Schedule 1 of the
Development Credit Agreement (para. 2.5);
(d; establishment of a uniform pricing and taxation system to ensure
parity of prices for the sale of logs for both the domestic and export
markets by June 30, 1995 (para. 2.6);
(e) forming an advisory Consultative Forum by the Project Coordination
Committee not later than December 31, 1994 (para. 3.14);
(f) carrying out a mid-term review of the project by MAF and IDA not later
than October 31, 1997 (para. 3.11); and
(g) cross default conditionality in respect of the FINNIDA Cofinancing and
the GET Grant Agreements (para. 4.2).
6.3       With the above assurances, the proposed project would be suitable for
an IDA credit of SDR6.3 million (US$8.7 million equivalent) to be made to Lao
PDR. The credit would be on standard IDA terms with 40 years' maturity.



33-                                                ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 1
LAO PDR
FOREST MANAGEMENT AND CONSERVATION PROJECT
ForestrY Sector Reform Conditionalities Matrix
OBJECTIVE                              MEASURES                         STATUS OF MONITORABLE ACTIONS
A.  POLICY. INSTITUTIONAL
AND REGULATORY FRAMEWORK
1.  Adoption of a complete forest    Official statements by Goverrvnent    National conferences to debate and
sector policy:                     on  the  elements  of  the policy    approve the elements of the policy
(a) limiting the role of the    framework in various forums.              framework have been completed.
public sector to management
and regulation;
(b) establishing a contract
system of forest management
with    private    sector
participation;
(c) establishing forestry land
use zoning and planning; and
(d)    involving        local
communitles   in  sustainable
resource management.
2.  Creation of a forestry sector    Issuance of Government Decree on    Completed with issuance of Prime
institutional structure based    role and authority of the Ministry    Minister's Decree  No.  84/PM  of
on national  jurisdiction  of    of Agriculture and Forestry.             November 22, 1991 on MAF.
the Ministry of  Agriculture
and Forestry over resource use
and including provincial and
district forestry services.
3.  Formulation of a regulatory    Promulgation of a Forestry Decree    Implementation    (Condition    of
framework in support of the    by    the    Prime    Minister,    Credit Effectiveness).
policy framework.                  satisfactory to IDA.
4.  Completion   of   land   and    Design of satisfactory land and    Presentation   to   the   National
forestry legislation.              forestry    legislation    and    Assembly   by   September   1996
presentation   to   the   National    (Covenant   in  the  Development
Assembly.                              Credit Aareement).
B. RESOURCE MANAGEMENT INCENTIVES
5.  Protection   of   traditional    As para. 3 above.                         As para. 3 above.
access of users to village
forest resources.
6.  Implement    system    that    (a) Border parity pricing for logs    (a)   Establishment   of   uniform
maximizes funds for sustained    for both the domestic and export    pricing  and  taxation  system  by
forest management, and ensures    markets.                                June 30, 1995.
enforcement   of   management    (b)  EstabLishment  of  a  Forest    (b) As para. 3 above.
contracts    incorporating    Management Fund froem tax revenues
sustained    yield    and    and other sources.
conservation.                      (c) Design of forest management    (c) Award of a minimum of two
contracts incorporating sustained    contrscts incorporating sustained
yield  and conservation,  and  of    vield and conservation practices
bidding procedures.                    by    competitive    bidding    by
September   1995   (Covenant   in
Develooment Credit Agreement).
C. CONSERVATION MANAGEMENT
7.  Biodiversity preservation.         Establishment of protected forest    Prime Minister's Decree No.  164
areas.                                 establishing  18 protected  areas
was issued in October 1993.



35 -                              Annex 2
Page 1 of 2
LAO PDR
FOREST MANAGEMENT AND CONSERVATION PROJECT
Forestry Policy Framework
Sustainable Use of Forest Resources
1.        The multiple use and management  of the national  forest  domain,
wildlife and natural environment will be undertaken to ensure the sustainable
economic and social development of the country.
2.        The role of Government will be to ensure that forest management and
conservation is carried out in a sustainable manner and to concentrate on
providing the necessary support and regulatory services to achieve this goal.
System of Natural Resource Management
3.        Establish a new system of natural resource management,  including
zoning ef the permanent forest estate according to functional classes, and
complete urgently a national system of resource management areas.
4.        Complete formulation of long term management plans for the resource
management areas urgently, and the reorganization of the scope of Government
agencies to improve the effectiveness of the new resource management system.
5.        Establish a forest management information system.
6.        Emphasize the protection, development and rehabilitation of forest
lands so as to ensure their continued productive condition, and particularly
their contribution to watershed and environment stability, biodiversity
conservation, agricultural productivity and rural development.
Community Based Resource Management
7.        Halt the degradation of the natural resource base by developing and
adopting community based sustainable resource and conservation management.
8.        Integrate forest resource management with agriculture and broader
rural development programs to improve overall environmental stability and promote
sustainable agricultural development in critical watershed areas.
9.        Remove the causes of deforestation and environmental degradation by
encouraging private and community participation in sustainable resource
management through the provision of incentives such as property and land use
rights.
Reforestation
10.       Provide incentives for natural forest rehabilitation and plantations
of fast-growing species to produce commodities for export and raw materials for
industrial and household use so as to reduce pressure on the natural forest and
promote profitable wood-based industries.



- 36 -                              Annex 2
Page 2 of 2
Forest Industry Resource Use
11.       Apply selective logging and improved forest management methods in
production forest for sustained yield management in accordance with strict
environmental guidelines and confine commercial logging operations only to areas
covered by management planning.
12.       Facilitate the establishment of wood and other forest-based industries
by private investors by divesting state owned enterprises and providing
appropriate incentives to improve efficiency, quality and competitiveness.
13.       Encourage efficient use of forest resources by introducing a single
pricing and taxation system for both domestic and export markets.
14.       Promote and strengthen competitive and efficient local industries to
produce more value added and processed products for export.
15.       Promote the development and use of lesser-used timber and non-wood
forest products to increase export earnings and supply of raw materials for
forest-based industries.
16.       Reduce the dependence on wood for energy supplies and construction
through the development of hydro-electric power and the use of alternative
construction materials.
Institutional DeveloDment
17.       Strengthen the organization of the forestry sector and provide the
Department of Forestry with necessary resources to effectively exert its national
jurisdiction on resource management.
18.       Establish a national awareness campaign on the importance of nature
conservation and the sustainable exploitation of forest products to both the
economy and the environment.
19.       Re-orient and upgrade  forestry  and natural  resource  education,
training and research in accordance with the new system of natural resource
management and geared to the requirements of both public and private sectors.



- 37 -
Annex 3
Table 1 of 6
LAO PDR
FOREST KANAGIENT AND CONSERVATION PROJECT
Land Use Distribution
Area Per Land Use Group ('OO ha)
Province                    Current Forest   Potential Forest    Wood Area            Asric. Land       Non-Forest      Total
(M)   ('OOOha)      (M)   ('OCOha)    (M)  ('OOOha)    (V)  ('OOha)    (M) ('OOOha)  ('OOOha)
NOTH                       37.2    3349        56.4      5078       3.0    207        0.7    63         3.4    303      9692
Bokeo                    57.7      254       47.9       236                                           0.3       2      492
Luang Namtha             58.4      501       37.6       323       1.1      10       0.3      2        2.6     22       858
Phongsaly                42.4      620       50.4       736       0.5       7                         6.7     98      1461
Houaphanh                38.8    548         45.5       644       6.0     86        0.3      4        9.4    133      1416
oudomxay                 29.0      399       67.3       924       1.0      14       1.4    20         1.2      16     137n
Luang Prabang            24.4      494       69.4      1407       2.2     46        0.5    10         3.5     40      2027
Sayeboury                51.4      705       41.5       570       4.7     65        0.9    13         1.5     21      1373
CENTRAL                    53.6    4141        27.3      2108       8.4    651        3.3   257         7.3    565      7401
Xieng Khouang            51.6      783       26.3       398       9.3    140        1.5    22        11.4    173      1517
Vientiane                42.3      948       39.1       876       7.7    171        3.1    69         7.8    176      2240
VT MunicipaLity          35.5      132       33.5       124       4.7      18      17.8    66         8.5     31       371
Borikhamxay              67.3    1109        21.9       360       4.4     73        1.8    30         4.6     76      1649
Khaw.ouane               61.9    1204        15.6       304      13.7    266        3.2    63         5.6    108      1945
SOUTH                      59.6    4149         19.4     1352      10.4    725        6.9   481         3.6    252      6586
Savannakhet              56.7    1375        22.4       543       9.8    237        8.3   201         2.7     66      2420
Saravane                 54.7      598       21.9       239      14.5    159        6.0    66         2.8     31      1093
Sekong                   56.7      525       35.8       332       3.1     29                         4.4      41       926
Champassak               63.5      913        8.8       127      10.5    152       12.1   174         5.1     73      1439
Attopeu                  67.8      732       13.B       149      12.2    132        2.2    24         3.9     42      1080
TOTAL                      49.2   116S5        36.1      8537       6.7   1582        3.4   801         4.7   1120    23680



- 38 -
Annex 3
Table 2 of 6
LAO PDR
FOREST MANAGEMENT AND CONSERVATION PROJECT
Distribution of Vegetation Tvpes
Area
Land Use/Vegetation Class                                 %   ('000 ha)
1.  Current Ferzst:                                      47.2   111815
Dry Dipterocarp                                   6.2     1470
Lower Dry Evergreen                               0.2       58
Upper Dry Evergreen                               4.5     1066
Lower Mixed Deciduous                             3.8      897
Upper Mixed Deciduous                            30.3     7179
Gallery Forest                                    0.4       85
Coniferous                                        0.6      137
Mixed Broad Leaf and Coniferous                   1.2      293
2.  Potential Forest:                                    37.2      8805
Pure Bamboo                                      4.9      1165
Unstocked                                       29.3      6928
Ray                                              3.0       712
3. Other Wooded Area:                                     6.5      1552
Savannah, Open Woodlands                         4.0       961
Heath, Stunted and Scrub Forest                  2.5       591
4.  Permanent Agriculture Land:                           4.3      1009
Rice Paddy                                       3.9       915
Fruit Plantation                                 0.1        10
Other Agricultural                                0.3       84
5.  Other Non-Forest Land:                                4.8      1134
Barren Lands/Rock                                 0.5      112
Grassland                                        2.7       634
Urban Areas                                       0.5      134
Swamps                                           0.1        22
Water                                             i.0      231
TOTAL                                          100.0    23685
Source: Department of Forestry, Forest Inventory Division (July 1991)



- 39 -
Annex 3
Table 3 of 6
LAO PDR
FOREST MANAGEMENT AND CONSERVATION PROJECT
Slash-and-Burn Cultivation Areas
Province                                          Area
(ha)     (%)
South
Champassak                                         5,000
Savannakhet                                        7,725
Saravane                                           7,246
Attopeu                                            1,000
Sekong                                             6,400
Subtotal                                        27.371      10
Central
Vientiane                                         24,790
Vientiane Municipality                                74
Sayaboury                                         15,949
Borikhamsay                                       34,240
Khammouane                                         1,755
Subtotal                                       76,808       28
North
Luang Prabang                                     34,481
Oudomxay                                          37,884
Xieng Khouang                                      9,000
Luang Namtha                                      28,911
Bokeo                                              4,172
Phongsaly                                         25,000
Houaphan                                          35,000
Subtotal                                      174.448       62
TOTAL                                         278.627      100



- 40 -
Annex 3
Table 4 of 6
LAO PDR
FOREST MANAGEMENT AND CONSERVATION PROJECT
Previous Tax Structure for Wood Products
(US$ per cu m)
Resource   Export Tax   Export Tax
Category and Species              Tree Tax     Tax         Logs        Sawnwood
Restricted I
Dalbergia cochinchinensis           5.00        180        485            300
Dalbergia cultrata                  4.25        135        445            180
Dipterocarpus macrocarpus           4.25         36        160            114
Restricted II
Afzelia xylocarpa                   4.25         27        165            114
Controlled I
Hopea odorata                       3.25         23         50             78
Anisoptera cochinchinensis          2.55         12         25             51
Dipterocarpus alatus                2.85         15         40             51
Langerstroemia spp.                 2.85         12         25             78
Controlled II, all                  1.40           9        10
Controlled III, all                 1.10          5          8
Remarks:   All amounts refer to the medium grade of the respective species. Tree Tax
is levied per stem felled, but is here converted approximately to amount
per cu m. Export tax on sawnwood is set at 30% of FOB value. In the Table
this percentage has been applied to the minimum export prices determined by
MEPF (Sept 91) to arrive at a tax per cu m. The export tax on finished
products such as furniture is 3% of FOB value, and on parquet flooring
about US$ 15 per cu m.
Source: DOF and MEPF



- 41 -
Annex 3
Table 5 of 6
LAO PDR
FOREST MANAGEMENT AND CONSERVATION PROJECT
Cost of Log Production (average species compositior.)
Basic Assumptions
Species mix:             Restricted I: Pterocarpus macrocarpus 10%;
Controlled I: Dipterocarpus costatus 60*,
Controlled II: 15%, Controlled III: 15%.
Grade:                   B (average among Grades A, B and C).
Transport distance:      110 km
Tree and Resource Tax:  Prorated according to species mix
USS/cu m
1.  Production costs                                  May Savanh       SFE
Planming and tree marking                 0.40        0.40
Road construction                         1.45         7.00
Felling, crosscutting, trimming           1.75        1.55
Transport to main road/skidding          18.00        11.00
Trucking to main log yard                   ..         7.30
Loading, truck transport
unloading at mill/export point             9.10       6.10
O&M, capital items                        4.50        4.50
Reforestation                               ..         0.60
Total direct cost                        35.20       38.50
2. Taxes
Tree tax                                  2.50        2.50
Resource tax                             14.70       14.70
Total domestic taxes                     17.20       17.20
3.  Domestic market prices                                65.00       65.00
4.  Overhead and operators' profit margin (3-1-2)         12.60       12.60
5. Direct costs for log export
Rescaling, documents, etc.                2.00        2.00
Transport to Thai border                  4.00        4.00
Total direct cost                         6.00        6.00
6.  Export tax                                            44.70       44.70
7.  Average export price, CIF Thailand                    95.00       95.00
8. Overhead and export operator's
profit margin (7-3-5-6)                                neg.       neg.
Source:   Mission estimates based on interviews with May Savanh Company
(Private) in Savannakhet, and SFEs 3 and 9.



- 42 -                                  Annex 3
Table 6 of 6
LAO PDR
FOREST MANAGEMENT AN-D CONSERVATION PROJECT
Cost of Log Production (Rosewood)
Basic assumptions
Species mix:            Restricted I: Dalbergia app. 30%,
Pterocarpus macrocarpus 30t,
Restricted II: Afzelia xylocarpa 40%
Grade:                  B (average among Grades A, B and C)
Transport distance:    110 km
Tree and Resource Tax: Prorated according to species mix
US$/cu m
1.  Production costs                                  May Savanh      SFE
Planning and tree marking                  0.40      0.40
Road construction                          1.45      7.00
Felling, crosscutting, trimming            1.75      1.55
Transport to main road/skidding           18.00     11.00
Trucking to main log yard                   ..       7.30
Loading, truck transport
unloading at mill/export point             9.10      6.10
O&M, capital items                         4.50      4.50
Reforestation                               ..       0.60
Total direct cost                         35.20     38.50
2. Taxes
Tree tax                                   4.30      4.30
Resource tax                              62.10     62.10
Total domestic taxes                      66.40     66.40
3.  Domestic market prices                                140.00    140.00
4.  Overhead and operators' profit margin (3-1-2)          38.40     35.10
5. Direct costs for log export
Rescaling, documents, etc.                 2.00      2.00
Transport to Thai border                   4.00      4.00
Total direct cost                          6.00      6.00
6.  Export tax                                            253.50   253.50
7.  Average export price, CIF Thailand                    400.00   400.00
Market price Singapore/Taiwan                         700.00    700.00
8. Overhead and export operator's profit
margin (7-3-5-6), Thailand                 0.00      0.00
overseas (US$ 110 per shipment)          190.00    190.00
Source: Mission estimates based on interviews with May Savanh Company
(Private) in Savannakhet, a.d SFEs 3 and 9.



- 43                                Annex 4
Page 1 of 4
LAO PDR
FOREST MANAGEMENT AND CONSERVATION PROJECT
New Resource Management System
1.        The project aims at establishing a new national natural resource
management system that directly addresses the causes of deforestation and is
itself sustainable and replicable.   The approach is built around these key
elements:
(a) land use and forest area zoning, based on the forest management area
as the unit of forest management throughout the country;
(b) reorganization of DOF to implement central jurisdiction and establish
a unified structure for forest resource management;
(c)  provision of incentives, including protection of traditional access
of users to forest resources;
(d) development of an operational capacity for the administration and
delivery of the six national forestry programs, including rural
development activities in forest areas; and
(e) reform of the concession system of forest management, and of the
marketing, pricing and taxation of logs and wood products.
Incentives Framework
2.        One of the core elements of the new resource management system is the
reliance on an incentives framework as a means of managing resource use in a
sustainable manner. Incentives would apply to all resource users and regulators:
communities, contractors, provincial governments and DOF.
3.        Communities.    Communities  would be given  incentives  to  improve
management of forest land in areas under their traditional control within a
management area. The main incentive would include the provision by Government
of a formal and enforceable charter to use the land and forest resources in
accordance with a defined management plan.   These would include shifting
cultivation and village forest areas which would be excised during the zoning
process for the community's continued use. Village forests would provide timber
and non-wood forest products to the village.   Traditional access of local
communities to the forest resource would be protected against outside
encroachment. The purpose of the management agreement is to make communities
accountable for improved management practices. In addition, village development
activities would be supported by Government to reduce dependence on unsustainable
forest resource use. This approach has a major element of persuasion rather than
control by Government, as its key feature.
4.        Contractors.  Present Government policy is to favor conservation and
sustainable management rather than maximizing log production, by changing the
terms and conditions of concession management and by improving the regulation and
control of forest management to ensure compliance. The incentive for contractors
would be to receive payment based on performance of sustainable yield and post-
harvest management in accordance with plans, or face penalties.   Government
policy is to fully replace concessions by a system of contract logging, state
ownership of logs and an auction system.



-44 -                               Annex 4
Page 2 of 4
5.        Provincial Governments.  The transformation of the national system of
economic and fiscal management under Decrees 68 and 69 together with the
privatization of state enterprises proposed under Decree 70 means that provincial
governments will have no further direct dependence on provincial forestry
enterprises and consequent deforestation activities as a source of revenue.
Under the new system, provincial governments would rely on a system of special
purpose grants from the national Government for budget purposes and would reduce
their dependence on forest exploitation.
6.        The  Department  of  Forestry.    DOF  would  require  financial  and
institutional  arrangements  that  would  ensure  effective  prodv'ction  and
conservation management to be sustained.  Under the Forestry Decree, a Forest
Management Fund would be established from tax revenues and other sources, and
retained by DO? to finance its operations at all levels.  This will provide a
direct incentive to manage resource and conservation programs effectively.
7.        An informal forest management fund financed by forestry taxes to help
support DOF operations has been operating for two years.   However,  further
improvements will be necessary to assure a higher flow of resources to DOF to
help finance its operating costs which will increase as a result of the improved
forestry management system.  Under the current arrangement, as stipulated by
Decree 117, DOF has the right to use revenues from the tree tax to finance its
operations. However, the tree tax amounts on average to only about US$6/cu m,
while the resource tax amounts on average to about US$100/cu m. The proceeds
from all forestry taxes currently go directly to the Treasury. To access these
funds, DOF makes an annual request to MOF which approves the release of funds.
Although these resources supplement DOF's appropriations from the regular
Government budget, the combined sum is not high enough to cover its operating
costs, which will increase further. The proposed Forestry Land Use Management
Decree includes provisions to access parts of the proceeds from the significantly
higher resource tax.
Reorganization of the Department
8.        The new organizational structure of DOF (Charts 1 and 2) reflects its
national jurisdiction on management of the country's natural  resources by
absorbing provincial and district forestry services within its structure. DOF's
main task would be to implement six core national programs (para. 10 below).
9.        The main elements of the new organization are the:
(a) establishment of clear and direct lines of command from Department to
province and district;
(b) rationalization of activities, emphasizing policy and strategy
development and overall supervision and monitoring;
(c) decentralization of staff;
(d) establishment of an independent national monitoring unit; and
(e) reform of the concession system.
10.       Director's Office.  DOF would, as at present, be headed by a Director
in charge of policy development, legislation, overall planning, budgeting,
supervision,  monitoring,  and personnel and payroll.   Detailed planning and



- 45 -                               Annex 4
Page 3 of 4
supervision would be handled by three national offices (N.O.) and three programs,
organized along functional lines, as follows:
(a) Shifting Cultivation Programs
(b) N.O. for Management and Protection
(c) N.O. for Inventory and Planning
(d) N.O. for Nature Conservation and Watershed Management
(e) Forest Plantation Programs
(f) Forestry Industry Programs.
11.       Technical Offices.   The Shifting Cultivation Programs Office would
execute upland development projects and programs, with emphasis on sustainable
upland farming systems and the stabilization of shifting cultivation. The N.O.
for Management and Protection would be in charge of field implementation of
regulation and control programs, in close liaison with the Forestry Police, ard
village forestry programs. The N.O. for Inventory and Planning would implement
the National Forest Inventory and prepare forest management plans for resource
management areas and protected areas.  The Forest Plantation Programs Office
would undertake silviculture research and extension, while the N.O. for Nature
Conservation and Watershed Management would be responsible for monitoring of the
environment and wildlife and for preparing plans for the management of protected
areas. The Forestry Training Office would supervise the Forestry College at Dong
Dok, the three Forest Technician Schools and the Vientiane Forestry Training
Center, and arrange training courses in selected subjects as requested by the
other offices of the Department.
Forest Management Areas
12.       The field implementation of the national programs would be through
Forest Management Areas (FMAs) which would be the planning units of the new
natural resource management system. The management area would be the smallest
administrative unit of forest land for forest management and control. It would
vary between 20,000 and 50,000 ha, being larger in areas of low population
pressure, poor access, and predominance of protection and conservation forest in
which case several FMAs could be combined. Several FMAs could be found within
one district. They should preferably have natural boundaries, such as those of
a sub watershed. The boundaries should be aligned with existing district and
customary village boundaries to simplify the determination of management
responsibilities.   The delineation of a first group of 50 FMAs by the Forest
Inventory Division is well-advanced and is expected to be completed shortly for
the start of detailed zoning of priority management areas.
Program Implementation Structure
13.       Two proiect offices would be established in Vientiane and Savannakhet
to cover the central and southern regions, respectively, and coordinate the
implementation of project activities. The office in Vientiane would serve the
provinces of Vientiane, Borikhamsay and Khammouane, while that in Savannakhet the
provinces of Savannakhet, Champassak, Saravane and Attopeu. At a latter stage
of project implementation, a third project office would be established at an
appropriate location in the north to cover the provinces of Oudomxay, Bokeo and
Sayaboury.   These offices would eventually cover all the provinces in the
country. Their main responsibilities would be:



- 46 -                              Annex 4
Page 4 of 4
(a) implementing the forest management area system;
(b) supervising preparation of land use and forest management plans, and
demarcation of forest land and protected areas;
(c) development and application of methods and procedures for forest
inventory, forest management planning, silviculture, reforestation,
regulation and control of harvesting operations and community based
users;
(d) development of a protected area management system;
(e) provision of staff training; and
(f) establishment and operation of a forest management information system
and an independent monitoring and control unit under the Department.



- 47                                Annex 5
Page 1 of 10
LAO PDR
FOREST MANAGEMENT AND CONSERVATION PROJEC
Project Implementation
1.        The project would be implemented under the existing administrative
structure of DOF through Project Offices in Vientiane and Savannakhet.  Each
Project Office would consist of an Inventory and Planning Unit (IPU) and a
Management and Protection Unit (MPU). A third unit would be established at the
N.O. for Nature Conservation and Watershed Management in Vientiane to supervise
and manage the establishment of protected areas for the conservation of
biological diversity under GET funding. The work of this unit is described in
Annex 7.
2.        The main responsibility of the Project Offices is to implement the new
resource management system promoting sustained yield management and conservation
in forest management areas through:
(a) identification and demarcation of high forest areas;
(b) establishment of an improved planning, inventory and valuation
capability to prepare forest management plans with more sustainable
production targets and post harvest management;
(c) establishment of a regulatory and control system to ensure compliance
with management plans, prevent illegal logging and encroachment, and
eliminate evasion of forest harvesting and forest products taxes; and
(d) implementation of community-based resource management programs.
Inventory and Planning Unit
3.        The Inventory and Planning Units would be established at the existing
premises of the Forest Inventory and Planning Division in Vientiane and
Savannakhet. The project would finance extension of the physical facilities at
these two places.  IPU would be represented by a Head of Unit, an expatriate
Management Planning Officer, a national Management Planning Officer, an Inventory
Officer, ten forest technicians and office staff. It would report directly to
DOF, and would work closely with forestry staff at province, district and forest
range levels. It would have three main functions: (a) zoning and delineation of
planning areas; (b) forest inventory; and (c) preparation of forest management
plans. Both the forest inventory and management planning sections would have
five field teams each, of two forest technicians and four workers. Compilation
of inventory reports would be the responsibility of the Inventory Officer
assisted by the technicians. The actual planning method to be implemented by the
management planning section is not yet finalized.   However,  it would be
implemented by Management Planning Officers assisted by staff attached to the
forest ranges or districts.   IPU staff would be recruited from within the
Inventory Division of DOF and from provincial forest services.



- 48 -                              Annex 5
Page 2 of 10
4.        IPU would be fully staffed from project startup and on-the-job
training would be provided immediately. It would be equipped with vehicles and
field equipment. Each inventory team would be provided with a four-wheel drive
vehicle and necessary camping and survey instruments. IPU would be equipped with
computer, printer, photocopier and other necessary equipment needed for
computation and mapping. Its main tasks would be to:
(a) zone and delineate the production forest areas to maps;
(b) carry out forast inventory in planning areas;
(c) assist staff placed at forest ranges (if not yet posted, staff from
the concerned districts) in the final demarcation of the production
forest areas;
(d) prepare Forest Management Plans for production forest areas;
(e)  establish and maintain a land and forest re:ource data base; and
(f) further elaborate management plans for protected areas.
5.        For zoning the planning areas, 1:100,000 SPOT satellite images and
1:100,000 topographic maps would be used. Soil or land use maps would also be
employed, if available, to provide additional information needed by the staff and
local communities for participatory planning. This resource data base would be
used for demarcation of areas for community use, conservation and production
forest management in Land Use Plans.  After agreement is reached with local
communities on these plans, IPU would concentrate on production forest areas.
On the basis of existing forest inventory data, more detailed surveys and
possible inventories, it would divide the agreed production forest area into
appropriate ranges and prepare forest management plans for these.
6.        Part of the forest management planning process involves preparation
of annual allowable ct  estimates.  The determination of AAC, or sustainable
timber yield, of a given forest area requires information on the productive
forest area by forest type and age class, standing volume, annual growth rate and
present condition of each forest type represented in the production forest. At
present these factors are not well known for logging concessions in operation.
Present forest management plans are short term in nature and provide minimal
resource information based on low intensity surveys. Annual logging quotas are
derived by dividing the estimated standing timber volume by the duration of the
concession agreement - sometimes only 15 years. This type of quota calculation
leads to unsustainable forest management.  Allowable annual cuts, based on a
gradual harvesting of mature forest areas and realistic growth rates for
regenerating immature forests, should be based on a rotation period of 35 to 40
years between selective harvests in order to be sustainable.
7.        Forest management plans based on initial survey data would be prepared
for priority areas beginning with plans for existing concessions in the project
area as well as other areas selected for logging in the first five-year period.
These plans would identify the silvicultural system under which each forest type
is to be managed (selection, seed tree, strip or block clear cuts, etc.), and
specify annual areas to be harvested, reforested, or receive post-logging
treatment (liberation thinning, enrichment planting, etc.), annual requirements
for road construction, forest nurseries and other works.  Decisions on post-
harvest stand treatment would be based on a regular program of post-harvest
surveys to assess the status of the residual forest. Annual allowable cuts would
be at sustainable levels based on realistic estimates of forest productivity and



- 49-                                      5
Page 3 of 10
sufficient rotation periods to permit regrowth of the volumes harvested. The
management plans would identify appropriate zoning for core protection and buffer
zones. Information from all management plans made for production forests will
be compiled by district, province and country as a whole. This information will
provide the basis for determining provincial and district logging quotas,
protection and refore3tation requirements, and labor and training needs.
Management and Protection Unit (MPU)
8.        This unit would be responsible for the development and implementation
of programs in two broad areas of resource management:
(a) State Droduction forest management and protection, including field
supervision of sustained yield management practices in harvesting
operations, and general regulation and control of forest operations
and log flow from forest to mills or export points; and
(b) Community based resource management, including the development and
implementation of livelihood programs and sustainable resource
management practices in buffer zone areas around state production
forests.
9.        The two programs are interrelated and are aimed at improving forest
and related resource use by all forest users in an integrated approach. The
management model applied under the project requires that each category of user
(contractor, community or public agency) be accountable for achieving a certain
defined level of conservation management as specified in plans and enforceable
contracts attached to the plans. A key element of the strategy is to enforce
contracts between DOF and the users in exchange for guaranteed rights of access
in accordance with plan stipulations.
10.       Production Forest Management and Protection.  Implementation of forest
management plans and prevention of illegal logging and encroachment is not
possible without staff permanently placed in the field. A Forest Ranaer would
be posted permanently by DOF to each state forest range to act as Head of the
range.   His responsibility would be for proper management, supervision and
protection of all activities carried out in the management area.  The Forest
Ranger reports directly to DOF, but the reports are sent to concerned district
and province forestry service for information.
11.       The size of a state managed forest range may vary between 20,000 and
100,000 ha, an average being some 30,000 ha.  Forest Rangers may be assisted by
forest technicians who are posted to the range by DOF and may also employ labor
if needed.   A range may be divided to smaller units to enable stricter
supervision and depending on terrain conditions, tree species, population
pressure and level of harvesting operations. It is estimated that a sub-range
would be about 5,000 ha in extensively managed natural forests. Each sub-range
would be patrolled by a Forest Guard. The main tasks of the Forest Rangers would
be:
(a) regular maintenance and opening of area boundaries;
(b) supervision and control of land use agreements between villages and
DOF (hunting, fishing, fuelwood collection, timber, rattan, etc.), and



- 50 -                              Annex 5
Page 4 of 10
conclusion of further agreements on the basis of DOF legislation,
appropriate regulations and guidelines;
(c)  contract harvesting or concession control;
(d)  budgeting, book-keeping and maintenance of range accounts; and
(e)  implementation of silvicultural activities specified by the management
plan.
12.       Project funds would be used to provide office space and housing for
each range, housing at each sub-range for forest guards, motorcycles, and travel
and subsistence allowances for rangers and guards.
13.       The project would support the implementation of an improved system of
regulation and control and management plans with specific, achievable targets.
Logging operations have been characterized by insufficient planning, poor
coordination of log production with consumption, high waste and degrade of logs,
indiscriminate cutting by illegal and legitimate forest enterprises alike and a
high incidence of damage to residual forest. Furthermore, there is no systematic
documentation for checking origins of logs from felling registers, log tally
sheets and log transport documents.   The system is bound by many checks,
approvals and documents with little coordination.   Each check post works in
isolation,  so malpractice is common.   There is no workable system relating
volumes of allowable cut quota to those scaled at first and second landings and
volumes transported to processing plants or to export yards.  Due to lack of
resources for both the Customs and Forestry Departments, there are few official
check vosts and no mobile checking units. Illegal traders wishing to avoid the
few official regulation and control posts located along the major routes simply
bypass them. With such severe limitations on patrol capabilities on the Mekong
River and many roads which parallel both the Thai and Lao side of the river,
avoiding the official check posts is not difficult.
14.       The present concession system has failed to provide the necessary
management of the resource. Logging has generally been carried out as mining of
a free good. The enterprises have been poorly managed, very much due to the lack
of firm control by the authorities, and the timber resource has been utilized in
wasteful ways. The enterprises have not prevented encroachnient or destruction
in the concession areas, nor carried out reforestation and other silvicultural
activities as required.   Government has decided to gradually replace the
concession system, as resources become available for reorganizing the logging
enterprises and the forest administration. In the meantime, Government is to
strengthen, under this project, DOF's control over concessionaires, contract
loggers and others involved in the timber trade.
15.       Control of compliance with forestry regulations is presently the task
of the Forest ManaQement and Protection Division of DOF. Detailed control is in
many cases not possible due to the absence of guidelines and standards.
Furthermore, available resources for field control are limited to three mobile
teams,  which measure logs at central log yards.   Deforestation and forest
destruction as a result of poor logging practices is not subject to monitoring
at present. DOF's Protection Division is also little involved ir. the control of
export of logs and wood products, which is the task of Customs.
16.       In order to address present shortcomings and to ensure compliance with
forest management plans, the project would support the establishment of an



-51 -                               Annex 5
Page 5 of 10
effective system for controlling compliance with forestry regulations,
particalarly those concerned with commercial harvesting. The specific tasks to
be addressed would be to:
(a)  monitor all production activities in the project area,  including
logging, log transport and export, wood processing, forest management,
deforestation and reforestation, and forest fires;
(b)  monitor compliance of logging contractors and concession holders with
forest management plans and operational guidelines regarding cutting
diameter limits, tree marking, felling procedures, use of heavy
equipment and road and skid trail construction;
(c)  monitor compliance of village communities with agreements made on
forest management, use and prctection relating to the implementation
of land use and village forest agreements;
(d)  control felling and marking of logs at felling sites and scaling and
grading at first landings; and
(e)  operate mobile and stationary check points at strategic locations
42ncluding wood processing plants and export points to verify volumes,
grades, origin and ownership of logs and other forest products.
17.       During the first year, the project would focus on recruitment and
training of staff. Scalers and crraders appointed in districts with forest ranges
and together with rangers and guards, would be trained in regulations, log
scaling and grading, species identification and recording and reporting
procedures. Additional staff would be recruited to establish the export check
posts, followed by road check posts. District inspectors would be appointed, as
needed, and also trained. The mobile teams would initially carry out spot checks
of forest products movements along roads, and in the second and third year of the
project, monitor compliance with forest management plans for the priority log
production areas.
18.       A system of log flow monitoring from felling to road check post would
be prepared as soon as possible for field testing.  This would be implemented
starting at first landings and subsequently be extended to include monitoring of
logs from tree marking through mill gate or export point. By the end of the
second year the units would be fully staffed and the log monitoring system would
be in place. Monitoring of compliance with forest managen.ent plans and forest
protection regulations would then commence.
19.       Community Based Resource Management.  The community based resource
management plans will be developed and implemented with the guidance of forest
technicians  and  community organizers  (COs)  attached  to  the  district  and
provincial forestry service.   These technicians and COs will initially be
assisted and advised by Community Mobilization and Training leams (CMTTs) to be
set up under the project.  Each CMTT will consist of a community development
specialist (a social scientist experienced in participatory community diagnosis),
a rural development specialist (a natural resource management specialist with a
sound understanding of upland farming systems), and a women-in-development
specialist (with experience in rural training, capacity building and



- 52 -                              Annex 5
Page 6 of 10
dissemination skills). It will work closely with teams consisting of a forest
technician and two COs, which comprise, along with the CMTT members, outreach
teams. These teams will be responsible for informing villages of national policy
regarding forest and resource management, convening a series of meetings in each
affected village to develop consensus Land Use Plans for those villages, and
providing technical assistance to the villages to implement community resource
development plans or projects which were determined during the village meeting
phase. The district technicians will also monitor compliance with plans and
agreements.   In this capacity the district technicians will likely be under
significant pressure from villagers and commercial operations to ignore
violations of land use management plans; it will thus be vital that they receive
adequate support and compensation from DOF. This program will be supervised by
MPU, with the involvement of provincial and district forestry staff in field
activities.
20.       The objective of community based resource management is to involve
communities in resource conservation by giving them the main responsibility for
management of forest protection and village forestry activities,  including
sustainable timber production. Many villages already allocate natural resources
and jointly manage forested lands or other common property resources by means of
customary rules and practices, but these practices are under pressure from
population growth, migration of other commnunities into traditional areas, and
forest product extraction by groups or companies which are not governed by the
community norms.
21.       The active involvement and cooperation of communities in developing
resource management systems under this project will depend on whether the
government understands and respects their customary common property management
systems, and guarantees their access to sufficient forest and other related
resources to maintain the village standard of living. Communities will develop
land use plans in cooperation with the district technicians and COs who represent
the Project Office and DOF.
22.       Under  the village  agreements,  the  community  will  refrain  from
destructive activities such as uncontrolled use of fires, protect defined areas
and report on violations by outsiders, and manage and make use of assigned areas
of production forest and buffer zones on a sustainable basis.  The long term
objective is to slow down and if possible eliminate encroachment into the high
forest, and improve living conditions in the villages.  Degraded forests would
be protected to allow natural regeneration of protective cover, or if appropriate
to the village land use plan, may be allocated to sustainable agricultural
production.
23.       As little is known in detail regarding traditional village resource
management practices, implementation of the community mobilization component of
the project will be divided into two phases, a preliminarv phase of intensive
information collection combined with the development of village land use
agreements, followed by an imilementation chase where communities are contacted
and enrolled in the resource management process at a more rapid rate. During the
preliminary phase, which will last no more than one year, the outreach teams will
carry out detailed studies of 30 to 40 villages selected as representative of the
full range of ethnic groups and living situations found near the priority
protected areas and pr:ority production forests. The objective of the social and



-53 -                               Annex 5
Page 7 of 10
resource studies of selected villages is to be able to identify commonly
occurring patterns of village organization, resource management, and inter-
village relationships which may affect the land use planning process and the
implementation of improved resource management plans.
24.       The village outreach teams will also use the process of information
collection as a rmLeans to develop preliminary consensus land use plans with the
community and its neighbors. The information from the village studies would he
incorporated into the training of new COs and Forest Technicians, and provide the
basis for developing a typology of existing customary resource management
practices. Carrying out the village studies would also sensitize the outreach
teams to existing patterns of resource management, tensions and conflicts, as
well as patterns of cooperation and collaboration which may exist between
different ethnic groups or between communities and government or commercial
forest users.
25.       During the implementation phase, outreach teams will again begin with
village meetings to explain new national land use and zoning policy and ask the
community to identify its current and historical land use practices, preliminary
to preparing the land use Elan.  A focussed investigation of village social
organization and farming sys':ems will be made, but the greater understanding of
common customary land use practices gained from the village studies will enable
the outreach teams to more rapidly assess the situation in each village without
having to carry out detaile,1 surveys.  Where the situation in a community is
significantly different froff patterns previously identified, the outreach team
will invest additional time in identifying particular conditions and land use
practices before proceeding with land use plan development.
26.       The land use plans to be developed by the communities and the village
outreach teams will take into consideration present land use practices and
customary land tenure patterns in the subject village and neighboring villages,
characteristics of the forest, soil and wildlife as identified in the land use
planning process for the range, and whether any of the subject lands have been
identified as appropriate for inclusion in conservation or protection forest
categories. The land use plan will, where appropriate, set aside areas for long-
fallow shifting cultivation, as well as areas for intensive paddy agriculture,
livestock production, perennial crop production and/or timber production.
Community representatives will participate directly in discussions or
negotiations with district and province forestry officials to formulate a final
land use plan and contract(s) between DOF and the subject village or other
groups. The contracts will specify the rights and responsibilities of the land
user groups.
27.       A key element of the project is to promote sustainable alternatives
to shifting cultivation.   At present, however, no tested alternative upland
farming systems have been developed in Laos, and the land use planning described
above must be based on existing farming techniques rather than expectations of
improved upland farming systems which may not be available in the near future.
In some areas land resources may not be adequate or of appropriate quality to
support sustainable swidden cultivation for the entire existing population. Land
use plans developed in such situations must either recognize the community's need
to expand cultivated area into existing forest or provide a rapid and guaranteed
technical solution to food production (for example the development of paddy



- 54 -                              Annex 5
Page 8 of 10
fields a reasonable distance from the village if that is possible) . Those which
ignore agricultural realities of the affected communities will necessarily be
ignored as the members of these communities must guarantee their survival from
year to year.
28.       The land use plans from all adjacent communities which are included
in a single forest management Range will be combined, along with other management
plans for other classes of forest, into a single forest management plan for the
range. Representatives of all affected communities will be included in the
discussions leading to adoption of the forest management plan, in order that the
affected communities understand how the management of their village forest fits
into the overall management of forest resources, and that their rights and
responsibilities are comparable to the rights and responsibilities of their
neighboring communities. Management plans for production forests and protected
forests should be included at the same time and in the same discussion, so that
communities are informed of safeguards against encroachment by other users into
their resources, as well as to give them the opportunity to contribute to the
overall resource management plan as it affects their social and natural
environment.  Making the planning process open and equitable will increase the
motivation of affected communities to comply with their own land use plan, to
respect the rights of neighboring communities, and to report incursions to the
public lands as well as their village forest.
29.       The project will provide grant funds to each subject community for
small scale village development projects selected by the community during the
land use planning and development prioritization process described above. These
projects may include such things as small irrigation systems, land development
within the framework of the land use plan, transition funding for the
introduction of perennial cash crops, livestock development, community-managed
buffalo or rice banks or rice mills, etc. Normally these grants should be used
for projects which increase the agricultural productivity of the community, but
may be considered for social and rural infrastructure development.
30.       The village development activities will be coordinated with other
rural development projects, and where they require assistance or technical
expertise beyond the capability of the COs or forest technicians, these officials
will facilitate contact with the &a,rropriate technical service, for example
irrigation or livestock.   The nature and scope of any civil works will be
detailed in specific three-way contracts among the village administrative
committees, the district administration, and DOF. The value of each agreement
will typically be about US$ 10,000 per village, but the actual amount will depend
upon the size of the community and the nature and scope of the activities.
Construction will be by volunteer labor provided by the village, with appropriate
technical supervision from the district or province, and funds will be allocated
according to village priorities.  Disbursement of funds will be dependent on
joint signatures of district and village representatives to ensure that works
meet appropriate technical standards, projects agree with village priorities, and
funds are not misappropriate. The number of villages to be reached under the
project will depend very much upon well the process works.
31.       Timincr of Implementation.   The preparation and implementation of
village land use plans will depend very much on developing an effective and
responsive procedure for working with the communities, as well as efficient



- 55 -                              Annex S
Page 9 of 10
logistics, administrative support, and regular work attendance on the part of the
DOF field technicians and COs. However, to the extent that community land use
plans reflect customary resource management practices, the job of the outreach
teams will be greatly facilitated and the planning may take place more rapidly
and with considerably less conflict or disagreement than will be the case if
government approaches to land use planning are significantly different from
customary patterns.
32.       During the preliminary phase of village studies and land use planning,
each outreach team consisting of one CMTT staff, a forest technician and two
community organizers would be expected to complete detailed studies of
approximately 10 villages, including guiding the village and its neighbors to
develop coordinated land use plans which are negotiated with the district and
province.
33.       During the implementation phase, the outreach teams will travel among
groups of nearby villages in a way which allows a series of meetings and
discussions in each village, separated by time during which the communities can
undertake discussions and meetings with the outreach team.  In this way, the
community has time to make unpressured decisions according to its own norm-,
while the outreach team is not idle waiting for those decisions to be made.
Return visits could be made after about two or three weeks to continue the
process. In this way, an outreach team may allocate three to five days total per
village (three to five visits spread over several months), plus necessary travel
time and time in the district or province center for administrative work.
Recognizing that farmers cannot afford to spend time away from their fields
during seasonal periods of intense work, and thus would be unable at those times
to participate in meetings regarding land use planning, an outreach team could
be expected to complete between 20 and 25 community plans per year.  Following
this plan, four teams could chus complete the planning work for up to 300
villages within the 5-year framework of the project.
34.       Without  significant  inputs of additional  technical  support,  the
community development projects foreseen in the project will not be implemented
at the same rate as land use planning. Most provinces are presently unable to
manage the design and construction of more than two or three small irrigation
sites per year, for example. Land clearance, development of alternate perennial
crops, and other agricultural projects are also likely to require considerable
time to plan and carry out, particularly if community resources are to be
expended and the project or activity requires continued group management after
its completion. In these situations, additional time will be necessary for the
community to develop consensus on the project configuration and organizational
structure for continued management (e.g. water use groups for irrigation, or a
management committee for a rice mill or marketing cooperative) . Funding for any
civil works will include appropriate design assistance and technical supervision
to prevent the funds from being wasted on inappropriate projects or poor quality
construction.   Although contracting with private suppliers and/or providing
training courses for village development representatives may somewhat alleviate
this problem, it is not expected that all the village management plans prepared
would be completed within five years.



-56 -A ex  S
Page 10 of 10
Proloosed  Phasing  of  StaffU
35.           The phasing of project  staff at the two project offices  is as follows:
Year                             1   2   3   4   5      1   2   3   4   5
(a) Administration                    Vientiane             Savannakhet
Nead of office          h         1   1   1   1   1      1   1   1   1   1
Head, Budg. & Proc.    h          1   1   1   1   1      1   1   1   1   1
Staff, budget           m         2   2   2   2   2      1   1   1   1   1
Staff, procurement      m         2   2   2   2   2      1   1   1   1   1
Secretaries             m         1   2   2   2   2      1   1   1   1   1
Office staff            l         3   5   5   5   5      3   5   5   5   5
Total                            10  13  13  13  13      8  10  10  10  10
Staff Level             h         2   2   2   2   2      2   2   2   2   2
m        5   6   6   6   6      6   6   6   6   6
t        3   5   5   5   5      3   5   5   5   5
(b) Inventory and Planning
Head, Planning          h         1   1   1   1   1      1   1   1   1   1
ti) Planning Office
State Forests    h         1   1   1   1   1      1   1   1   1   1
ViLlage Forestry h         1   1   1   1   1      1   1   1   1   1
(ii) Inventory Office
Inventory,Officer h        1   1   1   1   1      1   1   1   1   1
,Techn. m      12  12  12  12  12    12  12  12  12 12
Data CompiLer       m      2   2   2   2   2      2   2   2   2   2
Cartographer        m      1 1   1   1   1        1   1   1   1   1
(iii) Field Teams
Inventory         l       30  30  30  30  30    30  30  30  30  30
Planning          l        4   4   4   4   4      4   4   4   4   4
(iv) Office staff      l        3   3   3   3   3       3   3   3   3   3
TotaL                            56  56  56 56  56    56  56  S6  56  56
Staff Level             h         4   4   4   4   4      4   4   4   4   4
m       15  15  15  15  15    15  15  15  15  15
l                   1       37  37  37  37  37    37  37  37  37  37
(c) Manasement and Protection Staff
Head of Unit            h         1   1   1   1   1    1   1   1   1   1
Ci) Management of State Forests
Head, State For. h         1   1   1   1   1    1   1   1   1   1
Forest Rangers   m         1   2   3   4   5    1   2   3   4   5
Scalers          m         2 4   6   8 10    2   4   6   e  10
Forest Guards    L         6  12  18  24  30    6  12  18  24  30
(ii) Management of VilLaae Forests
Read, Village F. h         1   1   1        1    1   1   1   1   1
Technicians       m        4   8  12  16  20    4   8  12  16  20
Community Organ. m        10  20  30  40  50   10  20  30  40  50
(Mi) Forest Police
Check points     m        11  11  11  11  11   13  13  13  13  13
Conc. Inspec.    m         5 5   5   5   S    6   6   6   6   6
Total                            42  65 8  111 134   45  68  91 114 137
a. h a high Level; m a medium level; i - low leveL.
b. Field inventory and planning teams consist of one low level technician and casual labor.
c.   An average of six guards per state forest range.
d.   An average of four district forest technicians would be working with villages surrounding a state
forest range.
e.   It is estimated that a village forest area, inclusive of the shifting cultivation areas, is in
the range of 1,000 ha. Some 20 villages would be surrounding a state forest area of 30,000 ha.
A Community Organizer would be assigned to take care of 2 villages each.
f.   Each province has an export check point. Additionally, a road check point would be established.
g.  One Scaling Inspector per province.



- 57 -                              Annex 6
Page 1 of 6
LAO PDR
FOREST MANAGEMENT AND CONSERVATION PROJECT
Protected Areas Establishment and Manacrement
1.        A primary project objective is to promote biodiversity conservation
throughout the project area. Thus, a new system of conservation management would
be introduced and implemented in the Forest Management Areas to be set up under
the project. While most FMAs would include an integrated array of activities
including production forestry, watershed protection and various community land
uses, FMAs in biologically rich areas would be included wholly or in part within
the protected area system now being planned by FRCP.  Project activities for
these FMAs would include formal protected area establishment and management, and
buffer  zone  development.    These  activities  under  the  Protected  Areas
Establishment and Management component, although an integral part of the project,
would be funded separately by GET under a Wildlife and Protected Areas
Conservation Prolect.   The four protected areas to be established under the
project would be put under protection by Government decree. The National Office
of Nature Conservation and Watershed Management at DOF headquarters in Vientiane
would be responsible for implementing this component.
2.        Biodiversity conservation objectives would also be achieved under the
project in areas designated for production or community forestry through proper
zoning to ensure that biologically rich areas are designated for protection,
through development and implementation of appropriate controls on harvesting
methods, and through support to local communities in community forestry and
buffer zone development. Since these activities would be fully integrated with
other project activities in production forest, it would difficult to isolate them
for GET funding and they would, therefore, be funded by IDA.
3.        The Protected Areas component would have the following activities:
(a) Biodiversity conservation, through the design and management of
legally established protected areas and associated buffer zones;
(b)  Community participation in intecrated forest management,  including
community mobilization programs aimed at giving local people living
within or adjacent to the protected ..:eas the necessary incentives and
opportunities for sustainable utilization of the forest (community
participation under the project is described in Annex 5);
(c) Institutional development, including the creation and implementation
of an environmental monitoring and evaluation program, and
establishment of a secure long-term financing mechanism to sustain
operations of the conservation management activities described in this
component; and
(d) Conservation traininq, focusing on on-the-job training in conservation
management, limited specialized training for key DOF personnel in
overseas graduate institutions to enhance professional skills in



-58-                                Annex 6
Page 2 of 6
conservation management and environmental monitoring, and grassroots
training of forest communities in conservation management.
Backcrround
4.        Lao PDR forms part of four distinct biogeographic subunits: Annam in
mountainous eastern Laos; Central Indochina in western, central and southern Laos
along the plains of the Mekong River; Northern Indochina in upland northern Laos;
and Indochina Transition Zone in Phongsaly Province. Each is characterized by
specific flora and fauna, some of which are endemic to the biogeographic region.
The Lao terrain varies from flat plains along the Mekong River, which flows
nearly 500 km along the western boundary of the country, to mountain peaks of
2,700 m in height along the eastern border with Vietnam.   The biological
isolation created by this positioning between rugged mountains and the wide
Mekong River has resulted in a variety of endemic species.
5.        With one of the highest proportions (47%) of relatively intact forest
in Asia, Lao PDR also ranks as one of the most biologically rich countries in the
Indo-Malayan and Oceanic realms.   With a total number of species, including
mammals, birds, reptiles, amphibians, freshwater fishes, swallowtail butterflies,
and vascular plants, estimated at nearly 10,000, of which about 1,200 are animal
species, Lao PDR compares favorably in species diversity with other nations in
the region. China and India, which are many times larger in size than Lao PDR,
have total numbers of mammal species of 394 and 350 respectively, as compared to
186 resident mammal species for Lao PDR. In terms of birds, Lao PDR with 623
species outranks biologically rich Papua New Guinea (592), Vietnam (586), and the
Philippines  (541).  The richness of the biological resources along with the
extensive contiguous forest cover makes Lao PDR a high priority country for
conservation efforts.
6.        The relatively high percentage of primary and secondary forest cover
remaining in Lao PDR should not be viewed as justification for a relaxed
timetable for conservation action. Forest cover varies greatly among regions,
falling below 20% in some parts of the north, but remaining around 50% in the
mountainous border region with Vietnam and in the lightly populated southern
border region. However, these forests are under increasing pressure from
commercial exploitation, growing population and increased regional demand for Lao
wood products as a result of the ban on logging in Thailand. If the pace of
forest degradation continues and efforts to conserve biological diversity are not
stepped up, many high priority sites worthy of protection will be severely
impacted before viable conservation measures can be established.
7.        Development of effective conservation measures within Lao PDR is still
at a very early stage. Major impediments to conservation management are the lack
of conservation legislation, the dependence of the national budget and export
revenues on forest revenues, weak institutional capacity and lack of local
expertise in conservation management. Few government officials have received
tertiary level training in biology and natural resource management, and the
number of graduate degree holders in the conservation sciences in the country is
less than 10.



- 59 -                              Annex 6
Page 3 of 6
Biodiversity Conservation
8.        Recognizing the need to manage its forests sustainably and at the same
time set aside representative areas for conservation, Government is in the
process of reforming the forestry sector, including new legislation and policies
that will provide the legal basis for establishing a protected area system.
External aid agencies such as SIDA and conservation groups, such as IUCN and WWF
are already involved in conservation activities in Lao PDR through the Forest
Resources Conservation Project (FRCP) of the Lao-Swedish Forestry Program being
implemented by IUCN, and the Kouprey Action Plan and the Asian Elephant Action
Plan developed and being supported by IUCN/WWF.  Decree No. 14 has brought a
total area of about 2.5 million hectares (slightly over 10t of the total land
area) under legal protection. FRCP has identified 69 potential protected areas
of which 29 have already undergone preliminary survey, two (totalling 200,800 ha)
are under management plan implementation, and eight are designated for management
planning during 1991-95.   Taken together the eight forest areas included or
proposed for immediate inclusion in the protected area system cover 4.9% of the
land area of Laos, or nearly half of Government's target.
9.        The project would support the establishment of four protected areas,
which would be formally set aside by Government decree and protected under
conservation legislation to be enacted under the auspices of the project. No new
institutions or concepts would be introduced under the project, as it would
complement and operate under the FRCP planning framework which has developed a
strategy for planning and establishment of a representative national protected
area system. This includes the identification of potential sites, evaluation and
selection of sites to be included, and development of preliminary management
plans for individual areas. These plans provide a biophysical description of the
area, and set out objectives, a management strategy, activities and anticipated
outputs, to be further elaborated in annual work plans and area-specific
development plans.   Following agreement on the final selection of protected
areas, the project would use the preliminary management plans prepared by FRCP
for further elaboration and implementation. Under its present program, FRCP will
prepare eight protected area management plans and implement four of them. The
other four, or additional areas yet to be surveyed, will be available for
implementation under the proposed project:
Plan Preparation and Implementation by FRCP (1991-1995)
Name                            Province                 Area (ha)
Xe Piane                        Champassak               146,000
Xe Bang Nouane                  Saravane                 146,400
Nam Poui                        Sayaboury                170,000
Nam Kading                      Borikhamsay              169,200
Probable Sites for Plan Preparation by FRCP (1991-1995)
Nam Ma                          Luang Namtha             144,800
Nakai Plateau/Nam Theun         Khammouane               405,600
Phou Xang He                    Savannakhet               69,200
Phou Xiang Thong                Saravane                 116,400
Dong Ampham                     Attopeu                  163,000
Phou Dene Din                   Phongsaly                222,900



-60 -                               Annex 6
Page 4 of 6
10.       Subject to confirmation from further field reconnaissance surveys,
four of the last five sites described above will be subject to preliminary
management plan preparation by FRCP and to elaboration and implementation under
the project. The criteria used for protected area site selection under FRCP are
the following:
(a)  area of at least 50,000 hectares, and preferably over 100,000 ha;
(b)  biogeographic representation;
(c)  regional priorities (based on the McKinnon and McKinnon classification
of priority habitats for protection in the Indo-Malayan Realm); and
(d)  degree of threat.
11.       In addition to the above criteria, consideration would be given to
areas with potential of becoming transnational protected areas and for those that
contain important populations of flagship species.
12.       Preliminary management  plans prepared by FRCP would be  further
developed under the project by a unit of the National Office for Nature
Conservation ard Watershed Management in Vientiane to be supported under the
project, with technical input and guidance from the long term conservation
specialists being supported by SIDA under FRCP.  GET will fund the remaining
technical assistance requirements. Rapid ecological surveys for vegetation and
habitat evaluation, key species determination and population dynamics and other
relevant parameters would precede plan elaboration. This is expected to be sub-
contracted to an appropriate research institution or university.
13.       As  biodiversity  cannot  be  fully  maintained  only  by  localized
protection of selected areas, another objective (under IDA financing) is to
introduce biodiversity conservation measures into all types of forest management
activities. The management regimes to be applied to forest lands outside of the
formal protected area system will probably significantly determine the extent to
which biological diversity can be adequately conserved in Lao PDR. Conservation
measures will be included at planning, when zoning work identifies areas of
protection forest required for the maintenance of watershed integrity and values,
and areas of particular biological interest or sensitivity. These areas will be
demarcated in the land use plans for each FMA and management measures for these
areas specified in the forest management plans. These would include controls on
hunting practices, tree felling, use of forest products and fire, and other
nature protection measures, for which provision is made in the proposed Forestry
Land Use Management Decree. Field measures would include information campaigns
aimed at the rural population and logging personnel, design and implementation
of measures to minimize damage to residual forest and soil in logging and road
construction work, and silvicultural work to stimulate forest regrowth.
14.       The project :ould provide conservation management expertise, physical
facilities, vehicles and equipment, materials, and training. It would support
flora and fauna survey work, including the establishment of a herbarium, and
protected area establishment and buffer zone development activities. Costs per
protected area will vary depending upon the management system designated for each
particular protected area. The specific management system to be used would be
based on internationally accepted criteria as described by IUCN's Commission on
National Parks and Protected Areas and specific plans of action will be



- 61 -                              Annex 6
Page 5 of 6
determined using data collected during field surveys, inventories, and from
community inputs. An average amount of US$ 10,000 would be provided to about 75
villages in buffer zone areas on a grant basis for agriculture and rural
infrastructure development.
Project Implementation
15.       The project would be implemented directly from Department of Forestry
headquarters in Vientiane by the National Office for Nature Conservation and
Watershed Management (NONCWM), under the coordination of the Project Director,
but would rely on provincial and district level forestry service staff for field
operations. Each protected area would operate as a single management unit headed
by a manager, two deputy managers, three to five park rangers (each stationed at
a ranger station), and 20-30 park guards. The manager would be responsible for
overall administration and management. One deputy manager would handle resource
management, research and monitoring, and the other deputy manager community
development, public liaison and training.
16.       Forestry service staff at provincial and district would provide the
main body of staff for each protected area, complemented by a small number of key
personnel from headquarters. Although Government policy is to redeploy surplus
headquarters staff to the field, this is unlikely to occur to any significant
extent.   Therefore, the personnel policy would be to train staff from the
localities of the protected area, and regionally recruited staff would play an
important training role under the guidance of internationally recruited technical
assistance. This emphasis on locally-recruited staff would enhance the retention
of protected area staff after training and project completion.
Infrastructure Development
17.       Physical facilities at each protected area would, typically, include
a headquarters building, a laboratory, guest quarters, and housing with water and
electricity supply for about 8-10 staff families, 3-5 ranger stations at
important sites within the protected area, and basic internal road and trail
networks,  depending upon the specific requirements of the location.   The
facilities would be equipped with office, radio and other telecommunications
equipment.
Field Operations
18.       Protected Area Activities. These would include resource inventory and
management planning, and protected area development and management. As part of
the land use planning and forest zoning of resource management a'reas, the
preliminary management plans to be prepared under FRCP for the four protected
areas to be selected for this project would be further elaborated through
additional resource surveys and inventories. The project would provide vehicles,
equipment, fuel and materials, and finance incremental operating costs on a
declining basis.
19.       Buffer Zone Develooment.  The establishment of buffer zones, which
would also be subject to conservation management, outside the protected areas is
a central element of conservation strategy. Thus, communities in these buffer



- 62 -                              Annex 6
Page 6 of 6
zones and also inside the protected areas would be fully involved in all aspects
of sustainable  forest management and conservation.   New immigration into
protected areas would be restricted, leaving those areas to those communities
that are alread  established.   Communities in buffer zones will,  however,
continue to have access to specific village forest areas under agreements with
DOF. Buffer zone development will include support to the implementation of rural
and agricultural infrastructure activities. The project would provide financial
assistance for civil works, materials and equipment hire for these activities.
Villages would contribute unpaid labor for civil works.
20.       Environmental  MonitorincT.    NONCWM  would  be  responsible  for
administering and monitoring environmental conservation in Lao PDR. The absence
of an ecological monitoring unit in DOF has resulted in poor monitoring of
environmental impacts, especially from logging.  An environmental monitoring
capability of 6 staff in that office would be established by financing one
technical assistance specialist for a total period of one year. The staff would
be appointed by DOF and trained by the project in specialized fields of
conservation biology, tropical forest biology, natural forest management, and
sustainable forestry practices. All staff would require training in monitoring
and evaluation techniques. The unit would concentrate on environmental project
monitoring in forestry operations, agriculture-based projects, natural forest
management, and sustainable utilization of natural resources in FMAs.
21.       Conservation Trust Fund. Ongoing operating funds to maintain the four
protected areas funded by the project and other conservation areas designated by
FRCP beyond the project period and to continue conservation training for local
staff would come from the Forestry Management Fund to be established under the
Forestry Land Use Management Decree.   However,  the project would provide
technical assistance to design and establish a Conservation Trust Fund which
would provide earnings for the funding of recurrent costs of protected areas
management and operation.



- 63 -                              Annex 7
Page 1 of 3
LAO PDR
FOREST MANAGEMENT AND CONSERVATION PROJECT
Human Resource Development Programs
Current Programs
1.        Forestry and conservation training is presently coordinated by DOF's
Forestry Training Office (FTO) with financial and technical assistance from the
Lao Swedish Forestry Program. Despite committing significant resources to human
resource development and institutional strengthening, the Program has had
difficulty providing an adequate number of people with the right skills in time
to support the transformation of the resource management system. Although large
numbers of forest technicians have been produced, they are poorly trained and
lack basic  scientific  and technical  skills.    Staff  with tertiary  level
qualifications are very scarce, which has made it difficult to upgrade skills to
gx-duate level.
2.        Currently DOF provides training programs in the following areas:
(a)  Vocational  training:    Three-year  courses  conducted  at  Forest
Technician Schools at Xieng Ngeun (north), Muong Mai (central) and
Xepone (south);
(b) Superior Technician Training: Three-year courses conducted at Dong
Dok forestry school near Vientiane;
(c) In-house training at the Vientiane Forestry Training Center (VFTC) at
Houei Ngang currently providing one annual ten-week course on
conservation management for the Wildlife and Fisheries Conservation
Division; and
(d) Graduate level traininq in India and Sri Lanka universities under SIDA
support.
Human Resource Development Strategy under the Proiect
3.        Ar. effective human resource development program would be key to
implementing the new resource management system. At the national level, staff
development programs are already underway with SIDA support. The strategy for
the project is, therefore, to emphasize on-the-job training for DOF project staff
and grass roots level training of forest communities to familiarize them with the
new system of resource management. Emphasis on long term higher level training,
particularly during the early project years, is not called for under this project
because of the absence of suitable candidates and the fact that this form of
training would deprive the project of very scarce higher level skills during the
critical project start-up period. Furthermore, SIDA's pregram on human resource
development would continue to provide higher level long term training.   The
project would, however, set aside contingency funds for higher level training to
complement SIDA resources at a later stage if needed.



- 64 -                              Annex 7
Page 2 of 3
Training for Forest Manaaement Proiect Staff
4.        English Language  Courses.    Inadequate  knowledge  of  the  English
language has been a major constraint to the understanding and absorption of new
technical skills. English language training is already provided at the Forestry
Training Center in Houei Nhang with SIDA support.   It includes basic and
intermediate English courses of an average length of two months, aimed at
providing reasonable skills for normal pro-essional conversation and writing
short reports in English. The project would support training under those courses
of about 150-200 staff, starting with two batches of 15 students each in 1993 and
reaching up to 40-50 students per year by 1995. Funding for an additional 140
person months of English language training would be made available through the
GEF project for conservation management staff.
5.        On-the-Job and Short Term Training.    FINNIDA-financed  technical
assistance would provide on-the-job training of project staff,  short term
training courses and study tours.   The training would aim at strengthening
project staff's skills in such areas as forest inventory and management planning,
fire control, forest rehabilitation and silviculture, species identification,
community forestry, forest harvesting, management of forest ranges, regulation
and control, scaling and grading, and mobile surveillance. In addition to on-
the-job training and study tours, a minimum of 20 short term training courses
would be provided by the common pool of SIDA- and FINNIDA-financed technical
assistance expertise. The training program would be finalized in consultation
with DOF, the Lao-SIDA Program and project staff. Financial arrangements for all
courses (including course fees, accommodation, allowances, classrooms, and
materials) would be worked out jointly with all parties. FINNIDA would provide
funds for the more costly courses.
Conservation Management Training
6.        Conservation management training for DOF staff assigned to work on
conservation management issues would be provided through four interrelated
programs including: (i) the Lao Protected Area Management Training Program; (ii)
international graduate and post-graduate studies; (iii) field training for
protected area staff; and  (iv)  study tours.   Program activities would be
coordinated with ongoing SIDA supported Conservation Management Training.
7.        The Lao Protected Area Management Training Program would provide
trainees with a basic understanding of the principles of conservation, protected
area and wildlife management. The program would consist of three modules:
(a)  Pre2aration Module at the Dong Dok Forestry School.  The module would
offer trainees the opportunity to update the knowledge required to
subsequently follow applied courses in protected area and wildlife
management. Trainees from a variety of educational and professional
backgrounds would be able to enter this training.   Candidates who
successfully complete the preparatory module would be able to continue
with the intensive course or may be considered for long term training.
(b)  Intensive Conservation Management Module at Kasetsart University,
Bangkok (or some other appropriate regional university). This module
would consist of a six month long applied course in protected area and
wildlife management, designed with the input of TA consultants.



- 65 -                              Annex 7
Page 3 of 3
(c)  Field Traininq Module.  This third module would be carried out in a
forest reserve such as the Nong Lam-Dong Natat Reserve and would
consist of an eight-week long field training course in wildlife survey
and inventory techniques. Upon completion, the students would receive
a certificate and be posted in the field.
8.        Graduate and Post-Graduate Training.  The project would provide for
four fellowships for undergraduate and graduate level training in conservation
management and related areas at a university in the region or. elsewhere abroad.
9.        Field Training for Protected Area Staff.  Field training for staff
working in the protected areas would be provided through specialized short term
course in protected area management and subsequent field training in the areas
where staff have been assigned. Provision has been made for 410 person months
of training under this program.
10.       Study Tours.  Provision has been made for 50 percon months of study
tours to protected areas and conservation management programs in the region.
Training for Rural Communities
11.       The new system of resource management to be introduced under the
project implies radical changes in the roles, rights and authority of Government
and the private sector on land and forest resource access and use. To assure
effective implementation of the new management system, a public awareness
campaign on the objectives, mechanisms and legal aspects of the new system will
need to be carried out. As part of the project activities, project staff will
be trained by the Ministry of Justice on the new legal framework and
implementation of the regulations. As part of the community mobilization process
for resource management, trained staff will educate villagers in the project area
regarding the new resource management system, particularly how the system will
affect their rights to use of forest resources. Aspects of land tenure, zoning,
legal framework and sustainable forest resource management will also be
explained. Forestry staff should emphasize that the Land Use Plans which will
be developed in the community mobilization process are based on this new legal
framework, and should improve the security of village access to traditional
forest resources.



- 66 -                                     Annex 8
Page 1 of 6
LAO PDR
FOREST MANAGEMENT AND CONSERVATION PROJECT
Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance
Note:  Individual job descriptions may change according to the qualifications of TA staff. It is envisaged that
the TA team as a whole will cover the required expertise. Extensive liaison and pooling of resources with
specialists of other projects will also be established.  Specialists are required to have strong
communication skills, the ability to relate to high Governmnent officials, a jr -4 wcmmand of both written
and spoken English and the ability to learn Lao.
A. FOREST MANAGEMENT:LONG TERM OPERATIONS MANAGERS (FNNIDA)
1. Project Coordinator. Vientiane Project Office
(60 person-months)
Oualifications: M.S. in forestry economics or in a related discipline. A sound understanding of forest policy and
conservation issues as well as of economic policies and sectoral strategic planning. A minimum of 15 years
experience of forest management and conservation, including extensive experience of project management in
developing countries, particularly in Asia.
Duties:
Management. Work closely with GOL Project Director and GOL Vientiane Project Office Manager in
overall project management, coordination and supervision, including: (a) preparation of annual work plans and
budgets, procuremert contracts, and other working documents; (b) preparation of progress reports and other
documentation required by GOL, IDA, and FINNIDA; and (c) monitoring of project progress, including staff
performance. Liaise extensively with GOL bodies, Lao mass organizations, NGOs as well as international
agencies, facilitating sectoral and inter-sectoral linkages and coordination. Work closely with the GOL Vientiane
Project Office Manager in planning and supervising the field operations in the central provinces.
Technical and Institutional Develonment. Contribute to the implementation and revision of forest policy
and associated legislation as well as further development of organizational structures and management practices.
Identify training needs in consultation with FTO and coordinate the preparation and implementation of an
effective in-service training program. Train DOF staff in sectoral strategic planning and management skills.
2. Forest Management Plannina Snecialist. Vientiane Proiect Office
(48 person-months)
Oualifications: M.S. in forestry, specialization in forest management planning or inventory. Sound understanding
of tropical forest inventory, participatory planning methods and forest management information systems. A
minimum of 7 years experience of forest management and conservation, with experience in developing countries,
particularly in Asia.
Duties:
Management. Together with GOL counterpart and supported by the Forest Inventory Specialist, lead
the inventory and planning operations in Vientiane Project Office, with extensive field work input, including:
(a) RMA survey, delineation and demarcation of RMA and zone boundaries; (b) preparation or forest
management and land use plans; (c) drawing up village management agreements; (d) preparation of annual
allowable cut estimates in the project area; and (e) preparation of medium-tcrm (3-5 years) operational plans.
Technical and Institutional Development. Together with Forest Inventory Specialist and in consultation
with NOFIP: (a) develop operational forest management planning methods, with special emphasis on forest
management information systems; (b) contribute towards establishing the institutional capacity at different levels



- 67 -                                       Annex 8
Page 2 of 6
of GOL administration to carry out inventory and planning after the project period, with special emphasis on
field operational capacity; and (c) train planning and inventory staff, with emphasis on field level operational
training.
3. Harvestingt and Control Specialist. Vientiane Proiect Office
(48 person-months)
Oualifications: M.S. in forestry, specialization in logging. Sound understanding of tropical timber harvesting,
forest products measurement, grading, log marketing. A minimum of 10 years field experience in logging and
transport, experience in developing countries, particularly Asia.
Duties:
Management. Together with DOF and Ministry of Justice, review existing regulation and control
procedures and establish permanent surveillance and monitoring of forest management (harvesting, silviculture
and protection) and log marketing (transport, market centers and trade), including: (a) setting up of monitoring
units and directing their operations; (b) establishing monitoring mechanisms concerning adherence to logging
and management plans; (c) establishing surveillance on log supply and log trade routes including arterial and
secondary roads and the Mekong and tributaqy rivers; and (d) mobile and permanent surveillance of illicit logging
or trade. Together with DOF staff, and with extensive inputs from other specialists, establish contracting
procedures for field work implementation.
Technical and Institutional Development. Together with counterpart staff and Forest Management
Specialist, establish sound harvesting procedures, including: (a) development and implementation of guidelines
for non-destructive harvesting methods; and (b) development and testing of contracting procedures.  In
consultation with FTO and the Ministry of Justice, establish in-service training programs for DOF staff and the
Forest Police. Train staff in management and pertinent technical disciplines, prepare training material and
manuals as required. Design and implement training programs for contractors.
4. Coordinator, Savannakhet Project Office
(60 person-months)
Oualifications: M.S. in forestry, specialization in tropical silviculture. Sound understanding of tropical forest
inventory, sustainable management systems, participatory planning methods and harvesting operations. A
minimum of 10 years experience of forest management and conservation, including extensive experience in
developing countries, particularly in Asia.
Duties:
Management. Work closely with GOL Savannakhet Project Office Manager in planning and supervising
the field operations in the Southern provinces, including: (a) establishment of the project office; (b) drawing
detailed staff job descriptions and definition of responsibilities; (c) preparation of workplans, budgets, progress
reports and other working documents; and (d)supervision of the implementation of field activities; monitoring
project progress, including staff performance. Lead the forest management and conservation operations iu the
Project Office, with extensive field work input, including: (a) introduction and implementation of sustained yield
management practices; and (b) facilitating community-based resource management. Facilitate sectoral and inter-
sectoral coordination in the project area.
Technical and Institutional Development. In consultation with DOF staff, develop and implement
practical silvicultural techniques to be applied in production forests to ascertain post-harvesting sustained yield.
Identify staff training needs and, in a' lition to continuous on-the-job training, contribute to the preparation of
an overall in-service trairing program. Train staff in management skills and in relevant technical subjects. Prepare
training material and technical guidelines. Assess the development needs of other provincial and district forestry
offices in the Souther provinces, including infrastructure and human resource development.



- 68 -                                      Annex 8
Page 3 of 6
5. ForeEt Inventory Specialist. Savannakhet Proiect Office
(48 person-months)
Oualifications: M.S. in forestry, specialization in forest inventory. Sound understanding of tropical forest
inventory methods. A minimum of 7 years experience of forest management and inventory, with experience in
developing countries, particularly in Asia.
Duties:
Management. Together with GOL counterpart, lead the operations of Savannakhet, with extensive field
work input, including: (a) RMA survey, delineation and demarcation of RMA and zone boundaries; (b)
preparation or forest management and land use plans; (c) drawing up village management agreements; (d)
preparation of annual allowable cut estimates in the project area; and (e) preparation of medium-term (3-5
years) operational plans.
Technical and Institutional Development. Together with Forest Management Planning specialist and in
consultation with NOFIP, develop inventory methods, with special emphasis on establishing operational planning
capacity. Train planning and inventory staff, with emphasis on field level operational training.
6. Rural Development Specialist, Savannakhet Project Office
(48 person-months)
Qualifications: Academic qualifications in a discipline related to rural development, with emphasis on natural
resource management and conservation. Sound understanding of farmiing systems, agriculture and farm forestry.
A minimum of 7 years experience of facilitating community development, with extensive experience from
developing countries, particularly Asia.
Duties:
Management . In consultation with DOF staff, establish practical mechanisms for rural development,
community-based  forest management and conservation, including:  (a) assisting RMTs, their staff and
communities to establish priorities and programs to incorporate rural dwellers in forest management programs,
e.g. to mobilize resources into rehabilitation of degraded forests and small scale reforestation programs; (b)
assisting the communmities in developing sustainable agricultural practices; and (c) assisting the communities to
identify and take into use alternative income-generating activities. Together with the Community Development
Adviser, participate in the planning and implementation of village development programs.
Technical and Institutional Development . Together with pertinent DOF staff, participate in the design
of the process of entering into a Village Forest Management Agreement. Together with the Community
Development Adviser and in consultation with FTO, establish an in-service training program for rural extension
and community-based natural resource management. Prepare training material and manuals as required. Train
all levels of staff, with particular emphasis on RMTs and field staff, to understand the social dynamics behind
unsustainable land use practices.
B. SUPPORT SERVICES (FINNIDA)
Long-term
1. Natural Resource Economist. Vientiane Proiect Office
(36 person-months)
Oualifications: Academic qualifications in forest economics or related field. Sound understanding of sectoral
strategic planning, planning of industrial development, forest products marketing. A minimum of 10 years
experience in planning and economic analysis, with extensive experience from Asia.
Duties:
Management . Together with counterpart staff and LSFP economist, establish financial and economic
planning capacity within DOF. This would involve: (a) establishing the baseline cost data of forestry operations,



- 69 -                                      Annex 8
Page 4 of 6
distinguishing between state, village and private forests and between different management schemes; (b)
establishing DOF cash flows and investment budgeting; (c) developing the information base for economic impact
analysis; and (d) developing financial and management information systems.
Technical and Institutional Development . Study the conditions for utilization and marketing of forest
products. This would involve: (a) gradually evolving supply and demand data and analysis, including a system
to compile regular log production data; (b) export market analysis, starting with simple market data collection
and evolving into an efficient market intelligence unit; (c) analysis of industry structure with regard to existing
and potential markets; (d) analysis of competitive advantages; and (e) productivity and profitability analysis.
Carry out other economic studies, with a view of contributing to sectoral policy formulation as well as to more
efficient field level operations. Establish the staff requirements for effective economic planning. Design in-service
training programn, contribute to formal curriculum development. Train staff in management and pertinent
technical subjects.
Short-term
2. Short-term specialists
(max. 50 person-months)
Oualifications: International, regional and local specialists with relevant qualifications and experience. These
will be only recruited when specialized expertise is urgently required. It is envisaged that they would be working
in the following areas: (a) Forest Products Marketing, with emphasis on establishing efficient log marketing
procedures; (b) Silviculture; (c) Log Scaling and Grading; (d) Land and Forestry Policy and Legislation; and (e)
Agroforestry.
Duties: The actual Terms of Reference, contract duration, and phasing will be decided upon during project
implementation.
C. CONSERVATIONMANAGEMENT (GET)
Long Term
1. Conservation Program Manager
(60 person-months)
Oualifications: Relevant academic qualifications with deep botanical knowledge. A minimum of 8 years
experience, preferably in South East Asia, in developing and managing conservation programs, including survey
and inventory, protected areas and related community programs, and training.
Duties:
Management . Together with the GOL counterpart and in close collaboration with DOF staff, overall
conservation component management, including: (a) financial administration and management, logistical support
for obtaining appropriate equipment; (b) coordination, supervision and monitoring of progress, including staff
performance; (c) design, establishment and management of the designated protected areas; and (d) community
involvement in protection programs. Link project activities to a national conservation program; liaise extensively
with local and intemational organizations. In close collaboration with the regional PROSEA (Plant Resources
of South East Asia) project, initiate and implement nationwide survey of flora. Establish national herbarium with
the associated data base.
Technical and Institutional Development . Contribute to the development of protected area monitoring
systems, encompassing ecological and socio-economic information. In close collaboration with DOF staff,
parlicularly FTO, identify training needs of protected area field staff, implement an in-service training program,
also making use of appropriate regional training opportunities.



70 -                                     Annex 8
Page 5 of 6
2. Community Development Adviser
(48 person-months)
Oualirlcations: Academic qualifications in sociology, social anthropology or related discipline, with emphasis
on rural development. Sound understanding of rural society dynamics, production systems, participatory planning
methods. Extensive demonstrated experience in field level community development work in South-East Asia,
preferably in Laos or northeastern Thailand. Strong communication skills in Thai and/or Lao.
Duties:
Management. Together with DOF staff, various GOL organizations as well as NMGOs, develop and
implement a village level community development program, including: (a) surveying the social and economic
conditions of the villages; (b) identifying Community Organizers and other village resource persons; (c) assisting
villagers to establish priorities for development; (d) specifying program incentives; and (e) organizing the delivery
of project inputs and assisting villagers to provide their inputs.  Liaise extensively with local women's
organizations and locally present NGOs, to facilitate their participation in project supported and complementary
activities.
Technical and Institutional Development. Together with the Rural Development Specialist and the
Women-in-Development Specialist, and in close collaboration of pertinent DOF staff, design an in-service
training program for forest technicians and community organizers. Train DOF staff, prepare training material
as required.
3. Women-in-DeveloDmentSSnecialist
(48 person-months)
Oualifications: Academic qualifications in sociology, social anthropology or related discipline, with emphasis
on rural development. Sound experience of women issues in field development work in South-East Asia,
preferably in Laos or northeastern Thailand. Strong communication skills in Thai and/or Lao.
Duties:
Management. Together with the Community Development Advisers and the Rural Development
Specialists, develop and implement community forestry programs. Will have specific responsibility for addressing
the role of women in forestry. Liaise extensively with local women's organizations to facilitate their participation
under the project.
Technical and Institutional Development. Design and implement training programs for outreach teams,
with appropriate emphasis on the development of women in forestry.
Short-term
(i) Environmental Monitorine and Survey
1. Environmental Monitorine Snecialist
(12 person-months)
Qualifications: RP.levant academic qualifications and at least 10 years experience in designing environmental
monitoring programs in South East Asia in watershed areas and production forests.
Duties: In close collaboration with DOF staff, design and implement an environmental monitoring and
evaluation program, with special emphasis on protected areas. The program would include the evaluation of the
effectiveness of project design and management plans in achieving project objectives. Provide inputs towards
the development of environmental monitoring in conservatioii and production forests. Provide inputs to the
design of the nationwide survey of flora. Provide extensive on-the-job training to GOL staff involved in
protection and monitoring.



- 71 -                                      Annex 8
Page 6 of 6
2. Inventory Specialists
(2 @ 12 person-months)
Oualirications: Relevant academic qualifications in natural resource inventory with sound knowledge of the flora
and fauna in the region. Extensive experience in implementing natural resource inventories in tropical forests.
In close collaboration with pertinent DOF staff, design and conduct field surveys of high-priority protected areas.
Duties: In close collaboration with pertinent DOF staff, design and conduct nationwide survey of flora, with the
aim of establishing data base and herbarium. Assist in on-going DOF field projects such as kouprey and wild
elephant surveys. Assist counterpart staff to understand principles and techniques of field inventories. Provide
input into training materials for in-service training courses.
(ii) Other Functions
3. Conservation Trust Fund Adviser
(6 person-months)
Oualirications: Extensive international experience in the legal and financial modalities of designing and
establishing an operational Conservation Trust Fund. This position can be filled by either an individual or an
organization working in innovative conservation finance mechanisms.
Duties: Design all components of the Conservation Trust Fund, including administration, legal arrangements,
and implement the fund for the project.
4. Short Term Specialists
(max. 12 person-months)
(ualirications: Specialists in technical social and environmental disciplines.
Duties: As required.



LAO PDR
FOREST MANAGEMENT AND CONSERVATION PROJECT
Table 1: Financing Plan by Summary Accounts
(USS '000)
GLOBAL
INTL PEVELOP    ENVIRONMENTAL                      GOVERNMENT OF
ASSOC.         TRUST FUND        FINNIDA          LAO PDR           Total                               Local
(Excl.          Duties &
Amount      X   Amount       %   Amount       %   Amount        X   Amount       X       For. Exch.         taxes)            Taxes
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. CIVIL WORKS           3,897.0   100.0                      -       -                     -  3,897.0   19.1       2,727.9          1,169.1
B. CIVIL WORKS                  -       - 1,382.3   100.0         -       -        -        -  1,382.3    6.8         967.6            414.7
C. VEHICLES & EQUIPMENT  3,358.9   100.0         -       -        -       -        -        -  3,358.9   16.5       2,799.9            559.0
D. VEHICLES & EQUIPMENT         -       -        -       -   374.3   100.0         -        -    374.3    1.8         318.4             55.9
E. VEHICLES & EQUIPMENT         -       - 1,123.2   100.0         -       -        -        -  1,123.2    5.5       1,004.7            118.5
F. TRAINING                     -       -   599.3   100.0         -                -       -    599.3    2.9          290.2            309.1
G. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE         -       -        -       - 4,835.5   100.0         -        -  4,835.5   23.8       3,868.4            967.1
H. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE         -       - 1.588.8   100.G                 - -              -  1.588.8    7.8        1.271.1            317.8
Total INVESTMENT COSTS       7,255.9    42.3 4,693.6    27.4 5,209.7    30.4           -        - 17,159.2   84.3       13,248.0         3,911.1
II. RECURRENT COSTS
A. SALARIES & ALLOWANCES        -       -    81.6   100.0         -       -                 -     81.6    0.4             -             81.6
B. SALARIES & ALLOWANCES   669.7   100.0                  -       -                -        -    669.7    3.3              -           669.7
C. SALARIES & ALLOWANCES        -       -        -                -       -   413.8   100.0    413.8    2.0                            413.8
D. FUEL & MATERIALS             -       -   252.1   100.0                          -       -    252.1    1.2          201.7             50.4
E. FUEL & MATERIALS        759.0   100.0         -       -        -       -        -       -    759.0    3.7          607.2            151.8
F. FUEL & MATERIALS             -       -        -       -   382.9   100.0         -       -    382.9    1.9          306.3             76.6
G. FUEL & MATERIALS             -       -       -                 -       -   636.0   100.0    636.0    3.1           508.8            127.2
Total RECURRENT COSTS         1,428.7    44.7   333.7    10.4   382.9    12.0 1,049.8    32.9  3,195.1   15.7           1,624.0          1,571.1
Total Disbursement           8,684.6    42.7 5,027.3    24.7 5,592.6    27.5 1,049.8         5.2 20,354.3  100.0        14,872.0         5,482.2
'a
0
I-i
O0tD
t1'X



LAO PDR
FOREST MANAGEMENT AND CONSERVATION PROJECT
Table 2: Financing Plan by Project Comrponents
(USS '000)
GLOBAL
INTL DEVELOP    ENVIRONMENTAL                      GOVERNMENT OF
ASSOC.          FACILITY          FINNIDA          LAO PDR            Total                              Local
(Exct.          Duties &
Amount      %   Amount       X   Amount        %   Amount       %   Amount        %       For. Exch.          taxes)            Taxes
A. INVENTORY AND PLANNING    1,256.1    84.2          -                         -   236.3    15.8   1,492.4    7.3        1,105.0             387.4
B. MANAGEMENT AND PROTECTION 7,428.5    92.3          -       -        -        -   621.7      7.7  8,050.2   39.6        5,432.7           2,617.5
C. PROTECTED AREAS
ESTABLISHMENT                    -        - 2,725.6    93.4         -        -   191.8      6.6  2,917.4   14.3        2,189.2             728.2
D. HUMAN RESOJRCES
DEVELOPMENT                      -        -   599.3    76.0    189.8    24.0          -       -    789.0    3.9          461.0             328.1
E. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE             -        - 1.702.4    24.7 5.402.8    76.0           -       -  7.105.3   34.9        5,684.2           1.421.1
Total Disbursement            8,684.6    42.7 5,027.3    24.7 5,592.6    27.5  1,049.8         5.2 20,354.3  100.0        14,872.0          5,482.2
(D
tX
v SD



LAO PDR
FOREST MANAGEMENT AND CONSERVATION PROJECT
Table 3:  Summary Accounts Cost Summary
(KIP '000)                                            (USS '000)                                          X Total
% Foreign          Base
Local           Foreign             Total             Local            Foreign            Total          Exchange          Costs
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. CIVIL WORKS                        635,400.0       1,482,600.0       2,118,000.0              900.0           2,100.0           3,000.0            70             17
S. CIVIL WORKS                        251,777.3         587,480.3         839,257.5              356.6             832.1           1,188.8            70              7
C. VEHICLES & EQUIPMENT               350,126.6       1,765,967.2       2,116,093.8              495.9          2,501.4            2,997.3            83             17
D. VEHICLES & EQUIPMENT                37,737.5         212,557.2         250,294.7               53.5             301.1             354.5            85              2
E. VEHICLES & EQUIPMENT                75,619.7         638,216.9         713,836.6              107.1             904.0           1,011.1            89              5
F. TRAINING                           192,130.8         180,736.0         372,866.8             272.1             256.0             528.1             48              3
G. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE               602,924.0       2,411,696.0       3,014,620.0              854.0          3,416.0           4,270.0             80             24
H. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE               199.205.0         796.819.8         996.024.8              282.2           1,128.6           1,410.8            80              8
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                  2,344,920.8       8,076,073.4      10,420,994.2            3,321.4          11,439.2          14,760.6            77             84
II. RECURRENT COSTS
A  SALARIES & ALLOWANCES               50,111.2                -           50,111.2               71.0               -                71.0             -              0
B. SALARIES & ALLOWANCES              411,751.9                -          411,751.9              583.2               -              583.2              -              3
C. OALARIES & ALLOWANCES              245,267.4                -          245,267.4              347.4               -              347.4              -              2
0. FUEL & MATERIALS                    31,198.1         124,792.6         155,990.7               44.2             176.8             221.0            80              1
E. FUEL & MATERIALS                    91,144.6         364,578.4         455,723.0              129.1             516.4             645.5            80              4
F. FUEL & MATERIALS                    47,725.6         190,902.4         238,628.0              67.6             270.4             338.0             80              2
G. FUEL & MATERIALS                    73,655.6         294.622.3         368.277.8              104.3            417.3              521.6            80              3
Total RECURRENT COSTS                     950,854.4         974,895.6       1,925,750.0            1,346.8           1,380.9           2,727.7            51             16
Total BASELINE COSTS                    3,295,775.1       9,050,969.1      12,346,744.2            4,668.2         12,820.1           17,488.3            73            100
Physical Contingencies                 67,905.8         165,723.1         233,628.8               96.2             234.7            330.9             71              2
Price Contingencies                   506,764.5       1.282.966.8       1.789.731.3              717.8          1.817.2           2.535.0             72             14
Total PROJECT COSTS                     3,870,445.4      10,499,658.9      14,370,104.3            5,482.2          14,872.0         20,354.3             73            116
0(D
w 
O 



LAO PDR
FOREST MANAGEMENT AND CONSERVATION PROJECT
Table 4: Project Coimponents by Year
Totals Including Contingencies                                     Totals Including Contingencies
(KIP '000)                                                         (USS '000)
1994         1995         1996         1997         1998         Total      1994      1995     1996    1997      1998    Total
A. INVENTORY AND PLANNING            326,395.1   336,818.6   175,211.0   109,821.1    105,413.2 1,053,658.9    462.3    477.1    248.2    155.6    149.3  1,492.4
B. MANAGEMENT AND PROTECTION         306,589.2   780,192.6 1,239,637.2 1,401,855.9 1,955,145.7 5,683,420.6    434.3  1,105.1  1,755.9  1,985.6  2,769.3  8,050.2   ,
C. PROTECTED AREAS ESTABLISHMENT    253,611.8   339,579.8   435,288.9   548,142.3   483,041.7 2,059,664.5    359.2    481.0    616.6    776.4    684.2  2,917.4   u'
D. HUMAN RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT        99,899.0    127,784.8   139,072.7   101,841.1       88,461.5   557,049.1    141.5    181.0    197.0    144.3    125.3    789.0
E. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE              958.257.3 1.007.841.8 1.058.233.9   111.145.6   880.832.5 5.016.311.2  1.357.3  1.427.5  1.498.9  1.573.9  1,247.6 7.105.3
Total PROJECT COSTS                1,944,742.4 2,592,217.6 3,047,443.7 3,272,806.0 3,512,894.6 14,370,104.3  2,754.6  3,671.7  4,316.5  4,635.7 4,975.8 20,354.3
OD
tol
m X
&P k



- 76 -                             Annex 10
Page 1 of 3
LAO PDR
FOREST MANAGEMENT AND CONSERVATION PROJECT
Analysis of Benefits
Scope of Analysis
1.        Benefit analysis is limited to estimates of improved rent capture
through proposed changes in pricing and taxation, and improved harvest
regulation, control and technical performance.
2.        Insufficient data on biological, hydrologic and land use impacts of
loss of forest cover makes meaningful economic analysis of the benefits of
maintaining forests impossible. The following benefits have therefore not been
quantified: maintenance of biological diversity, non-wood forest products,',
watershed integrity and stream flow regularity.2/
Parity Pricing and Taxation of Forest Products
3.        Adoption of one level of pricing and forest tax for all forest
products would deter the present practice of paying domestic (tree and resource)
tax and then diverting the logs to illegal export.  This practice results in
substantial losses in export taxes. Domestic and export taxes on average species
mix (Annex 3, Table 5) together amount to US$61.90/cu m, of which US$44.70/cu m
is export tax. Assuming that domestic logs were taxed at the combined (export)
rate, the additional tax revenue on the domestic log consumption of 180,000 cu
m/annum would amount to an increase in annual taxes of US$8 million.
Regulation and Control of Loqcqinca and Log Transport
4.        Benefits accruing from improved forest regulation and control measures
can be quantified. The proposed measures include: monitoring of forest users to
ensure compliance with agreements and management plans; check-grading and scaling
to ensure that log species, grades and volumes are declared correctly and that
volumes harvested are in accordance with quotas; monitoring forest product
transport to point of use (or export) to verify quantity, species and legality
of  source.   The benefits accruing to the national  economy from improved
regulation and control of logging combined with imposition of parity pricing and
taxation for export and domestic log sales are significant.
1' Maintenance of abundant supplies of non-wood forest products will provide
substantial cash incomes for forest dwelling and adjacent communities - providing
alternatives to supplement subsistence agriculture.
21 Maintenance of forest cover will benefit the small gravity weir irrigation
schemes, upon which 59t of Lao's irrigated agricultural land are based; as well
as future hydro-electric development.



- 77 -                              aex 1.
Page 2 of 3
s.        Reducing the practice of incorrect declaration of species, grade and
quantity would result in a substantial increase in forest revenues which are
presently being lost to Government and enjoyed in the form of excessive profits
by loggers and timber exporters. Approximately 15 % of the annual logging quota
for the project area consists of high value species. Assuming that 50% of this
volume is falsely declared as lower value species, export taxes evaded by this
under-declaration would amount to an annual level of US$3.9 million (export tax
on rosewoods at US$253.50 per cu m and on common species at US$44.70 per cu m,
Annex 3, Tables 4 & 5).
6.        There has been considerable wastage and degradation of timber due to
untimely delivery from forest landings to use or export point.  Reducing the
quantity of illegal logs reaching the market would increase log prices due to
decreased supply. Higher log prices combined with better controls on the part
of DOF would stimulate timber contractors to more timely recovery of logs.
Timber contractors and DOF would both benefit from higher prices (and higher
taxes) for fresher, higher grades of logs. Assuming a 15% improvement in the
level of export log prices shown for the species mix in Annex 3, Table 5, the
average price would improve from US$95 to US$110 per cu m. On the (legal) export
log volume for the project area of 270,000 cu m per annum, the annual benefit
from reduced waste and degradation of export logs would be approximately US$1
million. A similar benefit in log prices could be projected for the 180,000 cu
m of locally consumed logs. Assuming the average domestic log price for common
species increases by 15%, the average log price would increase from US$65 to US$
75/cu m.  This represents an annual benefit of US$1.8 million.  The combined
benefit of reduced waste/degrade in export and domestic logs from the project
area would be US$2.8 million. Taxation benefits from these improved log values
were not analyzed, as major increases in forest taxes are already contemplated,
as discussed above.
Summary and Analysis of Benefit Streams
7.        The potential full annual benefits identified in paras. 4-6 are shown
on the first line of the following table. It should be noted that due to the
gradual phasing in of the proposed measures during project implementation, the
maximum benefits of each of these measures would not be realized for several
years. The anticipated benefit for each year/period of the project (assuming a
10 year time horizon) is shown along with the Net Present Value (at 12%) of a 10
year stream of benefits. It was assumed that the percentage of full potential
benefit would be as follows: 5% in year 1; 40t in year 5; 90% in year 10.
8.        It should be noted that the benefits shown here are "indicative" of
the levels of benefits accruing from improvements in forest taxation, regulation
and control envisioned under the project. Due to a lack of detailed data on the
magnitude of illegal logging and the quantities and prices of logs traded, the
actual amounts of benefits could vary considerably.
9.        Data shown in Table 1 indicate that the Net Present Values of benefits
over the 10 year period are about $16 million for parity pricing and taxation,
$8 million decreased falsification of species declaration, and $6 million for
reduced waste/degrade, or a total of about $30 million.



- 78 -                                      Annex 10
Page 3 of 3
Table 1
Forest Management and Conservation Project
Benefits Analysis for Taxation. Regulation and Control Measures
(Project Area - 10 Year Time Horizon)
Summary of Benefits
Type of         Parity Pricing  &          Reduced Mis-           Reduced log       Total Annual
Benefits      Taxes For Domestic Logs    declaration of log       wastage and          Benefit
prices               degrade
Year of Project           MAXIMUM                   ANNUAL               BENEFIT           $13.4
$8,000,000               $3,900,000           $2,800,000         Million
1                   400,000                  195,000              140,000            0.74
2                   800,000                  390,000              280,000             1.47
3                 1,600,000                  780,000              560,000             2.94
4                 2,400,000                1,170,000              840,000             4.41
5                 3,200,000                1,560,000            1,120,000            5.88
6-10                5,600,000               2,720,000             1,960,000           10.28
Net Present
Value of              S 16.6                     $ 8.1                $ 5.8            $ 30.5
Benefits             Million                    Million              Million           Million
Conclusion
10.          Analyses  presented  here  indicates  prima  facie  that  the  returns  to
improved efficiency in resource management and rent capture can justify the
allocation of resources to sustainable forest management. This conclusion is
subject to qualifications of paucity and accuracy of data, risks associated with
poor implementation performance and impacts of political opposition from the
"losers" under the new systems of regulation.
11.          The alternative options of accelerated logging to maximize returns in
the short term (a strategy that has been followed in most neighbouring
countries), or implementation of increased rent capture mechanisms, have not been
analyzed due to the lack of data.



- 79 -                              Annex 11
LAO PDR
FOREST MANAGEMENT AND CONSERVATION
Estimated Schedule of Credit Di.sbursements
DA fiscal year                                  Regional agricultural projects
and semester              Cumulative              disbursements Profile (t)
(US$ million)     (%)      Lao PDR a/           Regional
FY94
First              0.1              1            0                  0
Second             0.4              5            8                  1
FY95
First              1.3             15           14                  4
Second             1.7             20           14                  9
FY96
First              4.0             46          43                  14
Second             4.6             54           56                 22
FY97
First              5.4             63           58                 29
Second             6.3             72           64                 37
FY98
First              6.9             80           71                 44
Second             8.7           100            97                 52
FY99
First              8.7            100         100                  59b/
a/ From IDA Credit 1395-LA counted as from date of effectiveness.
b/ Full disbursement in 8 years.



- 80 -                                         Annex 12
Lao PDR
FOREST MAKAGEMENT AND CONSERVATION PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
Project coemPonent                                       Year 1      Year 2      Years 3-5
Pre-'roject    1 2 3 4  1 2 3 4  1 2 3 4
A. IMPROVED FOREST MANAGEMENT
Selection of Resource Management Areas    *
Issuance of Forestry Decree
Issuance of Regulations
Technical Assistance
Establishment of Project Offices
Zoning of Management Units
Inventory of Forest Zones
Preparation of Management Plans
Letting of Harvesting Contracts
Forest Management Activities
Training
---_--...-----_---_--------__..---------_.-__-----------_---------------_-_--__----_.-.-------
B. PROTECTED AREAS
Identification of Potential Areas
Selection of Sites and Issuance of Decrees    ********************
Preliminary Management Plans for:
Site   1
Site  2
Site  3
Site  4
Preparation of Operational Plans for:
Site   1
Site  2
Site  3
Site  4
ImpLementation of Plans:
Site   1
Site  2
Site  3
Site  4
C. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND TRAINING
(1) IMPROVED FOREST MANAGEMENT
Vientiane Project Office
Project Coordinator
Forest Management Planning
Harvesting Control
Savannakhet Project Office
Coordinator, Forest Mgmt.
Rural Development
Inventory
Natural Resource Economist
Short term (as required)                                  * * * * * * * * * * *
.. . . . .. . . . . .. . . . . .. . . . . .. .   . . ...   ........ . . .. . .. .. . . . . .
(2) PROTECTED AREAS
Conserv. Program Manager
Community Development
Environmental Monitoring
Inventory Specialists                                  ******
Cons. Trust Fund Adviser
Miscellaneous                                          * * * * * * * *  * *



LAO PDR
FOREST MANAGEMENT AND CONSERVATION PROJECT
SUPERVISION SCHEDULE
Project Year          Date              Duration                     Skills Needed                                   Areas of Concentration
(m/yr)              (weeks)
1               6/93                 2.5           Forest Management                        Credit effectiveness; review of FY94 work programs and
Forest Ecology                          budgets; procurement, disbursement (incLuding use of
Financial Management                    Special Accounts); project accounts, reporting;
Project Operations                       selection of Resource Management Areas and forest
ranges; zoning and forest inventory; aerial photography
procurement; forest regulations; review of management
plan for Nakai/Nam Theun protected area; training.
1              10/93                 2.5           Forest Management                        Approval FY 94 annual work program and formats of
Forest Industry                          progress reports; annual allowable cuts; procurement
Land Use Planning                        and disbursement; Land use rind forest management plans,
Comnity Development                      draft forest management contracts; public information
campaigns; forest regulations; scaling and grading;
issuance of Decrees establishing protected areas;
buffer zone development.
4/94                 2.5           Forest Management                        Procurement and disbursement; review of field
Forest Ecology                           operations in zoning, inventory, community
Community Development                    mobilization, management planning, regulatory control;               co
Forest Economist                         resource pricing and taxation; harvesting contracts;
envirornmental monitoring; buffer zone development;
training.
2               10/94                2.5           Forest Management                        FY95 work program and financing plan; FY94 annual
Forest Industry                          report; public information canpaigns; forest management
Rural Development                        planning; Letting of harvesting contracts; post-harvest
Agriculture                              ope:ations; regulatory control; protected area
management; buffer zone development; enviromnental
monitoring.
2               4/95                 2.5           Forest Management                        Compliance with forest management plans; post-harvest
Forest Economist                        operations; regulatory control; village forestry and
Rural Development                        buffer zone development; training.
3              10/95                 2.5           Forest Management                        FY96 work program and financing plan; FY95 annual
Forest Ecology                           report; annual allowable cuts for 1996; regulatory
Rural Development                        control; buffer zone development; protected area
Agriculture                              management; enviroonental monitoring.
a X



Proiect Year         Date              Duration                     Skills Needed                                  Areas of Concentration
l               l     (m/yr)              (weeks)                                                I
3              4/96                 2.5           Forest Management                        Review of forestry operations and evaluation of project
Forest Ecology                          strategy and impact; regulatory control; buffer zone
Rural Development                       development; inventory of flora and fauna, and
establishment of data base.
4              10/96                2.5           Forest Management                        FY97 work program and financing plan; FY96 annual
Financial Management                    report; annual allowable cuts for 1997; resource
Forest Economist                        economics; regulatory control; establishment of
Conservation Trust Fund.
4               4/97                2.5           Forest Management                        Harvesting contracts for 1998; regulatory control;
Forest Ecology                          buffer zone development; protected areas establishment;
Rural Development                       training.
______________  _______________             Agriculture
5              10/97                2.5           Forest Management                        FY98 work program and financing plan; FY97 annual
Forest Ecology                          report; annual allowable cuts for 1998; regulatory
Rural Development                       control; buffer zone development; completion of                     OD
protected areas establishment.
5               4/98                2.5           Forest Management                        Preparation of project completion and impact evaluation
Forest Economist                        reports.
Financial Management
Rural Development                                                                                    l
6              10/98                2.5           Forest Economist                         Review project completion report.
to
SD
to
ID~
tw
O X
ti W



- 83 -                             Annex 14
Page 1 of 25
LAO PDR
Forest ManaQement and Conservation Prolect
ENVIRONMENTAL ANALYSIS
Introduction
1.        The Forest Management and Conservation Project (FMCP) in Lao PDR aims
to assist the Lao PDR Government (GOL) to develop and implement a new resource
management system for the protection and sustainable use of the country's forest
resources. Lao PDR hes one of the highest proportions (47%) of relatively intact
forests in Asia, which are among the most biologically diverse in the Indo-
Malayan and Oceanic region. However, this forest is rapidly disappearing: its
coverage has dropped from about 70% (16 million ha) of the total land area in
1940 to 48% (11 million ha) in 1981, or about a rate of 1t (120,000 ha) per year.
2.        Currently,  nearly all forests  in Lao PDR are being used in an
unsustainable manner but there are few records on the dynamics of deforestation.
Shifting cultivation on about 300,000 ha per year is a major cause of
deforestation and is increasing due to growing population pressure.   Forest
encroachment by permanent agriculturists in search of additional land is another
factor.  While shifting cultivation is the main problem in the north, forest
encroachment is so in the center and south. Growing demand for fuelwood, which
accounts for about 80% of the total energy needs of the people, and the
uncontrolled of about 30,000 ha of forest land annually also contribute to
deforestation.
3.        The project therefore aims to balance the need to protect forest
resources with the gro ;ng demand by an increasing population for agricultural
land by introducing a new system of resource management which promotes improved
yield man~_ement and conservation of forest areas. This Environmental Analysis
attempts to analyze the potential impact of the project on the environment, used
here in its broadest sense to include the physical, biological,  social and
economic environments.   As how project activities perform would determine
results,  their likely performance is analyzed, and mitigation measures are
proposed for potential negative results.
Forestry Policy Framework
4.        The national  forestry policy  framework  continues  to evolve,  as
presented in various Government statements made at national conferences, speeches
and other public forums. Major policy changes have occurred since the National
Forestry Conference in May 1989 concluded that unless a new system of sustainable
forest management was implemented, the forest areas would be destroyed.
Government responded in August 1991 with the promulgation of Decree No. 67
suspending all logging activities and initiating a country-wide audit of forestry
operations. The audit focused on compliance of operations with logging quotas
set by central and provincial authorities, and on sawmill operations and forestry
tax collection. It highlighted the lack of regulation and control of the forest
industry, and recommended the continued interdiction of forest operations if not
supported by adequate inventory and forest management planning.



- 84 -
Annex 14
Page 2 of 25
5.        New macroeconomic policies introduced in 1991 also iffected natural
resource  management.    They  included  the  disengagement  policy  for  state
enterprises which opened the way for possible divestment of public sector
i-volvement in state and provincial forest enterprises and wood industries; the
recentralization of economic and fiscal management; and the establishment of a
new taxation and fiscal system aimed at removing the pressure on provincial
governments to rely on inefficient provincial forest enterprises and forest
industries for budgetary resources.
6.        Government also recognized that incentives were needed to encourage
sustainable management and conservation by resource users, and recent forestry
policies emphasize this. An important element of this policy is the devolution
of responsibility for forest management to local communities, in recognition of
the fact that Government does not have the resources nor is it the most
appropriate agency to manage forest resources at the local level.
Institutional Framework
7.          The project would operate within the framework of the reorganized
Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, as laid down in Prime Minister's Decree No.
84/PM of November 1991. The reorganization created one single vertical structure
for central, provincial and district agriculture and forestry administration and
established national MAF jurisdiction on resource management.   MAF assumed
authority over planning and program implementation, personnel administration and
resource allocation for the public agriculture and forestry sectors from national
to local level.
8.        Under the reorganized system, the provincial and district governments
are an integral part of the unified Government structure and therefore represent
the  Government  at  the  local  level.    They have  full  responsibility  for
implementing national programs, including those supported under the project.
Local governments will receive their budgetary allocations from the central
budget, thus reducing their dependence on provincial forestry enterprises for
revenues. However, the budget allocation process is not clear, as it is likely
to be influenced heavily by complex political and other considerations. Complete
central control over resource management may not be the optimal arrangement as
it is likely to cause resentment with the provincial governments over the loss
of their authority within the past few years.  The latter may also lose all
incentive to conserve a resource which they may perceive to be no longer theirs
to manage.   Therefore,  although central control on the granting of forest
management contracts is aimed at having a positive environmental impact by
imposing some order in the system, it is clear that the provincial governments
need to have a say and to remain fully involved in the planning and
implementation of project activities.
9.        Responsibility for resource management is being devolved to the local
level, i.e., below the district level to the village level.  This Government
policy is endorsed in the Forestry Decree which provides for the appointment of
village forestry officers from local communities to assist them in the
implementation of the new resource management system. However, this should not



- 85 -
Annex 14
Page 3 of 25
be interpreted by provincial and district authorities as the further erosion of
their authority, and it is important to underline their responsibility for
implementing national programs at the local level. The new responsibilities of
village authorities have yet to be tested on a large scale, and therefore need
to be implemented very cautiously.
10.       DOF.  DOF is now headed by a Director and two Deputy Directors.  The
Director is responsible for overall administration, policy formulation and
implementation, budget management and human resource development. One Deputy
Director is in charge of planning and operations, and the other of forestry
regulations and enforcement.   The Department would implement six national
programs through three recently established National Offices for: (i) Forest
Inventory and Management Planning; (ii) Nature Conservation and Watershed
Management; and (iii) Forest Management and Protection.
11.       DOF has a core staff of trained foresters at headquarters.  In some
provinces, there may be sufficient numbers of forest technicians, but their level
of training is low.   The highest level of local training is for forest
technicians (post-secondary) ao there is no in-country tertiary level forestry
training. The quality of trainers, physical facilities and curricula, and the
access to teaching materials in the forestry schools, are inadequate. There is
overemphasis on timber harvesting, and inadequate attention to general forest
management, ecology, and environmental issues. Furthermore, DOF is constrained
by a lack of operating funds and therefore lacks the capacity to organize, manage
and monitor forestry development in Lao PDR.   Because of these constraints,
emphasis is placed on staff development under the project. The project design
recognizes that the low absorptive capacity may be a limiting factor, and thus
modest objectives have been set, concentrating in this phase on laying down the
framework for the new resuurce management system and on human resource
development.
12.       Proiect Staffincr.  The project would be implemented by DOF, with the
Department Director or a Deputy Director as Project Director, assisted by a full-
time Project Manager. Project components would be implemented by the national
offices responsible for these particular activities in DOF. In order to avoid
competition for scarce management level staff with LSFP, the project would be
under the overall responsibility of the same management unit as for LSFP. Field
implementation would be carried out through forestry staff at province, district
and range level. The project would initially be jointly managed by a Lao Project
Manager and the expatriate team leader, but the management responsibilities of
the latter would be phased out mid-way through the project.   To assist the
Project Director in monitoring project implementation and in ensuring that IDA
procurement guidelines are being followed, the expatriate team leader would
review all procurement and disbursement documents before they are submitted for
the Project Director's approval.
13.       Project staff would be placed in the DOF organization according to
their functions. For inventory and forest management planning work, staff would
be located at the National Office for Forest Inventory and Planning premises in
Vientiane and Savannakhet. The field work would be carried out during the dry



- 86 -
Annex 14
Page 4 of 25
season and compilation of data during the rainy season. Except when doing field
work, no inventory and management planning staff would be based at provincial or
district level.   All forest management and protection activities,  including
village forestry, would be implemented by the National Office for Forest
Management and Protection through DOF's existing administrative structure and its
staff at provincial and district level.
14.       In line with Government policy to deploy the majority of MAF staff to
the field, DOF aims at reassigning forestry staff to the project offices in
Vientiane and Savannakhet. As a result, staff would be available for project.
As the program implementation arrangements would focus resources on field
planning and management, reorientation of district forestry officers towards
these positions would be an integral part of project implementation.   The
Forestry Decree proposes the appointment of a   1lare forester per village; this
is an important step in building up local capacity for resource management.
15.       Human Resource Development.  In spite of the low technical level of
forestry staff, a human resource development strategy for DOF is only now being
developed.   This project will focus on two main aspects of human resource
development: (a) strengthening of DOF personnel; and (b) development of local
community skills in the new resource management system.   At provincial and
district levels, on-the-job training for regulation and control staff should not
pose any major difficulty. There are enough provincial and district forestry
staff to be trained. However, staff development for community mobilization and
development activities is a more complex issue.   DOF does not yet have any
structure to handle these activities, although a Community Forestry Unit is being
established with NGO support. Progress is expected to be slow initially while
the staff are trained in these new skills and are able to participate fully in
the outreach teams.   Grassroots level training of village foresters and the
education of local communities in the new resource management system are key
features of the community forestry activities which are expected to have a slow
start.
16.       Forestry staff must be adequately compensated to improve their morale
and to discourage corruption. At present levels of compensation are very low,
and payment of salaries of provincial staff is often in arrears by several
months. Since the issue of compensation cuts across the whole civil service, it
is not politically feasible to address it under the project. However, a civil
service reform program, which will include a revised compensation system, is
being envisaged under the proposed UNDP-finar.ced technical assistance program.
In the meantime, the project will finance the payment of field allowances and per
diems to forestry field staff as an incentive to them.
Legal Framework
17.       The Land Use Decree issued in December 1992 (Prime Minister's Decree
No. 99) lays down the framework for the management of non-forest land.  The
Forestry Decree to be implemented under the project will provide the legal basis
for the management and use of forest resources. Under present laws, all forest
lands belong to the state and are under the administration of MAF, but their



- 87 -
Annex 14
Page 5 of 25
classification is unclear. At present, forest communities have no legal rights
to forest land which may have been in their use for generations.   Due to
population growth, there has been unsustainable pressure on forest resources in
some areas, and the lack of secure land tenure has provided little incentive for
sustainable forest land use.
18.       The Forestry Decree provides a comprehensive framework for sustainable
resource management. It includes: a classification of forest lands; a zoning
process emphasizing local community participation in resource planning and
development; requirements for forest management planning and contracting in
forest operations; and the establishment of a regulatory framework. The Decree
classifies forest lands into five use categories (para. 13) and prcvides the
legal basis for adequate land allocation to local communities and protects
customary rights to forest land. It regulates forest extraction activities by
requiring approved forest management plans and provides for penalties and fines
in case of non-compliance with the plans.
19.       The Forestry Decree will be adopted on an interim basis as a legal
system is only now being established in Lao PDR. It is to be used as a tool to
test the new resource management system and gain experience for drafting more
permanent forestry legislation, which is scheduled for 1995. The project will
provide the necessary process and framework to support this, including mechanisms
for obtaining feedback from forest users. However, the Decree will have to be
carefully implemented through education and persuasion so that all communities
are fully briefed on it. This process cannot be rushed, as unless they fully
understand the Decree and agree with it, there will be no solid basis for their
participation  in  resource managewnnt.    The  contents  of  the  implementing
regulations are also important. Detailed regulations based on earlier drafts of
the Forestry Decree have been prepared, but they need to be updated and revised
to be in line w-th the final provisions of the Decree. A consultation process
for the review ot the regul,-ions, as was carried out for the Decree, needs to
be implemented.
20.       The  Forestry Decree  includes  trovisions  for  the  allocation  of
production forest to local communities. Villages will be allowed to manage small
blocks of forest for sustainable production, which will be an incentive to manage
harvesting in a more sustainable manner than can realistically be expected from
a commercial company.
Funding of Forestry ODerations
21.       Forest  Management  Fund.    DOF  operations  are  hampered  by  an
insufficient budget, although LSFP is contributing a substantial share of it.
Payment of salaries, particularly in the provinces, is often delayed and there
are insufficient funds for the purchase and operation of vehicles and equipment
and for paying operating costs. DOF does not have the logistical capability to
regulate and monitor  the activities of forest resource users.   A Forest
Management Fund (FMF) to be funded from the central budget is to be established
under the Forestry Decree. Its purpose is to provide adequate resources to DOF
to enable it to carry out its operations which will expand as a result of this



- 88 -
Annex 14
Page 6 of 25
project. Due to the Government budgetary crunch, there is a risk that the Fund
may not be fully operational during project implementation or that budgetary
allocations to it may be inadequate. This issue is not specific to the project
as it is an outcome of the macroeconomic management system.  To address the
issue, IDA will finance all incremental project operating costs in the first
three years of the project; the level of support will be reduced to SO% for the
remaining years of the project.   As IDA funding is phased out, budgetary
increases or allocations from the Fund should make up the difference.   The
operations of the Fund will be one of the parameters to be monitored by the
Consultative Group.
22.       Use of Proiect Funds.  There is concern that the scope of the project
is too large due to the weak human resource base and therefore should be reduced.
While the implementation of the community forestry component is indeed expected
to be slow, timelier actions are needed to bring logging activities under
control.   To achieve this, DOF requires adequate physical,  logistical,  and
financial resources to set up the surveillance and regulatory systems. Since the
project supports a process, the present allocation of funds to each project
activity is only indicative at this stage, and there will be flexibility during
implementation to reallocate funds between the project activities, as needed.
Disbursements of project funds will normally be on activities approved in the
annual workplans.
23.       About 59% of the total IDA credit of US$ 8.7 million is earmarked for
the community forestry component.  It is anticipated that there will be very
little disbursement for the community forestry activities during the first two
years when community development programs are being prepared.   The pace of
disbursement therefore will depend very much on the progress of these activities,
including the early appointment of CMTTs, the selection and training of forest
technicians and community organizers, and the extent of participation of the
local communities in the process. If the process slows down, disbursement of
funds will slow down accordingly. In addition, the monitoring mechanism to be
implemented under the project (para. 111) should provide advance information for
corrective measures to be taken, should project activities result in negative
impacts. Thus, the risk of excessive funding derailing the process is minimized.
Another 15% of the IDA credit has been allocated for regulatory and control
activities. This will be used mainly to purchase vehicles and equipment and to
fund field operating costs.  In the protected areas component, about US$ 1.3
million (26* of the GET grant) is earmarked for village development following the
same procedures as in the production forest areas.
Commercial Forestry
24.       The project will support three main reforms of the forestry sector:
(a) changes to the management system; (b) establishment of a regulatory and
control system; and (c) restructuring of the pricing and taxation system.
25.       The Management System.  Commercial logging operated previously on a
concession system under which state and provincial forest enterprises were
granted concessions to harvest logs according to an annual quota system. GOL



- 89 -
Annex 14
Page 7 of 25
devolved authority to grant logging concessions to provincial authorities, giving
them a high degree cf autonomy for forest exploitation and allowing them to
derive incomes from these concessions.   This situation encouraged provincial
governments to grant more concessions in order to boost their budgets. The lack
of enforcement of the quota system intended to regulate harvesting provided
little incentive to encourage long term planning of forest enterprises and to
match expansion in sawmill capacity with sustained timber supplies from the
forest.
26.       The concession system has failed to provide the necessary management
of the resource.  Logging has generally been carried out as mining of a free
good. The enterprises have been poorly managed, very much due to the lack of
firm control by the authorities, and the timber resource has been used in
wasteful  ways.    The  concessionaires  have  not  prevented  encroachment  or
destruction in their areas, nor carried out reforestation and other silvicultural
activities as required. The system is characterized by insufficient management
planning, poor coordination of log production with consumption, high waste and
degrade of logs, indiscriminate cutting by illegal and legitimate forest
enterprises alike and a high incidence of damage to residual forest.
Furthermore, there is no systematic documentation for checking origins of logs
from felling registers, log tally sheets and log transport documents. The system
is bound by many checks, approvals and documents with little coordination. Each
check post works in isolation, so malpractice is common. There is no workable
system relating volumes of allowable cut quota to those scaled at first and
second landings and volumes transported to processing plants or to export yards.
Due to lack of resources for both the Customs and Forestry Departments, there are
few official check posts and no mobile checking units. Illegal traders wishing
to avoid the few official regulation and control posts located along the major
routes simply bypass them. With such severe limitations on patrol capabilities
on the Mekong River and many roads which parallel both the Thai and Lao side of
the river, avoiding the official check posts is not difficult. Sawmill capacity
increased substantially to levels much in excess of official logging volumes.
27.       Part of the forest management planning process involves preparation
of annual  allowable  cut  (AAC)  estimates.    The  determination  of AAC,  or
sustainable timber yield, of a given forest area requires information on the
productive forest area by forest type and age class, standing volume, annual
growth rate and present condition of each forest type represented in the
production forest.   At present these factors are not well known for logging
concessions in operation.   Present forest management plans are short term in
nature and provide minimal resource information based on low intensity surveys.
Annual logging quotas are derived by dividing the estimated standing timber
volume by the duration of the concession agreement - sometimes only 15 years.
This type of quota calculation leads to unsustainable forest management. AACs
based on a gradual harvesting of mature forest areas and realistic growth rates
for regenerating immature forests should use longer rotation periods (35-40
years) between selective harvests in order to be sustainable.
28.       Under the project,  the concession system will be replaced by a
contracting system which reward sustainable yield management and adequate post



- 90 -
Annex 14
Page 8 of 25
harvest treatment of affected areas,  The Forestry Decree will require that
contracts are let only if supported by approved forest management plans. These
plans, based on initial survey data, will be prepared for priority areas
beginning with plans for existing concessions in the project area as well as
other areas selected for logging in the first five-year period.   They would
identify the silvicultural system under which each forest type is to be managed
(selection, seed tree, etc.), and specify AACs and areas to be harvested and
reforested, limits on clear-cutting, measures for riparian and watershed
protection, appropriate silvicultural practices (liberation thinning, enrichment
planting, etc.), annual requirements for road construction, forest nurseries and
other works.   Decisions on post-harvest stand treatment would be based on a
regular program of post-harvest surveys to assess the status of the residual
forest.  AACs would be at sustinable levels based on realistic estimates of
forest productivity and sufficient rotation periods to permit regrowth of the
volumes harvested. The management plans would identify appropriate zoning for
core protection and buffer zones.  Information from all management plans made for
production forests will be compiled by district, province and country as a whole.
This information will be fed into the forest management information system to be
strengthened under the project and will provide the basis for determining
provincial  and  district  logging  quotas,  protection  and  reforestation
requirements, and labor and training needs.
29.       Changes in the present logging system are necessary to minimize
disturbance of the forest ecosystem.   If properly designed and carried out,
forest management planning should substantially limit the environmental damage
of commercial logging activities by: (a) limiting logging on a given block to the
sustainable annual cut proper to the block; (b) significantly reducing damage to
remaining tree stands as a result of improved logging practices (low impact
logging); and (c) improving conditions for regrowth due to adequate post-harvest
treatment and protection of harvested areas from encroachment by farmers and
appropriate construction of logging roads. Better planning of roads should help
to reduce landslides and soil compaction, preventing deterioration of water
quality from increased sedimentation, and the disruption of streamflow due to
decreased infiltration and groundwater recharge. To reduce the pressure on the
very few tree species that are logged at present, which may lead to a decrease
of forest biodiversity, the use of lesser known species would be promoted after
a sustainable management system becomes operational. A ban on logging will be
placed on tree species determined to be endangered. Compliance with approved
management contracts will be monitored closely and contractors will face stiff
penalties for non-compliance. Logging based on management plans should also help
to reduce the significant waste of timber which currently occurs because logging
activities are poorly coordinated.
30.       Modest results on the implementation of the improved forest management
system are expected to be achieved at the end of the project. The process of
recruitment and assignment of staff, training, procurement of aerial photography,
carrying out detailed field inventories, preparing management plans, and bidding
and signing of contracts, is expected to take 1-2 years. As project processing
is already delayed, it may be too optimistic to expect that two contracts
incorporating sustained yield and conservation practices will be let by March



- 91 -
Annex 14
Page 9 of 25
1995. However, the system will have been tested with these two contracts, and
the process for future contracts may become easier.
31.       An  important  concern  is what  to do with  the existing  or new
contractors for whom the project will be unable to prepare improved forest
management plans. The Forestry Decree will address this sensitive issue which
is still being debated internally by GOL. The current Government position is
that only DOF is habilitated to prepare these plans; there is no capacity anyway
outside the public sector to do so. Government will implement a transition plan
within six months of the start of project implementation for the compliance of
existing contracts with the Forestry Decree (para. 66).
32        Regulatory and Control System.  Supervision of forest management plans
and control of illegal logging and encroachment are not possible without a
regulatory and control network on the ground. Present DOF resources consist of
only three mobile teams for measuring logs at central log yards.   Detailed
control is in any case not possible due to the absence of guidelines and
standards, and deforestation caused by poor logging practices is not subject to
monitoring. Furthermore, DOF is not involved in the control of export of logs
and wood products, which is under the Customs Department.
33.       At each forest range, a Forest Ranger would be posted permanently to
act as head of the range.   The Ranger would report directly to DOF at
headquarters, but the reports would be sent to the district and province forestry
service for information.  The size of a state managed forest range may vary
between 20,000 and 100,000 ha, and average some 30,000 ha.  A range may be
divided into smaller units to enable stricter supervision and depending on
terrain conditions, tree species, populacion pressure and level of harvesting
operations.   It is estimated that a sub-range would be about 5,000 ha in
extensively managed natural forests.  Each sub-range would be patrolled by a
Forest Guard.   The main tasks of the Forest Rangers would be to manage and
supervise the implementation of activities on the range.
34.       For regulatory control, the project would in the first year focus on
the recruitment and training of staff. Scalers and graders would be appointed
in districts with forest ranges, and together with rangers and guards, would be
tr3ined in regulations, log scaling and grading, species identification and
recording and reporting procedures.   Additional staff would be recruited to
establish the export check posts, followed by road check posts.   District
inspectors would be appointed, as needed, and also trained. The mobile teams
would initially carry out spot checks of forest products movements along roads,
and in the second and third year of the project, monitor compliance with forest
management plans for the priority log production areas.
35.       The specific tasks to be addressed would be to:
(a)    monitor all production activities in the project area,  including
logging, log transport and export, wood processing, forest management,
deforestation and reforestation, and forest fires;



- 92 -
Annex 14
Page 10 of 25
(b)    monitor compliance of logging contractors and concession holders with
forest management plans and operational guidelines regarding cutting
diameter limits, tree marking, felling procedures, use of heavy
equipment and road and skid trail construction;
(c)    control felling and marking of logs at felling sites and scaling and
grading at first landings;
(d)    operate mobile and stationary check points at strategic locations
including wood processing plants and export points to verify volumes,
grades, origin and ownership of logs and other fcrest products; and
(e)    monitor compliance of village communities with agreements made on
forest management, use and protection relating to the implementation
of land use and village forest agreements.
36.       A system of log flow monitoring from felling to road check post would
be prepared as soon as possible for field testing. This would be implemented
starting at first landings and subsequently be extended to include monitoring of
logs from tree marking through mill gate or export point. By the end of the
second year the units would be fully staffed and the log monitoring system would
be in place. Monitoring of compliance with forest management plans and forest
protection regulations would then commence.
37.       There is no plan to implement regulatory activities in the north in
this present phase, but this may lead to increased logging in the region.
Similarly, large areas where extraction activities may be going on will not be
touched by the project during this phase, and will therefore operate outside the
regulatory framework to be set up under the project.   It is unlikely that
Government will ban all present or future extraction activities outside the
immediate project area.   While there io presently no clear solution to this
issue, Government will formulate a transitioni plan for compliance with the Decree
and at the very least, activities in these areas will be monitored.
38.       The improved regulatory functions under the project, together with
changes to the log marketing arrangements, are expected to reduce evasion of
reforestation and resource rent taxes through illegal trade and transfer pricing.
Standardized log handling, grading, and scaling should result in reduced log
degradation and volume loss and improved linkages with the market place in terms
of species, grades, and dimensions.   The effectiveness of these regulatory
activities will depend very much on Government commitment to bring forestry
operations under control. The sharing of authority between the cent7al and the
provincial governments in resource management is essential, but for this to
happen, the provinces must be involved in the project right from the beginning.
Powerful vested interests also operate at all levels to maintain the status quo
and would be opposed to any control or transparency of the process.   It is
essential therefore that the new system is applied to all actors in the forestry
sector. While the Forestry Decree does not exempt any quasi-government agency
from this, it might be difficult in practice to take sanctions against some
agencies that may consider themselves outside of such control.



- 93 -
Annex 14
Page 11 of 25
39.       The absence of a well-established penal code to back up the forest
management and protection staff might make the application of sanctions very
difficult. Plans to establish the Forestry Police are not clear and would still
take time to be implemented. The main recourse DOF has would be the cancellation
of contracts. However, it may not have the authority to do this as the approval
and cancellation of international contracts are under the authority of higher
levels of Government.
40.       The village monitoring committee would play an important role of
watchdog at the local level in monitoring commercial forestry operations and in
reporting cases of malfeasance.
41.       Pricincr and Taxation System.   The current system will be revised.
High export taxes have made logs for the domestic industry relatively
inexpensive, and the lower tax levels applied to domestic markets encouraged
inefficiency because they undervalued the resource and subsidized poor quality
processing.   Together with ineffective regulation, the pricing and taxation
structures encouraged malfeasance through the transfer of logs purchased at low
domestic prices into export markets.   They also allowed transfer pricing by
encouraging exports of high quality logs which had been subject to simple
processing to benefit from lower tax rates on logs for processing domestically.
Loss of rents to Government due to these was estimated to be as high as US$30
million in 1989.
42.       Under the project, border parity pricing will be implemented to reduce
the incidence of these activities. The export tax on logs will be removed, and
the resource tax (royalty or stumpage fee) will be increased and applied to all
logs to reduce the differential between domestic and export prices and compensate
for the losses on export tax revenues. Studies in Indonesia and Malaysia have
also shown that log export bans alone will not lead in the long run to a decline
in forest resource depletion unless they are accompanied by increases in forest
resource charges and field controls on forest operations.   The result of
subsidizing the local wood processing industry has been at the expense of the
national economic efficiency.   In Indonesia,  local processing resulted in
negative value added, while in Malaysia, the economic value of a job created was
significantly less than the resource rents from log exports.   Increasing the
local log prices in Lao PDR to international levels will remove excessive profits
from logging and saw'milling, eliminate inefficient operators and discourage new
entrants, thereby reducing harvesting pressure on the forest.
43.       Government policy is to promote the development of the local wood
processing industry and to limit the export of logs.   While this policy is
laudable as it will in the long run contribute value added to the forestry
industry, it does not maximize the capture of economic rents from the resource
as local sawmills and wood processing factories are mostly inefficient and
contribute little value added. There is concern that increasir. the domestic
prices of logs will lead to the closure of sawmills and wood processing
facilities, resulting in the loss of many jobs.  In the long run it is more
economic for Lao PDR to build up a competitive and efficient local processing
industry than to continue to subsidize inefficient operators.   Low resource



- 94 -
Annex 14
Page 12 of 25
pricing is not an effective instrument to develop efficient local industries.
Other instruments may help ease the financial burden on these industries as
export parity pricing is implemented.   It is clear that unless the forest
resources are priced at their true value, the unsustainable use of these
resources will continue.
44.       Commercial  logging  could accelerate  in anticipation  of  the  new
institutional and regulatory framework for the forestry sector. To prevent this,
a transition plan will be implemented within the first six months of the project
to enable existing contractors to comply with the requirements for approved
forest management contracts under the Decree (para. 53).
45.       The Forestry Decree provides for the licensing of wood processing
factories (sawmills, factories and other equipment for the processing of wood)
by MAF and for regular reporting to it. These factories are also required to
enter into timber supply contracts with MAF before mill licenses are issued.
Both measures should ensure that processing capacity does not exceed sustainable
supplies from forests.
Community Forestry
46.       The  Manaqement  System.   Village  communities  in  Lao  PDR  have
traditional systems that regulate access to forest, but these norms have broken
down in some areas due to increased demand for land for cultivation by the
growing population, agricultural encroachment by outsiders, and illegal logging.
This situation has led to accelerating deforestation in those areas.   The
Forestry Decree is intended to strengthen a community's ability to manage its
resources by recognizing local land tenure and use rights, and providing the
means for the people to develop, with the assistance of DOF, village-level
sustainable resource management plans.   However, the active involvement and
cooperation of commrunities in developing resource management systems will depend
on whether Government understands and respects their customary common property
management systems, and guarantees their access to sufficient forest and other
related resources to maintain the village standard of living.
47.       The community forestry component of the project is intended to empower
village communities to prepare and implement plans to manage local resources.
The management plans will be developed jointly by local communities and DOF,
represented bv its provincial and district forestry services, with the active
participation and involvement of local community development organizations, such
as the Lao Women's Union. In this way, a flexible process is initiated, in which
the concerns and realities of the diverse ethnic groups and remote villages are
incorporated into the forest management plans. These participatory activities
will result in the preparation of a consensus land use plan, a resource
management plan, and a village development plan.
48.       The Land Use Plan (LUP) will take into consideration present land use
practices and customary land tenure patterns in the subject village and
neighboring villages, characteristics of the forest, soil and wildlife as
identified in the land use planning process for the area and whether any of the



- 95 -
Annex 14
Page 13 of 25
subject lands have been identified as appropriate inclusion in conservation or
protection forest categories. The LUP will, where appropriate, set aside areas
for long fallow shifting cultivation, as well as areas for intensive paddy
agriculture, livestock production, perennial crop production and/or timber
production. Community representatives will participate directly in discussions
or negotiations with district and province forestry officials to formulate a
final LUP. The plan will specify the rights and responsibilities of the land
user groups and will be coordinated with the LUPs of neighboring villages and be
congruent with national priorities for land use planning and resource
development.
49.       The LUr3 from all adjacent communities will be combined, along with
other management plans for other classes of forest, into a single Resource
Management Plan (RMP) for the forest range.  Representatives of all affected
communities will be included in the discussions leading to the adoption of the
RMP, in order that the affected communities understand how the management of
their village forest fits into the overall management of forest resources, and
that their rights and responsibilities are comparable to those of their
neighboring communities. Management plans for production forests and protected
forests will be included at the same time and in the same discussion, in order
that communities are informed of safeguards against encroachment by other users
into their resources, as well as being given the opportunity to contribute to the
overall RMP as it affects their social and natural environment.   Making the
planning process open and equitable will increase the motivation of affected
communities to comply with their own LUP, to respect the rights of neighboring
communities, and to report incursions to public lands as well as to their village
forests.
50.       Preparation of LUPs under the project will need to be carefully
monitored as it will be carried out under a system of negotiation and consensus
gathering. Provincial and district authorities may be reluctant to consult and
seek the prior agreement of local communities on land allocation (as they are
required under the Forestry Decree) as they may see this as usurpation of their
formal authority. There is the risk, therefore, that they may use this authority
to impose unacceptable land use allocation plans on the local population. While
the Forestry Decree does provide for the right of appeal against any unfair
decisions, local communities may be unaware of their rights or the procedures for
appeal, which may not be functional in remote provinces. The village monitoring
committee (para. 109) will be the watchdog; it will report to the rest of the
community at least yearly, and also send a report regularly to the district
forestry staff detailing the performance of project activities for the village.
Modifications to a land use plan, a resource management plan, or a village
development plan, may be proposed by the village if the monitoring information
indicates that the objectives of these plans are not being met or that the
provisions of the initial plans are unworkable.
51.       Village Development Schemes.   A key element of the project is to
promote sustainable alternatives to shifting cultivation. At present, however,
no tested alternative upland farming systems have been developed in Lao PDR, and
the LUPs must, therefore, be based on existing farming techniques rather than



- 96 -
Annex 14
Page 14 of 25
expectations of improved upland farming systems which may not be available in the
near future. In some areas land resources may not be adequate or of appropriate
quality to support sustainable swidden cultivation for the entire existing
population. Rural populations are also increasing at a high rate (para. 91), and
it may be extremely difficult in some areas to accommodate the need for increased
land area for cultivation.   LUPs developed in such situations must either
recognize the community's need to expand cultivated area into existing forest or
provide a rapid and guaranteed technical solution to food production, for
example, by developing paddy fields at a reasonable distance from the village if
possible.
52.       The project will provide grant funds  (averaging $10,000)  to each
subject community for small scale village development projects, mainly to
increase agricultural productivity.   The projects will be selected by the
community during the land use planning and development prioritization process.
The actual amount of funding for each village will depend on the size of the
community and the nature and scope of the projects. These might include small
irrigation systems, introduction of perennial cash crops, livestock development,
rice banks or rice mills. They will be designed and implemented with volunteer
labor, with appropriate technical supervision from the distric't, province, or
other agencies already involved in the promotion of such activities. There is
a risk, however, that too high a level of assistance might pervert the system and
be counter-productive by increasing the attraction for outsiders to move into the
area to benefit from project assistance.   It is therefore important that the
principle of self-help be adhered to at all times, and that the levels of
resources to be allotted to each village should not be too high.
53.       Disbursement of funds will depend on joint signatures of district and
village representatives to ensure that works meet appropriate technical
standards, projects agree with village priorities, and funds are not
misappropriated.   Because these limited funds will permit only small scale
infrastructure development, they are not expected to have adverse environmental
impacts.
54.       Without  significant  inputs of additional  technical  support,  the
village development schemes foreseen in the project will not be implemented at
the same rate as land use planning. Provincial capacity to manage the design and
construction of any irrigation scheme is limited. Development of alternative
agricultural systems is also lilcely to require significant time to plan and carry
out, particularly if they involve community resources and require continued group
management after their completion. Additional time will be necessary for the
community to develop consensus on project configuration and organizational
structure for continued management. Funding for any civil works must include
appropriate design assistance and technical supervision to prevent the funds from
beina wasted on inappropriate projects or poor quality construction. Contracting
with private suppliers and/or providing training courses for village development
representatives may somewhat alleviate this problem, but it is unlikely that the
budgeted amount can be spent constructively for all villages within the five
years of the project. However, there is flexibility for extending the project
period if justified.



- 97 -
Annex 14
Page 15 of 25
55.       The community forestry component of the project will take time to
implement as many of these villages are remote and have had little contact with
outsiders.   There is little understanding by outsiders of customary land use
practices, traditional environmental norms, and village resources. Because of
this, the first step in the process of building up a participatory resource
planning system is to establish the Community Mobilization and Training Teams
(CMTTs),  to be contracted preferably to NGOs.    The  contracting NGOb  or
consultants should have substantial experience in grassroots rural development
and conservation activities in Lao PDR or other neighboring countries in
Southeast Asia. At least two CMTTs will be required, each team to consist of
three specialists: (a) a social scientist with training and experience in
participatory community diagnosis techniques; (b) a resource management
specialist with experience in social forestry and upland cultivation systems; and
(c) a women-in-development specialist with experience in rural training, capacity
building and dissemination skills. All members of the CMTTs must be competent
in Lao or Thai and preferably minority languages.   The CMTTs will train
provincial, district, and village forestry staff, and COs in the new philosophy
and methodology introduced by the Forestry Decree. Forestry staff currently do
not have skills in community mobilization and development. A CMTT will support
outreach teams, which will consist of one district forest technician and two COs
in addition to themselves. At the village level, a village forester
will be recruited from the community to form part of the outreach team.
56.       Implementation of the community mobilization component will be divided
into two phases, a preliminary phase of intensive information collection combined
with the development of village land use agreements, followed by an
implementation phase. The preliminary phase will consist of detailed studies of
30 to 40 villages selected as representative of the full range of ethnic groups
and objective living situations found near the priority protected areas and
priority production forests. These village studies will include information on
village history, social structure and social relations (including gender based
division of labor and resources), local settlement and land use patterns,
customary rules of land tenure and past and present patterns of use of forest
resources, and relationships with neighbouring villages and ethnic groups. The
information from the village studies would be incorporated into the training of
new COs and forestry staff, and also provide a typology of existing customary
resource management practices.
57.         The  outreach  teams  will  be  responsible  for  informing  local
communities about national policy regarding forest and resource managemer't and
the nature of the new Forestry Decree; conducting socio-cultural and ecological
surveys; identifying, mapping and physically demarcating village lands and
forests; designing, in cooperation with villagers, alternative livelihood and
income generating activities; and generally monitoring the social and
environmental effects of the forestry reforms on the local level. The CMTTs will
train COs and village foresters, but the implementation of project activities
must be carried out by the local communities themselves so as to discourage
foreign dependency which will be to the detriment of long term self-reliance and
sustainability.



- 98 -
Annex 14
Page 16 of 25
58.       The success of the community forestry program will depend on local
institutional capacity to work with forestry staff to develop village-level
resource management plans. This capacity needs to be built up under the project,
and progress in this area will determine to a large extent the eventual success
of the project. The project will help strengthen elected village administrative
committees and the local groups through training and will sensitize the people
towards sustainable resource management through a public awareness program. The
local groups will also work with the forestry staff to ensure that the
delineation of protected forests does not disrupt traditional land use for
subsistence or displace communities.   The local people will have controlled
access to the protected areas and the buffer zones to gather products for
subsistence as long as their impacts on tiio Lorest ecosystem are mini.nal.
59.       Despite its efforts to emoower local people to manage their resources,
the project risks being perceived by the intende-1 beneficiaries as "foreign
intruision" or a "gift from foreigners" because the villages are so remote that
contacts with outsiders have been minimal. To help change this perception, the
outreach teams will explain to the people at the outset, through a series of
community meetings, national policies regarding forest and resource management
and the objectives of this project.  Data collected on ecological and socio-
cultural aspects of the communities will also be used to develop training
programs to sensitize outreach team members and all project staff on ethnic and
gender issues, and on traditional common property management systems.
60.       There is also the risk that the project could become a means of
alienating some rural communities from traditional lands and restricting them to
limited marginal agricultural lands in the name of conservation. Resistance to
co-management of the forest could come from both provincial and district
officials who are used to dictating to communities what ought to be done and from
local people who perceive forestry staff as "policemen" excluding them from their
traditional resource base. The public awareness program will help re-orient both
groups towards working together.   Monitoring of project activities and their
impact by the village monitoring committee is, therefore, critical. In addition,
the project will er.sure ethnic and gender representation in project staffing,
outreach teams, and the Consultative Group.
61.       Another group that could undermine community forest management are
immigrants with no secure tenure to land. These people, most of whom practice
shifting cultivation, have no incentive to adopt sustainable land use practices.
Under the project, this group wi2l be actively involved in the resource
management planning process to ensure that their concerns are addressed and to
help them identify with the project.
62.       Impact on Women.   The project will actively involve women in the
design and implementation of management plans for local communities because women
in upland forested areas are the prime agriculturalists and fore_t users. They
perform at least 50%, and among Lao ethnic groups 60-70%, of the production
tasks. Women and men anong many of the ethnic groups share access and control
over many aspects of their co-residential households: land, equipment, labor, in-
kind goods and other assets. Financial decisions are shared. Women dominate in



99 -
Annex 14
Page 17 of 25
intra-household affairs, and men in extra-household political matters. However,
there are few Lao female officials and technicians, and since few village women
feel comfortable communicating with outside male visitors, be they Lao or
foreign, misconceptions and misinformation about village gender dynamics abound.
63.       Careful gender participation in the project could promote not only
equity but also efficacy and sustainability.   However,  no on-site gender
assessments have been conducted for the project.   This inadequacy would be
addressed early during project implementation through the following steps.
First, a preliminary on-site gender assessment would be carried out to examine
local women's institutions (the Lao Women's union is in the process of
significant structural and political changes, and is weak and not as effective
in the more remote provinces), new gender-related laws and constitutional
provisions, the effectiveness of birth-spacing programs, and other programs for
women. Second, all project staff and trainees should attend gender-sensitivity
training. Third, all project activities would specify requirements for gender
balance, particularly in training and staffing. Fourth, the Lao Women's Union
should fully participate in the project with financial support from it, and be
also represented in monitoring committees, including the Consultative Group.
Finally, each CMTT will comprise a women-in-development specialist.
64.       The  protection  of  traditional  access  to  forest  resources,  the
establishment of village forests for community use and the development of
permanent agriculture and rural infrastructure, as envisaged under the project,
would benefit women as deforestation is reduced.
65.       Ethnic Minorities.  The four protected areas to be established with
GEF support under the project would be in remote locations, where ethnic minority
groups are an important section of the population. Although about 50 minority
groups make up about 50% of the population in Lao PDR, there is little socio-
cultural and economic information available on these groups.   They are also
under-represented in technical positions in forestry, agriculture, justice, and
community development.   GOL policies strongly advocate the involvement and
integration of minorities and their fair and equal treatment, but their
implementation of these policies has been a challenge due to the educational,
geographic, cultural, and linguistic barriers.
66.       The project's focus on community based resource management, empowering
communities to fully participate in resource allocation and to develop resource
management and village development plans tailored to their needs, is specially
relevant to these ethnic minorities due to the imporcant socio-cultural
differences  among  them.    During project preparation,  socio-anthropologist
consultants conducted a preliminary socio-cultural investigation, which was
limited in scope. Given the diversity of the project area and the recognized
limitations of the consultant report, detailed follow-up studies for the
preparation of socio-cultural and economic profiles of the village or groups of
villages would be carried out under the project.
67.       The consultant report concluded that no single model for community
forestry would be appropriate and that a process whereby communities design their



- 100 -
Annex 14
Page 18 of 25
own development plans was indispensable. This approach was further endorsed at
subsequent community forestry workshops organized by NGOs in Laos. The site-
specific approach to be taken by the project is expected to yield positive
environmental results as management plans will be tailored to suit different
ethnic groups, increasing the likelihood of acceptance by the people.   This
approach is consistent with Bank policies on ethnic minorities.
68.       To ensure that the interests of the diverse ethnic population are
represented in LUPs, the outreach teams will meet directly with the entire
village to explain their rights and responsibilities under the Forestry Decree
for the new system Gt resource management. It is essential to maintain ethnic
balance in training and staffing of outreach teams, and in the make-up of village
planning,  management and impleme2ntation committees.   The village  forestry
officers and community organizers in the outreach teams will thus be recruited
preferably from the local populations. In addition, community members who speak
Lao may be selected as translators to ensure that translation is accurate and
sensitive to the cultural and attitudinal background of community members. This
should help to reduce language and communication barriers in villages where non-
Lao languages are spoken, and increase the effectiveness of the process of
mobilizing the people to identify their needs and priorities. Simple portable
charts and graphics which are not language dependent will be used to communicate
with the local people. The creation of a roster of technically qualified ethnic
minority personnel in project localities would also be useful. It is expected
that expatriate staff would be at a disadvantage, unless they learn the local
language, as few have worked in these remote conditions even if they have had
previous experience in the country.
69.       Population Pressure.  A population expanding rapidly in some areas
where the resource base is poor is the single most important factor causing
deforestation. While the national population growth rate is 2.9% annually, it
is significantly higher in some remote forested areas where shifting cultivation
is practiced and agricultural land is limited. A sustainable resource management
system cannot be realistically implemented if the population issue is not also
addressed. The village studies and development plans must include an assessment
of the demographical situation, including ongoing birth spacing and family
planning programs. Involved gcvernment and aid agencies should participate in
addressing this important issue. Training and propaganda efforts would include
proper information about birth spacing and family planning.
70.       Poverty Impact.   The main project beneficiaries will be among the
poorest people in Lao PDR. Although statistics on poverty are only now being
collected in Lao PDR (as a basis for a poverty assessment to be carried out by
the Bank in FY94), the country has one of the lowest per capita incomes in the
world. Within Lao PDR, large differences between rural and urban incomes are
evident, and within the rural sector, there are differences between upland
farmers practicing shifting cultivation, and more settled lowland farmers with
access to irrigation. The project would improve beneficiaries, income security
as it establishes a legal basis for land use rights (including access to forest
lands and products); introduces sustainable management of community forest
resources; and promotes and funds community development (including improved



- 101 -
Annex 14
Page 19 of 25
agriculture, water supply and income generating activities).  Forest villages
will be an integral part of the land use pianning process. They will develop
their own land use and community development plans (with assistance from project
staff and NGOs) and will be consulted in the process of d.signing forest
management and conservation plans for adjacent forest areas.
Biodiversity Conservation
71.       The new GOL policy on biodiversity conservation is based on the
establishment of protected areas to cover all major types of ecosystem in the
country and the application of conservation practices in the management of
forests  outside  protected  areas.    The  potential  factors  influencing  the
implementation of an effective pr gram for biodiversity conservation in the
country have been identified in the Tropical Forestry Action Plan (TFAP), various
project preparation reports, and special studies carried out by IUCN on planning
and development of protected areas system for Lao PDR. They include: (a) the
legal framework for conservation and sustainable forest use; (b) the protected
areas system; (c) the conservation of biodiversity in production and protection
forests; and (d) the institutional capacity and human resource base.
72.       Specific laws and regulations regarding the protection of biodiversity
have been adopted in Lao PDR in the past. However, these measures have largely
been  ineffective  due to the  lack of  consistency and enforcement.    TFAP
recommended the need to provide an adequate legal framework for ecosystem
conservation and the establishment of protected areas within the overall forestry
regulations, to be achieved by granting legal authority to DOF to conserve forest
ecosystems and to categorize forest lands according to the IUCN classifications.
Other roles of DOF include listing of species of special coniservation value,
defining legal measures for the preparation of management plans for each category
of forest area, and stipulating penalties for violation of forestry legislation.
73.       The Forestry Decree will provide the legal basis for biodiversity
protection, through its emphasis on sustaining resource use. Regulations already
drafted with the support of IUCN formulate the objectives of nature conservation,
regulate the principles of nature conservation management, provide general
provisions for establishing and regulating protected areas and their management,
regulate hunting and fishing, and stipulate appropriate penalties for violations.
These regulations will limit uncontrolled exploitation and excision by outsiders,
thereby reducing the destruction of forests and biological resources.   The
Forestry Decree provides incentives for local participation including protecting
traditional access of users to forest resources and establishing a participatory
approach to resource management and land use zoning. These incentives will also
help guard against overexpioitation of the forest common in open access
situations. After the issuance of the Forestry Decree, specific regulations for
nature conservation must be finalized.
74.       Protected Areas System.  Lao PDR currently has no legally protected
areas. The absence of protected areas and enabling legislation has prevented the
development of a meaningful program for the conservation of biodiversity in the
country.   If this situation continues,  it will result in the further rapid



- 102 -
Annex 14
Page 20 of 25
destruction and degradation of important habitats and their attendant plant and
animal communities. GOL current policy is to allocate 2.5 million ha of forest
to nature conservation.   Since 1988, some modest level of activity has been
supported under LSFP, largely to assess the wildlife and natural resources of the
country and prepare a plan for a national system of protected areas. However,
given the rapid rate of current forest destruction in Lao PDR, it is unlikely
that many species and ecosystems would survive in their natural environments
without the establishment of the protected area system.
75.       The principal basis for developing a protected area system in Lao PDR
is based on the analysis of needs and priorities for protected area establishment
carried out by IUCN under FRCP. The GEF project will support the establishment
and management of four priority protected areas identified by the IUCN study and
associated buffer zones, as well as human resource developmant and institutional
strengthening. The protected areas will be selected according to criteria such
as size, completeness of forest cover, representativeness, regional priorities
and degree of threat. These areas are to be formally set aside by Government
decree and protected under conservation legislation to be enacted under the
Forestry Decree. Improved management of the protected areas will be supported
by community mobilization programs aimed at giving local people living within and
adjacent to the protected areas the necessary incentives and opportunities for
sustainable utilization of the forest resources.
76.       The establishment of protected areas and the stringent enactment of
legislation to protect them could restrict the ability of local people in these
areas to obtain their livelihood and deprive them of rights to use and access to
traditional forest resources.  In this case, the establishment of the protected
areas would be a disincentive to local people to cooperate with protected area
authorities.  In designing the protected areas, the project would ensure that
local communities are not displaced or deprived of this access.  The Forestry
Decree will set the legal basis for allocation of land to forest communities and
protect the customary use and access rights to land traditionally under the
control of the community.   Prior to the definition and demarcation of the
protected areds, surveys by socio-anthropologists would be carried out in the
proposed areas to access existing demographic features, patterns and systems of
resource use, customary rights to the use of forests and forest products, land
tenure issues, etc. These surveys would provide the basis for demarcation of the
protected area boundaries and for zoning into various use areas, to ensure that
local communities can continue with their traditional practices in these areas.
The project will also provide support for the implementation of rural and
agricultural infrastructure in the buffer zones of these protected areas in order
to provide alternatives to unsustainable forest resource use.
77.       As for the community forestry activities described previously in
paras.  77-79, the project would ensure that the planning and design of the
establishment for the protected areas would follow a full participatory planning
process in which local communities would be actively involved in the preparation
of the land use and resource management plans. Their approval would be required,
as stipulated under the Forestry Decree.



- 103 
Annex 14
Page 21 of 25
78.       The project would not create new institutions or overlap with the
protected areas program of FRCP.  Rather, it would complement and operate under
the FRCP plamaning framework which has developed a strategy for planning and
establishment of a national protected areas sv;cem. Under FRCP, eight management
plans would be prepared and FRCP would implement four of them. The other four
would be available for further elaboratizn and implementation under the project.
Rapid ecological surveys for vegetation and habitat evaluation, key species
determination and population dynamics would precede plan elaboration.   These
surveys would be contract3d to a regional institution. Improved management of
the protected areas would be supported by community mobilization programs aimed
at giving local people living in these areas the necessary incentives and
opportunities for sustainable utilization of the forest resources.
79.       Conservation of Product-on and Protection Forests.  Timber harvesting
has had considerable impacts on the forest ecosystems in the country as nearly
all forests in Lao PDR are being used unsustainably. Current logging methods and
the absence of post-logging silvicultural treatments and protection have
contributed to a rapid destruction of primary forests. It is recognized that if
any type of forest land use is sustainable and provides for the maintenance of
reasonable areas of natural forest, it would benefit conservation. TFAP stated
that it would be unrealistic to expect more than a small portion of Lao forests
to be allocated to total protection. Many species of plants and animals and many
environmental functions could be conserved only if considerable areas of near-
natural forest are maintained in addition to the totally protected areas.
Selectively logged forests, if protected from agricultural encroachers, would
serve as an important habitat for many wildlife species and many of the
environmental  functions of natural  forests.   In addition,  small,  isolated
protected areas will only be viable if they are surrounded by near-natural
habitat of either managed selective logged areas or protection forests.
Ecosystem conservation objectives could therefore be served if large areas of
forest are managed for sustainable timber production and protection. Under the
project, biodiversity conservation considerations will be integrated into all
forest management plans. The project directly translates the recommendations of
TFAP and project preparation missions into project design. These include the
introduction of careful logging methods to reduce damage to fauna and flora,
prohibition of logging on steep slopes and in critical habitats, regulation of
road constructions, strict protection of portions of managed areas, and post-
logging silvicultural methods.
80.       Selected  forest  management  areas  would be  zoned and delineated
according to soil type and land use, as well as biological and sociological data.
These plans would specify and prescribe, where appropriate, silvicultural systems
and treatments under which each forest type will be managed.  The manage.nent
plans will identify and delineate protection and buffer zones within the
different  forest  types  and define  prescription  measures  for  them.    The
intrduction of conservation considerations into management plans for all types
of forest categories are expected to have a positive environmental impact. The
new management plans are expected to bring about highly desirable changes to the
way local people and loggers exploit the forest. Thus the project will support
conservation activities outside production forest areas and protected areas,



- 104 -
Annex 14
Page 22 of 25
including identifying environmentally sensitive areas and placing them under
protection as part of formal agreements with local communities. These areas,
which will not be gazetted by the Government, will include corridors of forest
along streams, steep slopes, areas with unique flora and fauna, and will be
excluded from logging and conversion to agriculture.
81.       The introduction of conservation considerations in management plans
for all types of forest categories is expected to have no adverse impact provided
it is ruled by environmental and social considerations, which is expected to be
the case in this project.   The success of this would in large measure be
determined by the level of cooperation and collaboration between the local people
and the planners in defining management measures. Information campaigns to be
introduced must be specifically, tailored to win the support of the local people
and loggers in meeting the defined goals.
82.       Conservation management training for staff assigned to conservation
management issues in this project will be provided in part through the ongoing
Lao Protected Area Management Training Program, which will provide trainees with
a basic understanding of the principles of ecology and conservation. The project
will also provide four fellowships for undergraduate and graduate level training
in conservation management and related areas in overseas institutions. Field
staff working in protected areas will be given specialized short-term courses in
protected area management.   The project will also support the education of
village communities on the new resource management system, including aspects of
land tenure, resource sharing, planning, zoning and sustainable forest
management.  All of these training arrangements are expected to strengthen the
institutional capacity of Lao PDR to conserve its biological diversity.
83.       Forest Conservation Trust Fund.  Adequate recurrent funding of DOF
operations is a major issue and there is justifiable concern that DOF may not be
able to fund the recurrent operating expenses of the four protected areas after
GEF funding is over. To address this issue, a Conservation Trust Fund is to be
established under the project to enable the operation and maintenance of the four
protected areas to continue to be funded in the long run.
Pro-ect Coordination, Monitoring, and Evaluation
84.       Many external  donors are becoming  increasingly  involved  in the
forestry sector in Lao PDR, and it is necessary to ensure that these efforts are
closely coordinated and are coherent with the common national forestry policy.
Presently, DOF lacks the institutional capacity to do this. In collaboration
with other donors, the project will help strengthen this capacity. Specifically
in view of the close linkage between this project and LSFP, implementation of
their activities will be under the responsibility of the same management unit
within DOF and strong internal linkages will be established between them.
85.       A national Project Coordination Committee, headed by the vice minister
of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry in charge of forestry and including
representatives of the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Commerce, the
Committee for Planning and Cooperation, the Project Director, as well as



- 105 -
Annex 14
Page 23 of 25
participating   external   project   co-financiers,   wou]d   be   established.
Establishment of the Project Coordination Committee would be a condition of
credit effectiveness. The Committee would address forest policy issues and
overall project orientation and implementation matters. For coordination at the
operational level, regular quarterly meetings chaired by the Project Director and
attended by representatives of concerned agencies at central and provincial
level, would be held.   In addition, a mechanism for project implementation
coordination at regional, provincial and district level would be established.
Cooperation between donors implementing forestry projects in Lao PDR
would continue under present arrangements of annual meetings organized by MAF.
Annual sectoral reviews by a special Consultative Group to be appointed by the
Government and consisting of government officials, grass roots organizations, NGO
representatives, and donor agencies will also monitor the project and other
activities of the sector.   The results of monitoring by DOF and the local
communities will be discussed at these annual meetings.
86.       IDA/FINNIDA will conduct semi-annual project surervision missions to
review  the progress of project  itmplementation.    These will  be  scheduled
concurrently with SIDA review missions. The annual workplans and the semi-annual
progress reports will form the major basis for evaluation of project performance.
87.       Local communities, having been trained by CMTTs, will also be in a
position to monitor the project at the village level. Each village will set up
a villace monitoring committee to monitor progress made under the project. This
committee will report its findings at least yearly to the rest of the community.
Pooling of all this information by district, provincial and project staff for
discussion during supervision missions and the Consultative Group meetings will
be an important project activity, which will provide the early warning mechanism
to identify adverse impacts and take corrective action.
88.       A mid-term review of the project will be conducted by IDA/FINNIDA to
assess the overall progress of the project, review needs for changes in project
directions and activities, and, in agreement with the Government, make decisions,
if  necessary,  in  the  reallocation  of  funds/activities  between  entities,
components, and subcomponents.
89.       Forest Management Information System.  One of the priorities of the
project is to build up an adequate database for the fo- -try sector.  The ongoing
forest inventory supported by LSFP is the only sourc_ of reliable forest cover
data and this is only available for a small part of the country. The inventories
have concentrated so far on areas that are being managed for timber production.
Information on overall forest cover, deforestation, areas under shifting
cultivation, status of the forest, biological values, etc., is of fundamental
importance in determining land allocation policies, strategies for conservation
of biodiversity, management planning and for resolving various resource
conflicts.    The monitoring  of  long  term biological  trends  has  not  been
established. There is little or no information on deforestation dynamics or on
the impacts of vatious practices such as logging, shifting cultivation, and
conversion to other uses. There is also no monitoring of logging operations.



- 106 -
Annex 14
Page 24 of 25
90.       The project will thus coordinate closely with LSFP and complement its
ongoing efforts to assist DOF in setting up and maintaining a forest management
information system. Short term technical assistance will be provided under the
project to formulatr  the system.  This database will cover current forestry and
logging operations, management plans and timber harvests which are presently not
adequately monitored.   DOF' staff would be trained in specialize.d fields of
conservation biology and monitoring and evaluation techniques. The project will
also support the design and implementation of a program to monitor specific
ecological and socio-cultural/economic parameters under the conservation
component of the project.
91.       Indicators fcr monitoring and evaluation would be divided into main
four groups: (a) environmental; (b) socio-cultural and economic; (c) legal and
institutional; and (d) commercial.   The project manager will be required to
submit annual workplans in advance of the plan year.   These will include a
statement of objectives and physical targets for the coming year, a description
of the project area and resources (human, financial, and physical) available or
to be acquired to achieve these objectives, a description of how the objectives
will be achieved, and an annual budget. They will also include a review of past
performance and draw links between it and proposals for the future. An internal
monitoring system will require the project manager to provide semi-annual project
progress reports, focusing on the key parameters of project performance and
impacts as outlined in the workplan.
External Technical Assistance
92.       In view of the lack of technical skills in DOF, there is an immediate
need for a critical mass of external technical assistance to assist in project
implementation. Recruitment of technical assistance to be co-financed by FINNIDA
will be mainly from international consul.ing firms specializing in forest
management and forest industries. The emphasis will be on technical skills and
experience in sustainable tropical forest management and conservation.
Implementation of the community forestry and forest conservation components, to
be financed by GET, will require a different set of skills which are also lacking
in Lao PDR. The CMTTs to be recruited for this purpose will require skills in
sociology, natural resource management and women-in-development issues, which are
preferably provided by NGOs experienced in rural development projects. Local or
regional experience in such activities and knowledge of Lao and Thai are
essential.
Conclusion
93.       The Lao PDR Government is committed to its policy for the sustainable
development and conservation of its forest resources. However, present levels
of use of forest resources are unsustainable, due to increasing demands for
agricultural land and poor practices of commercial forest operations.   A new
system of forest management is required.  The Government is committed to the
development of the domestic wood processing industries and to the phasing out of
log exports in the long run, but the resource is underpriced for domestic users,
leading to loss of economic rents. The project aims at supporting Government



- 107 -
Annex 14
Page 25 of 25
efforts to introduce and implement the new system of resource management. In
addition to the establishment of a regulatory framework for the forestry sector,
the project takes an innovative and proactive approach for the empowerment of
local communities in resource management as this offers the best opportunity for
sustainable resource management. However, the new system has not yet been tested
on a large scale in Lao PDR. While the project is not expected to have adverse
impacts, the process it is designed to support may be derailed if the Government
commitment is not translated by effective implementation in the field or if there
is no true participation of local communities in the orocess. While the project
design attempts to minimize these risks, it is, however, necessary to proceed
slowly and cautiously.
94.       Maintaining the status quo in the forestry sector is not an option.
Allowing the present activities to continue unabated, i.e. the without-project
scenario, would mean the continued exploitation of the forest at its present
unsustainable levels and to its ultimate disappearance. The project provides an
opportunity to address these problems, as long as its implementation is closely
monitored, and corrective actions are promptly taken in the face of unforeseen
adverse impacts.



- 108 -                              Annex 15
Page 1 of 1
LAO PDR
FOREST MANAGEMENT AND CONSERVATION PROJECT
Documents in the Project File
1.          Working Paper No. 1: Forestry Legal framework.
2.           Working Paper No. 2: New Resource Management System for Lao PDR.
3.          Working Paper No. 3: Program Management Centers.
4.           Working Paper No. 4: Forest Management and Conservation Programs.
5.          Working paper No. 5: Manpower Development.
6.          Working Paper No. 6: Technical Assistance.
7.          Working Paper No. 7: Socio-Economic Surveys.
8.           Working Paper No. 8: National Forest Management and Conservation
Project (FAO/CP, 1990).
9.          GEF  Proposal:  Building  a Sustainable  Program  for Conservation
Training and Protected Area Management in Lao PDR.
10.          Appraisal of Forest Management and Conservation Project (FINNIDA,
May 22, 1992).
11.         Needs  and  Priorities  for a Protected Area  System  in  Lao  PDR
(SIDA/IUCN, May 1989).
12.         Needs  and  Priorities  for  Conservation  Legislation  in  Lao  PDR
(SIDA/IUCN, May 1989).
13.         Environmental Action Plan (Prime Minister's Office, November 1993)



LAO PDR
FOREST MANAGEMENT AND CONSERVATION PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART OF THE FORESTRY SECTOR
1'01  mY                                 l        aJC8                          ,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
| 51tFIINCUPRE | M.                           | | oun       nl    FOR= INDUMY|
'~ ~ ~~SgnouT                NAMo              m                                                    ,- mAu"AOMKv  OGRAM
IPIORI5lMY
L For NoeII11
LI  "2
jFoRsr v O



LAO PDjI
FOREST MANAGEMENT AND CONSERVATION PROJECT
PROJECT ORGANIZATION
lDWWUY DI3DCID fl CU                                                 D UIJI DiOC~? 1W 
IAnNUI &r>a IUD11E                                                L[ufLAf,eowa lota 1TI                        H
*~~~~~~~~~~~MC" IW "OM|
mLum         IPIII             IY                    NO.POUANAENT |NPO. 703Nor                      CC gmON
AND                                 0                              aWATERSItD MAIAGEKET
?IOTBCTIDAJAS
I-I
Ir                wr=,Biucwr~~~~~~~P
.oi



NOTES



NOTES



MAP SECTION



: _ !. C(:HINA                      CHINA
CHINA                                                                                         MYA,_._
VIET NAM                                           E 5       .     .
MYANMAR                                 PHON(,A!Y
/ J-fA , : :                                             ' N . A                                        IHAILAND                  ->
i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SOUo TH 
THAILAN ( , VIiAN; t .  , OT
f j BOLiAM.sAI 2 9 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CHNIN4
8.:2                                        2                                                                                VIENTIANE l'h f '  1,e - .'  SEA
DU;
SAYABOU XrANG
r7_ga                                                               \se) KHAHOUEPG
THA                                                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SOUTH
FOLRESTMA                                                   CHINA
SEA
~~I E  N     T I A~~~VINTIA           j                                                                IE
O   PROVINCE HEADQUARTERS PLEo'S
C    NATIONAL  CAPITAL RO
-     PROVINCE BOUNDARIES                                                                            S-
-     INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                                     (    *        J\  n  
-o~. 1,,4                                                                                                                                     ,                     D a!'>0
z ~ ~      ~             ~            ~            ~            ~            ~           )l -  CAM    DIAw
18   ns/   >   1s:z  1/.  ~~~~~~~~~~es / <Z461 Ws  INr # Rs 1! { ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~/ /~~ ;XX '4 aJ } _~~~~C.
,,,'^,',,,,,,,,,',,,'~~~s,,,,9,,,,,s,,x,,,,,,,,,, ,,. ,A,.,,, r \ k i_ : t : w 1D~c



r ,,<< 124                     CHINA                          CHINA
23
CHINA                                                                           MYANMAR                                       !
9PLE's           G1 
e                               VIET NAM                                      M- RETINE
Nt
MYANMAAR,,          )          {_PHONGSALY                                                                                           'N
7- 1 , PRABANG,4 ,r. HAILAND
South
UAN t _   49   /           (          45  XIANG         t     -                                                        Cina
BAN           J
BOKEO                 NA     A 
THAILAND  >   SVIENTIANE   53            <    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~K0KSMR1FlU 2              50       500      150
9 / 62 1l 9NE < < ~~~~~~~~~~~SOUTH
7 2B | 29 GD r XBOLIKHAMNAl    ,,    \                                                                       CHINA
-IB y I-t l9r'~~~~~~~~ \ fg6zA VIET 2 ~~~~~~SEA r
DEMOCRjATIC REPUBLIC                                                                 a
FOREST MANAGEMENT AND
CONSERVATION PROJECT                                                 3                   
PRIORITY FOREST CONSERVATION AREAS                                  SABOrNARHET  SAVANNAKHET
PRIORITY CONSERVATION AREAS                                                                                     T 
59     FOR FURTHER STUDY                           4  XIANG
-1  5       RECOMMENDED FOR DEVELOPMENT UNDER                                                                       SARA VANE       -9-r  
Lf.J FOREST RESOURCES CONSERVATION PROJECT_                                                                             .--
gi  TO BE CONSIDERED FOE DEVELOPMFNT UNDER T11lS PROJECT    S9  PROVINCE HEA- DUARTERS            21  - 
e,  NATIONAL CAPITAL               9       AA^r6 
BIOGEOGRAPHIC BOUNDARIES OF TH1E INDO MALAYAN REALM         - PROVINCE BOUNDARIES                       32        SKN  7      \
ANNAM ,ANNAM TRUNG SON MOUNTAIN CHAIN)I                       INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                               SE O G ,
THA NCHADPASSAK
CENTPAL INDOCHINA (TROPICAL LOWLAND PLAINS)                                                 PAS@ 3i                               i
NORTHERN INDOCHINA (HILLY SUBTROPICAL SECTOR]                                              3      57zxTor 2v
INDOCHINA TRANSITION ZONE IMONTANE TEMPERATE SECTOR)
Salter end P;FOtIIIIrIOg (IUCN, 1989,  
In                      MaJcK,nnernir /MecKinior, UCH.  1986 1 J 
C                     ,,                                                               ,,j3; 0jy,............ ;//-... .-;'.. f;t6...........COI  1  
e i ........... J ~6   if                                                                                                 SOUTH 
28                        LIKHAMSAi                                        CHINA~~~~~~~~~~~
-1B                                                                                           SEA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
-o    w,4~~~~~~~..,,.a.-                                                                                                   U,~~~~~~~IE
-V                   I'                                                                                                                La~~~~~~~~CTREO



