Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFICLAL USE ONLY
Report No. 11815-LA
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY
MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE DIRECTOR
EAST ASIA AND PACIFIC COUNTRY DEPARTMENT I
OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
REGIONAL VICE PRESIDENT
ON A PROPOSED GRANT
FROM THE GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT TRUST FUND
IN THE AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO SDR 3.7 MILLION (US$5.0 MILLION)
TO THE
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
FOR A
WILDLIFE AND PROTECTED AREAS CONSERVATION PROJECT
FEBRUARY 23, 1994
Agriculture and Natural Resources Operations Division
Country Department I
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used bv recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of November 1, 1993)
Currency Unit  =   Kips
Kip 1.00       =   US$0.0014
US$1.00        =   Kips 715
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 kilogram (kg)    = 2.20 lbs
1 kilometer (km)   = 0.62 mile
1 hectare (ha)     = 2.47 acres
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
DOF        - Department of Forestry
FINNIDA    -  Finnish International Development Agency
FRCP       -  Forest Resources Conservation Project
GEF        - Global Environment Facility
GET        - Global Environment Trust Fund
ICB        -  International Competitive Bidding
LCB        -  Local Competitive Bidding
MAF        - Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry
SIDA       - Swedish International Development Authority
TFAP       - Tropical Forestry Action Plan
FISCAL YEAR
October 1 - September 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
LAO PDR
WILDLIFE AND PROTECTED AREAS CONSERVATION PROJECT
GRANT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Source of Grant:    Global Environment Trust Fund
Grant Recipient:    Lao PDR
Amount:              SDR3.7 million (US$5.0 million equivalent)
Terms:               Grant
Obiectives:          To protect biological  diversity through human resource
development   and   institutional    strengthening,    the
designation, establishment and management of priority
protected areas and protection of associated wildlife, and
the planning and implementation of community participating
programs in and around protected areas.
Financing Plan:
Local     Foreign   Total
------ US$ million ------
Government         0.2       0.0        0.2
GET                1.2       3.8        5.0
TOTAL              1.4       3.8        5.2
Economic Rate
of Return:         Not applicable
Poverty Category:   Program of Targeted Interventions
Maps:                IBRD 23388, 23534
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE DIRECTOR
COUNTRY DEPARTMENT I
TO THE REGIONAL VICE PRESIDENT, EAST ASIA AND PACIFIC REGION
1.        I submit for your approval the following memorandum and recommendation
on a proposed Global Environment Trust Fund (GET) grant to the Lao People's
Democratic Republic for SDR3.7 million (US$5.0 million equivalent) to help
finance a Wildlife and Protected Areas Project for biodiversity conservation.
This project is an integral component of a larger Forest Management and
Conservation Project expected to be financed by IDA for SDR6.3 million (US$8.7
million equivalent) , the Finnish International Development Agency (FINNIDA) under
a Finnish Marks 28.0 million (US$5.6 million equivalent) grant, and the
Government of Lao PDR.
Country/Sector Background
2.        The Lao economy is among the least developed in the world, with an
average per capita income of about US$200 (1990) . With a population of about 4.2
million people for a total area of 236,000 sq km, the country has a low
population density of 17 persons per sq km, but population is growing at 2.9% per
year. About 89% of the people live in some 11,000 rural villages. Up to 75% of
the land area is hilly to mountainous, predominantly in the north and east, and
due to the shortage of lowlands, is under increasing pressure from forest
encroachment.
3.        The Forest Resource.   Lao PDR is heavily dependent on its natural
resource base to provide a livelihood for the bulk of its population and to earn
foreign exchange. In 1991, wood products accounted for up to 54% of official
exports, while the share of forestry in the Gross Domestic Product was estimated
at about 15%. Moreover, some 80% of domestic energy consumption is wood-based,
while the forests also provide a host of minor products, foodstuffs and medicine
which are also exported.   However, the forest cover of Lao PDR is declining
steadily. From 1940 to 1981, the national forest area fell from 16 million ha
(70% of the country) to 11 million ha (48%), corresponding to an average annual
loss of 120,000 ha, or about 1% of total forest area per annum. The Tropical
Forestry Action Plan (TFAP) for Lao PDR, which was completed in 1990 with multi-
donor support, reported that of the 300,000 ha annually under shifting
cultivation, about 100,000 ha involved clearing of forest land while another
100,000 ha were degraded by forest fires. Illicit logging was estimated at about
50% of authorized logging, and unsustainable commercial exploitation using
destructive logging practices also significantly contributed to forest
degradation. Other factors included the marginalization of forest communities,
distortions in pricing and taxation policy which encouraged malfeasance and
transfer pricing, and inefficient domestic processing.
4.        Forestry Sector Reforms.  In the past two years, Government has been
developing a forestry reform program. The main features are the improvement of
forest inventory and management planning, change of emphasis from forest
extraction to forest protection, provision of incentives to resource users for
sustainable forest management, re-establishment of central jurisdiction over



-2-
forest management, and elimination of distortions in resource pricing and
taxation. To support this reform program, Government issued in November 1993
Prime Minister's Decree No. 169 on the Management and Use of Forests and Forest
Land (the Forestry Decree).
5.        Biodiversity in Lao PDR.  The country's extensive areas of relatively
undisturbed forest contain a rich diversity of ecosystems and species under
increasing threat (Annex 3), which make it a high priority country for
conservation efforts. The biological resource comprises about 10,000 species of
mammals, reptiles, amphibians, birds, freshwater fishes, swallowtail butterflies,
and vascular plants, and includes about 1,200 animal species. Government policy
on forest and biological conservation is based on the establishment of protected
areas and on the application of conservation practices in forest management. The
Swedish International Development Authority (SIDA) is supporting Government's
protected areas program under a Forest Resources Conservation Project (FRCP),
which is moving from planning to implementation by the World Conservation Union
(IUCN) . A total of 69 potential protected areas have been identified for further
field surveys, and management plans are being developed and implemented for
selected sites.   Priority has been given to areas having original vegetative
cover of at least 50,000 ha, considered to be the critical size necessary to
prevent species' extinction in the richest habitats (Annex 3, para. 10).  The
issuance of Prime Minister's Decree No. 164 in October 1993, establishing 18
National Biodiversity Conservation Areas, put under legal protection a total area
of 2,825,000 ha, or about 12% of the total area of the country.
Pro-ect Objectives
6.        The GET-assisted Wildlife and Protected Areas Conservation Project is
designed to support the protected area and associated buffer zone development
component of the IDA-assisted project.   The specific objectives for the GET-
assisted project would be to protect biological diversity through human resource
development and institutional strengthening, the designation, establishment and
management of priority protected areas and protection of associated wildlife, and
the planning and implementation of community participatory programs in and around
protected areas. The other components of the IDA-assisted project would focus
on the implementation of programs for forest inventory and planning, and for
sustainable forest management and protection, including the establishment of a
Forest Management Fund.
Project Description
7.        The proposed five-year GET-assisted project at a total cost of US$5.2
million would include: (a) protected area system development and management,
including buffer zone development; (b) technical assistance and conservation
training; (c) environmental monitoring and evaluation; and (d) design and
establishment of a Conservation Trust Fund.   GET would finance civil works,
including offices, housing, small scale agriculture and infrastructure
development in the buffer zones, vehicles and equipment, fuel and materials,
salaries and allowances, technical assistance and training.
8.        Protected  Area  Development.       The  project  would  support  the
establishment and management of at least four protected areas selected on the
basis of criteria such as size, completeness of forest cover, representativeness,
regional priorities and degree of threat.   They would be selected from six



priority sites under Decree 164, including Nakai Plateau/Nam Theun, Phou Xang He,
Nam Ma, Phou Xiang Thong,  Phou Dene Din and Dong Amphane  (Annex 7).   The
preliminary management plan for the first protected area, Nakai Plateau/Nam
Theun, was completed in September 1993. The project would finance surveys and
inventories, preparation of management plans, infrastructure development,
vehicles and equipment, fuel and materials, and salaries and allowances. GET
would finance incremental operating costs on a declining basis.
9.        Communities living within or around the selected protected areas would
be mobilized to participate in the planning and management of forest resource use
and buffer zone development. Their traditional access to forest resources would
be protected, while buffer zones would be established around the protected areas.
Depending on the opportunities offered by each location, the project would
finance activities designed to demonstrate alternative land use and livelihood
schemes to replace unsustainable forest exploitation, but would not support
resettlement activities. Development activities would include crop, livestock,
aquaculture, agro-forestry, and other agriculture and village infrastructure
projects.    The  project  would provide  US$1.3  million  to  finance  village
development activities.   In order to provide for community needs for timber,
fuelwood and other non-forest timber products, specific areas would be demarcated
as village forest and set aside for community management under long term
agreements with the forestry service. The project would support the design and
implementation of village agreements, according to the principles of community
participation and environmental protection.
10.       Technical Assistance and Conservation Training.   The project would
provide 9 person years of long term external technical assistance for the
establishment and management of the protected areas and implementation of the
community development programs, and 54 person months of short term assistance for
resource inventory, environmental monitoring and evaluation, socio-economic and
other environmental studies, and design and establishment of a Conservation Trust
Fund.    Emphasis  would  be  placed  on  the  recruitment  of  Non-Government
Organizations (NGOs) for the technical assistance for the community mobilization
program.
11.       The project would support a major expansion of conservation management
training through the development of a training and operations program in
protected area management for field staff, upgrading of the in-country training
programs at Dong Dok Superior Forestry Technical School, and advanced level
training for professional conservation staff at foreign universities. The first
two approaches are designed to meet the project's immediate need for field
managers with training in ecology and wildlife conservation. In addition, the
project would implement grass roots level training in sustainable forest
management and conservation (Annex 3, para. 22).
12.       Environmental Monitoring and Evaluation.  The project would support
the design and implementation of an environmental monitoring and evaluation
program  (Annex 4, paras. 10-13) .  Short term technical assistance would be
provided under the project for the design of the program, which would cover a
range of parameters including changes in land use, forest cover, wildlife
populations, and socio-economic conditions and socio-cultural aspects of forest
communities.   The effectiveness of project design and management plans in
achieving project objectives would be monitored and evaluated.   An annual



-4-
Consultative Forum will assist in monitoring the project as well, and provide an
opportunity for disseminating monitoring results and adjusting project activities
(para.  14).   The project would allocate and train staff in monitoring and
evaluation.
13.       Establishment of a Conservation Trust Fund.  In order to identify and
secure sources of longer term financing for the operation of the protected areas
to be established under the project, the project would provide technical
assistance to design and establish a Conservation Trust Fund from external funds
and contributions from the Forest Management Fund and other sources.
Proiect Implementation
14.       The project would be implemented by the Department of Forestry (DOF),
or more specifically, the National Office for Nature Conservation and Watershed
Management of DOF under the overall responsibility of the Project Director who
would be the Director of Forestry, or one of the two Deputy Directors. Under the
new resource management system, this National Office already has national
jurisdiction for the implementation of the protected areas program and would post
staff to the protected areas. Annual donor coordination meetings would be held
to review project progress and related donor activities in the forestry sector.
Annual reviews of project process would provide information for an advisory
Consultative Forum (established for the overall Forest Management and
Conservation Project), consisting of government officials, and representatives
of NGOs, grassroots organizations, and donor agencies, which would monitor
project progress.
Project Sustainability
15.       The sustainability of the project is dependent on continued Government
commitment to the new resource management system, based on the provision of
adequate incentives to forest users and effective field capability for regulation
and control of forest resource use. In addition to the implementation of the
regulatory framework, the project design includes the protection of traditional
access of users to the forest resources and limited buffer zone development to
reduce unsustainable forest exploitation through forest conservation measures for
community and private forest users. Public agencies would be compensated for
reduced dependence on forest products from the Forest Management Fund to be
constituted and resourced with tax revenue and other sources. This Fund would
be managed by DOF and used to fund its activities, including the operation of the
protected areas system. The establishment of a Conservation Trust Fund under the
GET-assisted project is aimed at securing additional longer term financing for
the operation of the protected areas.
Lessons Learned from Previous IDA Operations
16.       The first four agricultural projects supported by IDA were implemented
under a centrally-planned economy. They were constrained by a weak institutional
framework, unclear or inappropriate sectoral policies, and lack of production
incentives.   For sustainable resource management, a system based on adequate
resource planning and management, and on adequate incentives to all resource
users needs to be established and sustained. The project is designed to achieve
these objectives.



-5-
Rationale for GET Funding
17.       Among the poorest countries in the world, Lao PDR is the least well-
protected country in Asia as it does not yet have a protected areas system, yet
it ranks among the richest in the region in biological resources of exceptional
and global importance. The richness of its biological resources along with the
extensive areas of contiguous forest cover, both within the country and along its
borders with its neighbors whose forests are mainly depleted, makes it a high
priority country for regional conservation efforts. Moreover, Lao forests are
under increasing pressure from a growing population, commercial exploitation and
increasing regional demands for timber. If the pace of forest degradation and
destruction continues and efforts to conserve biological diversity lag, many high
priority areas worthy of protection will be severely impacted before viable
conservation measures are established. Due to severe resource constraints and
other development priorities, the Lao PDR Government cannot mobilize the
resources domestically for conservation of biodiversity, nor can it justify
borrowing even on IDA terms for this purpose.   GET grant support within the
framework of the overall IDA project will assist in its efforts to implement the
necessary sector reforms to protect and manage Laos' internationally significant
biological heritage.
Environmental Aspects
18.       The environmental impact would be positive due to improvements in
sustainable resource management and conservation.   The strengthening of the
resource data base and management planning, the implementation of sustainable
forest management and conservation practices, the enforcement of a regulatory
system, and the establishment of protected areas would reduce deforestation and
the destruction of wildlife habitats, biodiversity, and watershed integrity.
Environmentally sound village development activities would assist in reducing
unsustainable exploitation of forest resources, and would improve incomes of
forest communities, among the poorest people in Lao PDR.
Project Benefits
19.       Although not quantified, the benefits of biodiversity conservation
from the four protected areas to be established and from sustainable forest
management and conservation practices to be implemented throughout the project
area are likely to be substantial. If the project is not implemented, pressure
on the forest from population growth and forest exploitation is certain to lead
to continued and extensive forest degradation, loss of wildlife habitats and
further extinction of plant and animal species.
Risks
20.       The achievement of the biodiversity conservation objective is subject
to risks of delays and inadequate implementation of the regulatory framework,
including only partial acceptance of the national program approach by the
provincial governments, slow adoption of community mobilization for resource
management and conservation, poor application of regulation and control
activities, failure to establish and apply the Forest Management Fund
appropriately,  and  administrative  weaknesses.    The  provision  of  adequate
incentives to managers and users of the forest resources for sustainable forest



-6-
management and conservation is designed to minimize these risks.   For the
protected areas, shortage of budgetary funds for longer term recurrent cost
financing may affect the sustainability of the system. The establishment of both
the Forest Management Fund and the Conservation Trust Fund under the project is
aimed at addressing the issue of long-term financing of DOF operations.
Recommendation
21.       I am  satisfied  that  the  proposed  grant  would  comply  with  the
provisions of Resolution No. IBRD 91-5 of the Executive Directors relating to the
establishment of the Global Environmental Facility and recommend that the
Regional Vice President, East Asia and Pacific Regional Office, approve it.
Callisto E. Madavo
Director
Country Department I
East Asia and Pacific Region
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
February 23, 1994



-7-
Schedule A
LAO PDR
WILDLIFE AND PROTECTED AREAS CONSERVATION PROJECT
Estimated Costs and Financing Plan
(US$5.2 million)
Local     Foreign   Total
Estimated Project Cost /a
Protected Areas Establishment                        0.6       2.0        2.6
Human Resource Development                           0.2       0.4        0.6
Technical Assistance                                 0.0       1.4        1.4
Base Cost                                            0.8       3.8        4.6
Physical contingencies                               0.0       0.0        0.0
Price contingencies                                  0.1       0.5        0.6
Total Project Cost                          0.9        4.3       5.2
Financing Plan
Government                                           0.2       0.0        0.2
GET                                                  0.7       4.3        5.0
Total                                       0.9        4.3       5.2 /b
/a Excluding taxes and duties.
/b Figures have been rounded.



-8-
Schedule B
Page 1 of 2
LAO PDR
WILDLIFE AND PROTECTED AREAS CONSERVATION PROJECT
Procurement
(US$ million)
Procurement Method            Total
Project Element                        ICB      LCB      Other   NGF        Costs
1.  Civil Works                        -        0.4       1.0      -          1.4
-       (0.4)    (1.0)    -           (1.4)
2.  Vehicles and Equipment             0.8      0.3       -        -          1.1
(0.8)    (0.3)      -        _         (1.1)
3.  Fuel and Materials                 -        0.2       -        _          0.2
(0.2)     -        -         (0.2)
4.  Salaries and Allowances            -        -         0.3      -          0.3
(0.1)    _         (0.1)
5.  Human Resource Development         -        -         0.6      -          0.6
-        -        (0.6)    -          (0.6)
6.  Technical Assistance               1.6      -         -        -          1.6
(1.6)     -         -        -         (1.6)
TOTAL                             2.4       0.9       1.9      -         5.2
(GET)                            (2.4)    (0.9)    (1.7)    -           (5.0)
Other = Not subject to procurement, or by direct negotiation
NGF  = Non GET-financed;  figures in parentheses are the amounts financed by GET



-9-
Schedule B
Page 2 of 2
LAO PDR
WILDLIFE AND PROTECTED AREAS CONSERVATION PROJECT
Disbursements
Amount      % of ExDenditures to
Category of Expenditure                   (US$ million)        be Financed
1.  Civil Works                                   1.20         100%
2.  Vehicles and Equipment                        1.10         100%    of    foreign
expenditures    for
directly    imported
items, 100% of local
expenditures      (ex-
factory cost) and 80%
of local expenditures
for    other    items
procured locally.
3.  Fuel and Materials                            0.20         100% up to September
30,  1997,   and  50%
thereafter
4.  Salaries and Allowances                       0.10         100% up to September
30,  1997,   and  50%
thereafter
5.  Human Resource Development                    0.50         100%
6.  Technical Assistance                          1.40         100%
7.  Unallocated                                   0.50
TOTAL                                         5.00
Estimated GET Disbursements
FY                    1995     1996      1997     1998      1999
--------------(US$ million)-------------
Annual                 0.5       0.6      1.7       0.9      1.3
Cumulative             0.5      1.1       2.8       3.7      5.0



- 10 -
Schedule C
LAO PDR
WILDLIFE AND PROTECTED AREA CONSERVATION PROJECT
Timetable of Key Project Processinq Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare the project:       30 months
(b)  Prepared by:                             Government with IDA/GEF Assistance
(c)  First IDA/GEF mission:                   June 1990
(d)  Appraisal mission departure:             11/91
(e)  Negotiations:                            02/93; 01/94
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:           07/94
(g) List of relevant PCRs and PPARs:
Credit/Loan No.         Proiect                            PCR/PPAR No. (Date)
760-LA                  Agricultural Rehabilitation        PCR No. 7250
and Development Project            (May 16, 1988)
924-LA                  Second Agricultural                PPAR NO. 90-1007
Rehabilitation and Develop-        (July 27, 1990)
ment Project
1021-LA                 Third Agricultural                 PCR No. 9858
Rehabilitation and Develop-        (August 26, 1991)
ment Project
1395-LA                 Agricultural Production            PCR No. 9857
Support Project                    (August 22, 1991)
This report is based on the findings of an IDA appraisal mission which visited Lao
PDR in November 1991, and updated by IDA/FINNIDA post-appraisal missions in April
and December 1992, respectively. The appraisal mission comprised Messrs. Y. Wong
(Mission  Leader), J.  Blakeney  (Forestry  Specialist),  and  D.  Hulse  (Forest
Conservation Specialist,  Consultant) .  Messrs. E. Hurtig  (Program Officer), H.
Rissanen (Forestry Adviser), and T. Oksanen (Forestry Adviser) of FINNIDA, and Mr.
R. Salter (Forest Conservation Specialist, Consultant) participated in the post-
appraisal missions.   Peer reviewers were Messrs. H. Wagner (AGRNR) and C. Rees
(ENVLW). The document was cleared by Ms. Pamela Cox (Chief, EAlAN) and Mr. C.E.
Madavo (Director, EA1).



TECHNICAL ANNEXES






LAO PDR
WILDLIFE AND PROTECTED AREAS CONSERVATION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Annex 1  Forest Management and Conservation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11-14
Annex 2  New Resource Management System  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15-17
Annex 3  Protected Areas Establishment and Management  . . . . . . . . 18-23
Annex 4  Project Implementation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24-26
Annex 5  Community Mobilization and Training Program   . . . . . . . . 27-36
Draft Terms of Reference
Annex 6  Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance . . . . . . . . . 37-39
Annex 7  Profile of Six Candidate Protected Areas  . . . . . . . . . . 40-43
Annex 8  Implementation Schedule .......  ...  ..  ...  ..  ..  . . 44






- 11 -
Annex 1
LAO PDR
WILDLIFE AND PROTECTED AREAS CONSERVATION PROJECT
Forest Management and Conservation Project
1.        The overall IDA-assisted Forest Management and Conservation Project, of
which the GET-assisted Wildlife and Protected Areas Conservation Project, is a
component, aims at assisting Government to implement a new resource management
system in Lao PDR to better achieve the sustainable management and conservation of
the country's forest resources. The integrated project would support efforts to
complete ongoing forestry sector reforms, develop the Department of Forestry's
operational capability, and implement improved programs in forest inventory and
planning, management and protection. Project activities in production forest and
its buffer zone village forest areas would be assisted by IDA, while the
establishment of protected areas for biodiversity conservation and buffer zone
development would be funded by GET. The Finnish International Development Agency
(FINNIDA) would fund technical assistance and human resource development for
production and village forest areas, and GET for the protected areas. The overall
project is described below.
2.        The project would cover an estimated total forest area of about 500,000
ha, to be zoned and delineated into village, protection, conservation and production
forests, and placed under improved forest management and protection. The project
areas are located mostly in the central and southern regions, which still have a
large proportion of relatively intact forest resources and which include several
proposed protected areas for biodiversity conservation.
3.        In particular, the five-year project would support:
(a) implementation of an appropriate institutional framework and formulation
of the necessary regulatory framework for the forestry sector;
(b) field implementation of three programs: (i) forest resource inventory and
planning; (ii) sustainable forest management and protection; and (iii)
establishment and management of forest protected areas;
(c) human resource development; and
(d) technical assistance.
Detailed Features
4.        Implementation of Forestry Policy Reforms.  An important objective of the
project would be to assist Government in implementing ongoing reforms of the
forestry sector. Institutional reform, particularly of the Department of Forestry,
is underway. However, the legal framework to underpin the reforms, which emphasize
resource use sustainability, the provision of incentives, including the protection
of traditional access rights to resource users for sustainable management,
establishment  of a unified structure and national  jurisdiction  for resource
management, and land use zoning, has only just been established through issuance of
the Forestry Decree.   Government recognizes that the Decree is only an interim



- 12 -
arrangement to enable the project to commence and operate, and will need to be
replaced by the necessary land and forest laws as experience is gained from its
performance.
5.        The project would support, through the Decree, the establishment of an
incentive system for sustainable resource use. The protection of traditional access
to forest land by users in areas traditionally controlled by the village would be
a significant incentive for proper resource use. While providing protection from
increasing uncontrolled excision by outsiders, it would reduce the accelerated
depletion of forest resources as communities would be required to engage in improved
management practices under community agreements. Another incentive would be the
village development schemes to be supported under the project as part of the
community agreements. It aims at replacing unsustainable forest resource use by
more stable practices, such as permanent agriculture, agro-forestry and forest
plantation development. Incentives for DOF and the provincial Governments would be
the provision of adequate levels of operating funds from the Forest Management Fund
to be established from resource taxes, which would enable them to carry out their
mandate more effectively.   The establishment of border parity pricing for the
domestic and the export markets would be an incentive to export valuable logs rather
than  to  subject  them  to  inefficient  domestic  processing.         Finally,  the
implementation of forest management contracts, including payment for sustained yield
and conservation practices, would be an incentive to sustainable forest management,
while the award of these contracts by competitive bidding would maximize capture of
rents by Government.
6.        Field Programs Implementation.  The project would establish two Project
Offices in Vientiane and Savannakhet to coordinate and supervise the implementation
of project activities in forest inventory, planning, management and protection in
the central and southern areas of the country.   These would be established by
upgrading and strengthening the present forestry services of these two provinces.
Each project office would consist of two units: (a) the Inventory and Planning Unit,
and (b) the Management and Protection Unit, to implement programs in these areas.
The establishment of protected areas would be implemented directly from the National
Office of Nature Conservation in Vientiane.
7.        The forest inventory and management planninq program would be implemented
by the Inventory and Planning Unit, which would be built up from the existing field
staff and facilities of the National Office of Inventory and Planning in Vientiane
and Savannakhet. As needed, additional numbers of staff would be assigned to the
project by DOF from the provincial and district forest services in the project area.
Some minor expansion of physical facilities would be supported under the project.
The Unit would have two sections, one for forest inventory and the other for forest
management planning. Both the inventory and the forest management planning sections
would include five field survey teams, consisting of a leader, a technician and four
laborers.   IDA would fund civil works, aerial photography, vehicles, equipment,
materials, development costs and a portion of the recurrent operating costs for the
project offices, while FINNIDA would support external technical assistance and human
resource development under parallel cofinancing arrangements.
8.        The main task of the Unit would be to carry out land use and forest
resource zoning and forest inventory, and prepare management plans for a designated



- 13 -
forest area.1L  The sequence of actions would include:  (i) map delineation of
areas; (ii) demarcation and zoning of planning areas, together with village
communities; and (iii) production of management plans for sustainable development
of production forests, and assisting village representatives to prepare sustainable
development plans for villages located within or bordering the production forests.
Depending on land use practices, management plans for production forest areas (or
ranges), covering a total area of about 300,000 ha, would specify management and
conservation requirements, annual allowable cuts, limits on clear-cutting, measures
for riparian and watershed protection, appropriate silvicultural practices, and
other post-harvest requirements. Training and operational guidance on the use of
the management plans would be provided to users, and close supervision would be
provided by the National Office for Forest Inventory and Planning.
9.        The management and protection program would include two sub-programs:
(a) village forest development, through provincial and district forest services; and
(b) forest regulation and control, in production and protection forest areas.
10.       The  village  forestry  development  sub-program  is  aimed  at  giving
communities living in or near protected and production forest areas the necessary
incentives and opportunities to participate in the improvement of natural resource
management. In addition to the protection of traditional access of users to forest
resources, buffer zones around production forest and protected areas would be
established. Depending on the opportunities offered by each location, the project
would finance activities designed to demonstrate alternative land use and livelihood
schemes to replace unsustainable forest exploitation. The project would provide a
total amount of US$4.5 million of IDA funds for village development schemes.
Community mobilization approaches are still being tested by Government and aid
agencies with encouraging results. Community organizers (COs) , located at province
and district level, would be trained to act as catalysts in the process of
mobilizing local communities to identify specific needs in relation to the
availability of funds. Much of the initial identification would take place during
the village study and land use planning process, while the CO may continue a longer
involvement with the village after the land use plan has been completed, in order
to carry identified projects to completion. Local village representatives who were
identified during the village study and land use planning process would continue to
work with the CO on these projects. Initial information regarding the new resource
management system would be presented to the communities by the district forest
technicians and COs during the land use planning process, additional information
would be provided over time.
11.       An agreement between the village elected authority on behalf of the
community, and DOF on behalf of the Government, would be developed with the active
participation of all sectors of the community as mobilized by the project forestry
staff and COs. It would be based on land use allocation and forest management plans
The  Forestry  Decree's  Article  11  proposes  the  zoning  of  five  forest
categories: (i) protection forests, for protection of watershed catchment
areas; (ii) conservation forests, (protected areas) worthy of conserving for
biological diversity or other subjects of environmental, scientific or
cultural value; (iii) production forests for sustainable supply of timber and
other non wood products; (iv) rehabilitation forests, for regeneration into
production or other forest types; and (v) degraded forests, which are no
longer capable of yielding forest products but can be alienated for productive
purposes, such as agriculture.



- 14 -
prepared by the community assisted by these project office staff, and compliance
would be monitored by the community as well as by regulation and control staff at
project office and district level. These agreements would include enough land and
would protect the community's rights of access to it to satisfy local needs for
construction and commercial timber, fuelwood, and other non-wood forest products in
specific forest areas on a sustainable basis.
12.       The  forest  management  and protection  sub-program  would  consist  of
regulation and control of forestry operations for both production and protection
forest areas.  Project staff would provide support to DOF's forestry police system
which is to be established at central and local level to enforce forestry
regulations2L.   Regulatory and control functions would include a combination of
permanent and mobile surveillance of forest management, logging, transport,
handling,  grading  and  scaling,  processing,  and  trading  operations.    Mobile
surveillance would cover log supply and trading routes as an important back-up for
operations audits and permanent surveillance. The project would provide technical
assistance, training, vehicles, equipment, materials, and funds for field
operations.
13.       This  sub-program  would  also  support,  under  IDA  financing,  forest
conservation activities outside the protected area system (para 2.15), including
identifying environmentally sensitive areas and placing them under protection as
part of the formal agreements with communities. These areas, which would not be
subject to Government gazettement, would include corridors of forest along streams,
steep slopes or biologically rich areas with particular features, to be excluded
from logging and conversion to agriculture.   Conservation practices would be
designed in management plans to minimize damage to residual forest and soil in
logging and road construction areas and to stimulate forest regrowth in
silvicultural activities.
14.       The  protected  areas  program  under  GET  funding  would  support  the
establishment and management of four protected areas, environmental monitoring and
evaluation, the design and establishment of a Conservation Trust Fund, and technical
assistance and training.   The plan for the first site,  Nakai/Nam Theun,  was
completed in September 1993 and is being discussed with Khammouane province and
district authorities. The remaining three sites would be selected from the list in
Table 1 below as additional inventory data become available during 1993-94. These
sites are included in the list of 18 National Biodiversity Conservation Areas
established under Decree No. 164.   The management system would be described in
preliminary management plans to be prepared under FRCP.   Staff of the National
Office for Nature Conservation and Watershed Management assigned to the project
would, with technical support provided by GET, develop these plans further through
detailed field surveys and consultations with local communities. GET would provide
an amount of US$5.0 million for the establishment and management of the protected
areas, survey and inventory, ecological studies, management planning, civil works,
equipment and materials, including an amount of US$1.3 million to be allocated as
a grant to community development activities (para. 2.11) in the buffer zones of the
protected areas.
2    Ministerial Decree Number 728, October 4, 1991, Jurisdiction of the Forestry
Police, provides for the establishment of a national service of forest police
that are responsible for control and policing of forest industry operations.



- 15 -
15.       Environmental monitoring and evaluation would cover a range of key
parameters for environmental and socio-cultural change. It would be an integral
part of monitoring and evaluation for the whole project (para. 3.10), and about the
fourth year of project implementation, the effectiveness of project design and
management plans for the protected areas in achieving project objectives would be
evaluated. In order to sustain conservation management, GET would provide funds for
external technical assistance to design and establish a Conservation Trust Fund.
This fund would provide longer term funding for the network of protected areas,
community based mobilization activities, and conservation training. Human resource
development and technical assistance activities under GET funding are presented in
paras. 2.18, 2.19 and 2.21.
16.       Human Resource Development.  The IDA-assisted project would support, under
FINNIDA financing, training programs to assist the process of transformation of the
forestry service and to upgrade skills of forestry staff for the implementation of
the various field programs.   Training would cover both forest production and
protection management, including wildlife and protected area management, and
emphasize on-the-job training as well as courses to be held in existing training
institutions.   The training programs would be implemented through the project
offices and would fully integrate with SIDA-supported training activities, including
short courses in specialist subjects and in English which are being conducted at the
Forestry Training Office at Houei Nhang near Vientiane for the central and northern
provinces, and at Savannakhet or Xepone in the south.
Technical Assistance
17.       Long term technical assistance for the management of the IDA-assisted
project for offices, silviculture, regulation and control, strategic planning,
community forestry, harvesting control, and training would amount to 26 person
years.   Short term technical assistance, mainly in the fields of management and
operational planning, harvesting, silviculture, village forestry, forestry
regulation, inventory and design and other technical areas as required, is estimated
at 60 person months. Both these technical assistance inputs would be financed under
a grant from FINNIDA.



- 16 -
Annex 2
LAO PDR
WILDLIFE AND PROTECTED AREAS CONSERVATION PROJECT
New Resource Management System
1.        The project aims at establishing a new national resource management
system that directly addresses the causes of deforestation and is itself
sustainable  and  replicable.      The  system  is built  around  the  following
elements:
(a) land use and forest resource zoning, based on the forest management
areas as the core unit of forest management throughout the country;
(b) reorganization of the Department of Forestry to implement central
jurisdiction and establish a unified structure for forest management;
(c) provision of incentives, including protection of traditional access
of users to forest resources;
(d) development of an operational capacity for the administration and
delivery of the six national forestry programs, including rural
development activities in forest areas; and
(e) reform of the concession system of forest management, and of the
marketing, pricing and taxation of logs and wood products.
Incentives Framework
2.        One of the core elements of the new resource management system is the
reliance on an incentives framework as a means of managing resource use in a
sustainable manner. Incentives would apply to all resource users and regulators:
communities, contractors, provincial governments and the national Department.
3.        Communities would be given incentives through the protection of their
rights to improve management of the forests and agricultural land in areas under
their traditional control within a management area. These areas would be excised
form the forest management areas as a first step in the zoning process and set
aside for each community's exclusive long term use. The main incentive would
include the provision by Government of a formal and enforceable charter to use
these land and forest resources in accordance with a defined management plan.
Traditional access of local communities to forest resources would be protected
against outside encroachment which, in most cases, would trigger accelerated
deforestation by impinging on areas traditionally under their control.   The
purpose of the management agreement is to make communities accountable for
improved management practices in exchange for this protection.  This approach has
a major element of persuasion rather than control by Government, as its key
feature. The second incentive would be grant financing, under the agreement, of
village development activities aimed at income generation and enhancement of
village lifestyle to reduce unsustainable dependence on forest resources. The
design of these activities would be a fully participative process between the
local communities and the project agency.
4.        Contractors.  Present Government policy is to favor conservation and
sustainable management rather than maximizing log production, by changing the
terms and conditions of concession management and by improving the regulation and
control of forest management to ensure compliance. The incentive for contractors



- 17 -
would be to receive payment based on performance of sustainable yield and post-
harvest management in accordance with plans, or face penalties. In the medium
term the Government plans to fully replace the concession system by introducing
a system of contract logging, state ownership of logs and an auction system.
5.        Provincial Governments.  The transformation of the national system of
economic and fiscal management under Decrees 68 and 69 together with the
privatization of state enterprises proposed under Decree 70 means that provincial
governments  will  have  no  further  direct  dependence  on  provincial  forest
enterprises and consequent deforestation activities as a source of revenue.
Under the new system, provincial governments would rely on a system of special
purpose grants from the national Government for budget purposes.   This would
reduce dependence on the forest resource and pressure on forest destruction.
6.        The  Department  of  Forestrv.    DOF  would  require  financial  and
institutional  arrangements  that  would  ensure  effective  production  and
conservation management to be sustained. Under the Forestry Decree, a Forest
Management Fund would be established from tax revenues and other sources, and
retained by DOF to finance its operations at all levels. This will provide a
direct incentive to manage resource and conservation programs effectively.
Reorganization of DOF
7.        The  new  organizational  structure  of  DOF  reflects  its  national
jurisdiction on management of the country's national resources by the absorption
of provincial and district forestry services within its structure. DOF's main
task would be to implement six core national programs.
8.        The main elements of the new organization are:
(a) establishment of clear and direct lines of command from Department to
province, district and village;
(b) rationalization of Department activities, emphasizing policy and
strategy development and overall supervision and monitoring;
(c) decentralization of staff;
(d) establishment of an independent national monitoring unit; and
(e) reform of the concession system.
9.        Director's Office.  The Department would, as at present, be headed by
a Director in charge of policy development, legislation, overall planning,
budgeting, supervision, monitoring, and personnel and payroll. Detailed planning
and supervision would be handled by a number of national technical offices,
organized along functional lines, as follows:
(a) Shifting Cultivation Programs
(b) N.O. for Management and Protection
(c) N.O. for Inventory and Planning
(d) N.O. for Nature Conservation and Watershed Management
(e) Forest Plantation Programs
(f) Forestry Industry Programs
10.       Technical Offices.   The Shifting Cultivation Programs Office would
execute upland development projects and programs, with emphasis on sustainable
upland farming systems and the stabilization of shifting cultivation. The N.O.
for Management and Protection would be in charge of field implementation of



- 18 -
regulation and control programs, in close liaison with the Forestry Police, and
village forestry programs. The N.O. for Inventory and Planning would implement
the National Forest Inventory and prepare forest management plans for resource
management areas and protected areas.   The Forest Plantation Programs Office
would undertake silviculture research and extension, while the N.O. for Nature
Conservation and Watershed Management would be responsible for monitoring of the
environment and wildlife and for preparing plans for the management of protected
areas. The Forestry Training Office would supervise the Forestry College at Dong
Dok, the three Forest Technician Schools and the Vientiane Forestry Training
Center, and arrange training courses in selected subjects as requested by the
other offices of the Department.
Forest Management Areas
11.       The field implementation of the national programs would be through
Forest Management Areas which would be the planning units of the new natural
resource  management  system.    The  management  area  would  be  the  smallest
administrative unit of forest land for forest management and control.  It would
vary between 20,000 and 50,000 ha, being larger in areas of low population
pressure, poor access, and predominance of protection and conservation forest in
which case several FMAs could be combined. While several FMAs could be found
within one district, they should preferably have natural boundaries, such as
those of a sub watershed.   The boundaries should be aligned with existing
district and customary village boundaries to simplify the determination of
management responsibilities. The delineation of a first group of 50 FMAs by the
Forest Inventory Division is well-advanced and is expected to be completed
shortly for the start of detailed zoning of priority management areas.
Program Implementation Structure
12.       Two project offices would be established in Vientiane and Savannakhet
to cover the central and southern regions, respectively, and coordinate the
implementation of project activities. The office in Vientiane would serve the
provinces of Vientiane, Borikhamsay and Khammouane, while that in Savannakhet the
provinces of Savannakhet, Champassak, Saravane and Attopeu. At a latter stage
of project implementation, a third project office would be established at an
appropriate location in the north to cover the provinces of Oudomxay, Bokeo and
Sayaboury. The protected areas component, however, would be implemented directly
from Vientiane by the National Office for Nature Conservation and Watershed
Management. The main responsibilities of the offices would include:
(a) implementing the forest management area system;
(b) supervising preparation of land use and forest management plans, and
demarcation of forest land and protected areas;
(c) development and application of methods and procedures for forest
inventory and management planning, silviculture, reforestation,
regulation and control of harvesting operations and community based
users;
(d) development of a protected area management system;
(e) provision of staff training; and
(f) establishment and operation of a forest management information system
and an independent monitoring and control unit under the Department.



- 19 -
Annex 3
LAO PDR
WILDLIFE AND PROTECTED AREAS CONSERVATION PROJECT
Protected Areas Establishment and Management
1.        A primary project objective is to promote biodiversity conservation
throughout the project area through a new system of conservation management to
be introduced and implemented in the Forest Management Areas to be set up under
the project. While most FMAs would include an integrated array of activities
including production forestry, watershed protection and various community land
uses, those in biologically rich areas would be included wholly or in part within
the protected area system now being planned by FRCP.  Project activities for
these FMAs would include formal protected area establishment and management, and
buffer zone development and would be funded separately by GEF under a Wildlife
and Protected Areas Conservation Project, which is an integral component of the
Forest Management and Conservation Project to be funded by IDA, FINNIDA and GOL.
The four protected areas to be established under the project would be put under
protection by Government decree. The National Office of Nature Conservation and
Watershed Management at DOF headquarters in Vientiane would be responsible for
implementing this component together with local staff.
2.        Biodiversity conservation objectives would also be achieved under the
project in areas designated for production or community forestry through proper
zoning to ensure that biologically rich areas are designated for protection,
through development and implementation of appropriate controls on harvesting
methods, and through support to local communities in community forestry and
buffer zone development. Since these activities would be fully integrated with
other project activities in production forest, it would difficult to isolate them
for GET funding and they would, therefore, be funded by IDA.
3.        The Protected Areas component would have the following activities:
(a) Biodiversity conservation, through the design and management of
legally established protected areas and associated buffer zones;
(b) Community participation in integrated forest management, including
community mobilization programs aimed at giving local people living
within or adjacent to the protected areas the necessary incentives and
opportunities for sustainable utilization of the forest (community
participation under the project is described in Annex 4);
(c) Institutional development, including the creation and implementation
of  an  environmental  monitoring  and  evaluation  program,   and
establishment of a secure long-term financing mechanism to sustain
operations of the conservation management activities described in this
component; and
(d)  Conservation training, focusing on on-the-job training in conservation
management, limited specialized training for key DOF personnel in
overseas graduate institutions to enhance professional skills in
conservation management and environmental monitoring, and grassroots



- 20 -
training of forest communities in conservation management (project
activities in conservation training are described in paras. 17-22).
Background
4.        Lao PDR forms part of four distinct biogeographic subunits: Annam in
mountainous eastern Laos; Central Indochina in western, central and southern Laos
along the plains of the Mekong River; Northern Indochina in upland northern Laos;
and Indochina Transition Zone in Phongsaly Province. Each is characterized by
specific flora and fauna, some of which are endemic to the biogeographic region.
The Lao terrain varies from flat plains along the Mekong River, which flows
nearly 500 km along the western boundary of the country, to mountain peaks of
2,700 m in height along the eastern border with Vietnam.   The biological
isolation created by this positioning between rugged mountains and the wide
Mekong River has resulted in a variety of endemic species.
5.        With one of the highest proportions (47%) of relatively intact forest
in Asia, Lao PDR also ranks as one of the most biologically rich countries in the
Indo-Malayan and Oceanic realms and compares favorably in species diversity with
other nations in the region. China and India, which are many times larger in
size than Lao PDR, have total numbers of mammal species of 394 and 350,
respectively, as compared to 186 resident mammal species for Lao PDR. In terms
of birds, Lao PDR with 623 species outranks biologically rich Papua New Guinea
(592), Vietnam (586), and the Philippines (541) . The richness of the biological
resources along with the extensive contiguous forest cover makes Lao PDR a high
priority country for conservation efforts.
6.        The relatively high percentage of primary and secondary forest cover
remaining in Lao PDR should not be viewed as justification for a relaxed
timetable for conservation action. Forest cover varies greatly among regions,
falling below 20% in some parts of the north, but remaining around 50% in the
mountainous border region with Vietnam and in the lightly populated southern
border region. However, these forests are under increasing pressure from
commercial exploitation, growing population and increased regional demand for Lao
wood products as a result of the ban on logging in Thailand. If the pace of
forest degradation continues and efforts to conserve biological diversity are not
stepped up, many high priority sites worthy of protection will be severely
impacted before viable conservation measures can be established.
7.        Development of effective conservation measures within Lao PDR is still
at a very early stage. Major impediments to conservation management are the lack
of conservation legislation, the dependence of the national budget and export
revenues on forest revenues, weak institutional capacity and lack of local
expertise in conservation management.  Few government officials have received
tertiary level training in biology and natural resource management, and the
number of graduate degree holders in the conservation sciences in the country is
less than 10.
Biodiversity Conservation
8.        Recognizing the need to manage its forests sustainably and at the same
time to set aside representative areas for conservation, Government has issued
Decree No. 164 to provide the legal basis for establishing a protected area
system. External aid agencies such as SIDA and conservation groups, such as IUCN
and WWF are already involved in conservation activities in Lao PDR through the



- 21 -
Forest Resources Conservation Project (FRCP) of the Lao-Swedish Forestry Program
being implemented by IUCN, and the Kouprey Action Plan and the Asian Elephant
Action Plan developed and being supported by IUCN/WWF.   Decree No. 164 has
brought about 2.8 million hectares (slightly over 12% of the total land area)
under legal protection.   FRCP has identified 69 potential protected areas of
which 29 have already undergone preliminary survey, two (totalling 200,800 ha)
are under management plan implementation, and eight are designated for management
planning during 1991-95. Taken together the 8 forest areas included or proposed
for immediate inclusion in the protected area system cover 4.9% of the land area
of Laos, or nearly half of Government's target.
9.        The project would support the establishment of at least four protected
areas. No new institutions or concepts would be introduced under the project,
as it would complement and operate under the FRCP planning framework which has
developed a strategy for planning and establishment of a representative national
protected area system, including identification of potential sites, evaluation
and selection of sites to be included, and development of preliminary management
plans for individual areas. These plans provide a biophysical description of the
area, and set out objectives, a management strategy, activities and anticipated
outputs, which are further elaborated in annual work plans and area-specific
development plans.   Following agreement on the final selection of protected
areas, the project would use the preliminary management plans prepared by FRCP
for further elaboration and implementation. Under its present program, FRCP will
prepare eight protected area management plans and implement four of them. The
other four, or additional areas yet to be surveyed, will be available for
implementation under the proposed project:
Plan Preparation and Implementation by FRCP (1991-1995)
Name                            Province                 Area (ha)
Xe Piane                        Champassak               146,000
Xe Bang Nouane                  Saravane                 146,400
Nam Poui                        Sayaboury                170,000
Nam Kading                      Borikhamsay              169,200
Probable Sites for Plan Preparation by FRCP (1991-1995)
Nam Ma                          Luang Namtha             144,800
Nakai Plateau/Nam Theun         Khammouane               405,600
Phou Xang He                    Savannakhet               69,200
Phou Xiang Thong                Saravane                 116,400
Dong Amphane                    Attopeu                  163,000
Phou Dene Din                   Phongsaly                222,900
10.       Subject to confirmation from further field reconnaissance surveys, at
least four of the last six sites described above will be subject to preliminary
management plan preparation by FRCP and to elaboration and implementation under
the project. The criteria used for protected area site selection under FRCP are
the following:



- 22 -
(a)  area of at least 50,000 hectares,3/ and preferably over 100,000 ha;
(b)  biogeographic representation;
(c)  regional   priorities   (based  on  McKinnon  and  McKinnon,   1986
classification of priority habitats for protection in the Indo-Malayan
Realm); and
(d)  degree of threat.
11.       In addition to the above criteria, consideration would be given to
areas with potential of becoming transnational protected areas and for those that
contain important populations of flagship species.
12.       Preliminary  management  plans prepared  by FRCP  would be  further
developed under the project by a unit of the National Office for Nature
Conservation and Watershed Management in Vientiane to be supported under the
project, with technical input and guidance from external technical assistance.
Rapid ecological surveys for vegetation and habitat evaluation, key species
determination and population dynamics and other relevant parameters would precede
plan elaboration.   This is expected to be sub-contracted to an appropriate
research institution or university.
13.       As  biodiversity  cannot  be  fully  maintained  only  by  localized
protection of selected areas, another objective (under IDA financing) is to
introduce biodiversity conservation measures into all types of forest management
activities. The management regimes to be applied to forest lands outside of the
formal protected area system will probably significantly determine the extent to
which biological diversity can be adequately conserved in Lao PDR. Conservation
measures will be included at planning, when zoning work identifies areas of
protection forest required for the maintenance of watershed integrity and values,
and areas of particular biological interest or sensitivity. These areas will be
demarcated in the land use plans for each FMA and management measures for these
areas specified in the forest management plans. These would include controls on
hunting practices, tree felling, use of forest products and fire, and other
nature protection measures, for which provision is made in the Forestry Land Use
Management Decree. Field measures would include information campaigns aimed at
the rural population and logging personnel, design and implementation of measures
to minimize damage to residual forest and soil in logging and road construction
work, and silvicultural work to stimulate forest regrowth.
14.       The project would provide conservation management expertise, physical
facilities, vehicles and equipment, fuel and materials, and training. It would
support flora and fauna survey work, including the establishment of a herbarium,
and protected area establishment and buffer zone development activities. Costs
per protected area will vary depending upon the management system designated for
each particular protected area. The specific management system to be used would
be based on internationally accepted criteria as described by IUCN's Commission
on National Parks and Protected Areas and specific plans of action will be
determined using data collected during field surveys, inventories, and from
community inputs. The project would support village development activities in
buffer zone areas.
3/   Minimum size considered to be necessary to prevent species extinctions in
the richest habitats (MacKinnon, J. and MacKinnon, K., Review of the
Protected Areas System of the Indo-Malayan Realm, IUCN, 1986).



- 23 -
Institutional Development
15.       Environmental Monitoring and Evaluation.   The National Office for
Nature Conservation would be responsible for administering and monitoring
environmental conservation in Lao PDR. The absence of an ecological monitoring
unit in DOF has resulted in poor monitoring of environmental impacts, especially
from logging. An environmental monitoring capability of 6 staff in that office
would be established by financing one technical assistance specialist for a total
period of one year.   The staff would be appointed by DOF and trained by the
project in specialized fields of conservation biology, tropical forest biology,
natural forest management, and sustainable forestry practices. All staff would
require training in monitoring and evaluation techniques.   The unit would
concentrate on monitoring and evaluation of forestry operations, agriculture
activities, natural forest management and biodiversity conservation, and
sustainable use of natural resources in FMAs.
16.       Conservation  Trust  Fund.    Ongoing  operating  funds  for  all  DOF
activities would be supplemented from the Forest Management Fund to be
established under the IDA-assisted project.   In addition,  the project would
provide short technical assistance to design and establish a Conservation Trust
Fund which would provide earnings specifically for the funding of recurrent costs
of protected areas management and operation.
Conservation Training
17.       The project would support a major expansion of conservation management
training through the development of a training and operations program in
protected area management for field staff and training of forest communities in
sustainable forest management and conservation. The approach is based on meeting
the project's immediate need for field managers with training in ecology and
wildlife conservation. At the beginning of the project, emphasis would be placed
on on-the-job training of provincial and district level staff, due to the need
to keep these staff in place to get the project started and to benefit from their
intimate knowledge of local forest areas and conditions.
18.        The Lao Protected Area Management Training Program would provide
trainees with a basic understanding of the principles of conservation, protected
area and wildlife management. The program would consist of three modules:
(a)  Preparation Module at the Dong Dok Forestry School.   The module
would offer trainees the opportunity to update the knowledge
required to subsequently follow applied courses in protected area
and wildlife management. Trainees from a variety of educational
and professional backgrounds would be able to enter this training.
Candidates who successfully complete the preparatory module would
be able to continue with the intensive course or may be considered
for long term training.
(b) Intensive Conservation Management Module at Kasetsart University,
Bangkok  (or some other appropriate regional university) .  This
module would consist of a six month long applied course in
protected area and wildlife management, designed with the input of
TA consultants.



- 24 -
(c) Field Training Module. This third module would be carried out in
a forest reserve such as the Nong Lam-Dong Natat Reserve and would
consist of an eight-week long field training course in wildlife
survey and inventory techniques.   Upon completion, the students
would receive a certificate and be posted in the field.
19.       Graduate and Post-Graduate Training.  The project would provide for
four fellowships for undergraduate and graduate level training in conservation
management and related areas at a university in the region or elsewhere abroad.
20.       Field Training for Protected Area Staff.  Field training for staff
working in the protected areas would be provided through specialized short term
course in protected area management and subsequent field training in the areas
where staff have been assigned. Provision has been made for 410 person months
of training under this program.
21.       Studv Tours.  Provision has been made for 50 person months of study
tours to protected areas and conservation management programs in the region.
22.       Community Training.   The new system of resource management to be
introduced under the project implies radical changes in the roles, rights and
authority of Government and the private sector on land and forest resource access
and use.  To assure effective implementation of the new management system, a
public awareness campaign on the objectives, mechanisms and legal aspects of the
new system will need to be carried out.  As part of the project activities,
project staff will be trained by the Ministry of Justice on the new legal
framework and implementation of the regulations.   As part of the community
mobilization process for resource management, trained staff will educate
villagers in the project area regarding the new resource management system, and
particularly how the system will affect their rights to use of forest resources.
Aspects of land tenure, zoning, legal framework and sustainable forest resource
management will also be explained. Forestry staff should emphasize that the Land
Use Plans which will be developed in the community mobilization process are based
on this new legal framework, and should improve the security of village access
to traditional forest resources.



- 25 -
Annex 4
LAO PDR
WILDLIFE AND PROTECTED AREAS CONSERVATION PROJECT
Project Implementation
Project Organization and Staffing
1.        The project would be implemented directly from Department of Forestry
headquarters in Vientiane by the National Office for Nature Conservation and
Watershed Management, under the overall coordination of the Project Director for
the Forest Management and Conservation Project, but would rely heavily on
provincial and district level forestry service staff for field operations. Each
protected area would operate as a single management unit headed by a manager, two
deputy managers, three to five park rangers (each stationed at a ranger station),
and  20-30  park  guards.    The  manager  would  be  responsible  for  overall
administration and management.    One deputy manager would handle  resource
management, research and monitoring, and the other deputy manager community
development, public liaison and training.
2.        Forestry service staff at provincial and district would provide the
main body of staff for each protected area, complemented by a small number of key
personnel from headquarters. Local forestry staff from the protected areas and
regionally-recruited forestry staff would be trained under the guidance of
external technical assistance. This emphasis on local staff would enhance the
retention of protected area staff after training and project completion.
Infrastructure Development
3.        Physical facilities at each protected area would include, as needed,
a headquarters building, a laboratory, guest quarters, and housing with water and
electricity supply for about 8-10 staff families, 3-5 ranger stations at
important sites within the protected area, and basic internal road and trail
networks.   The facilities would be equipped with office, radio and other
telecommunications equipment.
Field Operations
4.        Protected Area Activities.  These would include resource inventory and
management planning, and protected area development and management. As part of
the land use planning and forest zoning of resource management areas, the
preliminary management plans to be prepared under FRCP would be further
elaborated through additional resource surveys and inventories.   The project
would provide vehicles, equipment, fuel and materials, and finance incremental
operating costs on a declining basis.
5.        Community Based Resource Management.   The establishment of buffer
zones, which would also be subject to conservation management, outside the
protected areas and in the rest of the project area related to forest management
activities, is a central element of conservation strategy. Communities in these
buffer zones and also inside the protected areas would be fully involved in all
aspects of sustainable forest management and conservation. New immigration into
protected areas would be restricted, leaving those areas to those communities



- 26 -
that are already established.   Communities in buffer zones will,  however,
continue to have access to specific village forest areas under agreements with
DOF.
6.        The objective is to involve communities in forest areas in resource
conservation by giving them the main responsibility for management of forest
protection  and  village  forestry  activities.    The  management  objectives,
activities, and procedures for each area would be specified in Land Use
Management Plans.   The basic principle of the system is the contracting of
agreements, based on Land Use and Forest Management Plans, with communities
concerned. Under these agreements, the traditional access of villages to forest
resources is protected, and in return the villages undertake to refrain from
destructive activities such as uncontrolled use of fires, protect defined areas
and report on violations by outsiders, and manage and make use of assigned areas
of production forest and buffer zones on a sustainable basis.  The long term
objective is to slow down encroachment into the high forest and improve living
conditions in the villages. Degraded forests would be protected to allow the
natural regeneration of vegetative cover.
7.        The forest technicians attached to the district would carry out
preliminary forest and land use survey for the planned areas and a preliminary
resource valuation. They would then prepare a preliminary consensus Land Use
Plan together with the local community, which would be reviewed by the district
and province to ensure balanced land use.  The Land Use Plan would set aside
areas for long fallow shifting cultivation. Final discussion with communities
regarding their management responsibilities would lead to formulation of land use
contracts between DOF and communities and/or individuals within the planning
area. These contracts would specify the rights and responsibilities of the land
user. Based on the Land Use Plan, a Forest Management Plan would be prepared,
outlining management objectives for each parcel of land and the scope of
community development works. As different types of forest and land use would
occur within the same area, the management plan may include recommended land uses
for production of timber and other commercial forest products, supply of forest
products needed by villagers, shifting cultivation, permanent agri.culture and
grazing, conservation, or protection and maintenance of forest cover in watershed
management areas.
8.        A key element of the project is to promote better alternatives of
livelihood to unsustainable shifting cultivation.   The project would provide
funds on a grant basis to village communities for agriculture (small scale
irrigation, etc.) development to reduce dependence on unsustainable resource use.
Local communities would be fully involved in planning, as part of the Land Use
Plan process, under the leadership of COs and with the active cooperation of NGOs
to be identified at the start of project implementation. The village development
activities would be coordinated with other rural development projects.   The
nature and scope of civil works would be detailed in specific agreements between
the village administrative committees/districts and DOF.   The value of each
agreement per village would depend upon the size of the communities and the
nature of the works. Each village would provide volunteer labor to carry out the
works.
9.        The overall project has a broad community development  focus and
impacts on the whole rural population who are dependent to various degrees on
forest resources for their livelihood. In the more remote forest areas, there
may be a higher proportion of ethnic minorities. Village studies carried out



- 27 -
during project preparation indicated that the common generalization of the 50-odd
ethnic groups into three main groups according to altitudinal location masked
important socio-economic and cultural differences between members of the same
group and risked encouraging simplistic policies towards them.  The commonly
called "Lao Theung" group, who make up a large percentage of the upland Lao
population and include many ethnic minorities, are internally very diverse. The
study also concluded that the ethnic map was even more complicated than it
seemed.   Thus, the project approach is to enable each village to be fully
involved in its own natural resource management and village development planning;
this will ensure that the final plan is tailored to the village's specific
conditions and needs. The project will not involve any resettlement activities,
and customary rights of access to forest resources will be safeguarded by the
delineation of shifting cultivation land and village forests for community use
for indefinite periods under agreements enforceable under the Forestry Land Use
Management Decree.
Environmental Monitoring and Evaluation
10.       The official guidelines for the monitoring and evaluation of GEF
biodiversity projects will be used as a framework for the design of the
monitoring and evaluation activities  for both the overall project and the
protected areas component.  These objectives will focus on three aspects:  (a)
biological;    (b)    sociological/community    participation;    and    (c)
legal/institutional. Short term technical assistance will be provided at project
start-up for the design of the M&E program, and baseline surveys will be
conducted immediately after design.
11.       The biological aspect relates to biodiversity protection and protected
area management, for which ecological and biological conservation indicators will
be monitored at three hierarchical levels: the regional landscape, the ecosystem,
and the species or population levels. These indicators will include critical
processes and species, identified and monitored over time and space against
control areas, for which an appropriate database will be set up.
12.       The socio-economic aspects of resource use will also be monitored, as
forest communities are called upon to play an important role in biodiversity and
forest resource conservation under the project. The M&E program will monitor
social indicators at different hierarchical levels; these will include, inter
alia, family livelihood, forest resource allocation and use, and involuntary
resettlement.
13.       Changes in forestry and land legislation, informal forest usufruct
rights,  roles  and responsibilities  of  forestry institutions  will also be
monitored.
14.       As part of the overall Forest Management and Conservation Project
(FMCP), support would be given to MAF for coordination and monitoring of donor
activities. At the sector level, support from the IDA Credit would be provided
to MAF for its annual forestry donor coordination meetings, which would also have
a key monitoring function.  MAF staff would prepare summary progress reports
including data on sectoral, environmental and socio-cultural impacts, and on
project performance. As needed, the FMCP would provide specialists to assist MAF
and facilitate the annual meetings, which would focus on issues such as forestry
policy, the legal and institutional framework, sector financing and
administration, logging operations (compliance with quotas and management plans,



- 28 -
extent of illegal logging and smuggling), monitoring of forest destruction and
community forestry, and socio-cultural and environmental impacts.
15.       These  annual  sectoral  reviews  would  provide  information  for
independent monitoring and reporting on the project and for public discussion of
forestry policy and issues.   Not later than December 31, 1994,  the Project
Coordination Committee would form an advisory Consultation Forum for FMCP
consisting of government officials, and representatives of grassroots
organizations,  NGOs and donor agencies,  to monitor project activities.   An
important input to these reviews would be data compiled from grass roots
organizations and village monitoring committees on the state of the forestry
sector in the project area.



- 29 -
Annex 5
Lao PDR
WILDLIFE AND PROTECTED AREAS CONSERVATION PROJECT
Community Mobilization and Training Program
Draft Terms of Reference
Introduction
1.      One of the purposes of this project is to provide rural villages with
secure land tenure and increase their participation as groups in forestry
management and conservation. To this end, a decree is being promulgated which
provides for the zoning of the country's forests into Forest Management Area
(FMAs) and the development of village land use management plans. DOF will sign
special agreements with villages or other identified communities which will
define their rights and responsibilities to carry out these land use plans.
2.      To implement this social forestry program, DOF will be training groups
of Resource Management Technicians (RMTs) and Community Organizers (COs) to work
with district administrations and local villages to design the land use plans and
secure agreements  between the villages and the districts  regarding their
implementation.  While the RMTs and COs will receive specialized training in
forest management as well as community organizing, it is expected that they will
have limited knowledge and experience in grassroots community organization,
upland cultivation systems, and the analysis of village cultures and social
systems.   In addition, DOF itself has little past experience in developing
cooperative relationships with villages regarding forest management. Therefore
independent Community Mobilization and Training Teams (CMTTs) are being
contracted to assist the DOF in the initial pilot stage of its social forestry
program.
Community Mobilization and Training Teams
3.      DOF is seeking bids from international NGOs to field the CMTTs.  The
contracting NGO should have substantial experience in grassroots rural
development and conservation activities in Laos or other neighboring countries
in Southeast Asia. They should be prepared to commit at least three years and
provide expertise and program guidance to the RMTs, COs and other DOF officials
in such areas as:
(a) social and community survey methods;
(b) design of village and multi-village resource management plans;
(c) conflict resolution and mediation;
(d) development of alternative livelihood activities;
(e) participatory monitoring and evaluation; and
(f) organizational and administrative capacity building for local DOF
officials.



- 30 -
4.      Each CMTT will consist of three specialists: (a) a social scientist with
training and experience in participatory community diagnosis techniques; (b) a
resource management specialist with experience in upland cultivation systems; and
(d) a women-in-development specialist with experience in rural training, capacity
building and dissemination skills. All members of the CMTTs should be competent
in Lao or Thai, and be prepared to become fluent in Lao in a short time.
Knowledge of minority languages would be a distinct asset. A different NGO may
be selected to supply each team, or a single NGO may supply all (both) teams.
If two or more NGOs are contracted, it will be necessary for them to implement
the program using a common methodology and goals. Either the social scientist
or resource management specialist will serve as the coordinator for each team.
One team will be assigned to each province where the pilot program is being
implemented, and will be expected to develop its activities in intimate
collaboration with provincial and district DOF officials and techniques.
Program Components and Implementation Schedule
5.      The overall Community Mobilization and Training Program will prepare and
implement consensus land use plans under the project. Because there is presently
little detailed and appropriate information regarding the social and living
conditions and customary land use practices of the villages and ethnic groups
affected, the program will be carried out in two phases, a preliminary phase and
an implementation phase. The activities will be the same in both phases, but the
preliminary phase will proceed at a substantially slower pace in order to develop
an adequate information base regarding the variety of village situations and a
detailed methodology for implementing the land use planning and development
project components of the program.
6.      The preliminary mobilization and study phase should last about one year,
during which time detailed village studies and land use plans are completed in
30 to 40 villages. Each CMTT will work closely with sub-teams composed of one
RMT and 2 COs each, in order to carry out the community mobilization and planning
work.   These joint field teams will be referred to as outreach teams.   All
members of the CMTTs are expected to have experience in and to adopt
participatory approaches to the community studies and development planning, and
to train and motivate their RMT/CO-workers in the same methodologies.   CMTT
specialists will normally work in the field at all times with the RMT/CO teams,
but each specialist will rotate working with the sub-teams depending on the tasks
to be carried out in the involved communities. As additional RMTs and COs are
recruited and trained, the CMTT specialists will also be involved in their
orientation and supervision in the field setting, perhaps by integrating them
into existing outreach teams.
7.      The objective of the preliminary phase of the program is to develop
detailed profiles of typical communities, and their patterns of land allocation
and resource use, as well as to develop a methodology by which the program will
be implemented in additional villages, and to train the RMTs and COs in its use.
The other components of the program will be integrated with the information
collection process:
(a) providing information to the communities regarding the new
government policy on resource management;
(b) identifying village representatives to assist in the land use
planning process;



- 31 -
(c) developing a land use plan with each community in the context of a
group of community plans and negotiating agreement on the plans with
the DOF and the district administration;
(d) identifying the development priorities of the community and relating
them to the use of the village development fund available through
the program; and
(e) developing a community-based monitoring and evaluation system to
track compliance with and effectiveness of the community land use
plan.
8.      To this end,  regular meetings involving all the outreach teams are
necessary to share information and identify regularities and variations among the
social organization and resource management practices found in the communities
which have been studied in different regions. The CMTTs will be responsible for
developing a means of organizing the data collected which will facilitate this
information sharing and analysis. At the end of the preliminary phase, the CMTT
will prepare two reports, one summarizing the findings of the village studies,
and one describing in detail the participatory methodology to be followed during
the implementation phase of the CMTP. The various components of the program must
be implemented together in a unified program of information dissemination, data
collection, and cooperative land use and development planning, and are described
more fully now.
Information Dissemination
9.      The initial contact of the outreach teams with a village will be to
inform the village administration of the new national resource management system,
and of the intent to develop a resource management plan for the village which
guarantees their future rights to forest and other resources in the context of
similar land use plans for a region or watershed area. After explanation to the
village administrative committee, a meeting of the entire village should be
convened in which the outreach team explains the program and the process of
developing a village land use plan which will involve compiling detailed
background information about the village, and outlines the goal of identifying
village development priorities which can be supported by project development
funds.   Simple portable charts and graphics which are not language dependent
should be developed for these presentations.
Village Surveys and Consultations
10.     During the preliminary phase of the program, detailed studies will be
performed in enough villages to encompass the range and breadth of ethnic groups
to be affected by the community mobilization and land use planning process.
Thirty studies would be a minimally acceptable number, and each ethnic group
should be represented by at least two villages in order to help ascertain whether
differences between villages are likely to be related to ethnicity or other
factors. Normally land use plans will be developed jointly with several adjacent
villages, as discussed in paras. 18-22 below. If areas selected for study and
planning during the preliminary phase are ethnically or ecologically homogeneous,
not all villages need to be the object of detailed studies, and some detailed
studies will have to be initiated in other ethnically or ecologically contrasting
areas in order to develop information on the full range of variation in community
organization and resource management patterns.   In these latter villages and



- 32 -
their neighbors, the land use planning process may be postponed until the second
year of the program.
11.     One outcome of the preliminary studies will be specification of the
information which must be collected about each community during the
implementation phase. It is expected that the implementation studies will be
considerably less detailed, and oriented toward identifying how well a village
fits one of the social and resource use patterns identified during the
preliminary phase. Should the village be significantly different from others
previously studied, a more detailed investigation must be carried out.
12.     The village studies should provide a historical as well as contemporary
picture of village life, social organization, and the means of securing a
livelihood.   Changes  in population,  location,  residence patterns,  farming
systems, agricultural self sufficiency, patterns of land use and land allocation,
labor requirement and allocation, gender relationships and norms, and
relationships with neighboring communities or outside actors are all critical
factor in understanding the community's present situation and the possibilities
of developing a sustainable land use system for the future. The village studies
should be carried out in a participatory manner in order to enable community
members to arrive at a conscious understanding of the main development issues and
problems facing their community, and to identify action priorities which could
be considered for support by the village development fund. The village studies
should be seen as a means of arriving at a proposed land use plan which is
congruent with present and anticipated future village needs, and which can be
implemented within the constraints of village organizational resources.   The
studies should also lead logically to development plans for the village, and to
identifying criteria or parameters which the village can monitor to assess its
progress in implementing the land use and development plans.   More detailed
specification of the topics to be included in the village studies is provided in
Appendix 1.
13.     One outcome of the study of village organizational patterns should be
identification of persons in each village who can assist the outreach team with
mobilization and training activities, and who can adequately represent the
village or other community to the outreach team and district or province
officials. Male and female village conveners (who may not necessarily be part
of the official village administrative committee) will be necessary to help
elicit the ideas of different segments of the village regarding necessary
components of the land use plan and priorities for development activities to be
supported through the village development fund. Consideration should be given
to developing brief local training programs for these village conveners in
community organization and resource management.
14.     A second issue to be addressed is the choice of units for social
mobilization, training, and resource management.  Ethnographic information on
some Lao minorities suggests that the village may not necessarily be the most
appropriate social unit, but that groups based on kinship, or settlement history
for example, or even multi-village groups may be more appropriate for the
mobilization and resource management activities included in these projects. The
migration of villages over time must also be addressed in the study, particularly
with regard to the question of whether and how a village can manage land-based
resources if the village itself is not permanently sited. Particularly if all
land in a region is eventually allocated among land use categories, any groups



- 33 -
or households seeking to move into an area may find they no longer have access
to unclaimed land.
15.     In minority villages where a substantial percentage of the population
does not speak Lao well, the dissemination and collection of information requires
accurate translation which is sensitive to the cultural and attitudinal
background of the community members. Identifying community members who speak Lao
and can serve as interpreters is probably the best approach, as these translators
would be known and trusted by the village, and their allegiance would likely be
to the village rather than to the government, and thus would not be tempted to
gloss over uncertainties or potential points of conflict either in exchange of
information or the development of land use plans. RMTs and COs who are members
of the ethnic group involved, or who speak the language, and who understand the
importance of participatory development of land use plans, would be a second
choice for interpreters. In any village, the bulk of the communication must take
place in a language understood by all members, whether Lao or a minority
language, in order for everyone to participate in the information and idea
interchange which is essential to this process, and in order that the outside
mobilizers do not dominate or control (whether intentionally or inadvertently)
the content, direction, or speed of the exchange by relying on translation.
16.     At the end of the preliminary phase of the program, the outreach teams,
guided by the CMTT, should design a standard data collection instrument which
includes the information found in the preliminary village studies to be most
relevant in understanding the village situation. This instrument will be used
in the villages during the implementation phase for more rapid data collection
and analysis. The availability of a standard instrument does not imply that data
will be collected by simple  interviews,  however.    Participatory methods,
including group meetings, joint preparation of maps or inventories and field
verification must be used.   The study team should also design a standard
procedure for charting land-use practices (mapping the present situation as well
as changes over time).
Village Management Plans
17.     As part of the village study, a detailed map should be prepared which
shows current land use practices by the community, including house sites,
permanent farm land, temporary swidden fields and the area which is in rotational
fallow, communal lands and other geographically defined resources (water sources,
locations of spirit shrines,  firewood plantations, grazing areas, etc) .  In
addition, the land area necessary for self sufficient farm production for each
household should be determined, and aggregated to the community level with
appropriate provision for anticipated population growth. This combination of
private, usufruct, rotational and communal lands becomes the starting point for
the land use planning process.
18.     A unified land use plan should be developed for entire watersheds or
other large natural units.  Several different communities may be given rights and
responsibilities over specific zones in the planning unit, with different parcels
of each community's management zone allocation to different use.  But strong
efforts should be made to ensure that parcels with similar land use
classifications which are managed by different communities are contiguous, so
that management units are not fragmented.   Rights and obligations  of one
community vis-a-vis other communities, logging companies and other actors must
be specified in the plan.



- 34 -
19.     Identification  of  either  the  permanent  or  temporary  holdings  of
individual households should not be specified in the land use plan, but left up
to the village to manage in its customary manner, which, however, should be
defined in the plan. Permanent title to paddy land or house sites, for example,
need not be a component of this program but wait for the eventual implementation
of a national land survey and titling process. Where there are disputes over
land rights within the community, or between neighboring communities, the
outreach plans and district administration will need to play a mediating role to
encourage the resolution of these conflicts before the plan is finalized.
20.     Preparation of the plan should rely on the community representatives
identified by the village study, but these representatives should be encouraged
to consult with village members, and the planning process should proceed slowly
enough to allow this consultation to occur. The outreach team should develop
with the village representatives procedures for consulting with all village
members, because all sectors of the village, including women, elders, and
traditional authorities need to agree on the plan and the maps describing it
before it is submitted to the government. A meeting between the outreach team
and village representatives should be followed by two or three weeks to allow for
the village to consult informally among its members and if necessary to have a
meeting of its own with no outsiders present to formulate a consensus regarding
the land use plan.   The outreach team will also organize meeting between
representatives of neighboring communities in order to develop a joint resource
use plan encompassing the several village forest zones. It may require several
such iterations before agreement is reached within the community and between the
community and the outreach team. The team should offer technical advice to the
community regarding means of insuring that the land use plan proposed is
sustainable and should propose modifications in management or farming techniques
which would increase the productivity of the land resource without compromising
sustainability.
21.     Normally, several villages in the same vicinity will be in the process
of developing land use plans at the same time. The outreach team involved should
therefore assist in identifying a joint management area based on natural
geographical or ecological boundaries, together with resolution of boundaries
between individual village resource zones within the area.   It may be more
appropriate for separate plans to be developed for each village, but each plan
should contain similar provisions and resource management should be coordinated
throughout the joint management area as well as the larger forest range. For
example, village forest areas zoned for watershed protection and gathering of
non-wood forest products should, where possible, be contiguous from one village
zone to another.
22.     Once community agreement has been obtained, the outreach team and village
representatives will submit the plan to the government for approval.   If the
government has any objection to components of the community land use plan, the
outreach team will facilitate negotiations between the village(s) and the
government.   once all plans have been designed, a joint meeting between the
government and representatives of all villages should be held. Its objective is
for each village to be aware of the provisions in the plans of its neighbors, and
to instill confidence that all villages, as well as all other actors with rights
to other zones in the forest, are operating with the same rights and under the
same constraints.



- 35 -
Livelihood Activities and the Villaqe Develolment Fund
23.     During the village study and development of the land use plan,  the
outreach team should also encourage the community to identify problems or ideas
which affect its quality of life and agricultural productivity.   The CMTT
resource management specialist will play an important role at this stage,
especially in suggesting changes in cropping and animal husbandry practices or
in other livelihood activities, which may improve the standard of living of the
community and be consistent with sustainable management of the forest and other
resources identified in the land use plan.
24.     The CMTT should be prepared to assist the village in identifying priority
projects which could be supported with funds earmarked for village development
activities. These projects should benefit the entire community, rather than just
one segment of it, whether by construction of a community resource such as an
irrigation system or potable water supply or by provision of equal grants for
development of new crops to each household.
25.     It is important to recognize the extreme shortage of technical assistance
and other resources needed for most village development projects, however. Even
small irrigation projects require substantial survey and design efforts and
supervision of the construction; most provinces have the capacity to implement
no more that 3 small projects a year.   Substantial changes in agricultural
practices may require extension resources which are beyond the ability of a
district.   The program should,  therefore,  investigate means of identifying
village development activities which are suitable for support by the village
development fund, and which do not require extensive outside technical advice,
or which can be implemented using farmer-to-farmer information exchange methods.
The outreach team should also assist a community in contacting other agencies
which can provide technical assistance beyond the rather limited capacity of the
RMTs and COs.
MonitorinQ and Evaluation
26.     During the development of the land use plan in a community, the outreach
team should raise the question of what indicators of progress or environmental
stability can be monitored by the village to track the results of the plan.
Criteria such as area of old fallow cleared, average rice yields, wildlife seen,
deaths of domestic animals, etc might all be indicators of whether the village
is fulfilling its goals. As with other aspects of the program, these criteria
or indicators should be identified interactively, and be things which villagers
are used to observing and/or know how to measure.
27.     Each village should identify a small committee with the responsibility
for monitoring the indicators selected. At least yearly, the committee should
report to the rest of the community, and also send a report to the district
forestry technicians or forest ranger detailing the monitoring information as
well as successes or problems encountered over the last year in implementing the
plan. Depending on the provisions of national land use decrees and legislation,
modifications in a community land use plan may be proposed by the village if the
monitoring process indicates that objectives of the plan are not being met or
that the provisions of the initial plan are unworkable.
28.     A critical element of the overall land use planning process is giving
villagers permanent and secure rights over the natural resources necessary for



- 36 -
an adequate livelihood. Protection of village resources against encroachment by
outsiders is essential to this goal. While the community must be prepared to
manage and sanction the behavior of its members, they may as well be given
authority to control the actions of non-community members on their land. When
the village is unable effectively to control the behavior of violators, there
should be a means of notifying district authorities, as worked out in the land
use planning process. The district needs to guarantee a timely and appropriate
response to any such violations.
Dissemination and Reporting
29.     Finally, the NGO(s) contracted to carry out the program will be expected
at periodic intervals to report upon and disseminate the lessons learned form its
participation in the program to DOF and other government officials, to other NGOs
and to the international donor community, during the annual Consultative Forums
(Annex 4, para.15) .  This will include the writing of reports which outline
progress made in introducing the program in different social and ecological
settings. It should also include the production of audio-visual materials (e.g.
videos or photographic exhibits) which show the process and problems encountered
in designing and implementing the social forestry program. The program will also
be actively involved in the formal training of each new generation of RMTs and
COs, and where appropriate in the orientation of other DOF staff to the goals and
procedures of the social forestry program. In other words, it is expected that
an overall dissemination and reporting strategy will be developed to ensure the
maximum diffusion of the lessons learned from the pilot phase experience to other
areas of Laos where the social forestry program will be introduced.



- 37 -
Annex 5
Appendix 1
Content of Detailed Community Studies
1.      In the detailed community studies carried out during the preliminary
phase of the program, information should be collected regarding the following
issues:
2.      Present demographic situation: changes over time, mortality, birth rate,
and migration patterns of individual households as well as the overall village.
In what settings (social and geographical) do people prefer to live?
3.      Ethnicity:  self identification and relationship to other known ethnic
groups; similarity or contrast with other neighboring communities.
4.      Village social organizations:  presence of clans, kin groupings or other
principles of group membership; relationship of village administration to
official Lao government system and informal leadership patterns. How was the
village administrative committee selected and who do they represent? What is the
basis for respect or status of traditional leaders (age, religious background,
shamanistic prowess, etc)?  Is the village factionalized or solidary?  Is the
village a natural social grouping, or ar there sub-groups (or groups of several
villages) which would be more appropriate for communal resource planning and
management? What kinds of conflicts have occurred in the past, and how were they
resolved?
5.      Decision making:  How are village decisions made?  Do some groups or
classes of people (age, gender, clan, etc) have more influence than others? What
objective and/or social factors limit the participation of "disadvantaged" groups
in village decisions?
6.      Village social resources:  (schools, religious building or organizations,
reputation for proficiency in any activity, etc) . What kinds of cooperation have
taken place in the past? How does the village respond to crisis - either of
individual households or of the village as a whole?   Are there emergency
assistance resources (material, financial or social) within the village?
7.      Extra community relations:  How does the village relate with neighboring
communities? Are there areas of cooperation or conflict, for example regarding
religious festivals, trading , or resource use?
8.      Farming system(s) analysis:  What are the crops grown, livestock raised,
patterns of production over time, technologies used, income/expense analysis etc.
What conditions or factors (social, economic or physical) limit production? What
kinds of land are used for farming and under what circumstances? How is land use
or ownership  allocated among  households  and gender?   How have  community
requirements for land changed over the last 20 years? Is new land being brought
into production and if so, how is it claimed and developed? What components of
the farming system are sustainable? What components could be sustainable with
minimal changes in technology or process? To what degree is the community and
are individual households able to produce enough food for their own needs? What
is the extent of and reasons for yearly or inter-household variation in self-
sufficiency? Is there potential for expanding or improving the production or



- 38 -
efficiency of any component(s) of the farming system?  What are the barriers to
expansion?
9.      Land use  mapping:    Utilizing  the  1:100,000  SPOT photographs  and
topological maps which are available for the land zoning process, map the
resources of the subject village and its neighbors, including swidden and paddy
fields, fallows (by age), village sites, private and communal forest (and its
type and utilization), water resources and potentials for development of same.
Carry out a complete mapping of household land holdings or temporary fields,
including (where appropriate and possible) mapping of swidden or garden fields
farmed over the past 5-10 years.
10.     Labor use:  How is household labor allocated among the different tasks
(farming, household work, trading, etc)? What are age and gender patterns of
work?  How do labor requirements vary over the course of a year?  Are there
community practices of labor exchange, hired labor, or other means of
reallocating labor among households? Do community members perform hired labor
outside the village, and if so for whom, in what tasks, and under what
conditions?
11.     Forest products:  What wild foods and other products are collected, by
whom, and how? Are the consumed locally or sold? Are harvest procedures and
quantities sustainable? How important are wild foods and other natural products
in the household economy?
12.     Environmental attitudes:   How do community members understand their
relationship with the natural environment?  To what extent are they aware of
changes in the environment over time, and the causes for those changes? To what
extent do they understand and/or agree with government concerns for economic
growth, revenue production, and environmental protection?  What are the most
important local concerns regarding the environment?  How does the community
classify or distinguish local environmental resources (types of forest, types of
farmable land, water resources, etc)? What criteria do farmers use in selecting
land for farm fields  (swidden or paddy)?   Is farm land perceived as being
plentiful or scarce? Of good or poor quality?
13.     Market relationships:   What products are sold and what products are
purchased? Which family members are involved in trading? Where do community
members go to buy or sell items? Are there permanent or semi-permanent trading
relationships with particular merchants, other villages, or other marketing
networks? What are the terms of trade and how do they compare with other nearby
communities or with communities closer to urban centers?



- 39 -
Draft Terms of Reference for Monitoring Participation
and Village Development
Villages, in cooperation with Outreach Teams, will develop a list of
indicators of progress and environmental stability to track the impact of land
use and village development plans. A possible list of indicators is shown below.
Detailed community studies carried out by the outreach teams during the
preliminary phase of project implementation would provide baseline data on these
indicators.
Changes in Subsistence:
-   Source of subsistence food products,
-   materials and items for household use,
-   tools and technologies used,
-   source of medical items,
-   perceived threats or barriers to adequate subsistence.
Changes in Income and Wealth:
-   Source and amount of cash income from labor, services,  sale of
products, etc.
-   number of large animals,
-   size and style of houses, village wat,
-   perceived need for more income.
Changes in Population:
-   In or out migration, seasonal or permanent,
-   ethnic group,
-   birth rate, mortality, population structure by age and sex.
Changes in Resources Available in Village:
-   Village forest, degraded forest, paddy land, shifting cultivation
areas,
-   rice,
-   stores, market,
-   government and other services (e.g. school, health, blacksmith),
-   capability of intra-village cooperation.
Changes in Water SupplY:
-   Drinking water supply, agricultural water supply (for irrigation,
gardening),
-   natural watercourses, runoff from rains.
Changes in Soil Cuality
-   Fallow cycles, erosion, fertility/rice yields.



- 40 -
ChanQes in Environment
-   Status of forest of each category,
-   uncontrolled forest fires,
-   wildlife (seen and sold in markets),
-   unauthorized hunting.
Changes in Health and Safety
-   Disease, malnutrition, infant and child mortality,
-   deaths or injuries due to accident or attacks,
-   incidence of robbery.
Changes in Connection with Neighboring Villages and Towns.
-   Transportation routes, means and regularity of transportation,
-   market connections,
-   conflict or cooperation with neighboring villages.



- 41 -
Annex 6
LAO PDR
WILDLIFE AND PROTECTED AREAS CONSERVATION PROJECT
Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance
Long Term
1. Conservation Program Manager
(60 person-months)
Oualifications: Relevant academic qualifications with deep botanical
knowledge. A minimum of 8 years experience, preferably in South East Asia, in
developing and managing conservation programs, including survey and inventory,
protected areas and related community programs, and training. Strong
communication skills in Thai and/or Lao, and preparedness to travel extensively
within Laos.
Duties:
-   financial administration and management,  logistical support for
obtaining appropriate equipment;
-   coordination,  supervision and monitoring of progress,  including
staff performance;
-   design, establishment and management of the designated protected
areas;
-   community involvement in protection programs;
-   link project activities to a national conservation program; liaise
extensively with local and international organizations;
-   in close collaboration with the regional PROSEA (Plant Resources of
South East Asia) project, initiate and implement nationwide survey
of flora; establish national herbarium with the associated data
base;
-   contribute to the development of protected area monitoring systems,
encompassing ecological and socio-economic information;
-   in close collaboration with DOF staff, particularly FTO, identify
training needs of protected area field staff, implement an in-
service training program, also making use of appropriate regional
training opportunities.
2. Community Development Adviser
(48 person-months)
Oualifications: Academic qualifications in sociology, social anthropology
or related discipline, with emphasis on rural development. Sound understanding
of rural society dynamics, production systems, participatory planning methods.
Extensive demonstrated experience in field level community development work in
South-East Asia, preferably in Laos or northeastern Thailand. Strong
communication skills in Thai and/or Lao.



- 42 -
Duties:
-   Together with DOF staff, various GOL organizations as well as NGOs,
develop and implement a village level community development program
in and around the protected areas, including:
-   surveying the social and economic conditions of the villages;
-   identifying Community Organizers and other village resource persons;
-   assisting villagers to establish priorities for development;
-   specifying program incentives;
-   organizing the delivery of project inputs and assisting villagers to
provide their inputs;
-   liaise extensively with local women's organizations and locally
present NGOs, to facilitate their participation in project supported
and complementary activities;
-   together with  the Rural  Development  Specialist,  and  in close
collaboration of pertinent DOF staff, design an in-service training
program for all levels of protected area management personnel, with
special emphasis on field staff; train DOF staff, prepare training
material as required.
3. Women-in-Development Specialist
(48 person-months)
Qualifications: Academic qualifications in sociology, social anthropology
or related discipline, with emphasis on rural development. Sound experience of
women issues in field development work in South-East Asia, preferably in Laos or
northeastern Thailand. Strong communication skills in Thai and/or Lao.
Duties:
-   Together with DOF staff, various GOL organizations as well as NGOs,
and the Community Development and the Rural Development Advisers
develop and implement community forestry and village development
activities;
-   will have special responsibility for addressing the role of women in
forestry and for emphasizing the role of women; and
-   liaise intensively with local and national women's organizations to
facilitate their participation in the project. women.
Short Term
(i) Environmental Monitoring and Evaluation
1. Environmental Monitoring and Evaluation Specialist
(12 person-months)
Qualifications: Relevant academic qualifications and at least 10 years
experience in designing environmental monitoring and evaluation programs in South
East Asia in watershed areas and production forests.
Duties:
-   In close collaboration with DOF staff,  design and implement an
environmental monitoring and evaluation program, with special
emphasis on protected areas; the program would include the



- 43 -
evaluation of the effectiveness of project design and management
plans in achieving project objectives;
-   provide inputs towards the development of environmental monitoring
and evaluation in conservation and production forests;
-   provide inputs to the design of the nationwide survey of flora; and
-   provide extensive on-the-job training to GOL staff involved in
protection and monitoring.
2. Inventory Specialists
(2 @ 12 person-months)
Qualifications: Relevant academic qualifications in natural resource
inventory with sound knowledge of the flora and fauna in the region. Extensive
experience in implementing natural resource inventories in tropical forests. In
close collaboration with pertinent DOF staff, design and conduct field surveys
of high-priority protected areas.
Duties:
-   In close collaboration with pertinent DOF staff, design and conduct
nationwide survey of flora, with the aim of establishing data base
and herbarium;
-   assist in on-going field projects, such as kouprey and wild elephant
surveys;
-   assist counterpart staff to understand principles and techniques of
field inventories; provide input into training materials for in-
service training courses.
(ii) Other Functions
3. Conservation Trust Fund Advisor
(6 person-months)
Qualifications: Extensive international experience in the legal and
financial modalities of designing and establishing an operational Conservation
Trust Fund. This position can be filled by either an individual or an
organization working in innovative conservation finance mechanisms.
Duties:
Design all components of the Conservation Trust Fund, including
administration, legal arrangements, and implement the fund for the
project.
4. Short Term Specialists
(max. 12 person-months)
Qualifications: Specialists in technical social and environmental
disciplines.
Duties: As required.



- 44 -
Annex 7
LAO PDR
WILDLIFE AND PROTECTED AREAS CONSERVATION PROJECT
Profiles of Six Candidate Protected Areas
1.        Four protected areas would be established from a priority list of six
sites. A brief profile of each site is presented below.
Nakai Plateau/Nam Theun
2.        The area proposed for protection comprises two separate but contiguous
areas (Nakai Plateau and Nam Theun), covering over 400,000 ha, that could be
managed as a single conservation unit. The proposed area is within the Annam
biotic province and is bordered on the east by the border with Vietnam. Good
forests in Vu Quang across the border into Vietnam offer potential for a major
transfrontier reserve. This area is undoubtedly one of the outstanding remaining
areas of biodiversity concentration in Southeast Asia, both in terms of density
and of diversity, mainly due to the high level of habitat preservation in the
area. Over 80% of the area is forested and much of the remainder consists of
natural open grasslands.   There are a few wetlands associated with these
grasslands, particularly on the Nakai Plateau.
3.        The Nakai Plateau consists of a number of forest types,  the most
distinctive of which is the tropical pine forest. The associated Nam Theun area
is characterized by largely undisturbed tropical montane evergreen forests. The
whole area has been identified by IUCN as high priority conservation areas.
Wildlife reported from the area includes the elephant, the gaur, and the tiger.
The Nakai/Nam Theun region is within the traditional range of the Javan rhino,
but its actual presence in the area has to be verified.
4.        There are 7-8 villages of the Thai Meuy minority group living in the
center of Nakai. Major threats to the forest include a ten-year logging contract
recently granted to a South Korean logging company and the possible construction
of a hydropower dam within the proposed reserve area. Logging operations focus
on pine logs, and although there is little evidence to date of significant
habitat alteration due to previous logging operations, there is concern that
destruction will accelerate unless habitat management programs are implemented.
The proposed area is an outstanding biological area that warrants high priority
conservation. Government has expressed interest in proposing this area as a site
under the World Heritage Convention as it also offers excellent scenic vistas.
It is considered that logging operations in the area can be managed by
appropriate zoning.
Dong Amphane
5.        The Dong Amphane area proposed for protection is a triangular forest
area of 160,000-200,000 ha of remote, hilly terrain located within the Central
Indochina biotic province (biogeographic classification based on MacKinnon and
MacKinnon 1986) . The area is bounded on the east by the border with Vietnam and



- 45 -
in the south by the Xe Xou river. Its elevation ranges from 100 m along the Xe
Kaman river in the north-west to 2,052 m along the Vietnamese border. A small
area south of the Xe Xou river to the border with Cambodia could also be included
in the proposed protected area, which includes parts of the administrative
districts of Saysettha and Sansay in Attopeu Province and Dukchung in Sekong
Province. Approximately ten villages are located within or on the boundaries of
the area, mostly in the northern part.
6.        The Ho Chi Minh trail passes through the eastern part of Dong Amphane.
Bombing raids on this area during the Vietnamese war have left large patches of
disturbed forest, much of which is now covered with bamboo growth. The original
vegetation cover of the area consisted of lowland semi-evergreen forest and
tropical montane evergreen forest. It is reported that 70-85% of the area was
under dense forest cover at the beginning of the 1980s, but current estimates of
forest cover and reliable information on flora and fauna are unavailable. The
area also features two small wetlands, both in the northeast.
7.        Agriculture in the area is at subsistence level and is confined to
shifting cultivation of food crops (mainly glutinous rice), home gardens and
raising  livestock.    Forest  products  (firewood,  building materials,  food,
medicinal plants), wildlife, and fish are harvested also on a subsistence level
by local residents. Commercial logging has reportedly not occurred in the area.
8.        Wildlife found  (or likely to be found)  in the area includes the
banteng  (Bos iavanicus), wild buffalo  (Bubalus bubalis), gaur (Bos gaurus),
civets   (Viverricula  zibetha,   Paradoxurus  hermaphroditus,   and  possibly
Arctoqalidia trivirgata),  tiger (Panthera ticris), clouded leopard (Neofelis
nebulosa or possibly, Felis marmorata) and elephant (Elephas maximus) . There is
also a possibility that the kouprey (Bos sauveli) , an extremely rare species, may
be found in the area. Some conservation measures have already been taken by the
provincial authorities to protect the area. These include designation of the
area as a forest reserve in 1990, thereby prohibiting logging, cultivation,
burning and hunting, but implementation has been limited to date, except for the
posting of signs prohibiting hunting in the area.
9.        The proposed Dong Amphane area is a suitable area for conservation in
view of its apparently good remaining forest cover and wildlife populations. In
addition, it is remote and lightly populated and there are no immediate threats
from major development projects. The potential conservation value of the area
is enhanced by its proximity to existing/potential protected areas in Cambodia
and Vietnam. The triborder area provides a good location for the establishment
of a transfrontier reserve to promote both biodiversity conservation and
international cooperation. The region is also considered to be a possible center
of plant biodiversity, and although this is based on very limited information,
further investigation and consideration is necessary in the formulation of
protection measures.
Phou Xiang Thong
10.       The proposed protected area lies within the Central Indochina biotic
province. It consists of an area along the Mekong river in Saravane Province,
covering 90,000-100,000 ha. During the colonial period, this area was a favorite
hunting area for the French. It is represented by mostly undisturbed primary
forest and includes old-growth forest in about 65% of the area. The vegetation



- 46 -
is mainly composed of montane forests, dry dipterocarp, and lowland evergreen
forests. The area in Thailand across the Mekong river from Phou Xiang Thong is
also forested, but the condition of the forest may be less pristine.   Small
farming communities of lowland Lao are settled along the highway running east of
Phou Xiang Thong. There are no settlements along the Mekong River, which is the
western boundary of the proposed protected area.
Phou Xang He
11.       Located in Savannakhet Province, the proposed Phou Xang He reserve
area of about 60,000 ha is covered mainly by semi-evergreen forests on a small
highland ridge which is completely surrounded by villages.   The lowland area
around it is largely composed of degraded secondary forests and rice paddies.
Although there are no human settlements within the proposed reserve area, there
are from 30 to 40 surrounding villages.
12.       The area supports a number of wildlife species, including the Douc
langur which has been reported throughout the area.   Elephant distribution
appears patchy. There are also reports of Francois' lancrur in the area, but this
needs confirmation. Although worthy of conservation due to its size and largely
intact forest area, the large human populations surrounding the proposed reserve
would warrant enhanced emphasis on community programs. There is possibility of
extending the area to the west.
Phou Dene Dinh
13.       The area proposed for conservation covers over 200,000 ha of remote,
hilly terrain on the eastern side of Phongsaly Province. It is located within
the Northern Indochina biotic province, in a part of Laos that has lost most of
its original forest.  The northern and eastern boundaries of the reserve are
formed by the borders with China and Vietnam. Its conservation value is enhanced
by it being adjacent to the Muong Te protected area in Vietnam, thereby
potentially providing a contiguous area of over 400,000 ha that could be brought
under protective management. The Phou Dene Dinh area is considered to be one of
the  few  remaining  areas  in  Northern  Laos  with  good  remaining  wildlife
populations.
14.       The area includes about 10 villages within the proposed reserve and
a similar number situated on or adjacent to the boundaries.   Up to date
information on villages and human populations are not available, but the ethnic
groups are known to include mainly the Lao Seng and Lao Lu groups, with smaller
numbers of Haw, Yao, Si-dah, Alou and Hmong groups. Shifting cultivation of rice
is the main agricultural pursuit, and opium is also widely cultivated on river
and stream terraces. Water buffalo, pigs, chickens and ducks are also raised.
Forest products are harvested primarily on a subsistence basis, although some
products are occasionally sold at the local market.
15.       Organized logging has not occurred in the area and there are no formal
forestry concessions within the area. The original vegetation cover of the area
consisted of dry evergreen forest, tropical montane deciduous forest and
subtropical montane forest. This vegetation has been greatly altered by shifting
cultivation, fire and selective felling. The current cover consists of a mosaic
of newly cleared areas, secondary scrub and high forest.   There are various
estimates of the actual extent of forest cover, but this is expected to be over



- 47 -
50%.   A variety of wildlife species are known from the area, including the
gibbon, elephant, macaques, sambar and bear. Although much disturbed, existing
vegetation appears to consist primarily of dense and regenerating forests, that
have high conservation potential provided protective measures could be instituted
early.
Nam Ma
16.       The proposed reserve consists of around 85,000 ha of hilly terrain in
the Luang Namtha Province.   It consists mainly of dry evergreen forest and
tropical montane evergreen forest within the Northern Indochina biotic province.
Over one-fourth of the forests are degraded. Very little additional information
is available for the proposed area. This proposed area is on the Government's
priority list for further study.



- 48 -
Annex 8
Lao PDR
WILDLIFE AND PROTECTED AREAS CONSERVATION PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
Proiect Component                                                Year 1       Year 2       Years 3-5
Pre-Project    1  2  3  4  1  2  3  4  1  2  3  4
A. PROTECTED AREAS ESTABLISHIENT
1. Identification of PotentiaL Areas
2. Selection of Sites for GET Funding
3. PreLiminary Management Plans for:
Nakai/Nam Theun
Site 2
Site 3
Site 4
4. Additional Surveys and Inventories and Elaboration of Operational Plans for:
Nakai/Nam Theun
Site 2
Site 3
Site 4
5. Implementation of Plans:
Nakai/Nam Theun
Site 2
Site 3
Site 4
6. Community DeveLopment
7. Environmental Monitoring and Evaluation
8. Design and Establishment of Conservation Trust Fund
B. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Conserv. Program Manager
Community Development
Environmental Monitoring
Inventory Specialists (3l12)
Cons. Trust Fund Adviser
Miscellaneous                                                 *  *  *  *  *  *  *  *  *  *  *
C. TRAINING



MAP SECTION






CHI              ,               1 . tCHINA
CHINA                                                                             MYM~AR
R11'S
VIET NAM
THAILAND
N.N'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I.
Jv"-.~~~~~~~~~~~~1
LAO PEOPLE'S                                                                                           :
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC --,
FOREST MANAGEMENT AND
CONSERVATION PROJECT                                                     %_
i'PRIMAARY FORESTMAEAS                                                                                     _
DEGRADED FORESTTMEAREAS{
W   NON-FORESTMAEAS ;,,
o   PROVINCE HEADQUARTERS
V NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                            NAM
-         PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
-     INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
z                      Th.    Mr So~  GS l 
'0                         'V~~~~~~0 PRINE EDUATR
" ror   CAMBODIA   -,. 
10~~~ OD t g                                                                                                            



