Page  1
                                                           CONFORMED COPY
                                            GET GRANT NUMBER TF 028697 LA
          GET Trust Fund Grant Agreement related to Credit Number 2586 LA
                       Global Environment Trust Fund
                              Grant Agreement
             Wildlife and Protected Areas Conservation Project
                                  between
                     LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
                                    and
                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                              AND DEVELOPMENT
                Acting as Trustee of the Global Environment
                                Trust Fund
                            Dated June 29, 1994
                                            GET GRANT NUMBER TF 028697 LA
               GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT TRUST FUND GRANT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated June 29, 1994, between LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC
REPUBLIC (the "Recipient") and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT acting as Trustee (the "Trustee") of grant funds provided by
Participants of the Global Environment Facility into the Global Environment
Trust Fund (the "GET").
      WHEREAS: (A) The International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
(the "Bank") pursuant to Resolution No. 91-5 of March 14, 1991, of the
Executive Directors of the Bank (the "Resolution"), established the Global
Environment Facility consisting of the GET, Co-financing Arrangements with
the GET and the Ozone Projects Trust Fund, to assist in the protection of
the global environment and promote thereby environmentally sound and sustain-
able economic development;
      WHEREAS: (B) Certain members of the Bank (the "Participants") have
provided resources by way of grant into the GET and the Participants have
requested of the Bank, and the Bank has agreed, to administer such grant
funds as Trustee, for the purposes of, and in accordance with, the provisions
of the Resolution;
      WHEREAS: (C) The Recipient, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, has requested assistance from the resources of the GET in the
Page  2
financing of the Project, and the Trustee has determined that such assistance
would be in accordance with the provisions of the Resolution; and
      WHEREAS: (D) The Trustee has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the GET Grant to the Recipient upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement.
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                 ARTICLE I
                      General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. (a) The following provisions of the General Conditions
Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated January 1,
1985, with the modifications set forth in paragraph (b) of this Section (the
"General Conditions") constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
                (i)   Article I;
               (ii)   Sections 2.01 (1), (2), (3), (4), (6), (8), (9), (10),
                      (11), (15), (18) and (20), 2.02 and 2.03;
              (iii)   Section 3.01;
               (iv)   Section 4.01 and the first sentence of Section   4.09;
                (v)   Article V;
               (vi)   Sections 6.01, 6.02 (a), (c), (d), (e), (f), (i) and
                      (k), 6.03, 6.04 and 6.06;
              (vii)   Section 8.01 (b);
             (viii)   Sections 9.01 (a) and (c), 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07,
                      9.08 and 9.09;
               (ix)   Sections 10.01, 10.03 and 10.04;
                (x)   Article XI; and
               (xi)   Sections 12.01 (c); 12.03, and 12.04.
    (b)   The General Conditions shall be modified as follows:
                (i)   a new paragraph shall be added to the end of Section
                      2.01 to read as follows: "the term "Special Drawing
                      Rights" and the symbol "SDR" mean special drawing
                      rights as valued by the International Monetary Fund
                      in accordance with its Articles of Agreement";
               (ii)   the term "Bank", wherever used in the General
                      Conditions, other than in Sections 2.01 (8) and 6.02
                      (f) thereof and the last use of such term in Section
                      5.01 thereof, means the Trustee except that in Section
                      6.02, the term "Bank" shall also include the
                      International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
                      acting in its own capacity;
              (iii)   the term "Recipient", wherever used in the General
                      Conditions, means the Recipient;
               (iv)   the term "Loan Agreement", wherever used in the
                      General Conditions, means this Agreement;
                (v)   the term "Loan" and "loan" wherever used in the
                      General Conditions, means the GET Grant; and
               (vi)   the term "Loan Account" wherever used in the General
                      Conditions, means the GET Grant Account.
Page  3
    Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context
otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions, the
Recitals to this Agreement, and the Development Credit Agreement (as such
term is defined hereinafter) have the respective meanings therein set forth,
and the following terms have the following meanings:
    (a)   "Development Credit Agreement" means the agreement, of even date
herewith, between the Recipient and the International Development Association
in respect of the Forest Management and Conservation Project, as such
agreement may be amended from time to time, and as such term includes all
schedules and agreements supplemental to the Development Credit Agreement;
    (b)   "DOF" means the Department of Forestry of the MAF, and the term
DOF includes any successor thereto; and
    (c)   "GET Grant Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
                                ARTICLE II
                               The GET Grant
    Section 2.01. The Trustee agrees to make available to the Recipient, on
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, the GET
Grant in an amount in various currencies equivalent to three million seven
hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 3,700,000).
    Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the GET Grant may be withdrawn from the
GET Grant Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Trustee shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
carrying out the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the GET
Grant.
    (b)   The Recipient shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and
maintain in dollars a special deposit account in the Banque pour le Commerce
Exterieur Lao on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Trustee including
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into,
and payments out of, the GET Grant Special Account shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
    Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 1999, or such later
date as the Trustee shall establish. The Trustee shall promptly notify the
Recipient of such later date.
                                ARTICLE III
                         Execution of the Project
    Section 3.01.  The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives
of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this
end, shall: (i) carry out the Project through the National Office for Nature
Conservation and Watershed Management of the DOF with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, agricultural,
economic, engineering and financial practice, and with due regard to all
ecological and environmental factors; and (ii) provide promptly as needed
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
    Section 3.02.  Except as the Trustee shall otherwise agree, procurement
of the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project, and
to be financed out of the proceeds of the GET Grant, shall be governed by
the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
                            Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Recipient shall maintain separate records and accounts
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the
Page  4
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project (including,
without limitation, its costs and the benefits to be derived therefrom) or
any part thereof.
(b)       The Recipient shall:
(i)       have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this
Section, including those for the GET Grant Special Account, for each Fiscal
Year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Trustee;
(ii) furnish to the Trustee as soon as available, but in any case not later
than nine (9) months after the end of each such year, the report of such
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Trustee shall
have reasonably requested; and
(iii)     furnish to the Trustee such other information concerning said
          records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Trustee shall
          from time to time reasonably request.
    (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the
GET Grant Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the
Recipient shall:
                (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with
                      paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts
                      reflecting such expenditures;
               (ii)   retain, until at least one (1) year after the Trustee
                      has received the audit report for the Fiscal Year in
                      which the last withdrawal from the GET Grant Account
                      was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
                      bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such
                      expenditures;
              (iii)   enable the Trustee's representatives to examine such
                      records; and
               (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are included in
                      the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this
                      Section, and that the report of such audit contains
                      a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the
                      statements of expenditure submitted during such Fiscal
                      Year, together with the procedures and internal
                      controls involved in their preparation, can be relied
                      upon to support the related withdrawals.
                                 ARTICLE V
                          Remedies of the Trustee
          Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified, namely, that the
Recipient shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the
Development Credit Agreement.
          Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely, the event
set out in Section 5.01 of this Agreement.
                                ARTICLE VI
                        Effective Date; Termination
          Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of
Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
          (a) That the Recipient's Government has approved this Agreement;
and
Page  5
          (b) That all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
Development Credit Agreement have been fulfilled, other than those related
to the effectiveness of this Agreement.
          Section 6.02 The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the
General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE VII
                Representative of the Recipient; Addresses
          Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Recipient is
designated as representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section
11.03 of the General Conditions.
          Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
    For the Recipient:
          Minister of Finance
          Ministry of Finance
          P.O. Box 46
          Vientiane
          Lao People's Democratic Republic
          Cable address:                       Telex number:
                MINFINANCE (Vientiane)         4369 (MOF LS)
    For the Trustee:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                      Telex:
                INTBAFRAD      197688 (TRT),
                Washington, D.C.                       248423 (RCA),
                                 64145 (WUI) or
                                 82987 (FTCC).
    IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their
respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as
of the day and year first above written.
                      LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
                      By  /s/ Hiem Phommachanh
                                                Authorized Representative
                      INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                        RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                      Acting as Trustee of the
                      Global Environment Trust Fund
                      By /s/ Gautam S. Kaji
                                                  Regional Vice President
                                                    East Asia and Pacific
Page  6
                                SCHEDULE 1
                Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the GET Grant
    1. The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the Grant to
each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed
in each Category:
                                 Amount of the
                                Grant Allocated         % of
                                 (Expressed in      Expenditures
          Category              SDR Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1)       Civil works                 900,000       100%
(2)       Goods (including            800,000       100% of foreign
          vehicles)                                 expenditures, 100%
                                                    of local expendi-
                                                    tures (ex-factory
                                                    cost) and 80% of
                                                    local expenditures
                                                    for other items
                                                    procured locally
(3)       Incremental opera-          150,000       100% of expendi-
          ting costs in                             tures incurred
          respect of fuel                           prior to
          and materials                             September 30, 1997
                                                    and 50% thereafter
(4)       Incremental opera-            80,000      100% of expendi-
          ting costs in respect                     tures incurred
          salaries and allowances                   prior to
                                                    September 30, 1997
                                                    and 50% thereafter
(5)       Training                     370,000      100%
(6)       Consultants' services      1,000,000      100%
(7)       Unallocated                  400,000
                                     _________
          TOTAL                      3,700,000
2.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   The term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency
of any country other than that of the Recipient for goods or services
supplied from the territory of any country other than that of the Recipient;
    (b)   The term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency
of the Recipient or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the
Recipient; and
    (c)   The term "incremental operating costs" means payments made for
expenditures on account of the operation and maintenance of the MAF's
equipment including, inter alia, expenditures in respect of the purchase of
materials, fuel, spare parts and forestry and parks personnel operating
salaries and allowances.
3.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of
this Agreement.
Page  7
                                SCHEDULE 2
                        Description of the Project
    The objectives of the Project are to assist the Recipient in protecting
the biological diversity of its territory through human resource development
and institutional strengthening, the designation, establishment and
management of priority protected areas and protection of associated wildlife,
and the planning and implementation of community participating programs in
and around protected areas.
    The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Recipient and the Trustee may agree upon from
time to time to achieve such objectives:
1.  Carrying out of a program, satisfactory to the Trustee, for establishing
and managing at least four (4) of the specific protected forest areas
referred to in the Recipient's Prime Ministerial Decree No. 164/PM dated
October 29, 1993, through, inter alia, provision of: civil works in respect
of forestry personnel offices and housing, protected area infrastructure,
small-scale agricultural and other rural infrastructure schemes; vehicles,
fuel, equipment and materials; and support for operating personnel salaries
and allowances.
2.  Establishing environmental monitoring and evaluation mechanism covering
the vital signs of environmental changes in the Recipient's forest resources.
3.  Provision of technical assistance services to assist the Recipient in
carrying out the protected areas program referred to in Paragraph 1 of this
Schedule, including training of Project forestry personnel and forest
communities in the implementation and management of said program.
4.  Provision of technical assistance services to assist the Recipient in
designing and establishing a forestry  conservation trust fund.
                       *            *           *
    The Project is expected to be completed by September 30,
1998.
                                SCHEDULE 3
                   Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.      Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.  Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured under
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set
forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1992 (the "Guidelines").
2.  For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid referred to in paragraph
2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that, when contract award is delayed
beyond the original bid validity period, the successful bidder's bid price
will be increased for each week of delay by two (2) pre-disclosed correction
factors acceptable to the Trustee, one to be applied to all foreign currency
components and the other to the local currency component of the bid price.
Such an increase shall not be taken into account in the bid evaluation.
3.  In the procurement of goods and works in accordance with this Part A,
the Recipient shall use the relevant standard bidding documents issued by
the Bank, with such modifications thereto as the Trustee shall have agreed
to be necessary for the purposes of the Project.  Where no relevant standard
bidding documents have been issued by the Bank, the Recipient shall use
bidding documents based on other internationally recognized standard forms
agreed with the Trustee.
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
    In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described
Page  8
in Part A hereof, goods manufactured within the Recipient's territory may
be granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to, the
provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1
through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
    Local Competitive Bidding
1.  Contracts for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of fifty thousand
dollars ($50,000) or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to
exceed the equivalent of five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000), and
contracts for civil works estimated to cost the equivalent of more than ten
thousand dollars ($10,000) per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to
exceed the equivalent of four hundred thousand dollars ($400,000), may be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding,
advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the
Trustee.
2.  Contracts for civil works estimated to cost the equivalent of ten
thousand dollars ($10,000) or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount
not to exceed the equivalent of one million dollars ($1,000,000) may be
awarded after direct negotiations with suppliers, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Trustee.
Part D:   Review by the Trustee of Procurement Decisions
1.  Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
    (a)   With respect to each contract for goods and each contract for works
estimated to cost the equivalent of one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000)
or more per contract, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract
are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified
to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract required to be
furnished to the Trustee pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished
to the Trustee prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special
Account in respect of such contract.
    (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to
the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made
out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that
the two conformed copies of the contract together with the other information
required to be furnished to the Trustee pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall
be furnished to the Trustee as part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant
to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
    (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply
to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Grant Account are to
be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure.
2.  The figure of fifteen percent (15%) is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.     Employment of Consultants
1.  In order to assist the Recipient in carrying out the Project, Recipient
shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Trustee. Such
consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and procedures
satisfactory to the Trustee on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Recipients and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the "Consultant Guidelines").
2.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the
provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior review by the
Trustee, or approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures, letters
of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts shall not apply
to contracts estimated to cost less than the equivalent of twenty thousand
dollars ($20,000) per contract. However, this exception to prior review by
Page  9
the Trustee shall not apply to the terms of reference for such contracts nor
to the employment of individuals, to single source selection of firms, to
assignments of a critical nature as reasonably determined by the Trustee and
to amendments of contracts raising the contract value to the equivalent of
thirty thousand dollars ($30,000) or more per contract.
3.  For complex, time-based assignments, the Recipient shall employ such
consultants under contracts using the standard form of contract for
consultants' services issued by the Bank, with such modifications as
shall have been agreed by the Trustee. Where no relevant standard
contract documents have been issued by the Bank, the Recipient shall use
other standard forms agreed with the Trustee.
                                SCHEDULE 4
                         GET Grant Special Account
1.For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   The term "Eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2), (3),
(4), (5), and (6) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
    (b)   The term "Eligible Expenditures" means expenditures in respect
of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and
to be financed out of the proceeds of the GET Grant allocated from time
to time to the Eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
    (c)   The term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to
four hundred thousand dollars ($400,000) to be withdrawn from the GET
Grant Account and deposited into the GET Grant Special Account pursuant
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.  Payments out of the GET Grant Special Account shall be made
exclusively for Eligible Expenditures in accordance with the provisions
of this Schedule.
3.  After the Trustee has received evidence satisfactory to it that the
GET Grant Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special
Account shall be made as follows:
    (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient
shall furnish to the Trustee a request or requests for a deposit or
deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Trustee shall,
on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the GET Grant Account and
deposit in the GET Grant Special Account such amount or amounts as the
Recipient shall have requested.
    (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient
                shall furnish to the Trustee requests for deposits into
                the GET Grant Special Account at such intervals as the
                Trustee shall specify.
          (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                Recipient shall furnish to the Trustee the documents and
                other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this
                Schedule for the payment or payments in respect of which
                replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such
                request, the Trustee shall, on behalf of the Recipient,
                withdraw from the GET Grant Account and deposit into the
                GET Grant Special Account such amount as the Recipient
                shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said
                documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the
                GET Grant Special Account for Eligible Expenditures. All
                such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Trustee from the
                GET Grant Account under the respective Eligible
                Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as
                shall have been justified by said documents and other
                evidence.
Page  10
4.  For each payment made by the Recipient out of the GET Grant Special
Account, the Recipient shall, at such time as the Trustee shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Trustee such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for Eligible
Expenditures.
5.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the
Trustee shall not be required to make further deposits into the GET Grant
Special Account:
    (a)   If, at any time, the Trustee shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the GET
Grant Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
or
    (b)   Once the total unwithdrawn amount of the GET Grant allocated to
the Eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special
commitment entered into by the Trustee pursuant to Section 5.02 of the
General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
          Thereafter, withdrawal from the GET Grant Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the GET Grant allocated to the Eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Trustee shall specify by
notice to the Recipient. Such further withdrawals shall be made only
after and to the extent that the Trustee shall have been satisfied that
all such amounts remaining on deposit in the GET Grant Special Account as
of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for
Eligible Expenditures.
6.  (a)   If the Trustee shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the GET Grant Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Trustee, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Trustee: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Trustee may request; or (B)
deposit into the GET Grant Special Account (or, if the Trustee shall so
request, refund to the Trustee) an amount equal to the amount of such
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the
Trustee shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Trustee into the
GET Grant Special Account shall be made until the Recipient has provided
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
    (b)   If the Trustee shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the GET Grant Special Account will not be required
to cover further payments for Eligible Expenditures, the Recipient shall,
promptly upon notice from the Trustee, refund to the Trustee such
outstanding amount.
    (c)   The Recipient may, upon notice to the Trustee, refund to the
Trustee all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the GET Grant
Special Account.
    (d)   Refunds to the Trustee made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b)
and (c) of this Schedule shall be granted to the GET Grant Account for
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant
provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
