                                            Document of
                                        The World Bank

                                FOR OFFICIAL USEONLY

                                                                         ReportNo: 30699-CHA




                              PROJECTAPPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                                              ON A

                                       PROPOSEDLOAN

                                      NTHEAMOUNT OF

                                        USS100MILLION

                                             TO THE

                                PEOPLE'SREPUBLIC OF CHINA

                                             FORA

                  LIUZHOUENVIRONMENT MANAGEMENT PROJECT

                                           April 27, 2005




 UrbanDevelopmentSectorUnit
 East Asia andPacific Region




l
'This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in t h z
 performanceo f their official duties. Its contentsmay not otherwisebe disclosedwithout World
 Bank authorization.

                          CURRENCY EQVIVALENTS
                    (Exchange Rate Effective December 16,2004)
                          CurrencyUnit = RMB
                                 8.28680 = US$1

                                    FISCAL YEAR

                             January 1    - December31

                      ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

A210      Anaerobic, Anoxic, and        LFB           LiuzhouFinanceBureau
          Oxidation Process
BOD       Biochemical Oxygen            LMG           LiuzhouMunicipalGovernment
          Demand
CAS       Country Assistance Strategy   LMWTC         LiuzhouMunicipalWastewaterTreatment
                                                      Company (Limited)
CNAO      ChinaNational Audit Office    LZPP          LiuzhouZinc ProductPlant
COD       ChemicalOxygen Demand         MDB           Model Bidding 1)ocuinents
DPS       DischargePermit Syslem        MOF           Ministry Of Finance
EA        Environmental Assessment      MSW           Municipal Solid Waste
EIRR      Economic InternalRate of      NCB           National Competitive Bidding
          Return
EMP       Environmental Management      NDRC          National Development and Reform
          Plan                                        Commission
EPB       Environmental Protection      NH3N          Ammonia Nitrogen
          Bureau(Liuzhou)
ESD       Environmental Sanitation      NPV           Net PresentValue
          Division (Liuzhou)
ESRI      Environmental Science         O&M           OperationandMaintenance
          ResearchInstitute
FIRR      Financial Internal Rate o f   PDO           Project DevelopmentObjective
          Return
FS        Feasibility Study             PIU           Project Implementation Unit
GFB       Guangxi FinanceBureau         PMO           Project ManagementOffice
GOC       Government o f China          QCBS          Quality- and Cost-based Selection
GUEP      GuangxiUrbanEnvironment       RAP           ResettlementAction Plan
          Project
FLO       Foreign Loan Office           SA            Social Assessment
HDPE      HighDensity Polyethylene      SBD           Standard Bidding Documents
IBRD      International Bank for        SEPA          State Environmental Protection
          Reconstructionand                           Administrat ion
          Development
ICB       International Coinpetitive    SOE           State-OwnedEnterprises
          Bidding
ICDC      Inyestiiient Construction and TA            Technical Assistance
          DevelopmentCompany
          (Limited)
IDCDP     Institutional Development     TPD           Tons Per Day
          and CapacityDevelopment
          Plan
IWPCAP    Industrial Wastewater         WWTP          WastewaterTreatment Plant
          PollutionControl Action Plan
JBIC      Japan Bank for International
          Cooperation

                           _       _    ~                                              -~
                         Vice President:     Mr.Jemal-ud-din Kassum, EAPVP               1
                       Country Director:     Mr.DavidDollar, EACCF
                        Sector Director:     Mr.Keshav Varma, EASUR                         I
                     Task Team Leader:       Mr.Hiroaki Suzuki, EASUR                       I

                                                                                                 FOROFFICIAL USEONLY
                                                                  CHINA
                     LIUZHOUENVIRONMENTMANAGEMENT PROJECT

                                                              CONTENTS

                                                                                                                                                    Page

    A.  STRATEGIC CONTEXT AND RATIONALE                                            .................................................................   1
      1. Country and sector issues....................................................................................................                 1
     2.  Rationale for Bank involvement .........................................................................................                      2
     3 . Higherlevel objectives to which the project contributes....................................................                                   3

    B.  PROJECT DESCRIPTION                       .................................................................................................    3
      1. Lending instrument .............................................................................................................              3
     2.  Project development objective and key indicators..............................................................                                3
     3.  Project components ............................................................................................................. 3
     4.  Lessons learned and reflected inthe project design............................................................                                 5
     5 . Altematives considered and reasons for rejection ..............................................................                                5

    C.  IMPLEMENTATION                   ..........................................................................................................     6
      1. Partnership arrangements (ifapplicable) ............................................................................                           6
     2 . Institutional and implementation arrangements..................................................................                                6
     3 . Monitoring and evaluation o f outcomesiresults..................................................................                               7
     4.   Sustainability.......................................................................................................................         7
     5.  Critical risks and possible controversial aspects.................................................................                             7
     6.  Loadcredit conditions and covenants.................................................................................                           8

    D APPRAISAL SUMMARY
     .                                          ...................................................................................................     9
      1. Economic and financial analyses ........................................................................................                       9
      2. Technical...........................................................................................................................          10
      3. FiduCiary...........................................................................................................................          11
     4.   Social.................................................................................................................................      11
      5. Environment......................................................................................................................             12
      6.  Safeguard policies .............................................................................................................             14
      7. Policy Exceptions and Readiness......................................................................................                         14

    Annex 1: Country and Sector Background                          ..............................................................................     15

    Annex 2: Major RelatedProjects Financedby the Bank and/or other Agencies                                                          .................22
    Annex 3: ResultsFramework and Monitoring                              ........................................................................     23

    Annex 4: DetailedProjectDescription                    ......................................................................................      29

This documenthas a restricteddistribution andmay be usedby recipientsonly in
the performanceof their official duties ts contentsmay not be otherwise disclosed
                                                                         .I
without World Bank authorization                                .

Annex 5: Project Costs...............................................................................................................      35

Annex 6: Implementation Arrangements                 .................................................................................     37

Annex 7: FinancialManagementandDisbursementArrangements                                              ..................................... 39

Annex 8: Procurement ................................................................................................................      45

Annex 9: Economicand FinancialAnalysis                    .............................................................................    52

Annex 10: Safeguard Policy Issues        ............................................................................................      59

Annex 11: Project Preparation and Supervision                     .....................................................................    69

Annex 12: Documentsin the Project File               .................................................................................     71

Annex 13: Statement of Loans and Credits                ..............................................................................     72

Annex 14: Country at a Glance       .................................................................................................      76


MAPS: IBRD 33733
       IBRD 33734

                              PEOPLE'SREPUBLIC OF CHINA

              LIUZHOU ENVIRONMENT MANAGEMENT PROJECT (LZEMP)

                            PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                                 EAST ASIA AND PACIFIC

                                          EASUR




                                               government administration (2%)                    I
I                                              Themes: Pollutionmanagement and
                                               environmental health (P); Access to urban         I

                                               services for the poor (S); Municipal governance   '
                                               and institution building (S)                       I

                                                                                                  I




                 Source                  I     Local            F    o    r e   i   g   n   7 1
 BORROWEWRECLPIENT                             92.02              13.58             105.60
                                                                                                   I
 INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR                        34.99              65.01             100.00
 RECONSTRUCTIONAND                                                                                 I

 DEVELOPMENT                                                                                       I
 Total:                                        127.01             78.59             205.60

 Borrower:
 The People'sRepublic of China
~




 Responsible Agency:                                                                                I

 Project ManageinentOffice, Liuzliou Municipal Government                                           I
 Office Courtyard of LiuzhouUrbanInvestinent and Construction Development Co., Ltd.
 TanzhongMiddle Road
 Liuzhou City, Guangxi Autonomous Region                                                            I
 China                                                                                              I
 Tel: 86-0772-2827625    Fax: 86-0772-2827625
                                 ~        ~    lzpnioO,vip.lzl63.net                                ,
                                                     _          _

                             Estimateddisbursements (Bank FY/US$m)
 FY                    2006          2007          2008       2009   2010    1    2011
 Annual                  5.1         18.0           28.2      26.8                 5.2
 Cumulative              5.1         23.1           51.3      78.14%j            100.0'



 Ref: PAD Section D.7
~




IHave these been approved by Bank management?
 I s approval for any policy exception sought from the Board?
~

 Condition for disbursement for works and goods under the wastewater component:                   I
~




 0 Appointment o f the vice general managers o f LMWTC;
iCovenants applicable to project implementation:
I
'0 LMG will maintainthe Project Management Office (PMO) and project implementationunits
                                                                                                   ~
   (PIUS)in each implementing agency (Environmental ProtectionBureau (EPB), Environmental         i

1
'  Sanitation Division (ESD), LMWTC) throughout the project period, with functions,                I
   responsibilities, competent staff and budgets satisfactory to the Bank;                         I
 0 LMGwill carry out a study on improving the operational efficiency o f solid waste management
                                                                                                   ~

1  operations and institutional reform before December 3I,2007, share its conclusions with the     I
I  Bank, and follow up on the agreed results and implementation timetable;
                                                                                                   I

'0 LMGwill implement a study on managing and fundingpublic toilets that aims to iniprove the
   quality o f service and to reduce operational subsidies from LMGby employing public-private      I
   partnerships; and
'                                                                                                   '
 0 LMGwill take the necessarymeasures to ensure that the 11top polluting enterprises carry out
   their respective Industrial Wastewater Pollution Control Action Plans (IWPCAP) in accordance
                                                                                                    ~
I  with a schedule agreed with the Bank.
                                  __-
I


A. STRATEGIC CONTEXTAND RATIONALE

1. Country and sector issues
Strong city performance i s critical to China's sustainable growth and economic development.
China's cities andtowns fuel over 60% o fthe country's GDP, and this percentage may rise as the
urban share o f China's population climbs from approximately 40% to over 50% over the next 15
years. Because China's cities play such major developmental roles, supporting effective city
management and services i s an important part o fthe country's poverty reduction strategy and its
efforts to realize its TenthPlan vision o f a "well-off society". Cities inChina's western region, in
particular, are targeted for developmental assistance because o f their comparatively low income
levels and highpoverty rates. Major urban environmental problems, such as air and water
pollution, that are associated with fast growth, are also priority areas for development assistance.

Both China's TenthPlan (2001-2005) and the World Bank Country Assistance Strategy (CAS)
(2002-2007) give priority to urban environmental protection, wastewater treatment, and
sanitation. Adequate sanitation and safe, sustainable water suppliespromote a highurbanquality
o f life and form a foundation for economic growth. Many o f China's rivers and water sources,
however, are polluted with raw or poorly treated industrial and domestic sewage. Insufficient
wastewater treatment, weak enforcement o f wastewater regulations, and inadequate overall
managerial capacity impair efforts to curb this pollution. Further, solid waste and sanitation
services and infrastructure are also deficient inmany cities, threatening basic urban sanitation
and public health.

China has taken steps to address these problems through various programs and policies,
including the central government's recent issuance o f guidelines on reforming China's
wastewater and solid waste sectors. These guidelines encourage utilities to set adequate user fees
to achieve sufficient cost recovery, including capital costs, and promote private sector investment
inutility operations. These guidelines andother factors, particularly deterioratingenvironmental
conditions, have spurred many cities to undertake investmentsand institutional development
programs inthe wastewater and sanitation sectors.

Liuzhou
This project targets wastewater, sanitation, and solid waste deficiencies inLiuzhou, a city inthe
Guangxi Autonomous Region insouthwestern China. Greater Liuzhou has over 1,000 industrial
enterprises and i s Guangxi's largest industrial center. The city's current population o f 1.2 million
i s expected to reach 1.8 million by 2020, straining its already burdenedwater supply, sewer, and
sanitation infrastructure. Sector issues this project will address are described below.

Protecting water quality. Liuzhou's principal water source for industrial, commercial, and
residential use i s the Liujiang River, which winds through the city center and suburbs. The
Liujiangis polluted becauseindustries and the municipal drainage system directly discharge into
it significant raw sewage, which has causedits water quality to decline to unacceptable levels.
The Liuzhou Municipal Government (LMG)has targeted that by 2010 at least 70%, and by 2020
at least 90%, o f all urbanwastewater will undergo adequate treatment. It also recently
commissioned a first municipal wastewater treatment plant that will treat 15% o f total municipal
wastewater. However, Liuzhouneeds more treatment capacity to improve and protect not only




                                                 1

its local economy and quality o f life, but also environmental and economic conditions intowns
and agricultural sites downstream.

The city recently established an autonomous wastewater utility company. Italso adopted
comprehensive industrial wastewater pollution control policies (see Attachment 1 o f Annex 1) to
strengthen environmental regulations and monitoring, relocate culpable industries, and improve
water demand management. LMG i s currently preparing a Discharge Permit System (DPS) that
will limit industrial dischargesto pre-specified volumes.

Public Toilets.Insufficient numbersof clean, well-run, and well-distributed public toilets has
become a pressing sanitation issue inLiuzhou. Substandardtoilet operations, unsanitary toilet
conditions, and lack o f access to toilets, particularly incertain districts, worsen the city's quality
of life, pose health risksto Liuzhou's citizens, and impede modern city development. Although
Liuzhounow has 249 public toilets, a 1995 city planestimates that 417 public toilets will be
needed by 2010. To make matters worse, this projected shortage will only increase as certain
public toilets are dismantled to accommodate roadwidening and urban constructionprojects.
Moreover, Liuzhouneeds to address its sizable public toilet shortage, including constructingnew
ones and rebuilding and upgradingexistingfacilities (note that estimates o f the future demand
for public toilets should be carefully analyzed since China's urban situation is rapidly changing).

Solid WasteManagement. Solid waste management i s also a major challenge. Liuzhou now
produces about 1,000 tons o f municipal solid waste per day, andthis is projectedto reach about
1,400 tons per day (tpd) by 2010, and 1,900 tpd by 2020. Because the city's existing landfill
reached its capacity, LMGrecently commissioned a second landfill 22 kilometers from the city
center to receive municipal solid waste from greater Liuzhou. The city must now confront the
challenge o ftransporting waste over the increased distance between urbanwaste sources and this
newlandfill. This will require developing several waste transfer stations andmultiple waste
collection stations located innewly developed residential areas. Additional and more functional
vehicles are also neededto properly collect and convey refuse to the new landfill. Moreover, the
city needs to improve the efficiency o f its solid waste operations.

2. Rationale for Bank involvement
This projectwill support two ofthree mainthemes o fthe CAS: (a) facilitate an environmentally
sustainable development process (via tangible investments in, andtechnical assistanceto, the
wastewater, sanitation and solid waste sectors); and (b) help improve the business environment
and facilitate the transition to a market economy (by providing basic infrastructureand
improving overall environmental conditions). The project will also contribute to public sector
reform by supporting a newly established autonomous and financially sustainable wastewater
company (Liuzhou Municipal Wastewater Treatment Company Limited(LMWTC)) and by
helpingLMGimprove solid waste management and sanitationoperations.

The Bank has aproventrack recordinurbanenvironmental management and infrastructure
investmentinChina, including the ongoing GuangxiUrbanEnvironment Project (GUEP,Ln.
4348, Cr. 3097), which targets two other municipalities manning, Guilin) inthe province. The
Bankcanprovidethe LMGwith expertise and experience acquired from these China-based
projects and other wastewater and sanitation programs elsewhere. The Bank also enjoys a strong
comparative advantage inadvising on public utility sector policies and reforms, including public-
private sector partnerships.


                                                  2

3. Higherlevel objectivesto which the projectcontributes
This project will help support economic growth and poverty reduction ina major city inwestern
China by: (a) supporting key investments inwastewater, sanitation, and solid waste
infrastructure; and (b) developing key environmental institutions and pollution control programs.
These infrastructure investmentsand institutional development programs will improve urban
sanitation and waste management and help reduce water pollution inthe city's main river. The
resulting environmental improvements should makethe city more livable and attractive to
investment,enhance the city's competitiveness, promote sustainable growth, and indirectly
reduce poverty.

B. PROJECTDESCRIPTION

1. Lendinginstrument
This project is proposed as a Sector Investment Loan.

2. Projectdevelopmentobjectiveand key indicators
The development objective o fthe project is to improve the environmental conditions inLiuzhou
through improved wastewater treatment, sanitation control, solid waste management, and
industrial wastewater pollution control. This objective will be achieved by implementingpolicy
reforms and institutional development o fpublic utilities, introducing regulatory reforms o f
industrial wastewater pollution control, and undertakingpriority investments insewerage
networks, wastewater treatment plants, public toilets, a solid waste transfer station, and waste
collection stations.

Key indicators usedto gauge progress on meeting the development objective are listed in
Annex 3.

3. Projectcomponents
This project consists o f five components, as explainedbelow. The first amount shown for each
component represents its total cost; the second amount i s the portion that i s Bank financed (see
Annex 4 for further details on project components).

ComponentA: Wastewatercomponent;US$166.50 million(IBRD LoanUS$85.31million).

Sub-componentA.1: Wastewater conveyance/collectionandtreatment; US$127.86 million
(IBRD LoanUS$70.22million).This sub-component will helpdevelop a comprehensive
wastewater collection and treatment system inLiuzhou. The project will: (a) invest inabout
73km o f sewers, 76 kmof interceptors, seven pumpingstations, and four wastewater treatment
plants (WWTP); (b) rehabilitateabout 42 kmof drains; and (c) support operations inthe recently
established autonomous wastewater management company.

The subcomponents are:

     (a) Inthe Baisha area o f LiubeiDistrict, construction o f a WWTP for secondary treatment
          with an average capacity of 100,000 cubic meters per day (m3/day), and associated



                                               3

          wastewater treatment facilities, including interceptors, culverts, pumpinginstallations,
          and a trainingcenter;

     (b) Inthe Longquanshan area ofYufengDistrict, construction of a WWTP for secondary
          treatment o fwastewater with an average capacity o f 150,000 m3/day;

     (c) Inthe Yanghe New Industrial Development District, constructiono f a WWTP for
          secondary treatment o f wastewater with an average capacity o f 125,000 m3/day, and
          associated wastewater treatment facilities, including low lifting stations, a sewer
          network, and an administrative andtraining center;

     (d) Inthe Labao area of Liujiang District, construction of a WWTP for secondary treatment
          o f wastewater with an average capacity o f 25,000 m3/day, and associated wastewater
          treatment facilities, including a network o fprimary and secondary sewers and a
          pumpingstation; and

     (e)  Construction of interceptors to collect wastewater draining into Zhuexi Creek and
          convey it to the Longquanshan WWTP.

Sub-componentA.2: ZhuexiCreekrehabilitation;US$38.64 million(IBRD LoanUS$15.08
million).This component will rehabilitate about 5.6 kmofthe southern tributary ofZhuexi
Creek and construct a culvert along a four kmsection o f its northern tributary. The rehabilitation
o fthe northern tributary includes dredging and disposal o fthe Creek's benthal sediments and
restoration or expansion of the northerntributary cross-section.

ComponentB: Municipalsanitationcomponent; US$8.82million(IBRD LoanUS$3.63
million).This component will construct approximately 62 public toilets andprocure 30 portable
toilets, two mobile toilets, and six sanitation trucks. Toilets will be placed incommercial and
poor districts. Public-private partnershipswill be usedwhenever possible to reduce municipal
subsidies and improve operational efficiency.

ComponentC: Solidwaste managementcomponent;US$8.89 million(IBRD LoanUS$6.67
million).This component will construct one municipal solid waste transfer station and 42 waste
collection stations, and procure neededwaste hauling trucks and associated vehicles to transport
waste to the second city landfill.

ComponentD:Industrialwastewaterpollutioncontrolcomponent;US$1.85 million(IBRD
LoanUS$1.39 million).This component will help LMGimplement comprehensive industrial
wastewater pollution control policies andprograms. Major activities include: (a) implementing
specific industrial wastewater pollution control actionplans for major polluting enterprises; (b)
introducing a DPS; and (c) buildingthe capacity o f Liuzhou's Environmental ProtectionBureau
(EPB) by providing training and equipment.

ComponentE:Institutionaldevelopmentand capacitybuildingcomponent;US$2.73
million(IBRD LoanUS$2.51million).This component includestechnical assistance (TA) to:
    0    help implementthe project's wastewater, solid waste management, and municipal
         sanitation components (US$l .16 million, 70 persons months);




                                                  4

    0   help develop the institutional capacity ofthe LMWTC (US$1.31 million, 52.5 persons
        months);
    0   improve the efficiency o f solid waste management operations and promote related
        institutional reforms (US$O.l9 million, 12persons months); and
    0   helppromote public-private partnerships inpublic toilet operation (US$0.07 million, 4.8
        persons months).

4. Lessons learned and reflected inthe project design
A World Bank report entitledReview of the Bank'sAssistance to the Urban Water Supply and
Wastewater Sector (no. 24979) gives an overview o f Bank assistanceto China and compiles
lessons from various water and wastewater projects. Key lessons from this report, and lessons
from other wastewater projects, are summarized below along with explanations on how they are
incorporatedinto LZEMP.

    Demand management is much less expensive than and should alwaysprecede supply
    increases and investments in wastewater treatment. Demandmanagement was a central topic
    o f discussion throughout project preparation, and water recycling and other strategies related
    to demand management were incorporated into the project's T A for the EPB and the
    LMWTC;

    Financially, legally, and institutionally autonomous utilities can best maximizeperformance
    and eficiency. The LMG established a legally and financially autonomous company
    (LMWTC). Plans are inmotion to maximize its efficiency, including offering TA under the
    project. The project will also help LMG improve operational efficiency of municipal solid
    waste management through institutionalreform and capacity development programs.

    Like sewerageservices, solid waste management requires adequate operations and revenues
    to build an effective refuse collection system, and commitmentfrom city managers to set up
    adequate operatingpolicies, inparticular when landfill operations arefar from the city
    center, thus requiring transfer stations. The LMG intends to improve the efficiency o f its
    solid waste management operations by introducing both institutional reforms and cost
    recovery policies. Underthe project, TA will be provided to help ESD analyze various
    institutional options to achieve this objective.

    As learned in the Guangxi Urban Environmental Project, targeting multiple cities with
    complex componentscan result in implementation delays,particularly when PMOSand
    implementing agencies lack staff experiencedin Bank operations. This project involves only
    one city and funds a limitednumber o f highpriority investmentsand programs. TA will also
    be provided to the PMO and the project implementingagencies to strengthen their capacity to
    implement the project.

5. Alternatives considered and reasons for rejection
Wastewater component.Duringproject preparation, various investmentoptions with different
treatment plant locations and capacities were evaluated to find the best option giventhe city's
wastewater demand profile, and all geographical, operational, environmental, financial andtime
factors. After a thorough review, the altemative calling for investmentsinfour WWTPs was




                                                 5

selected. Other options were rejected because o f higher investmentand operating costs and/or
technical problems such as operational difficulties and environmental issues.

National guidelines call for Liuzhou's sewerage network to be separate (i.e., include separate
storm and sanitary sewers). However, incertain developed areas, Liuzhou's sewer networks have
already beeninstalledas combined systems. Since it i s difficult to redevelop separate sewers in
developed zones, it was agreed that any new sewers indeveloped areas will be designed under a
combined system, but with characteristics that allow for a switch to separate systems over the
coming years. Inaddition, since the development o f networks over the past decade did not
sufficiently focus on small street mains and house connections, this project will include
provisions to ensure increased activity and services inthese areas.

Municipal Sanitation component. Liuzhou's initial request to strengthen its solid waste collection
system focused on developing waste collection stations andpublic toilets together at the same
locations. Because constructing both facilities together involves significant highbuilding costs
and only some land cost savings, the city decided to construct separate facilities.

The designand site selection process for public toilets considered that apartment dwellers
generally own their own toilets, so it i s not necessaryto abide by criteria established some time
ago by the Central authorities. Inseveral Chinese cities, operating public toilets without user
charges has generated insufficient revenues, precipitating rapid degradation o ftoilet facilities.
Discussions with Liuzhou officials have,emphasized that the only way to reduce the public toilet
financial burdenon the municipal budget i s to charge fees commensurate with people's ability
and willingness to pay for toilet services, and to entrust toilet operation to private operators,
supported by temporary and partial subsidies.

Solid WasteManagement component. The designo fthe waste collection station integrates
practical concerns such as the needs o f local refuse pickers and district trucks. Inaddition,
emphasis has been placed on the need to start developing transfer stations as the city shifts
operations to a farther, newly commissioned landfill, whose greater distance from the city center
will increase the time it takes tippers and refuse trucks to deposit their waste. Relatedfeasibility
studies show that constructing three transfer stations i s the least cost alternative for Liuzhou's
long term refuse collection system. This was not pursued becausethere i s presently only one
available site; however, municipal planners are now conscious o fthe need to promptly identify
additional sites that will optimize fleet size and operating costs.

C. IMPLEMENTATION

1. Partnershiparrangements(ifapplicable)
N.A

2. Institutionaland implementationarrangements
A leading group ledby the ExecutiveVice Mayor has been established to supervise project
preparation and implementation, provide policy guidance, and ensure cross-departmental
coordination. This group includes representatives from the Liuzhou Investment Construction and
Development Company (ICDC), the LMWTC, the Liujiang District, and various departments o f
the LMG (the Planning Bureau, Finance Bureau, Environment ProtectionBureau, Appearance



                                                 6

Bureau's Environmental Sanitation Division, and Price Bureau). The Leading Group's technical
secretariat, the Project Management Office (PMO), located inthe Development and Reform
Commission, has been established to execute, supervise, and coordinate daily project activities.
The PMO is ledby the DeputyDirector o fthe Development and Reform Commission, and
staffed with a financial management expert, a procurement expert, a social and resettlement
expert, a project coordinator, and assistants.

Thisproject's lead implementingagency is the LMWTC, a financially and legally autonomous
wastewater treatment company fully owned by the LMG. Project constructionwill be managed
by LMWTC, and sufficient staffinthe ICDC, an experienced infrastructure investmentcompany
fully owned by LMG, will be transferred to LMWTC to providetechnical support. The LMWTC
will be supported by experienced design institutes, tenderingcompanies, and a construction
supervision company.

Liuzhou's Environmental Sanitation Division (ESD) will be responsible for implementingthe
project's municipal sanitation and solid waste management components. The EPB will be the
implementingagency for the industrial wastewater pollutioncontrol component, receiving
assistance from the PMO for bidpreparation and evaluation, contract preparation and submission
o f payment requests. Refer to Annex 6 for full details.

3. Monitoringand evaluationof outcomes/results
The expected results andmonitoring indicators for the project are detailed inAnnex 3.
Documents inthe project file, such as the Environmental Management Plan, also contain
information on indicators and specific monitoring mechanisms. The PMO and the implementing
agencies (ESD, EPB, and LMWTC) will monitor the project's activities, and will provide regular
reports on progress toward meeting indicators as well as financial and implementation covenants.
The Bank will review PMO and agency reports and recommendcorrective actions as needed.

4. Sustainability
The project is intendedto achieve sustainability by strengthening the institutional capacity of
each project implementingagency: the LMWTC, ESDand EPB. The project will helpthe
LMWTC and ESD achieve financial sustainability through cost-recovery and improved
operational efficiency. LMG's adoption o f a comprehensive policy on industrial wastewater
pollution control, including urbandevelopment planning, regulatory control and demand
management via price incentives for polluters, will complement the project's physical
investments and its institutional development program (see Attachment 1o f Annex 1for the
policy letter on industrial wastewater pollution control).

5. Critical risks and possible controversial aspects
The table below provides an overview o f the risks relatedto the implementationo f LZEMP and
plannedmitigation measures.




                                               7

                           Table 1: Projectrisks and mitigationmeasures
                    Risks                     RiskRating                  RiskMitigationMeasure
Liuzhou does not have prior experience                       Basedon procurementand financial
implementingBank projects, andhas limited                    managementcapacity assessments, atechnical
technical, managerial, and staff capacityto                  assistance programhas beenincluded to build
meet Bank requirementsinprocurementand            M          the institutionalstrengthofthe PMO and other
financial management.                                        project agencies.


Inadequatewastewater tariff increases and                     LMWTC's tariff and revenuecollection
revenuecollection will impactLMWTC's                          proposalshave been appraised, keeping inmind
financial viability.                                         the experience under GUEP.TA will be
                                                              providedto strengthenLMWTC's institutional
                                                   S          capacity, including the developmentof
                                                              financial managementand accountingsystems.
                                                              The Bank will closely monitor LMWTC`s
                                                              financial performance.

LMWTC's inadequatetechnical and                               LMWTC's Institutional Developmentand
managerialcapacity to implementthe                            Capacity DevelopmentPlans (IDCDPs) have
project will delay implementation and affect                  been carefilly appraised. The project includes
sustainability.                                    S          TA to implementthe IDCDP before the
                                                              constructionofthe wastewater plants.

Top polluters may not adequately reduce                       The LMG and the enterprises responsible for
discharges to meet their legal obligations                    the mostpollutionhavejointly prepared
under the Industrial Wastewater Pollution                     IWPCAPs. LMG has confirmed its willingness
Control Action Plans (IWPCAPs).                   M           to apply sanctions, ifrequired, to ensure
                                                              compliance.


Overall RiskRating                                 S

RiskRatings: H=High; S=Substantial; M=Mc :st; N=Negligible or Low Risk

6. Loadcreditconditionsand covenants
Applicable loan effectiveness conditions are listed below along with project implementation and
financial covenants.

EffectivenessConditions:
          (a) Execution o f subsidiary loan agreement that i s satisfactory to the Bank betweenthe
              LMGand the LMWTC;
Conditionfor Disbursementfor Works and Goods underthe WastewaterComponent:
          (b) Appointment ofvice general managers ofthe LMWTC.

ImplementationCovenants:
          (a) LMGwill maintain the PMO and PIUs o f each implementingagency (EPB, ESD,
              LMWTC) throughout the project period with functions, responsibilities, competent
              staff and budgets satisfactory to the Bank;
          (b) LMGwill carry out a study on improvement o f operational efficiency of solid waste
              management operations and institutional reform before December 31,2007, share its


                                                  8

            conclusions with the Bank, and follow up on the agreed results and implementation
            timetable;
        (c) LMG will implementa study on managing and fundingpublic toilets to improve the
            quality o f services and to reduce operational subsidiesfrom LMGby employing
            public-private partnerships; and
        (d) LMGwill take the necessarymeasuresto ensure that the 11top polluting enterprises
            carry out their respective Industrial Wastewater Pollution Control Action Plans
            (IWPCAPs) inaccordance with a schedule agreed with the Bank.

Financial Covenants:
        (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the LMWTC shall produce, during each o f
            its fiscal years after the fiscal year endingDecember 3 1,2005, total revenues
            equivalent to not less thanthe sum o f its: (i)total operating expenses; and (ii)the
            amount by which debt service requirementsexceed the provision for depreciations;
        (b) The LMWTC shall undertake, before October 31o f each of its fiscal years,
            commencing in2005 on the basis o f forecasts prepared by the LMWTC and
            satisfactory to the Bank, a review with Guangxi and Liuzhou on whether the
            L M W T C will meet the requirementsset forth inparagraph (a) inrespect o f such year
            and the next following fiscal year, and shall furnishto the Bank the results o f such
            review upon its completion;
        (c) Ifany such review shows that the LMWTC will not meetthe requirementsset forth in
            paragraph (a) for the LMWTC's fiscal years covered by such review, the LMWTC
            shall promptly take all necessary measuresto meet such requirements (including,
            without limitation, adjustment to the structure or levels o f its wastewater charges to
            cover the LMWTC's operating expenses and depreciation relatedto the LMWTC's
            assets); and
        (d) Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, LMWTC shall not incur any debt unless a
            reasonable forecast o fthe revenues and expenditureso f L M W T C shows that the
            estimated net revenues o f LMWTC for each fiscal year duringthe term o fthe debt to
            be incurred shall be at least 1.1 times the estimated debt service requirements o f
            LMWTC insuch years on all debt o f LMWTC, including the debt to be incurred and
            at least 1.3 times beginning fiscal year 2014.


D. APPRAISAL SUMMARY

1. Economicand financial analyses
Economic Analysis. Benefits from wastewater related investments are difficult to quantify,
particularly those relatingto environmental and public health. As a result, calculation o f an
economic internal rate o f return(EIRR) was not attempted, and cost-effectiveness analysis was
conducted instead. For the project's wastewater component, alternatives on the timing o f
construction, location, and capacity o f newwastewater plants were identified and evaluated on
the basis o ftechnical, economic, and environmental criteria to identify the least cost solution for
project investment.A cost effectiveness ratio (Le. unit cost per incremental capacity) was
compared among different alternatives. For the public toilet and solid waste components,
alternatives were examined, including different technical specifications and locations o fpublic
toilets andtransfer stations, to ensure that the best alternatives were chosen to achieve
component objectives.


                                                   9

Financial Analysis. The financial internalrate of return(FIRR) for the project's wastewater
component i s 9.5% over 20 years, compared with a 7.1% weightedaverage cost o f capital. The
financial benefit for this calculation included incremental sewage tariff revenue, andthe financial
costs comprised taxes and incremental capital, and operating and maintenance costs. Sensitivity
analysis was conducted over several scenarios, including increased capital and operating costs, or
decreased wastewater demand. The results showed a reduction o fthe FIRR, but the rate o f return
was still higher than the weighted average cost o f capital.

The financial viability ofthe LMWTC is critical to the success ofthe project's wastewater
component. By implementingrequiredtariff increases and improving tariff collection, the
L M W T C can generate cash surpluses, after covering all capital and operating costs, and will be
able to operate and maintain its assets. Various sensitivity analyses conducted over major
parameters, including water demand, sewage tariff levels, and ability to enforce sewage tariff
collection, confirmed the robustness o fthe financial projection (see Annex 9). Throughout, it
became clear that the LMG's full and focused commitment to this project i s neededto
accomplish the required tariff and tariff collection plans. LMG's planned sewage tariff increase
in2006 is estimated to be affordable andreasonable comparedto the trendinother cities inthe
Province. L M W T C has entered into service agreements with LMG inorder to improve sewage
tariffcollectionperformance. A service agreement withLMGwill define LMG's obligations to
compensate for any loss LMWTC incurred due to LMG's decision to defer and/or reduce sewage
payments for any enterprises. TA under this project will provide additional support to LMG and
the LMWTC indeveloping and implementing appropriate strategies.

Fiscal Impact. LMG's finances were reviewed to assess LMG's capacity to provide counterpart
fundingfrom state grants, commercial debt, and municipal contributions, including sewage tariff
revenues duringproject implementation. The plannedproject counterpart funds are estimated to
represent about two percent o ftotal LMG revenues, and 11percent o f its capital expenditure
budget, on average. This review indicatedthat LMG can afford to support all components o fthe
project. The increase inLMG's recurrent costs, including for O&M support for the Zhuexi Creek
rehabilitation, and for the public toilet and solid waste components are limitedand estimated to
represent about 3% o f city maintenance budget. The net present value (NPV) o f incrementaltax
revenue i s estimated at about RMB240 million, or US$30 million during 20 years o f operations.

2. Technical
The technical feasibility studiesprepared by LMGand its consultants focused due attention on
the size o fproject investments. Studiesofthe wastewater component focused onthe treatment
processesrequiredto ensure adequatewater quality downstream o f the city, and how the
impoundment o f water at the Hong Hua site would impact the river. Initial proposals focused on
developing major trunk sewers, and considered the significant investments already carried out
over the past years by the municipality. However, it soon became clear that system benefits
could only be achieved by promoting and developing house connections, particularly in
developed areas where developers are not willing to independently finance connections because
of financial and technical reasons. Moreover, additional investmentsinhouse connections and
sewer rehabilitation were added to the initial feasibility proposals.

For the solid waste management component, developing transfer stations inthe city constituted
the optimal alternative to maximize refuse collection andconveyance efficiency. Such stations


                                                  10

will help minimize the idle time for which refuse trucks spend onthe road, thereby optimizing
the operations o f the vehicle fleet. However, due to overwhelming public opposition during site
selection, only one transfer station inthe northeastern part o f city i s included inthis project.
Efforts will continue to identify site locations for additional transfer facilities to serve residents
inthe droppedarea andother zones. Although only onetransfer station is includedunder
LZEMP, the municipality may invest its own resources inadditional stations after carrying out
the necessary investigations and surveys. Duringthe public toilet design andplacement process,
the comparative needs ofcity neighborhoods andurbantransit populations were primary
considerations, rather than generic norms often out o f step with realities on the ground.

3. Fiduciary
Financial management. The adequacy o fthe project's financial management system was
assessedusing the guidelines issuedby the Financial Management Sector Board on October 15,
2003. The assessment concluded that the project meets the Bank's financial management
requirementsas stipulated inBP/OP 10.02. Itfound that the project will have inplace a financial
management system that can provide, with reasonable assurance, accurate and timely
information on the status o f the project informats agreed with the Bank (see Annex 7).

Procurement. The PMO will oversee procurement activities o fthe implementingagencies,
including those o f LMWTC (for the wastewater component), ESD (for the municipal sanitation
component), and EPB (for the industrial wastewater pollution control component). An
assessment o f implementingagency procurement capacity confirmedthat organizational
arrangements are adequate for procurement management and that project-related procurement
will be conducted without any interactionwiththe provincial government. Key procurement
issues and risks have been identified, especially the lack o f experience with World Bank project
procurement procedures. Corrective measures will include: (a) providing technical support for
assistance on bidpreparation; and (b) recruiting experienced tendering companies to help
implementprocurement.

4. Social
Land acquisition and resettlement. The project will positively impact Liuzhou's citizens by
improving urban environmental conditions through investments inwastewater treatment,
municipal sanitation, and solid waste management, as well as enhanced industrial wastewater
pollution control. However, some groups will be adversely affected by land acquisition and
relocation. Intotal, 888 muo f land will be acquired and 649 households will be relocated.
Adverse social impacts and risks will be minimized by carefully implementing the Resettlement
Action Plan (RAP).

Additional public consultations will be held before the start o f land acquisition and relocation to
ensure that any concerns regardingcompensation entitlementsand payments are adequately
considered. Further, a mechanism to monitor public reactions duringthe course o f project
implementation has been set up to consider complaints and/or suggestions ina timely manner.

Social assessment. Two social assessment (SA) reports were prepared - one addressing the
wastewater component, and a second addressing the municipal sanitation and solid waste
management components. The first SA focused on various stakeholders, including minority
nationalities, poor people, and women. Positive andnegative social impacts were analyzed, and



                                                  11

resettlement was identifiedas the project's major negative impact. The willingness and ability o f
citizens to pay for wastewater tariffs were also studied. Duringa related field survey, more than
50% o fthe poor indicated they would have difficulty paying for the projected increased
wastewater tariffs. An affordability analysis was also undertakenas part o f the economic analysis
to determine whether residential customers, particularly lower income groups, could afford the
newwastewater tariffs. This analysis indicated that the average low income household's
combined water and wastewater bill was projected to average three percent o f household income.
This result is well withina generally accepted guideline that household water supply and
sanitation costs should not exceed five percent o f household income. Inaddition, the planned
tariff increases will likely decrease consumption, further lowering householdwater costs. The
project's tariff increases can therefore be considered tolerable, especially because the lowest
income groups will receive preferentialtreatment. For example, LMGhas agreed to accept 50%
reductions inthe water and wastewater bills for poor households.

The second social assessment surveyedpublic opinions on where to buildthe public toilets and
solid waste transfer stations. Because nearbyhouseholds did not support one o fthe two proposed
solid waste transfer station sites, LMG decided to postpone constructiono f a second station until
itfound a more appropriate site. Because ofoppositionto relocation, lack of demand, or better
alternative solutions, 18 proposed public toilets were also dropped. Based on public input, access
for the disabled was incorporated into toilet design, mainly by removing access barriers, creating
wider access spaces, and placinghandicappedtoilets nearest to mainentrances.

Minority nationalities. Greater Liuzhouhas a total populationo f 1.8 million and 48 minority
nationalities. Sixty-six percent o f this population i s Zhuang. InJanuary 2004, a study was
undertakento assess how four Bank-supported projects inthe Guangxi ZhuangAutonomous
Region impactedminority nationalities. The social assessmentincluded an in-depth analysis o f
minority nationalities. Minorities live incommunities withthe Han, although they are also
concentrated inparticular areas; for example, 75% o f the population is Molao inYanghe; and
40% o f the population i s ZhuanginLongquanshan. The analysis showed that the livelihood
modes and the productionpattern o f the Molao and the Zhuang are similar to those o fthe Han.
The major difference i s the lower income o f the minorities compared with the average income o f
the Han. Itis concluded that minority nationalitiesdo not exhibitthe features of indigenous
peoples as defined inthe Bank's OD 4.20, andthat the Bank's OD 4.20 does not apply for this
project.

5. Environment
The environmental assessments(EA)and environmentalmanagement plans(EMP) for the
wastewater component, municipal sanitation component (public toilets), and solid waste
management component were prepared, inaccordance with national policies, by the
Environmental Impact Assessment Instituteo fthe Sino-Japan Environmental Protection Center.
EA documents, such as the EMP, EAs, and EA Summary, were found to be satisfactory. The EA
includes the project description, baseline environmental conditions, projectjustification,
environmentalbenefits, analysis o f alternatives, potential environmental impacts and mitigation
measures (both at the construction and operation stage), environmental management plans,
public consultation details, and information disclosure information. The final EA documentation,
including a Supplementary EA Report, was sent to the Bank's InfoShop inWashington and
Beijing inJanuary 2005. The project was assigned to safeguards category A, becausethe project



                                                  12

involves substantial involuntary resettlement and construction and operation-related impacts are
significant. Major findings of the project EAs and EMPs are delineated inAnnex 10.

Analysis of Alternatives. During project development and design, four alternatives were
considered and compared, each with different numbers o ftreatment plants and/or different site
locations and treatment capacities. The proposed investmentswere selected due to favorable site
conditions, lower environmentalimpacts, harmony with local development, andmanageable
costs.

Environmental impacts. The environmental impacts o f the project are, on balance, substantially
positive and benefits greatly outweigh environmental costs. The project will reduce pollution
loads inthe LiujiangRiver and improve public health by providing municipal sanitation
facilities. Major potential impacts duringthe project's construction phase include disturbances
due to excavation, dust, noise, and soil disposal, andurbanservice disruptions. Impacts during
the plants' operational phase include sludge disposal, noise, and odor.

Mitigation measures. The EAs include detailed informationon environmentalmitigation
measures, environmental monitoring plans, institutional arrangements and training, and cost
estimates o f mitigation measures. Major mitigation measuresinclude constructioncontrol
activities, strategic site location, selection o f facilities with appropriate buffer zones, control on
noise and odors, and appropriate sludge disposal. The EMPs have since beenmainstreamed into
the Project ImplementationPlan(PIP).

Public consultation. Duringthe preparation o fthe EA, local groups were consulted at least twice,
either through meetings with local government representatives or public interviews and surveys
using questionnaires as noted inthe social section above.

Information disclosure. Information on EA preparation was disclosed inthe October 27, 2004
edition o f the local newspaper "Liuzhou Daily". The EA reports were made available at the
Liuzhou PMO for interested people and groups, as well as at the World Bank Infoshop in
Washington, The final draft EAs and EMPs were made available at the Liuzhou City Public
Library for public review and informationinNovember 2004.




                                                    13

6. Safeguard policies

Key safeguard policies triggered by the project are as follows:
                            Table 3: Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project
                                                                                      Yes                   No
  EnvironmentalAssessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)                                              [XI                   [I
  Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)                                                        [I                   [XI
  Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                                            [I                   [XI
  Cultural Property (OPN 11.03, being revisedas OP 4.11)                               [I                   [XI
  Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                                                [XI                   [I
  Indigenous Peoples(OD 4.20, being revised as OP 4.10)'                               [I                   [XI
  Forests (OP/BP 4.36)                                                                 [I                   [XI
  Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                                          [I                   [XI
  Projects inDisputedAreas (OP/BP/GP 7.60)''                                           11                   [XI
  Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)                                  [I                   [XI

7. Policy Exceptions and Readiness

No policy exceptions apply to this project.

Project readiness. LMG and its implementing agencies have completed major project
preparationactivities. LMWTC was established inDecember 2004, and its General Manager,
Finance Director and Technical Director have been appointed. A service agreement between
LMGandthe LMWTC hasbeen signed.




'
** In the context of China,IndigenousPeoples refer to minority nationalities.
  By supportingtheproposedproject, the Bank does not intendtoprejudice theJinal determinationof theparties' claims on the
disputedareas.


                                                            14

                            Annex 1: Countryand Sector Background
             CHINA: LIUZHOUENVIRONMENT MANAGEMENT PROJECT

China's Challenge:RapidGrowthand UrbanImDacts

China i s undergoing growing pains as it struggles to deal with rapid economic growth and
urbanization, environmental pollution and degradation, developmental gaps between its western
andmore prosperous coastal provinces, andpersistent poverty, especially inrural areas andparts
o f fast-growing cities. China i s also managing a complex tangle o f political, social, and
economic issues as it transitions from a centrally planned state to a global, market-based one
committedto equitable and environmentally sustainable development.

China's cities and towns now account over 60% o f the country's GDP and approximately 40% o f
its population. However, the urbanshare o f China's populationis expected to surpass 50%
within 15 years. This rapidurbangrowthtrendhas complex roots. Over the past decade, former
state-owned enterprises inthe industry, power, and telecom sectors, and small and medium-sized
businesses located inor around urban centers, helpedpropel China's economic growth. During
the sameperiod, rural livingbecame more difficult due to stagnant farm prices and foreign
agricultural competition, helping to instigate a sizable migration to urban areas as rural citizens
sought better livelihoods and opportunities incity centers.

However, since muchurban economic activity came from companies streamlining operations to
maximize efficiency, companies did not always addjobs, and in some cases eliminatedjobs.
Thus, many new city dwellers were unable to find employment, andthis contributed to urban
poverty.

As urbanpopulationscontinueto rise, many cities are finding itdifficult to sati,sfythe service
and infrastructure needs o ftheir citizens and businesses due to lack o f sufficient technical and
managerial capacity. Cities are also falling short intheir efforts to protect environmental
resources, including water, air, and sanitary conditions, also because o f limitedresources and
capacity.

Inaddition, China's development hasbeengeographically skewedtoward its easternandcoastal
regions, which have historically received greater governmental support compared with China's
western provinces. City revenues are generally higher and more consistent ineastern provinces.
Inthe west, lower overallper capita incomes, lower populationdensities, andinadequate
administrative structures generally translate into less tax collection and therefore less service
provision. China's western provinces also lag behind coastal and eastern regions inmost
developmental measurements. The government i s thus focusing on economic and social
development, poverty reduction, and infrastructure investments inthe western region.

Respondingto Water and SanitationProblems

China, reflecting its TenthPlan (2001-05) vision to realize a "well-off society", i s now giving
priority to improving local government capacity and investingincity services and infrastructure,
especially inwestern provinces. Both China's Tenth Plan andthe most recent CAS support urban
sanitation and environmentalprotection, including wastewater treatment, because it has been



                                                 15

amply demonstrated that clean cities and safe, sustainable water supplies help ensure economic
growth and a high quality o f life.

Currently, however, many Chinese rivers and water sources are polluted because o f inadequate
wastewater treatment and weak and poorly enforced water regulations. The central government
has responded to these problems by recently issuing guidelineson reforming the wastewater and
solid waste management sectors. These guidelines recommend that utilities establish sufficient
fee levels to cover operations and debt services, and encourage contracting utility services to the
private sector to improve efficiency. Several coastal provinces and cities have already taken steps
inaccordance with these guidelines, butmany others have not due to capacity constraints.

Although improved household wastewater treatment i s clearly needed, industrial wastewater
treatment remains a particular problem because industries still lack adequatewastewater
treatment facilities and/or are unable to operate these facilities because o f highoperating costs.
Enforcement o f industrial wastewater pollution regulations also varies according to each city's
technical capability, monitoring capacity and authority to oversee state-owned enterprises. Public
sanitation and solid waste services and related infrastructure are also deficient inmany cities.

Moving from Nationalto Local: Protectingthe Environmentand EconomyinLiuzhou

Liuzhou, this project's focus, i s located inthe Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region, one o f
China's 12 western provinces. Liuzhouhas 1.2 million habitants and i s the largest industrial
center inthe province with more than 1,300 small enterprises and 144 large and medium-sized
industrial enterprises. Liuzhou's population i s expected to rapidly increase to 1.8 million people
by 2020, straining its already burdenedwater and sanitation infrastructure.

Liuzhou's air, water, and sanitation conditions have beennegatively impactedby the city's rapid
growth and industrialization. As a first step toward a solution, LMG successfully implemented a
Japan Bank for International Cooperation (JB1C)-funded environmentalproject to reduce
industrial air pollution and to improve solid waste management from 1998 to 2003. It also
executed an extensive urban environmental protectionprogram under the auspices o f China's
Tenth Plan.

Water pollution i s particularly pressinginLiuzhou. The LiujiangRiver, which winds through the
city center and suburbs, i s the city's primary water source. However, its water quality, at class
111,is threatened by industrial and municipal discharges ofuntreated sewage, and may worsen
without additional treatment.

Liuzhou has established several goals related to its water pollution problem. First, the LMG
declared that at all times and at all intakes downstream, water from the Liujiang should never fall
below Class 111. Second, the LMG, inaccordance with China's Tenth Plan, established that by
2010 at least 70% and by 2020 at least 90% o f all urbangenerated wastewater will undergo
adequatetreatment by wastewater treatment facilities to comply with necessary effluent
discharge standards. To help meet these goals, the LMG established an autonomous wastewater
treatment company inDecember 2004. Inaddition, the LMG recently commissioneda new
wastewater treatment plant. Though this i s a good first step, this plant can only treat 15% o f
Liuzhou's total wastewater discharges, not nearly enough to reach its stated goals.




                                                 16

LMGis aware that the city cannot meet its objective ofmaintaining water quality inthe Liujiang
River at class I11by simply constructing newwastewater treatment plants because about 70% o f
all industrial wastewater i s discharged directly into the river. Accordingly, the LMG adopted a
comprehensive policy framework for industrial wastewater pollution control (see Attachment 1
for the Englishtranslation o fthe policy letter signedby the Mayor). Following this policy, EPB
will implement a planto strengthenpollution control at the enterprise level (see details inAnnex
4) with the following four major elements:

        0   Industrial Wastewater Pollution Control Action Plan (IWPCAP): Elevenenterprises
             discharge over 90% o fthe city's total industrial wastewater and pollution loads and
            seven account for over 90% o f its heavy metal discharges. O f these, only the Liuzhou
            Zinc Product Plant and Liujiang Paper Millare not compliant with discharge
             standards (heavy metals and Chemical Oxygen Demand(COD) are their respective
            problems). The Liuzhou Zinc Product Plant i s due to be relocated by the end 2005
            and receive upgraded treatment facilities, while the Liujiang Paper Milli s currently
            commissioning a 60,000 tpd wastewater treatment plant (with capacity for planned
            expansions) that will bringit into compliance. Action plans have beenagreed
            between the EPB and the 14 major polluters to Wher decrease pollutant levels.
        0    On LineMonitoring o f Industrial Wastewater Discharges: Since mid-2003,automatic
            and continuous on-line monitoring systems have beendirectly connected to the EPB
            On-Line Monitoring Control Center for five enterprises with major wastewater
            discharges. Over the nexttwo years, the EPB plans to extend on-line monitoringto an
            additional seven enterprises. On-line monitoring i s limitedto only a few parameters
            because o fthe present lack o freliable analytical equipment. Nevertheless, EPB
            considers this a valuable pollution control tool. EPB will also install continuous
            automatic on-line monitoring equipment at the boundaries o f the municipality where
            the river enters andexits.
        0   Discharge Permit System: EPB expects to implementthe first stage o f the DPS by
            end 2005; implementation is subject to the State Council and SEPA issuingthe
            relevant law and regulations, respectively. EPB i s committed to vigorously
            implementingthe DPS, beginningwith COD inthe first phase, andthenN-HH3and
            heavy metals insubsequent phases, because implementation o f the DPS i s critical to
            managing wastewater discharges at an environmentally sustainable level over the
            long-term.
        0   EPB Strengthening: EPB will enhance its capabilities by: (a) upgrading monitoring
            station analytical equipment; (b) establishing a monitoring center to record and
            process data from the industrial and river on-line monitoring stations; (c) extending
            and developingthe EPB management information center; and (d) providing training
            inmonitoringandenvironmentalmanagement.

Liuzhou's needfor new wastewater treatment facilities i s developmentally sound. Protectingthe
Liujiang by maintaining its water quality will bolster the quality o f life inLiuzhouand indirectly,
butprofoundly, make Liuzhoumore livable, competitive, and friendly to investment. Since the
Liujiang i s a major river inthe regional ecosystem, keeping its water clean will also help ensure
it can beusedsafely bytowns and farms downstream.

Municipal sanitation i s also a major issue inLiuzhou, especially with its growing demand for
services. Inparticular, the city needs more public toilets. There are 249 public toilets now in


                                                 17

Liuzhou, but 417 public toilets are neededby 2010 according to the city's master plan. Liuzhou
conducted a demand analysis for new public toilets taking into account important demographic
patterns and criteria, and used this analysis to ultimately select sites.

Solid waste management i s another environmental concern inLiuzhou. Liuzhou now produces
about 1,000 metric tons of municipal solid waste per day, andthis i s projectedto increase to
about 1,400 tpd by 2010 and 1,900 tpd by the year 2020. Because the existing landfill nine
kilometers from the city center has reached its capacity, the LMGrecently completed the
constructiono f a new landfill 22 kilometers from the city center. Transporting additional waste
to this new facility will be difficult under the current system-comprised mainly o fpushcarts
and tricycles hauling waste to 40 waste collection stations, and a fleet o f 69 small trucks. As the
city expands and the newmore distant landfill i s used, Liuzhou will need centralized transfer
stations, more waste collection stations, and additional waste hauling vehicles. Liuzhou intends
to both implement a user fee based on the Central government's guidelinespromoting the
establishment o f refuse collection fees from all users, and move solid waste management to a
more enterprise-type operation.




                                                  18

                                     Attachment 1of Annex 1

                      EnglishTranslationof the PolicyLetteronIndustrial
                             WastewaterPollutionControlinLiuzhou
                   (signedby the Mayor ofthe Liuzhou Municipal Government)

The city o f Liuzhou, with apresentpopulation o f 1.2 million, is the largest industrialcenter in
Guangxi comprising 144 large to mediumand more than 1,300 small-sized industrial enterprises.
The City's populationis expected to reach 1.8 million by 2020. As a result o frapid
industrialization and urbanization, the environment inLiuzhouhas beendeteriorating.

I.Background

Fullyrecognizingthe importance ofenvironment improvement, Liuzhou Municipal Government
(LMG)places great importance on control of industrial pollution. Effective measureshave been
taken to control sulfur dioxide inorder to reduce the very severe acid rain problems arising from
the use o f high sulfur coal. The policy to bring sulfur dioxide emissions under control was
implementedin 1997, with a goal ofreaching Class I1air quality by 2005, and consisted ofthe
following elements;

        Overall Atmospheric Sulfur Dioxide Discharge Limit: determination o f the maximum
        allowable emissionof sulfur dioxide (emission cap) under which acid rain will be
        decreased based on atmospheric environmental assimilative capacity.
       Apportionment o f Emission Cap: the major emitters o f sulfur dioxide are controlled on
       mass based permits and those unable to meet the permit requirementsare instructedto
        improve within a limitedtime.
        Low Sulfur Coal: staged reduction o f the sulfur content o f coal allowed to be consumed
        inLiuzhouwithestablishment ofthe necessary inspectionandenforcement agency;
        Clean FuelEncouraged: the enterprises incentral urban area are required to use clean fuel
        (LPG, natural gas, petroleum). LMGprovides some financial grants towards the cost o f
        clean fuel conversion.
        Pollution Levv Charges: charges for sulfur dioxide emissions are imposedto encourage
        polluters to reduce the pollutants based on the national laws and regulations.
        Emissions Trading: enactment o f the legal framework to allow sulfur dioxide emission
       trading between the enterprises inLiuzhou sulfur dioxide zone and acid rain control area.
        Relocation: enterprises causing severe pollution that i s difficult to control are relocated
        based on the Liuzhou Urban Master Plan and IndustryRestructuringPolicy.
The application o fthe above policy elements has resulted insuccess inimprovingthe urbanair
quality. LMGbelieves that the implementation of the policy to control sulfur dioxide emissions
has provided valuable experience that can be applied inindustrial wastewater pollution control.

11. FutureControlson IndustrialWastewater

One o fthe most important remaining environmental problems inLiuzhou i s water pollution. Its
drainage system i s still a combined system under which untreated sewage and rainwater flows


                                                19

together into the Liujiang River which flows through the city center and i s the main source o f
drinking and industrial water use. The first wastewater treatment plant treats only 15% o f
wastewater discharges. According to Liujiang River water environment zone planning,the goal
i s to maintain the upstreamsection o f Liujiang River at Class I1standard to safeguard drinking
water supplies, andto maintain, at minimum, Class I11inthe downstream section to fulfill
LMG's obligation to downstream users and maintainthe river ina satisfactory ecological state.

Policyfor IndustrialWastewater Control

     1. Relocation: Polluting industriesinthe main urbanareawill be relocated to more suitable
        sites either outside the urban area or to the newly developed industrial zone on the
        downstream section o f Liujiang River. Duringrelocation, the relocated enterprises must
        carry out an environmental impact assessmentand meet the "three simultaneous
        measures" strictly and adopt clean production technology.
     2. New Facilities, ExpansionTechnical RenovationProiects: The environmental impact
        assessment system and "three simultaneous measures"system must be strictly conducted.
     3. Pollution Levv Charges: According to the new Regulation for Collecting and Usingthe
        Pollution Charges (2003), the environmental protection departmentsare responsible for
        imposing the charges on polluters, checkingthese pollutant discharges regularly, and
        adjustingthe charges as necessary.
     4. Demand Management: LMG will develop and implementpolicies to provide incentives
        for reducing water consumptionthrough sewage tariffs, which are based on both the
        quantity andquality (concentration) ofwastewater discharged to sewers. Suchpolicies
        will not only ensurethat the wastewater treatment companies are financially viable but
        also ensure that all users pay their fair share o f service costs. The policies will also
        provide appropriate incentives for users to save money by investinginprocess
        improvements, which conserve water and reduce wastewater discharges. Demand
        management includes the higher collection o f wastewater tariffs from those enterprises
        usingself-supplied water.
     5. Regulation Enforcement: Liuzhou EPB will strengthenthe supervision o f operation o f
        environmentalfacilities, require major polluters and those failing to meet the discharge
        standards to install automatic on-line monitoring equipment for specific pollutants, with
        direct connection o f the monitoring equipment to the Liuzhou EPB Information Center.
     6. Enforcement Aaencv Streneheninq: LMG i s committed to maintain EPB as a strong
        effective agency inpollution control with the necessary facilities and funding to fulfill its
        responsibilities, including improved automatic monitoring o fthe water environment.
     7. Pollution Control Action Plan: Agreement has beenreached with relevant enterprises on
        short-term pollution control action plan. Its completion i s a prerequisite o f any expansion
        plans.
     8. Use o f Pollution Charges: That portion submittedto the Municipal Finance Bureauwill
        be fully usedfor pollution prevention and control at major polluters, regionalpollution
        prevention and control, development, demonstration and application o f new technology
        to advance the process o f pollution prevention and control.
     9. Total Amount Control: As required by the national and regional agencies, EPB has
        startedcalculating mass-based water environment assimilative capacity and will begin to


                                                  20

allocate water pollutiondischarge permits (DPS) basedonthe national and regional
arrangements.As soon as the laws andregulations on the mass basedpollutant discharge
permitsystem are issued, EPB will implementthe systemdiligently. EPB will keepthe
Bankinformedofthe progressofthe DPS implementation over the life ofthe project.


                                                  Mayor
                                                  LiuzhouMunicipal Government




                                     21

                                                                                  Latest Supervision (PSR) Rating
                                                                                   (Bank-financed projects only)
             Sector Issue                               Project                  Implementation          Development
                                                                                  Progress(IP)             Objective

Sewerage, drainage, solidwaste                       Guangxi Urban
management                                  EnvironnementalProject (Ln.                 S                      S
                                                 30970), (06/16/1998)
Wastewatertreatment, lake                           Tai BasinUrban
rehabilitation, canal network                 Environment Management                    S                      S
rehabilitation                                (Ln.47480), (08/03/2004)

Urban environment, including                                                             S                     S
wastewater, solid waste, and industrial       HebeiUrban Environment
pollutioncontrol                               (Ln.4569), (05/10/2000)

Access to urban services for the poor,
environmental health, water resource         Tianjin UrbanDevelopment
management, municipalgovernance              andEnvironment (Cr. 2387)                   S                    H S
and institution building, wastewater,        (05/22/1992) and (ICR No.
solidwaste, industrial pollution                  22217) (06/20/2001)

Wastewatermanagement inariver
basin: upgrade water quality inthe           Huai River Pollution Control
HuaiRiver, improved collection and                     (Ln.4597)                         S                     S
treatment of wastewater in selected                   (03/22/2001)
municipalities oftwo provinces
Sewerage, water supply, sub-national
government administration, solid             Sichuan Urban Environment
waste management, other social                    Project (Ln. 44960)                    S                     S
services                                              (06/17/1999)


Sewerage, solid waste management,                  Chongqing Urban
water supply, sub-nationalgovernment              Environment Project                    S                     S
administration                                         (Ln.4496)
                                                       (6/15/2000)

~
Wastewatermanagementinariver
basin: upgrade water quality inthe           HuaiRiver PollutionControl
Huai River, improved collection and                    (Ln.4597)                         S                     S
treatment of wastewater inselected                    (03/22/2001)
municipalities oftwo provinces


 Water supply, municipal and industrial                                        Implementation performancereported
wastewater treatment, air pollution                        JBIC                satisfactory. Assistance focusedmainly
management (several projects)                                                  on investment.
Urban services, environment, water
resources(several projects)                    Asian Development Bank          Performancereportedsatisfactory.


 IPDO Ratings:H S (Highly Satisfactory); S (Satisfactory); U(Unsatisfactory); HU(Highly Unsatisfactory)




                                                            22

                             Annex 3: ResultsFrameworkandMonitoring
              CHINA: LIUZHOUENVIRONMENT MANAGEMENT PROJECT

                                          Results Framework

                PDO                        OutcomeIndicators             Use of OutcomeInformation

Improvement ofthe environmental     Maintenance of water quality inthe Recommendedadjustmentin
conditions of Liuzhou, relatedto    downstreamportion ofthe Liujiang   planning/or operationsfor the
wastewater treatment, sanitation    River at aminimum of Class 111.    LMWTC andESD and
control and solid waste management. Citizens' level of satisfaction    disseminationof the outcomefor
                                    regardingmunicipal sanitary        public awareness ofthe
                                    conditions inthe project area.     environmentalconditions.

        IntermediateResults           ResultsIndicatorsfor Each
                                                Comnonent                 Use of ResultsMonitoring
                                    Wastewater Component:               Wastewater Component:

Increaseof municipal wastewater     Capacity ofthe wastewater           Monitoring the progressofphysical
collected andtreated.               treatment plantsinoperationand      works andthe LMWTC operational
                                    volume of wastewater treated.       performance.
Municipal Sanitation Component      Municipal SanitationComponent       Municipal SanitationComponent
(Public Toilet):                    (Public Toilets):                   (Public Toilets):

Provision of improved public toilet Number ofnewly constructedand       Monitoring the progressofphysical
facilities and services.            rehabilitatedpublic toilets;        works of public toilets and their
                                                                        operational and service quality.
                                    Numbersofportabletoilets
                                    installed;

                                    Number ofpeoplewho use the
                                    public toilets constructedand
                                    rehabilitatedunderthe project;

                                    Number ofpublic toilets contracted
                                    to private operators.

Solid Waste Management              Solid Waste Management              Solid Waste Management
Component:                          Component:                          Component:

Provision of improved solid waste   Number of solid waste collection    Monitoringthe construction of solid
managementfacilities and services.  stations constructed;               waste management facilities, the
                                                                        purchase ofrelatedvehicles, and the
                                    Construction of one solid waste     efficiency and service quality of
                                    transfer station:                   solidwaste management operations
                                                                        to ensure continuous improvement.
                                    Weight of solidwaste collected
                                    andor transferredinthe project area

                                    Reduction ofunit operationalcosts.




                                                     23

                                    Reductionsinthe mass ofpollutants    I   Better enforcementactions, public
~
Industrial Wastewater Pollution
 Control Component:                 dischargedby the top 11polluters;        disclosure ofthe status of
Reducedindustrial wastewater                                                 compliance ofmajor polluting
pollution loads dischargedinto the  Reductionsinthe mass of heavy            enterprises and continuous
river andthe wastewater treatment   metals discharged by the top seven       improvementof industrial
plants.                             heavy metal dischargers;                 wastewater pollution control
                                                                             program of EPB.
                                    Installation of online automatic
                                    monitoring stations at industrial
                                    discharge sites and inportions ofthe
                                    Liujiangriver.
 Institutional Developmentand       InstitutionalDevelopment and            1InstitutionalDevelopment and
 Capacity Building Component:       CapacityBuildingComponent:           I   Capacity BuildingComponent:

 Improved operational and financial Number of contractsawardedand            Monitoringthe progress of TA and
 efficiency of the project          satisfactorily implementedas             Institutional Developmentprogram
 implementing agencies.             indicatedinTORS.                         and designingcontinuous programs.




                                                     24

 s
 0
 N




 0
 QI              0    0
 0                mm  m
                      m
 N




 0
 W   g            0   0
 0                0   0   9 7
 N   2            hl  hl
                         - -
~




 t-  g
 0               0    0
         I       z    z   4 . 7
 N   0        ~




 0
 W                0   0   4 - 1
 0
 N                2 1 3
              ~           - 3




 m
 0
 0
 N


     g
     2



                             nm
                              Q)
                             .-E
                             U

                r,8
                d
  3   m
      a                n    P
      w   8     w
                e      CL
                       W    G




                                m
                       0 0  0 0 2  0




                     0 0    0 0 1o
                                P
                                a\ 0

I  h
         Yv)

0 0 0 0 0    0 0 0 0 0 0




0 0 0 0 0    0 0 0 0 0 0




o o o o a    a000    0 0




0 0 0 0 0    0 0 0 0 N 0




~ 0 0 0 0    0 0 0 0 0 0




0 0 0 0 0    0 0 0 0 0 0

   X



         X



             X    X




  X    X    X    X




     5
     0




EL
5

                             Annex 4: DetailedProjectDescription
            CHINA: LIUZHOUENVIRONMENT MANAGEMENT PROJECT

Details on the project's scope and financial requirements are provided below. The project file
also contains additional informationon component details.

A. WASTEWATER COMPONENT (US$166.50 million)

Al. Wastewater Conveyance/Collectionand Treatment(US127.86 million)
Baisha Sewerage and Wastewater Treatment Plant (US$38.30 million)
Sewerageand wastewater treatmentplant: This subcomponent will: (a) construct wastewater
interceptors and culverts, and associated pumpinginstallations on the Liuzhou peninsula(10.55
kmo fDN600mmto 1200 mminterceptors, 2.69 kmof2-3m x 1.5-2 mculverts, andtwo 3,000
m3/dand 10,000 m3/dlifting stations); and b) construct a wastewater treatment plant (secondary
treatment) with an average capacity o f 100,000 m3/d,and a small training center. Treated
effluent will be gravitationally pulledinto the Liujiang River through the nearby Huilongchong
drain. This set o f investmentscomplements the LMG's ongoing program o f sewerage
development on the peninsula funded by the municipality.

Longquanshan Wastewater Treatment Plant (Second Phase) (US$26.56 million)
Wastewater treatmentplant: This subcomponent will construct a wastewater treatmentplant
(secondary treatment) with an average capacity o f 150,000 m3/d;the treated effluent will be
dischargedby gravity into the lower stretch o f the Liujiang River. This investment complements:
a) the recently commissioned first phase plant having a treatment capacity o f 100,000 m3/dwith
a three stage plant with capacities o f 300,000/350,000 m3/d;and b) the LMG's ongoing program
o f combinedconveyors, secondary mains andpumpingstations inthe drainage area served by
this wastewater plant.

Yanghe Sewerage and Wastewater Treatment Scheme (US$4 1.57million)
Sewerageand wastewater treatmentplant: The Yanghe scheme invests insewerageworks
serving the two drainage areas of Jinlanand Yanghe. This subcomponent will: (a) construct twin
river crossing pressuremainsanitary sewers (2x lkmo fDN1100 pumpingsewers) and atwo-
hour capacity flood water retention tank; (b) install primary and secondary sewerage systems
concurrently with associated road networks beingdeveloped inthe Yanghe New Industrial
Development District (27.40 kmof culvert and 67.91 kmof DN300 mmto DN1800 mm
sewers); (c) construct four 12,000 m3/d,50,000 m3/d,70,000 m3/dand 200,000 m3/dlow lifting
stations with equipment installationfor the first phase pumpingrequirements; and (d) construct a
wastewater treatment plant with a secondary treatment process with an average capacity o f
125,000 m3/d,which discharges its effluent by gravity into the downstream stretch o f Liujiang
River. A small training center will also bebuilt.

For the above three components, the scope and number o fhouse connections and rehabilitated
sewers are not specified. Pipe quantities for house connections will be determined as specific
studies are carried out by LMWTC during first two years o fproject implementation.




                                                29

  Labao Sewerage and Wastewater Treatment Scheme (US$l 1.76 million)
. Sewerageand wastewater treatmentplant: Labao i s the administrative seat o f the Liujiang
  prefecture and a fast developing industrial area for automotive assembly and truck parts. It has a
  large sugar cane treatment plant which functions duringthe five dry months of the year, and
  whose effluent is handledby storageponds with limitedbut sufficient treatment efficiency. This
  subcomponent will consist of: a) developing primary and secondary sewerage systems inLabao
  (33.57 km of DN300 mmto DN1200 mm sewers, and 28.62 kmo f DN400 mmto DN1200 mm
  interceptors), including an 18,000 m3/dcapacity pumping station, and b) constructing a
  wastewater treatment plant (secondary treatment) with an average capacity o f 25,000 m3/d.The
  discharge ofthe treated effluent will drain into the Jiuquhe River.

  Zhuexi Wastewater Conveyance Scheme (US$9.67 million)
  The component will construct twin wastewater interceptors for the Creek's southern tributary
  (13.85 kmDN300 mmto DN1500 mminterceptors) and convey intercepted wastewater to the
  existing Lonquanshan pumping station.

  A2. ZhuexiCreek UrbanRehabilitation(US$38.64 million)
  Zhuexi i s an in-city drainage area occupying about 65 km2,covering part o f the traditional
  central city district. Inplaces, the Creek forms deep gorges with cross sections as narrow as 30 m
  wide. The LMG intendsto rehabilitate the lower sections o f its two tributaries with an improved
  system o f sanitary sewers and flood control drains, including river embankments and a
  rehabilitationprogram for its lower parts. This will be done by: (a) improving hydraulic
  capacities o f the northem and southern tributaries o f Zhuexi for flood flow release by dredging
  (about 37,000 m3Zhuexi sediments); (b) restoring, expandingand stabilizing some cross-
  sections (4.05 kmof 2-4m x 1Sm-3.6m culverts for the northemtributary, 7.15 kmo f open
  canal with construction o f four low level weirs for the southerntributary); and (c) rehabilitation
  o fthe southemtributary (7.00 km).

  B.MUNICIPAL SANITATION COMPONENT (US$8.82million)
  Municipal public health and sanitation levels need enhancement in several areas, especially in
  certainhousing, commercial, and recreational areas where there are inadequate public toilets.
  This component will aimto develop over a five-year period: (a) about 62 public toilets inareas
  where sewerage systems enable the disposal of septage through sewers rather thanseptic tanks;
  (b) 30 portablepublic toilets with onsite treatment systems; (c) two mobile public toilets, and (d)
  six sanitatiodvacuumtrucks with five ton-capacities.

  C. SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT COMPONENT (US$8.89million)
  This component is intendedto optimize current municipal investmentscarried out for solid waste
  disposal. The recently commissionedcity landfill i s located twice as far from the city center
  (about 22 kmto the southeast ofthe city core) thanthe previous one, andthis component will
  finance a transfer station permitting more efficient use of the increased fleet o f refuse collection
  trucks. Likewise, the number of community waste collection stations for the city's residential
  refuse needs to be increased. This component will consist of: (a) constructingone transfer station
  inthe northeastempartofthe city at GuiliuRoad, with anear term design capacity of450 tons
  per day (tpd) and anultimate capacity of 600 tpd; (b) constructing42 communitycollection




                                                  30

stations inthe city's four urban districts; and (c) supplying trucks and repair equipment to fortify
the fleet o fwaste collection andtransportation vehicles for the ESD.

Equipment and facilities to be financed by this project include: (a) constructiono f 42 additional
waste collection stations and one transfer station; and (b) procurement o f 28 refuse collection
vehicles (four to five ton capacity), 18 (tenton capacity) waste transport vehicles, eight (large
16-ton capacity) waste transport vehicles, 11 (16-ton capacity) waste containers, ten street
sweepers, five street washers, four maintenance vehicles, five highpressure washing vehicles,
two monitoring vehicles (cube vans) for inspectionand monitoring functions, and two vehicles
for inspection, route management, and emergency response.

D.INDUSTRIAL WASTEWATERPOLLUTIONCONTROL COMPONENT
(InstitutionalDevelopmentof EPB andnecessary equipment)(US$l.S5million)
Liuzhou i s the largest industrial center inGuangxi.Industrialwastewater accounts for two-thirds
o f all urban wastewater inLiuzhou and i s a major source o fpollution inthe Liujiang River.The
project objective i s to maintainwater quality inthe Liujiang River at class 111.Without
significant efforts to control industrial wastewater pollution, environmental benefits o f this
project's investments will likely be only marginal.

IndustrialPollutionControlPolicies.LMGpolicies for bothair andwastewater industrial
pollution control were extensively discussed by the project team, bothinregard to present
policies and future development. Since the correct policy framework i s critical for effective
industrial pollution control and to achieve the project's objectives, LMGprepared a
comprehensive Policy Letter on industrial wastewater pollution control (see Attachment 1o f
Annex 1).

IndustrialWastewaterPollutionControlActionPlan(IWPCAP). EPB's planto strengthen
pollution control at the enterprise level has three major elements:

    (a) Action Planfor TopPolluters. Eleven enterprises constitute over 85 % o f total industrial
         wastewater discharges and 89.2% o fthe Chemical Oxygen Demand (COD) pollution
         load (see Table 1 for details). These enterprises' plannedreductions in2005 amount to:
         COD - 10,426.3 tons per year (tpy), surface solids - 18,480 tpy, Biochemical Oxygen
         Demand(BOD) -5,184 tpy, N-NH3-2,700 tpy. Ofthese 11polluters, only the Liuzhou
         Zinc Product Plant (LZPP) and Liujiang Paper Millare not incompliance with discharge
         standards (heavy metals and COD are the respective problems). The LZPP i s due to be
         relocated by the end 2005 and receive upgraded treatment facilities, andthe Liujiang
         Paper Milli s currently commissioning a 60,000 tpd wastewater treatment plant that will
         bringit into compliance, with capacity for planned expansions. Action plans have been
         agreed among EPB and the 11top polluters to further decrease pollutant levels.
         Implementation o f the IWPCAP will be financed by the enterprises themselves with some
         support from the Environmental Fund.Completion o f the IWPCAP i s a prerequisite for
         consideration by LMG agencies o f any expansion plans.

         Major polluters at the county level comprise six sugar refineries -three upstream and
         three downstream o f the city. Most refineries discharge wastewater into oxidation ponds
         and some pond effluent i s used for irrigation. Some o f the remaining cooling and washing




                                                 31

    wastewater i s reused and some i s discharged into the river after the necessary treatment
    (details are inthe project file).

(b) Action Planfor TopHeavy Metal Discharges. Sevenenterprises are responsible for
    nearly 100% o f all heavy metals discharged to the Liujiang River (details are inthe
    project file). The plannedheavy metal reductions for these seven enterprises in2005-
    2006 are: Pb (Lead) -2,856kg/y; Cd (cadmium) - 943 kg/y; As (Arsenic) - 1,640 kg/y;
    and Zn (Zinc) - 164,187 kg/y. It i s noted that industriesmust reach Class 1 standards for
    first category heavy metals before connection to the sewer i s permitted. With
    implementation o f IWPCAPs, these seven enterprises (except for LZPP, which i s to be
    relocated) will reach Class 1 standards by the end o f 2005. O f these seven enterprises,
    only LZPP i s not incompliance for cadmium.The LZPP i s to be relocated away from the
    city center and furnishedwith upgraded treatment facilities at the new site. Since this
    relocationmay take some time to accomplish, the LZPP prepared a pollution mitigation
    program that will ensure that proper pollution monitoring and controls are inplace at all
    times duringthe plant's relocation andoperation phases. Key aspects ofthe pollution
    mitigation and monitoringprogram, includingthe estimated cost for mitigation measures,
    monitoring frequencies, andresponsible parties, are available inthe project file. The total
    estimated cost o fthe pollution mitigationmeasures i s RMB 69.17 million (US$8.347
    million), representing about 23.72% o fthe total LZPP relocation and new construction
    investment (details are inthe project file).

(c) Online Monitoring of Industrial Wastewater Discharges. To improve detection o f
    discharge non-compliance, major polluters are being requested to install automatic online
    monitoring instruments that measure specific pollutants and that are directly connected to
    the EPB SupervisionTeam. Non-compliance will be disclosed to the public. Since mid-
    2003, seven automatic continuous on-line monitoring facilities have been installed by six
    enterprises with highwastewater discharges. The EPB plansto extendseven online
    monitoring stations to an additional five enterprises in2005. The installation o f online
    monitoring systems i s financed by the enterprises themselves with additional support
    from an Environmental Fund. Online monitoring i s now limitedto a few parameters
    (flow, COD, pH, N-NH3for wastewater, and sulphur dioxide, carbon monoxide, total
    suspendedparticles, and smoke for waste gas); nevertheless EPB considers thisi s a
    valuable tool inwastewater pollution control (details are inthe project file).

    Since the IWPCAPs are important complements to the WWTPs inreaching and
    maintaining surface water quality goals, during project supervisionthe Bank will
    consider progress on the IWPCAPs as an important project performance indicator.

(d) Liujiang River Quality Monitoring.Monitoring water quality inthe Liujiang river is of
    prime importance to achieving LMG's goals o f maintaining the upper section o f the river
    at a minimum of Class I1(to safeguarddrinking water supplies), and the lower section at
    Class 111.EPB plans to installtwo continuous automatic monitoring stations at the
    boundaries o fthe city where the river enters and exits. The parameters to be measuredare
    flow,  water temperature, pH, turbidity, conductance, COD, dissolved oxygen, N-NH3,
    total organic content, total phosphorus andtotal nitrogen. The component includes three
    parts: two continuous automatic monitoring stations, a central laboratory, and a network
    center. The implementation schedule i s as follows: completion o f the bidding process in



                                             32

        2005, installation and trial operations in2006, and commencement o f operations and
        monitoring in2007, before completion o f WWTP construction. The total cost i s
        estimated at RMB 9.22 million (US$ 1.12million).

        Discharge Permit System (DPS,. EPB completed a calculation of the environmental
        assimilative capacity o f the Liuzhou section o f the LiujiangRiver inAugust 2004. The
        calculation's results, along with those o fthe other municipalities inGuangxi province,
        were reviewed and accepted by the State Environmental ProtectionAdministration
        (SEPA). At present, preparation work supporting implementation o fthe DPS for
        wastewater discharges i s ongoing. Once the relevant laws and regulations are issuedby
        State Council and SEPA, respectively, in2005, EPB will implement the DPS for
        wastewater discharges. As implementation o f the DPS i s critical to long term
        management o f wastewater discharges, EPB will keep the Bank informed, over the life o f
        the project, o fthe plans for andprogress ofthe DPS.

EPB Strengthening.The total cost ofthe TA for EPB strengtheningis RMB 15.31 million
(equivalent to US$1.85 million, o f which US$l.37 million will be financed by the Bank). The
costs include equipment totaling about US$1.22 million andtraining o f about US$0.46 million.

E. INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENTAND CAPACITYBUILDINGCOMPONENT
    (US$2.73 million)
E.l. TA to supportimplementationofthe project'swastewater, solidwaste, andmunicipal
managementcomponents (US1.16 million)
To realize economies of scale, it i s appropriate to combine technical support programs for all
project components, and to locate the selected TA consulting firm at the level o f the PMO.
Although the PMO will execute many stages o f this component, including its request for
proposals (RFP), evaluation o fproposals, and contract negotiations, LMWTC will undertake
contract management.

The objective o f this assistance i s to provide advisory services and quality control to support the
project's wastewater, solid waste and municipal management components. Assistance will be
provided to help review designs, prepare and evaluate bids, negotiate contracts, and resolve
contract issues. Technical advice will also be provided on water treatment processes and electro-
mechanical systems, and assistance will be suppliedto troubleshoot problems and monitor the
project. The scope o f work includes overseas and national training and study tours duringproject
implementation. It i s expected that support will be provided for four years, with less assistance
supplied duringthe project's third and fourth years.

E.2.TA for the institutionaldevelopmentofthe LMWTC (US$1.31million)
As a newly established company, LMWTC faces many challenges related to its large
constructionprogram already inexecution under the general direction o fthe ICDC. These
challenges include managing the start-up o f new wastewater facilities (some o fwhich have
already beencompleted); managing the smoothtransfer o f assets from other Liuzhou agencies
and enterprises; and establishing effective business processes andpractices to ensure L M W T C i s
on sound operational and financial footings. The technical assistance program will help the
LMWTC address these challenges.




                                                  33

The objectives o f this TA are to: strengthenLMWTC's businessplanandrelatedbusiness
agreements; strengthenLMWTC's businessprocesses, systems andpractices; and strengthenthe
capacity of staff inLMWTC and inrelevant government agencies. The scope o f work includes
an allocation for equipment and data analysis (e.g. mapping etc.), and an allocationfor training
and study tours. The work is expectedto take about two years, starting inJanuary 2006.

E.3.TA to improvethe operationalefficiencyofsolidwaste managementoperationsandto
promoteinstitutionalreforms(US$0.19 million)
The objectives o f this TA are: (a) to provide the ESD with guidance indeveloping manuals,
transferring knowledge, undertakinganalyses and evaluations, developing actionplans to
manage its new infrastructure, improvingoverall operational efficiency, and developing
institutional reforms; (b) to develop a detailed action plan for institutional reform and
improvement o f institutional capacity inmunicipal solid waste management; and (c) to build
capacity o f ESD staff by providing on-the-job and other classroom training and study tours.

About US$190,000 will be requiredto adequately fundthis TA. A minimumof four staff-months
o f internationally skilled staff will likely be needed against a total staff requirement o f 12 staff-
months. The above budgetincludes a US$23,750 allocation for training and study tours. The
work is expected to take about two years starting inJanuary 2006.

E.4.TA to promotepublic-privatepartnershipsfor publictoilets (US$70,000)
Experience shows that poor maintenance o f publictoilets reduces demand for services and
increases public dissatisfaction. Thus, ESDintendsto introduce newmanagement models to
maintainpublic toilets inLiuzhou.

The mainobjective of this TA i s to develop public-private partnership models that will engage
private operators with strong legal andfinancial positions to participate intoilet operations, thus
improving operational efficiency, reducing costs, and increasing usage o f public toilets.

About US$70,000 will likely berequiredto fundthis TA. A minimumof 1.8 staff-months of
internationally skilled staff will likely be requiredagainst a total of 4.8 staff-months. The work i s
expected to take about one year, starting inJanuary 2006.




                                                   34

                                                Annex 5: Project Costs

                CHINA: LIUZHOUENVIRONMENT MANAGEMENT PROJECT

    The estimated cost o fthe project is US$205.60 million, including physical and price
    contingencies, taxes and duties. Cost estimates are basedon feasibility studies with unit
    prices at mid 2004. Physical contingencies are estimated at 7% for civil works and
    equipment. Price escalation i s basedon Bank projections o fnational and international
    inflationrates. Summary cost estimates are infollowing table.

                                                                                                              (US$million)
Project Cost By Component                                                        Local           Foreign              Total
A. Wastewater Component                                                          70.35              37.65            108.00
       Baisha Wastewater                                                         21.67              10.68            32.35
       Longquanshan Wastewater                                                   13.69               8.75            22.44
       Yanghe Wastewater                                                         22.83              12.29            35.12
       Labao Wastewater                                                           6.46               3.48             9.93
       Zhuexi Wastewater Conveyance                                               5.71               2.45              8.16
Al. Zhuexi Creek UrbanRehabilitation                                             22.85               9.79            32.64
B. MunicipalSanitation Component                                                  5.10               2.35             7.45
C. Solid Waste Management Component                                               4.88               2.63             7.51
D.Industrial WastewaterPollutionControl Component                                 0.39                1.17             1.56
E. Institutional Development andCapacity BuildingComponent                        0.00               2.30              2.30
Total Baseline Cost                                                             103.58              55.88            159.46
      Physical contingencies                                                      7.25               3.91             11.16
      Price contingencies                                                         13.44              4.72             18.16
                                                  Total Project Costs'          124.26              64.52            188.78
                                          Interest during construction            2.75               13.58            16.33
                                                        Front-end Fee                                0.50              0.50
                                          Total Financing Required              127.01              78.59            205.60-

    ' Identifiable taxes and duties are US$20million, and the total project cost, net of taxes, is U S 1 8 5 million.
      The share of project costs net of taxes i s 90%.




                                                          35

Q
m

                               Annex 6: ImplementationArrangements
             CHINA: LIUZHOUENVIRONMENT MANAGEMENT PROJECT

ProjectManagementandImplementingAgencies
A leading group ledby the ExecutiveVice Mayor and consisting ofrepresentatives from
Liujiang District, LMWTC, and various departments o fLMG (Planning Bureau, Finance
Bureau, EPB,ESB,Price Bureau, etc.), will superviseproject implementation, provide policy
guidance, and ensure cross-departmental coordination for project implementation and operations.
Its technical secretariat, the PMO, located inthe Development and Reform Commission, will be
responsible for daily supervision and coordination activities. The PMO, ledby the Deputy
Director o f the Development and Reform Commission, will comprise a financial management
officer, a procurement expert, a social and resettlement expert, a project management expert, and
assistants.

The lead implementing agency will be LMWTC, a financially and legally autonomous
wastewater treatment company established inDecember 2004, and fully owned by LMG.
Construction management will be managedby LMWTC, and sufficient staff from the Liuzhou
Construction Investment and Development Company Limited(ICDC), an experienced
infrastructure investment company fully owned by LMG, will be transferred to LMWTC.
L M W T C will receive support from an internationaltender company, and a construction
supervisioncompany.

The ESD will be responsible for the implementation o f the municipal sanitation component
(public toilet) andthe solid waste management component (transfer station, waste collection
stations, and waste transport fleet). The EPB will be the implementing agency for the industrial
wastewater pollution control component.

LZEMP will include an institutional capacity buildingprogram to develop managerial and
technical skills o f institutional staff, and to strengthenbusiness, financial and other systems in
LMWTC, EPB and ESD.

LiuzhouMunicipalWastewater Treatment CompanyLimited(LMWTC)
LMWTC will own, operate, and finance city wastewater infrastructure and have direct financial
and reporting relationships with LMG. LMWTC i s a state-owned limited liability company,
whose equity i s heldby the Liuzhou State Owned Assets Management Commission. LMWTC
entered into a commercially based agreement with LMGto provide wastewater services
throughout Liuzhou; the agreement will specify service levels and other performance
requirementsfor the system and for LMWTC. At the same time, LMGwill provide LMWTC
with authority to collect sewagetariffs from customers o fthe Liuzhou Municipal Water Supply
Company, and from users of self-supplied water. LMGwill also help L M W T C improve the
current low tariff collection rate from users o f self-suppliedwater. The Water Supply Company
and Water Conservation Bureaumay continue their current roles as collection agencies for the
foreseeable future, but will directly transfer the collected sewage tariff revenues to LMWTC.
However, LMWTC has no authority to determine wastewater tariffs and LMG agreed that it will
progressively increase the sewage tariff to achieve cost recovery, Le. cover capital and O&M




                                                     37

costs (see Annex 9). Details on the legal and institutional framework ofthe LMWTC and its
institutional development program are inthe project file.

EnvironmentalSanitationDivision(ESD)
The ESD is responsible for the overall management, supervision, andmonitoring ofthe 140
existing public toilets, while district divisions are responsible for daily public toilet management.
ESD i s incharge of planning, construction, finance, and operations related to public toilet
management.

Inthe solidwaste sector, LZEMPwill, inthe short term, facilitate the establishment ofaseparate
operational entity withinESDthat can manage the transfer station, waste transportation system,
and operations at the new landfill. The establishment ofthis entity will move LMGeventually
towards the establishment of a separate autonomous company for solid waste management,
consistent with policy directives from the central government.

EnvironmentalProtectionBureau(EPB)
The'EPB, which has a good project track record owing to its successful implementation o f an
industrial air pollution control program fundedby JBIC,will be responsible for implementingthe
project's industrial wastewater pollution control component. The majority o f subprojects at the
enterprise level under this component (including online monitoring) will be partially financed by
the EnvironmentalFund, which is managed by a committeewith representatives from concerned
agencies, andwhich i s chaired by a representative of the Finance Bureau. To receive financing
(of up to 40% o f the total subproject cost), an enterprise signs a contract that specifies, inter alia,
an activity schedule and impacts o fthe IWPCAP. Implementation o f subprojects i s the
responsibility ofthe relevantenterprise, and overall supervision i s thejoint responsibility o f EPB
andthe Finance Bureau. The IWPCAP will be monitoredby the EPB's supervisionteam
responsible for enforcement of discharge regulations. Implementation o fthe DPS will require
departmental input and will be under the direct supervision o fthe DeputyDirector o f EPB.

ImplementationPlan
The project began inApril 2005 andwouldterminate inDecember 2010. The implementation
schedule and the LMWTC's implementation planand legal and institutional framework are
available inthe project file.




                                                   38

          Annex 7: FinancialManagementandDisbursementArrangements
         CHINA: LIUZHOUENVIRONMENTMANAGEMENT PROJECT

ExecutiveSummaryandConclusion
The Bankteam assessedthe adequacy ofthe project financial management system. Based
on guidelines issuedby the Financial Management Sector Board on October 15,2003, the
assessment concluded that the project meets minimumBank financial management
requirements, as stipulated inBP/OP 10.02. The project will have inplace a project
financial management system that can provide, with reasonable assurance, accurate and
timely information on its status inan agreedreporting format.

Fundingsources for the project include the Bankloanand counterpart funds. The Bank
loan will be signedbetweenthe Bank and the People's Republic o f China through its
Ministryof Finance (MOF), and an on-lending agreement for the Bank loanwill be
signedbetweenMOF and the Guangxi Government through the GuangxiFinance Bureau
(GFB), andthenbetween the GFB and Liuzhou Finance Bureau(LFB), and finally
between LFB and LMWTC. The Bank loan proceeds will flow from the Bank into the
project special account (to be set up and managed by the GFB), then to the LFB, then to
the project implementing agencies (or project companies), and finally to contractors or
suppliers. Inaccordance with the agreement between the BankandMOF, the project will
adopt traditional disbursementtechniques and will not use report-based disbursements.
Counterpart funds will comprise State bonds, appropriations from the municipal
government, and from commercial debt.No outstanding audits or audit issues exist with
any o f the implementingagencies. The Bank will closely supervise financial management
matters and audit covenants.

CountryIssues
The World Bank has not performed a country financial accountability assessmentfor
China and, therefore, has relied on a similar exercise carried out by the Asian
Development Bank in2000 for reference. Developments inpublic expenditure,
accounting, and auditing, and Bank experience with projects inChina inrecent years
show that substantial progress has been made inpublic financial management and further
improvement i s expected incoming years. The government has come to realize the
importance o f establishing and maintaining market mechanisms to ensure transparency
and accountability, and to minimize potential corruption.

Fundingo fBankprojects is controlled and monitoredbyMOF and its extension offices
(finance bureaus at provincial, municipal/prefecture, and county levels). However,
project activities are carried out by implementing agencies within specific industriesor
sectors becausethey have the required expertise. This arrangement usually requires
extensive coordination, because o f the multiple levels o fmanagement o f funding and
project implementation.




                                             39

RiskAnalysis
The following risks and corresponding mitigating measureshave been identified:

1              Risk              RiskRating                                 Mitigating Measures                                   I
  I. projectrisk
   Inherent                     Moderate     This is the first World Bank-financed project that Liuzhouand several
                                             implementing agencies will execute. ConsideringLiuzhou's lack o f experience and
                                             multi-level execution structures, the task team will monitor the project closely,
                                             give guidance on technical issues, and help to coordinate among all concerned
                                             parties for smooth implementation.
I 11.Control Risk
    a. Implementing entity      Moderate     Close monitoringby the task team is needed to ensure that all implementing
                                             entities are familiar with Bank procedures andrequirements.
1   b. Funds flow               Low          The task team will ensure that mechanisms are inplace to ascertainthat Bank and
1                                            counterpart funds will be released to the ultimate beneficiaries on a timely basis.
    c. Staffing                 Moderate     Since none o f the financial staff have prior Bank experience, a well designed
                                             training program will be conducted at the initial stage, and close monitoring and
                                             supervisionwill take place throughout implementation.
    d. Accounting policies and  Low          Accounting policies and procedures are already inplace
I      procedures
    e. Internal audit           Moderate     For efficiency and effectiveness, the task team will rely on external audit and Bank
                                             supervisionreviews.
I   f.Externalaudit             Low          The China NationalAudit Office (CNAO) will select the project's auditors
                                             acceptable to the Bankthat issue annual audit reports.                                I
    g. Reporting and            Low          Format o f financial statements and frequency o f submission have been clearly
       monitoring                            defined by the Bank and MOF.
    h.Informationsystems        Moderate     The computerized financial management system "User Friend (Yong You)" will
                                             be used. The task team will monitor the processing o f its accounting work closely.

 ImplementingEntities
 The PMO has beenestablished under the Liuzhou Municipal Government. The PMO will
 be responsible for overall project management and coordination, while LMWTC, ESD,
 and EPB will be incharge o f the five project components. LMWTC will be responsible
 for the implementation of the wastewater component. Liuzhou's ESDwill be responsible
 for the project's municipal sanitation and solid waste management components.
 Liuzhou's EPB will be the implementing agency for the project's industrial wastewater
 pollution control component. LMWTC and ESD will be responsible for technical
 assistance under the institutional development and capacity buildingcomponent. The
 organization chart i s as follows:        Q     Leading Group




                                          PIU Liuzhou Environmental
                                             -                                     PIU  - Liuzhou  Environment
             Municipal Wastewater          Protection Bureau (EPB)                  Sanitation Division (ESD)
              Treatment Co., Ltd.




                                                       40

FundsFlow
Funds flow for the Bank loan will follow Bank and MOF requirements.One special
account will be established and managedby GFB. The funds flow i s depicted below:


  The World             Managed by          Liuzhou          Implementing        Suppliers and
   Bank         +      GFB          +FinanceBureau     +       Agencies          contractors



Counterpart funds will be loans from local commercialbanks, tate bonds, and municipal
government appropriations. The commercial loans will flow directly to implementing
agencies, while the State Bonds and municipal government appropriations will be
providedto the implementing agencies through the LFB.

Staffing
The task team has confirmed that an adequate number o f qualified project accounting
staff i s available at the entity level.

A project financial management manualwill beprepared to strengthen financial
management capacity and ensure consistent, high quality accounting work. The manual
will provide detailed guidelines on financial management, internal controls, accounting
procedures, fund and asset management, and withdrawal application procedures. The
manual will be finalized and distributedto all the relevant financial staff before loan
effectiveness.

As most financial staff are inexperienced with Bank projects, the PMO will provide, prior
to project effectiveness, a well-designedand focused training program for all financial
and accounting staff inproject financial management. Topics covered will include:

    0     World Bank financial management policies and disbursement procedures;
    0     Fund/asset/contract management;
    0     Format and content o fproject financial statements; and
    0     Audit requirements.

AccountingPolicies and Procedures
The administrative, accounting, and reporting procedures for the project will be set up in
accordance with the M O F Circular o f January 13,2000: Accounting Regulations for
World Bank Financed Proiects. The standard set o f project financial statements will
include the following:


    0     Balance sheet;
    0     Statement of source and use o f funds for each component;
    0     Statement o f implementationo f credit/loan agreement; and
    0     Statement o f special account.




                                              41

Each o f the implementing agencies will manage, monitor, and maintain its ownproject
accounting records. Original supporting documents for project activities will be retained
bythe responsibleimplementing entity. Inaddition, each implementingagency will
prepare financial statements, which will thenbe submitted to the PMO. The PMO will
thenreview andapprove these financial statementsand, subsequently,prepare
consolidated project financial statementsfor submission to the Bank for review and
comment on a regular basis.

Reportingand Monitoringof FinancialStatements
Inline with newly issuedFinancialMonitoring Report (FMR)guidelines, un-audited
consolidated financial statements will be submittedto the Bank as part o f the FMR on a
semi-annual basis (prior to August 15 and February 15 o fthe following year).

InformationSystems
The PMO will use on this project the computerized financial management system"User
Friend(Yong You)," a well-established accounting software package approved by MOF.
The task team will closely monitor accounting work, especially duringthe project's
initial stage, to ensure that complete and accurate financial information i s provided ina
timely manner.

AuditingArrangements
Internal audits. There is no formal independentinternal audit department for the project.
However, this will not impact the project's financial management, as PMO supervision
and project monitoring, and annual external audits, will ensure that financial management
controls are functioning appropriately.

External audits.Project financial statements mustbe audited inaccordance with
standards acceptable to the Bank. Like other Bank-financed projects inChina, this project
will be audited inaccordance with Intemational Auditing Standards and the Government
Auditing Standards o fthe People's Republic of China. The auditors for the project, which
will be selected by the ChinaNational Audit Office (CNAO) and acceptable to the Bank,
will issue annual audit reports. These audit reports will be subject to review by the
CNAO. The Bank currently accepts audit reports issued by CNAO or any audit
bureaudoffices for which CNAO is ultimately responsible. The annual audit reports o f
consolidated project financial statements will be submittedto the Bank by the PMO
within six months o fthe end of eachcalendar year (by June 30).

Inaddition, annual audit reports onthe financial position andoperational results of
LMWTC will be due at the Bank within six months o f the end o f each calendar year.
Submittingfinancial statements for this entity is not a fiduciary requirement, butwill help
monitor its sustainability. The requirements for this audit will not be includedinthe Loan
Agreement, but will be included inSchedule 2 o f the Project Agreement.

Impact of ProcurementArrangements
The thresholds set for procurement post-review will be consistent with those for
statements o f expenditures for disbursement. The financial management specialist and



                                             42

procurement staff members will participate insupervision missions to ensure that
contracts are awarded inline with Bankprocurement guidelines, and that contract
payments are well-supported and inaccordance with the terms o f the contract.


DisbursementArrangements
Inaccordance withanagreementbetweenthe Bank andMOF, projectmonieswill
disbursevia traditional disbursementtechniques and not through report-based
disbursements. Bank loanproceeds will be disbursedagainst eligible expendituresas
follows: (a) civil works - 75% o f expenditures; (b) equipment- 100% o f foreign
expenditures, 100%o f local expenditures (ex-factory), and 75% o f other locally procured
items; and (c) consulting services and training - 100% o f expenditures.The allocation
breakdown o f loanproceeds i s presented inthe following table.

Allocation of LoanProceeds by Category



 Expenditure Category(Implementing Agency) Amount in US$thousand          FinancingPercentage

Works                                                                            75%
  Component A1 (LMWTC)                         40,430
  Other                                        18,220
                                                                100%of foreign expenditures, 100%of
 Goods                                                          local expenditures (ex-factory cost) and
  Component A1 (LMWTC)                         29,760           75% of local expenditures for other
  Other                                          8,360          itemsprocured locally

 Consultants'Services and Training                                               100%
  Component E (LMWTC)                            1,950
  Other                                            780

 Front-end Fee                                     500
 Total                                        100.000



Disbursementmethods, such as replenishment, direct payment and special commitments,
are available for the project. Expenditure limitswill be set up inline with procurement
post-review threshold, as follows: (a) all contracts for goods estimated to cost the
equivalent o f US$500,000 or less; (b) all contracts for civil works estimated to cost the
equivalent o f US$5 million or less; and (c) consultant contracts estimated to cost
US$lOO,OOO (firm)/US$50,000 (individual) or less.

One Special Account will be established inGFB. The authorized allocation from the
Special Account will not exceed US$7 million, equivalent to about four months o f
eligible expenses reimbursable via the Special Account. The initial authorized allocation
from the Bank will be US$4 million untilthe aggregate withdrawals and outstanding
Special Commitments are equal to or exceed US$30 million equivalent. From the Special
Account inGFB, Bank funds will be disbursed to the Special Account set up at LFB, then
to project implementingentities and finally to suppliers and contractors.



                                               43

GFBwill be directly responsible for the management, monitoring, maintenance, and
reconciliation o f the Special Account activities o fthe project. Supporting documents
requiredfor Bank disbursementswill be preparedand submittedby respective project
implementing entities through LFBto GFB for final verification and consolidationbefore
sending to the Bank for further disbursementprocessing. The flow o f the withdrawal
applicationi s as follows:


    Implementing                                     Approval by LFB




                                                         Organization
                        Action                            ResDonsible     Comnletion Date
 1. Financialmanagementmanualfinalized and
    issued to related financial staff                          PMO      Before effectiveness
 2. Financialmanagement and disbursement
    training to all relevant project financial staff     PMO and LMG     Before effectiveness


Supervision
A detailed supervision planfor the project's financial management aspects is includedin
the ChinaAudit Strategy document. This document will take into account the size ofthe
project and the risksidentified.

Financial Covenants
Inadditionto the standard financial covenants, (e.g., maintainingproject accounts in
accordance with sound accounting practices, audit requirements, and SOE), as described
inthe legaldocument, further specific financial covenants applicable to project are
detailed insection C of the PAD.




                                                   44

                                  Annex 8: Procurement
         CHINA: LIUZHOUENVIRONMENT MANAGEMENT PROJECT

A. General

Procurement for the proposed project will be carried out inaccordance with the World
Bank's "Guidelines: Procurement under IBRDLoans and IDA Credits" dated May 2004;
and "Guidelines: Selection and Employment o f Consultants by World Bank Borrowers"
datedMay 2004, and the provisions stipulated inthe Loan Agreement. The various items
under differentexpenditure categories are described ingeneral below. For eachcontract
to be financed by the Loan, the differentprocurement methods or consultant selection
methods, the needfor pre-qualification, estimated costs, prior reviewrequirements, and
time frame are agreedbetweenLMGandthe Bank inthe Procurement Plan. The
Procurement Planwill be updatedat least annually, or as requiredto reflect the actual
project implementationneeds and improvements ininstitutional capacity.

Procurementof Works.Works procured underthis project will include sewers,
wastewater treatment plants, a solid waste transfer station, public toilets, solid waste
collection stations, etc. Works estimated to cost US$15,000,000 equivalent or more per
contract will be procured under Intemational Competitive Bidding(ICB) procedures,
work contracts estimated to cost less thanUS$15,000,000 equivalent will be procured
underNational Competitive Bidding(NCB) procedures, andwork contracts estimated to
cost less than US$lOO,OOO equivalent will be procured under Small Works procedures.
Procurement will be carried out usingChinese Model BiddingDocuments (MDBs); the
Bank's Standard BiddingDocuments (SBDs)will be usedwhen an appropriate MBDis
not available. Pre-qualification procedures may be used for contracts for the construction
o f wastewater treatment plants.

Procurementof Goods. Goods procured underthis projectwill includepump station
equipment,wastewater treatment equipment, solid waste transfer equipment, and
environmental monitoring equipment. Goods estimated to cost US$500,000 or more per
contract will beprocured under ICB procedures; goods estimated to cost less than
US$500,000 equivalent will be procured under N C B procedures, and goods estimated to
cost less thanUS$lOO,OOO equivalent will be procured under Shopping procedures.
Procurement will be carried out usingChinese MBDs; the Bank's SBDs will be used
when an appropriate MBDi s not available.

Selectionof Consultants.Consulting services under this project include construction
supervision assistance, support for the development o f L M W T C andtraining o f its staff,
development of operational and financial policies for solid waste management,
preparation o fprivate-public management contracts for public toilets, and technical
assistancefor industrialwastewater pollution control and staff training. Consulting
services for firms will normally be procured under Quality and Cost-based Selection
(QCBS) procedures; however, services estimated to cost less thanUS$100,000 equivalent
per contract will be procuredunder Consultant Qualificationprocedures. Services for
tasks that meet the requirement set forth inparagraph 5.1 o f the Consultant Guidelines



                                             45

may be procured under Individual selection procedures inaccordance with the provisions
o f paragraphs 5.1 through 5.4 o fthe Consultant Guidelines.

Short lists o f consultants for services estimated to cost less than $300,000 equivalent per
contract may be composed entirely o fnational consultants inaccordance with the
provisions of paragraph 2.7 o f the Consultant Guidelines. The Bank's Standard Request
for Proposals for Selection o f Consultants (May 2004) will be used.

Retroactive Financing. Advance contracting may be applied for employment o f
consulting firms under the TA component. Also, part o fthe respective expenditures
incurredwithinone year before the signing date o f the Loan Agreement could be eligible
for retroactive financing, provided procurement i s carried out inaccordance with the
Bank's Guidelines. Retroactive financing under this project will fund a portion o f an
estimated US$l,168 million for construction supervision assistance. The contract signing
date for this retroactive financing i s expected to be April 30,2005. The estimated amount
o f retroactive financing i s about US$230,000, disbursedunder the category o f
Consultants' Services. The selection procedures will be QCBS.

B. Assessment of the agency's capacity to implement procurement

Procurement for the wastewater component will be carried out by LMWTC, for the solid
waste management component and municipal sanitation component by ESD, and for the
industrial wastewater pollution control component by EPB. Agency staff includes: (a) for
LMWTC, procurement engineers from ICDC with the same assignment; (b) for ESD,
procurement officers and engineers inthree relevant divisions; and (c) for EPB, only one
procurement officer at the moment, with more to be recruitedwhen procurement starts.
Most staff membershave substantial experience indomestic biddingprocedures and
some have participatedinprojects financed by foreign funds, but all are participating ina
Bank project for the first time. Measures are proposed inan action planto strengthen
their capabilities inhandlingprocurement underthe Bank's Procurement Guidelines.

An assessmentofthe capacity o fthe implementing agencies to implementprocurement
actions for the project was carried out by the Bank project team inNovember and
December 2004. The assessment reviewedthe organizational structure set up to
implement the project, and noted that procurement will be carried out by the identified
implementation units, with assistance o f designinstitutes, experienced procurement
agents, and local construction supervisioncompanies. The organizational arrangement i s
considered adequate for procurement management.

The key issue that was identified that affects project procurement i s the staffs lack o f
experience with World Bank projects. Measures agreed to address this procurement issue
are: (a) technical assistancefor project management; (b) recruitment o f experienced
tenderingcompanies for procurement implementation; (c) periodic training on Bank
procurement policies and procedures for relevant staff within the PMO, PIUs and design
institutes; and (d) study tours to similar Bank-financedproject sites inChina before the
start o fproject implementation. The overall project risk for procurement i s average.




                                               46

C. ProcurementPlan

At appraisal, the Borrower fumishedaprocurement planfor project implementationthat
provides the basis for the procurement methods. This planwas agreed between the
Borrower and the Bank Project Team on March 24,2005.                                  The procurement plan is
available inPIUs and the PMO, inthe project databaseand project file, and on the Bank's
external website. The procurement planwill be updated annually inagreement with the
project team (or as required)to reflect project implementationneeds and improvements in
institutional capacity.

D. Frequencyof ProcurementSupervision

Inadditionto the prior reviewsupervision to becarried out from Bank offices, the
capacity assessment recommended that supervision missions visit the field every six
months to carry out post review o fprocurement actions.

The table below shows estimated project costs broken down by procurement method and
expenditure category.

              Table A: ProjectCosts by ProcurementArrangements(US$millionequivalent)

                                                       ProcurementMethod'
 Expenditure        ,
 Category                               ICB                NCB                 Other'                 N.B.F.          Total Cost

 1. Works                               19.39              57.36                  3.27                  0.00                80.02
                                      (14.21)             (42.04)               (2.40)                 (0.00)              (5 8.65)
 2. Goods                              36.86                1.65                  0.80                  0.00                39.31
                                      (35.75)              (1.60)               (0.78)                 (0.00)              (38.13)
 3. Services                             0.00               0.00                  2.72                 10.57                13.29
                                        (0.00)             (0.00)                (2.72)                (0.00)                (2.72)
 4. Miscellaneous                        0.00               0.00                  0.00                 72.48                72.48
                                        (0.00)             (0.00)                (0.00)                (0.00)                (0.00)
 5. Front-endfee                         0.00               0.00                  0.5                   0.00                  0.5
                                        (0.00)             (0.00)                (0.5)                 (0.00)                (0.5)
 Total                                 56.25               59.01                  7.29                 83.05              205.60
                                      (49.96)             (43.64)                (6.40)                (0.00)            (100.00)
'Figures
`Includesinparentheses are the amountsto be financed by the {Loan}, All costs include contingencies.
          civil works and goods to be procuredthrough national shopping, consulting services, training, and technical assistance
services.




                                                               47

           Table Al: Consultant SelectionArrangements (optional) (US%millionequivalent)

                                                                                                    ~~    ~

                                                              SelectionMethod
     Consultant Services
   Expenditure Category              QCBS        QBS      SFB        LCS       CQ       Other         N.B.F.   TotalCost'

A. Firms                             2.67        0.00      0.00       0.00      0.05      0.05         0.00        2.77
                                    (2.48)      (0.00)    (0.00)     (0.00)    (0.04)    (0.04)       (0.00)      (2.56)
B.Individuals                        0.00        0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00      0.17         0.00        0.17
                                    (0.00)      (0.00)    (0.00)     (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.16)       (0.00)      (0.16)
Total                                2.67        0.00      0.00       0.00      0.05      0.22         0.00        2.94
                                    (2.48)      (0.00)    (0.00)     (0.00)    (0.04)    (0.20)       (0.00)      (2.72)
'Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-BasedSelection
        QBS = Quality-based Selection
        SFB = Selectionunder a FixedBudget
        LCS = Least-Cost Selection
        CQ = SelectionBasedon Consultants' Qualifications
        Other = Selection of individual consultants(per Section V of Consultants Guidelines), CommercialPractices,etc.
        N.B.F.=Not Bank-financed
        Figures inparentheses are the amounts to be financed by the BankLoan.




                     Table B: Thresholds for ProcurementMethods and Prior Review1

Expenditure           Contract Value Threshold              Procurement             Contracts Subject to Prior Review
Category                     (US$thousand)                      Method                        (US$thousand)
1. Works              Equal to or above 15,000                ICB                All contracts (19.39 million)

                      Less than 15,000                        NCB                All contracts equalto or above 5,000
                                                                                 (24.98 million)


                      Less than 100                           Shopping           Firstcontract ofeachPIU(0.40 million)

2. Goods              Equal to or above 500                   ICB                All contracts (36.86 million)

                      Less than 500                           NCB                Firstcontract ofeachPIU (1.67million)

                      Less than 100                            Shopping          Firstcontract of eachPIU (0.20 million)
3. Services           Equal to or above 100(firms)            QCBS               All contracts (2.67 million)

                      Less than 100 (firms)                    CQ                Firstcontract (0.03 million)

                      Individual                               Other             All contracts equal to or above $50,000
                                                                                 (0.02million)
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:           $86.22 million
Overall Procurement RiskAssessment:                         Average
Frequencyof procurement supervisionmissions proposed: One every 6 months
                                                            (includes special procurementsupervision for post-
                                                            review/audits)




                                                             48

           h                         a
                                   I,
            0
           5,
            e                         .-me

             m
           4bo                       I
c              c

x                                    3a
                                      8
W              v
            Y
            0a
Y                Y

*
E?
-.-              E8
                                      z
e,               e,                   sFi
M         -E8x9  .-3                   M

m  --$.A                  -       -
. .        .. . ..
m        m
0   eW  e  2    eW         e          ..
                                      Ei   2
rg
s    m
    e   e
        e  2     2         2          e

                                      e    2
0   2    2  m    0
           e     m         Ifi        2    0




..
e                   .
m    IC    e
           +     \o     \o  IC  \o    IC   .
                                           2
2   e            e     B   e          e
    2                          e
           c     m     c    m   m     00   e
                                           +
2                       !e
           e     e     e   B          e
     m     a     N             e            00
                 0          \o        00
                            N   \o    0    0

r--


                             0
                             W
                             0
                             N
                             a

                             vl
                             9
                             0
                             0
                             N
                             VI

                             .-K
                             2

                             G
                             s
                             ,A



                             0a

                           - bg

                     .       ..
                 m
                 e   .  0    e
                             W   eW

                 e10    2    2   2
                  W          3
                 N      W
                        0    m    m




              e
              vl eW .   2    e
                             IA   e
                                  W

              e
              b  m      b    00   00

              W  s      s    e    e
              0              I c
                 N      0    m    m
                           --
                                  ss
             ~  - -
  I:
r U           P                         0
                                        m

  2 E
  ae p        ..
              s j3           4

                        z
                        E    ..
                             s
                 m
                 u           m    m
  ei          gm z           2    2




     .-.-
     C

     c
     ;
     C
     c

     c
     E
     E




     @*
     *
     E
     E
     C

      T

           %
           B
   - -     s
           0
          ~
              e rD

    e             ...
    b
    -e        e W     W  W  e
                            +
    m                 -
              0       e e
               m      2 2   2
                         e  e
    m                 m  m  m
            -

e                        ..
                         - - .
W
-e   W        sem

                      m  m   m  m

00  se          e           e
                m     e
                      c  e
                         00  00 s
                                e
m   0
    3                 z  m  m   m
-
-80
.
s             3
              . s     E  E   VI
                             m
                             u  Y
2               m            0
                Y     8 8

                            Annex 9: EconomicandFinancialAnalysis
             CHINA: LIUZHOUENVIRONMENT MANAGEMENT PROJECT

A. Wastewater Component

ProjectBenefits.Benefitsfrom wastewater related investmentsare difficult to quantify,
particularly those relating to environmental and public health improvements. As a result,
calculation o f an Economic Intemal Rate o f Return(EIRR) was not attempted for this project,
but cost effectiveness analysis was conducted. Without the project, growth inthe project area
will increase the amount o funtreated wastewater discharged to the Liujiang River and its
tributary channels, causing further deterioration o f surface water quality, increased threats to
drinkingwater quality, and increasedpublic healthrisks through expanded exposure to untreated
sewage.

The project's physical investments include construction ofthree wastewater treatment plants
(WWTPs), expansion o f an existing WWTP, and expansion o fthe sewerage network. These new
investmentswill enable Liuzhouto comply with central government directives by increasing the
proportion o f wastewater treated from the current 14% to at least 70% (from 100,000 m3/dto
500,000m3/d) by 2010. This will improve the environmentalquality o f many local streams and
channels, and COD discharges to the river will be reduced by about 63% (from 82,000 tons/y to
34,00Otons/y). The project will thus improve the living conditions o f Liuzhou residents, reduce
public health risks, reduce threats to drinkingwater inthe Liujiang River, and improve economic
development adjacent to Zhuexi Creek. Institutionalreforms will improve the viability and
sustainability o f the sector by strengthening sector institutions, establishing demand management
approaches, improving the management o f industrial waste discharges, improving processes and
practices for project delivery and utility planning and management, and restructuringthe
approach to setting sewerage tariffs.

The Zhuexi Creek rehabilitation work will generate a wide rangeo f environmental andpublic
healthbenefits. Transportation and treatment o f sludge, and upgrading work around Zhuexi
Creek, will restore the landscape and ecology near creek banks, eliminate or reduce odors, and
improve living conditions for residents. LMGplans to develop residential areas along Zhuexi
Creek, and these immediate benefits will lead to landand property value increases inthe areas
around the Creek.

Cost-EffectivenessAssessment. A cost effectiveness ratio, i.e. unitcost per incremental
capacity, was computed to assess the investments' capital, and 0 & Mcosts. Shadow pricing and
conversion factors were not applied, since market prices o furbanproject inputs inChina are
close to their economic values. Assumptions on water demand andpopulation growth were based
on the LMGmaster plandated May 2004. Costs, over four scenarios, o fthe 20 year operation o f
meetingthe programtargets are summarized below.




                                                  52

Note: 1.  The number at left shows capacity in 2010 and the number at right shows capacity in 2020.
     2.   Includingexisting capacityof 100,000m3/day.
     3.   Discountrate is 10%. Tax and duties are excluded. Costs for Zhuexi Creek rehabilitationare included.
     4.   Average Incremental Costs are calculatedby NPV divided by total throughput.

Alternatives.Costs under options 1,2 and 3 are inthe range o f +/- 5%. Option 3, which hadthe
lowest Net Present Value (NPV) cost, was excluded because of: (a) uncertainty related to the
amount o f flow that will be available at Yanghe (a new developing area); (b) flows may emerge
more slowly than expected; and (c) issuesrelated to acquiring necessary land for this option from
the StateArmy. Option 2 was adopted for the project because: (a) there is lower risk relatedto
flows originating from Yanghe by combining Jinglan capacity into Yanghe's; and (b) the option
makes full use o f newly laid sewers.

Project FinancialAnalysis. The calculationo fthe wastewater component FIRRunder a cost
recovery scenario included incremental sewage tariff revenueas the financial benefit.Financial
costs included incremental capital, operating and maintenance costs, and taxes. The project FIRR
i s 9.5% for 20 years o f full operation, compared with a 7.1% weighted average cost o f capital,
Key assumptions are available inthe project file. Sensitivityanalysis for the ProjectFIRRwas
conducted over several scenarios, including increasing capital and operating costs by 1O%, and
decreasing demand by 10%. The results indicate that the FIRRremains higher than the weighted
average cost o f capital.

      (a) Capital and operating costs increase by 10%                    FIRR 7.5%
      (b) Revenue decreaseby 10%                                         FIRR 7.3%

LMWTC Finances.LMWTC will carry out about 80% o fthe wastewater component, so the
financial viability o f LMWTC i s critical to the sustainability o fthe component. The revenue o f
LMWTC i s mainly affectedby the sewage tariff level, enforceability o f sewage tariff collection,
and water demand. Each aspect was reviewedand the financial performance o f LMWTC was
tested and summarized below. Nonetheless, it i s evident that the solid commitment o f and a
focused effort from LMGare requiredto accomplishthe required tariff and tariffcollection
plans. The TA under this project will provide additional support to LMG indeveloping and
implementing appropriate strategies.

Wastewater DischargeProjection.Liuzhou, a growing industrial city, has highindustrial water
consumption rates; about 65-70% o ftotal water consumption was attributable to industries over
the past few years. 80- 85% o findustrialwater consumption is self-supplied, and halfofthis


                                                             53

water i s discharged directly into Liuzhou's rivers.Although self-suppliedwater users are
generally not cost-sensitive and use resources inefficiently, the water reuse rate i s expected to
increase from 37% to about 60% by 2010. As a result, future industrial wastewater discharges
are conservatively estimated to decline, as industrial water consumption decreasesfrom 2003 to
2010 by about 50%. Industrial wastewater discharges will decline, but will remain significant
and account for about 40-45% of LMWTC's wastewater revenues, while commercial wastewater
discharges are expected to increase. The Liuzhou Master Plan (dated May 2004) assumes the
unit domestic water consumption rate will decreasein2005 inlinewiththe modest declining
trendover the last few years, butremain constant during2005-2020, due to demand management
through increased water charges that mitigate higher water consumptionnormally expected as
living standards improve. Unit domestic water consumptionfor the company's financial
projection is conservatively assumed to decline by about 10% and 20% by 2010 and 2020,
respectively.

RequiredTariff Increase.Inorder to establish a financially sustainable wastewater sector,
LMGplans to restructure sewa e tariff levels inline withrecent sewagetariff increases inother
cities inthe GuangxiProvince.F LMG introduced a sewage tariff o f RMBO.15/m3 for all
customers in2000, and raised the tariff to RMB0.5/m3in2002. LMGwill: (a) increase average
sewa e tariffs to achieve cost recovery; (b) implementfeasible tariffs for users o f self-supplied
water ;and (c) introduce a newtariff structure, charging industrial customers higher tariffs than
      5
households. LMGexpects tariff revenues to cover over 20% o f the project's capital expenditure.
Projections show that additional tariff increases will be required,bringing the average tariff to
about RMB1.2 per m3by 2010. The domestic and industrial/commercial sewage tariffs are
plannedto increase to RMB0.75 /m3and RMB1.O /m3,respectively, in2006, andto RMB1.2/m3
and RMB1.5 /m3,respectively, in2010.

InstitutionalArrangement.Liuzhouwill transfer to LMWTC all existing sewerage and
drainage assets heldby the Liuzhou Municipal Engineeringand Facility Maintenance
Administration, which plans, operates and maintains Liuzhou's existing sewers, roads, and
bridges. The functions of the ICDC, which constructs and plans to own and operate new
wastewater management facilities, will be transferred to LMWTC. Inaddition, L M W T C will be
given the right to collect sewage tariffs directly instead o f having thempass through the LFB.
L M W T C has entered into a commercially based Service Agreementwith LMGto provide
wastewater service throughout Liuzhou; the agreement will specify service levels and other
performance requirementsfor the systemand for LMWTC.

Sewage Tariff CollectionMechanism.Liuzhou has leviedsewage tariffs since 2000, and LMG
affects sewage tariffs through two channels. The Liuzhou Water Supply Company collects
sewage tariffs from its customers, andthe Water ConservationBureau collects sewage tariffs




    Namingraisedwastewater tariff to RMB0.5/m3in2004 and Guilin has recentlyapproveda wastewater tariff
*increaseto RMB0.65/m3.
    The decree was issuedin2003 to allow the government to charge sewage tariff to not only customers of water
supply companies but also users of self-suppliedwaters who discharge water to sewer. However, Liuzhouhas been
unsuccessfd inenforcement of sewage tariff collection from these customers. Since about 80% of the discharge
from self-suppliedwater users connectedto sewer is treatedto ahigh level suitable for discharge to the river, users
object to payingthe sewage fee for water that has already beentreatedto a relatively high quality.


                                                        54

from users o f self-supplied waters3The Liuzhou Water Supply Company deposits sewage tariff
revenues directly (and on the same day as customer payment) into a separate account, currently
under the name o f the Construction Commission. Water and sewage tariffs are recorded
separately but charged inone bill. Clients pay both tariffs together, and the water supply
company rejects partial payment, unless the municipal government approves exemptions.
Collection via one bill helpsensure a relatively highcollection rate o f sewage tariffs. The sewage
tariff deposit account will be transferred to LMWTC inearly 2005. The Liuzhou Water Supply
Company and L M W T C will enter with into an agreement on tariff collection that will define
each agency's obligations and rights, including incentives for the water supply company. The
draft service agreement betweenLMG and LMWTC will address the issues o f government
approvals on deferring or reducing wastewater tariff payments due, and LMG's compensation to
L M W T C for exemptions.

Wastewater from industriesthat use self-suppliedwater accounts for about 25% o f all
wastewater discharged to sewers. Three clients, Liuzhou's chemical, electricity, and steel
companies, account for about 50% o f the discharges. LMG and LMWTC are assessing the most
effective ways to collect tariffs from self-suppliedusers; the agreed version will be a part o fthe
L M W T C business plan. The company's weighted average tariff collection rate for sewage i s
estimated to reach about 70% in2005 and improve gradually to 76% in2010.

FinancialPerformanceof the New Company.By implementingthe requiredtariff increases,
together with improvements intariff collection, LMWTC will generate cash surpluses after
covering all capital and operating costs. Detailed assumptions and illustrative 15 year financial
projections are inthe project file.

Sewage tariff revenue collection, the tariff level, and projectedwater demand are major factors
that will affect financial performance o fthe LMWTC. Consideringthe current low collection
rate o f sewage tariffs from industrial users (mostly SOEs) of self-supplied water and from users
o f water from the water supply company, and the ambitious LMGtariff increase plan, the
projection adopts conservative tariff collection estimate and water demand increase scenarios.
Unitoperating costs are estimated at about 40-50 fen/m3after fulloperationin2004 prices,
which i s inthe range o f unit operating costs o f other wastewater companies inChina.4 LMWTC
i s projectedto maintain a debt to equity ratio under 60%, and a debt service coverage ratio
greater than 1.2, inaddition to cost recovery.

Sensitivity analysis was carried out under different scenarios: (a) operating costs increase by
20%; (b) tariff revenues decrease by 10%; and (c) capital costs increase by 10%: L M W T C will
maintain cost recovery underthese scenarios.

The viability o fthe new company will be monitoredby financial covenants, which require
LMWTC to achieve: (a) full cost recovery after 2005; and (b) debt service ratios o f 1.1 and 1.3
after 2005, and 2014, respectively.




    The Liuzhou EPB, which regulatesthe quality o f dischargesto the environment, collects a wastewater discharge
fee from industries, which discharge wastewater directly into the river.
    InGuangxiProvince, cities ofNanningand Guilin, the currentunitoperatingcost without depreciationis about
40 fen/m3.


                                                         55

Affordability Analysis. An affordability analysis was undertakento ensurethat residential
customers, particularly those inlower income groups, can afford the new wastewater tariffs. Two
representative urbanhousehold groups are considered inthe affordability analysis: (a) the
average income group; and (b) the low income group, Le., those inthe lowest 20% bracket o fthe
city's income distribution. As indicated inthe table below, the combined cost o f water and
wastewater for an average income household and low income household i s projected to be, a
maximum o f 1.2 % and 3.3 %, respectively. These percentages are well withinthe generally
accepted guideline that the total cost o f any household's water supply and sanitation services
should not exceed 5 % o f household income. The tariff increase scenario can thus be considered
tolerable, especially because LMG adopts preferentialpolicies for the lowest income groups,
including 50% reductions intheir water bills.

                                            Table 2. Affordability Analysis

                                               1
                                                   2004     2005   P r o j e2007 t e2008c         d
                                                                        2006                              2009         2010

 Water 8, Wastewater Tariffs for Domestic Customers

 Wastewater Tariff (Y/m3)                           0.50     0.50        0.75         0.75      0.75        0.75        1.20
 Water Tariff (Y/m3)                                1.00     1.00        1.50         1.50      1.50        1.50        1.50
'Total                                              1.50     1.50        2.25         2.25      2.25        2.25        2.70

 Utility Bill as a % of Domestic Household Income

 Low Income:
        Water                                      1.8%     1.6%         2.2%        2.0%       1.9%      1.7%         1.6%
        Wastewater                                 0.9%     0.8%         1.1%        1.0%       0.9%      0.9%         1.3%
        Total                                      2.6%     2.4%         3.3%        3.1%       2.8%      2.6%         2.8%

 Average Income:
        Water                                      0.6%     0.6%         0.8%        0.7%       0.7%       0.6%        0.6%
        Wastewater                                 0.3%     0.3%         0.4%        0.4%       0.3%       0.3%        0.5%
        Total                                      0.9%     0.9%         1.2%         1.1%      1.0%       0.9%        1.0%


 Source: Liuzhou PMO
 Assumptions:    Projected real growth of income 4% p.a.
                Dailywater consumptionfor average income- about250 litre per capita; low income -about 170 litre per capita
                and assumed gradual decrease by about 10%



B. MunicipalSanitation Component(Public Toilets)

Project Benefits.The project includes constructiono f 62 public toilets and provisiono f 30
portable public toilets, two mobile toilets, and six sanitation trucks. Project benefits include
improved living standards for people who depend on public toilets for daily needs, and increased
convenience for people in"high traffic" public areas. The project will also facilitate critical
institutional strengthening and reforms. These include promotion o f improved service quality and
efficiency through expanded private sector participation, and improved hygiene and odor
management through provision o f adequate O&M funding. Many benefits, particularly those
relatingto environmental andpublic health improvements, could not be quantified.

 The project scope was evaluated and determined based on: (a) demand assessmentbased on
 characteristics o f the service area, including population density and the number o f people without
 sanitation systems at home; (b) distance from the nearest public toilet; (c) distance from the


                                                               56

sewage system; (d) cost and availability o f land; (e) acceptancefrom people who live around the
location; and (f) environmental impacts.

FinancialFeasibility.The Bank loanwill fund about 40% ofthis component's estimated cost of
RMB73 million; the balance will be fundedby LMGthrough budgetallocations. Operating costs
and debt services will be fundedfrom LMG budget and user fees. User fees at the current
estimate o f RMB0.20 per toilet visit, will fund about halfo f O&M costs. The remainder will be
funded by budgetary allocations from LMG. The required annual allocation for O&M costs and
debt services i s estimated at about RMB4 million. LMGwill implement a study on management
and funding o fpublic toilets to identify ways o fminimizing municipal budget support for O&M
costs.

C. SolidWaste ManagementComponent

ProjectBenefits and CostsAssessment. LMGfaces significant additional solid waste
management costs becausethe average hauling distance to the new landfill i s 10 kmlonger than
the distance to the one that reachedcapacity. Liuzhouplansto progressively increase system
efficiency by investing innew transfer stations and intelligently planning waste transportation.
This Bank supported project i s the first step inthat plan.

The project includes construction o f one transfer station, 42 local solid waste collection stations,
andprocurement ofrelated vehicles and equipment at an estimated cost of RMB75 million. The
Bankloanwill fund about 84% ofthis amount; LMGwill finance the rest via state grants and its
own funds. Project benefits include: lower operating costs; better use o f human resources;
significant reduced vehicle hauling distances with commensurate reductions infie1consumption
and related emissions; improved traffic conditions; institutional strengthening; and improved
service quality and efficiency.

Since many project benefits could not be quantified, cost effectiveness analysis was conducted to
evaluate feasible alternatives. An alternative with three transfer stations was initially planned as
the least cost alternative for Liuzhou's long term refuse collection system. However, only one
available site is presentlyavailable. The net presentvalues o ftotal costs with and without a
transfer station for 25 years o f operations were compared and a slight cost reduction was
identified.The Bank team notedthat the netproject benefits with a transfer stationare
conservatively estimated without considering environmental benefits. Inaddition, the LMG aims
to improve overall service delivery by further assessingoptimal operations and engaging private
sector operators.

Collecting user fees directly from individual households has not been successful inLiuzhou, as
enforcement and punitiveconsequences for those who do not pay fees are lacking. A TA
component will help ESDanalyze various options for developing a sustainable fee collection
structure and helpEDS implement the best option duringproject implementation.

D. Fiscal Impactand Sustainability

The municipal budgetis divided into three categories: on-budget revenues; off-budget revenues;
and funds. On-budget revenues include revenue from statutory taxes and levies, while off-budget
revenues originate from non-tax revenues, such as net income from municipal government



                                                  57

controlled enterprises, and some types o f user charges collected by administrative departments.
Sewage tariffs are also included inthis category.

Historicaltrends show large annual increases inrevenues and expendituresinrecent years in
Liuzhou, reflecting the strong economic growth inthe city. The average annual increase in
municipal revenues during 1999-2002 was 14%. The city's capital expenditures gradually
increased duringthis period to support its growing needs for infrastructure.

The sources o f counterpart funding are mainly state grants, the city maintenance tax (on-budget),
sewage tariff (off-budget) and future tariff revenueso f the LMWTC. The LMGplans to allocate
to the project state grants o f about RMB300million, city maintenance tax revenues of RMB55
million, and sewage fee revenuesurpluses o f RMB100 millionaccumulated duringthe years
2001 to 2004.

A financial projectionwas prepared (based on conservative assumptions of revenue growth) to
assess the capacity o f LMGto provide the necessary counterpart fundingfor project capital
costs, O&M support for the rehabilitation o f Zhuexi Creek, and the public toilet and solid waste
components. The analysis indicatedthat Liuzhou i s able to afford all components o f the project.
The plannedproject counterpart funds (about RMB70to 280 million per year) are estimated to
represent about one to four percent o ftotal LMG revenues, and three to 20% o f its capital
expenditure budget.

The rehabilitatedZhuexi Creek, public toilets, and solid waste transfer station will require
government support to fund operating and maintenance costs; however, the public toilet and
solid waste components aim to adopt commercial operations inthe long-term. The increase in
recurrent costs is estimated to reach about three percent o f LMG's city maintenance budget, and
theNPV ofincrementaltax revenueis estimated at about US$30 million duringthe project's 20
year operation.

                                          Table3. MunicipalFinances
                                                                                                (RMB: million)
                                       Actual        /Estimates1                Projected
                                 2001     2002  20031     20041   2005   2006   2007     2008   2009    2010
 LMGRevenues                     3,656   3,925  5,5351    5,8581  6,241  6,592  7,006    7,394  7,799   8,300
 Capital ExpenditureBudget         427     422    645       857     975  1,119  1,386    1,626  1,950  2,220
 Project Counterpart Fund                                                  184    279      206    140      66
 Project as % of Revenues                                                  3%     4%       3%     2%       1%
 Project as % of Capex Budget                                             16%   20%       13%     7%       3%




                                                       58

                              Annex 10: SafeguardPolicyIssues
            CHINA: LIUZHOUENVIRONMENT MANAGEMENT PROJECT

A. Summaryof EnvironmentalImpactsandEnvironmentManagementPlans

Background
The Environmental Impact Assessment Instituteof the Sino-JapanEnvironmental Protection
Center and the LiuzhouEnvironmental ProtectionInstitutepreparedthis project's Environmental
Assessment (EA) inaccordance with Bank and national policies andprocedures. Terms o f
reference (TORS) and various draft EAswere developed, reviewedand discussedduring project
preparation. It was agreedthat the project EA would be separatedinto two volumes; one EA for
the wastewater component, and a secondEA for boththe municipalsanitation and solid waste
managementcomponents. China's State Environmental Protection Administration (SEPA)
clearedthe final EAs on December 22,2004. On January 12,2005, the Bank clearedall final
environmental safeguardrelated documentation, includingthe two EAs,two related EMPs, the
EA Summary, and a SupplementaryEA Report. The EAdocumentation, originally sent to the
Bank's Infoshop inWashington and inBeijinginNovember 2004, was resubmittedto the
Infoshop inJanuary 2005. Duringthe preparation of EA documentation, project-affected
communities were consulted at least twice, and their opinions were reflected inboththe project's
design and its environmental mitigationmeasures.

All relevantpolicies andproceduresapplicable to executing environmental assessments inChina
were followed during preparation and evaluation of the EA, includingthe Bank's Operations
Policy 4.01, Major PRC laws andregulations that in some way impactedthe development of the
EA include: (a) the Environmental ProtectionLaw; (b)the Atmospheric PollutionControl Law;
(c) the Environmental Noise PollutionControl Law; (d) the Water PollutionPreventionand
Control Law; (e) the Cultural Heritage Protection Law; (f) Technical Guidelinesfor
Environmental Impact Assessment; and (g) the Circular on Strengthening Environmental Impact
Assessment Management for Construction Projects Financed by International Financial
Organizations.

BriefProjectDescription
LZEMP involves five components: (1) wastewater component; (2) municipalsanitation
component (publictoilets); (3) solid waste management component; (4) industrial wastewater
pollutioncontrol component; and (5) institutional development and capacity building
component.

BaselineEnvironmentalConditions
NaturalEnvironment. Liuzhouis located inthe northeastpart of Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous
Region. The city is surrounded on three sides by low hills and aplainopensto the south.
Liuzhouhas a subtropical climate with abundant precipitation, and mildto hot temperatures
year-round. The city's average annualtemperature, precipitation, andrelative humidity are
20.5 Cy1461mmand 76%, respectively. Average annual wind speed is 1.6 d s , mainly from the
northinthe winter and from the southinthe summer.




                                               59

The urban area o f Liuzhou is surrounded by agricultural land-mainly fields o f rice and other
grains and vegetable plots - and fishponds are common inthe suburbs.Because o fthe area's
long history o f human occupation and development, there are few wild animals inthe
countryside, and little natural forest, except inthe northern mountainous region. Limestone hills
constitute the area's natural scenery and form centerpieces for manyparks and tourist attractions.

SocioeconomicSituation. Liuzhou is the second largest city inGuangxi with anurban
population o f 1.2 million. According to populationgrowth projections, the urbanpopulationi s
expected to reach 1.8 millionby 2020. Liuzhouhas long been a commercial hub insouthwest
China, and a major gateway for people and goods inthe region. It i s also an industrial city active
inironand steelproduction, paper making, electronics, textile production, general machining,
chemicals, construction, pharmaceuticals, power generation, and food processing. The city's
GDP was RMB19 millionin2000, and according to the city's long term development plan, the
city's GDP will reach RMB55 million by 2015.

Liuzhoui s also a transportation hub inGuangxi. The Xiang-Gui(Hunan to Guilin), Xiang-Qian
(Hunanto Guizhou), andZhi-Liu(Hubei to Liuzhou) railways intersect inthe city. Waterways
connect the city directly with Guangzhou. Highways from Liuzhou extendto other major cities
inGuangxi andbeyond, andthe municipalairport hasdirect services to Guangzhou, Chengdu,
Beijingand other major Chinese cities.

WaterResources and Water Quality. Liujiang River, whose 74 kilometers o f waterway zigzags
through the city, i s a landmark river that doubles as the city's primary domestic water supply
source. Two tributaries o f the Liujiang also traverse the city. The Zhuexi Creek, originating from
the city's northwest, discharges into the LiujiangRiver one kmfrom the Liujiang IronBridge,
and covers a total distance withinthe urban area o f about 4.2 km. The Jacque River, originating
from the Longhuai reservoir to the city's west, discharges into the Liujiang River at Geology
Hospital. Inpractice, the Zhuexi Creek i s primarily a receiver o f the city's municipal and
industrial wastewater discharges, while the Jiuquhe River i s tapped for domestic water supply,
irrigation, and fish farming (though it too receives wastewater discharges).

Water testing has shown that the Liujiang River i s largely maintaining its Category I11surface
water classification, except ina few cross sections where suspended solids and ammonia
nitrogen exceed applicable standards. The Zhuexi and Jiuquhe rivers, on the other hand,
seriously exceed Category V standards for COD, BOD, SS and NH3-N.For example, COD
readings inZhuexi Creek have exceeded 100mg/L, representative o f very poor water quality.

CulturalHeritage Protection. The results o f anEA-relatedfield investigationshow that there
are no culturally or historically significant objects or structures inthe project areas, There i s also
no reason to suspect surprise archaeological finds based on the information collected from
relevant agencies. The investigation's findings were based on a thorough review o f cultural
protectionrelated reports and relic inventories, site investigations, and interviews with
government organizations.

TheNeedfor the ProjectandEnvironmentalBenefits
The direct discharge o f municipal and industrial wastewater into Liuzhou's three rivers causes
significant pollution, particularly inthe Zhuexi and Jiuquhe rivers, which possess little natural
dilution and assimilative capacities. Fishdeaths from poor water quality andpollution inthe


                                                  60

Jiuquhe River have beenreported from time to time. The Zhuexi Creek i s highly polluted and is
practically unsuitable for virtually all aquatic life. The Zhuexi Creek's pollution has extended
onto its shores, where odor, black residue, and wastes inand around the riverbanks menace the
health andquality of life o f many neighboringand densely populated urban communities. These
tributaries discharge their polluted water into the LiujiangRiver, dramatically worsening its
water quality. A hydropower dam, soon to be built downstream o f Liuzhou, will significantly
slow the Liujiang's current withinthe city, thereby reducing its dilution and assimilative
capacity, and threatening further degradation inwater quality.

The wastewater component will help mitigate these problems by collecting, intercepting, and
treating municipal and industrial wastewater that i s currently discharged untreated into these
three rivers. Water quality will thus improve, helpingthese rivers maintain their government-
regulated surface water quality classifications (though nitrogen levels insome sections will still
be high, and results will still be poor inthe narrow discharge plumesemanating from the
wastewater treatment plant outlets). The Zhuexi Creek rehabilitationprogram will convert a
seriously polluted river into one that meets Category I11water quality standards, and will also
remove pollution from riverbanks.

Intotal, the project will remove about 122.3 tons/day ofCOD, 65 tons/day ofBOD,6.88
tons/day o f ammonia nitrogen, and 1.11tons/day o f total phosphate currently discharged into
these three rivers, significantly helping to attain the masspollutant load control target set by
SEPA and noted inLiuzhou's Environmental Master Plan. Implementingthe project's
wastewater and river rehabilitationprograms will also improve surface water quality, protect
sources o f drinking water, enhance river conditions for fish and aquatic life, and improve the
environment inriverbank communities. More generally, such programs will improve Liuzhou's
standard o f living and sanitation conditions, and contribute to sustainable economic
development.

The current numbers ofpublic toilets and solid.wastecollection stations are insufficient. The
lack o f public toilets detracts from the city's quality o f life and contributes to poor sanitation,
while overloaded solid waste collection stations contaminate the air and water at station sites,
often inheavily populatedneighborhoods. The city has constructed a new municipal solid waste
landfill about 25 km away from the city to help deal with its growing solid waste problem.
However, the existing solid waste transfer system does not have enough vehicles or
transfedwaste collection stations to effectively haul waste to the new landfill. The systemneeds
transfer stations, many smaller waste collection stations, and additional vehicles. This project
will, accordingly, finance the construction o fnewpublic toilets andthe expansion of Liuzhou's
solid waste transfer system, improving the standard o f living for residents andthe quality o fthe
urbanenvironment.

Alternative Analysis
Duringthe development and designo fLZEMP, various alternative solutions were developed,
discussed, and evaluated based on specific technical, economic, and environmental criteria. The
primary objective from an environmental point o f view was to select an option that minimized
adverse environmentalimpacts. Evaluations and comparisons o f alternatives considered a
numberofissues, as discussed below.




                                                    61

With and Without the ProjectScenario.The "do-nothing" scenario was found to leave the
Zhuexi andJiuquhe rivers seriously polluted, with significant negative impacts onresidents in
river-dependent communities, andparticularly on fish farming. Without any future action, water
quality inthe Liujiang, which i s the city's drinkingwater source, will also continue to deteriorate
from continued industrial and municipal discharges o f untreated wastewater, and from the inflow
o fpolluted water from the Zhuexi and Jiuquhe. The construction o fthe hydrodam downstream o f
Liuzhouwill exacerbate the Liujiang's pollution load by reducing its assimilative capacity. With
the project, many o fthese pollution issueswill be addressed, andthus the project is preferred
over a "do nothing" scenario.

Project Site Selection and OverallArrangements. The study o f alternatives attempted to
identify the optimal schemeby considering how differentWWTP site locations and layouts will
channel effluent discharges and impact the rivers. Alternative layouts and locations o f transfer
stations andpublic toilets were also analyzed to identify options that would maximize system
benefits.

Scaleand Number of Wastewater TreatmentPlants. The study and debate on the optimal
number, layout, and capacities of Liuzhou's wastewater treatment plants have long histories. In
the early ~ O ' S ,seven WWTPs were proposed for Liuzhou under a phased implementation plan.
Two o fthese WWTPs were dropped becausethey were either too close to urbanareas and
drinkingwater intakes or becausethey were sited inan insufficiently developed area. The five
remaining WWTPs were proposed to be funded by the Bank under LZEMP. A detailed and
extensive analysis conducted duringproject preparation on alternative scales and numbers o f
treatment plants revealed that the optimal choice was one with four WWTPs. This four WWTP
option was deemed the optimal alternative considering site conditions, overall environmental
impact, local development concerns, and overall costs.

Wastewater TreatmentProcesses. Two possible wastewater treatment processeswere examined
for the Baisha, Longquanshan and Yanghe wastewater treatment plants: oxidation ditch and
A2/0.Bothtechnologies are capable o fmeetingthe treatment objectives (including nitrogen
removal), but A2/0was selected becausethe process has lower capital and operating costs, and
requires less land, consumes less energy, and has a lesser environmental impact. For the smaller
Labao wastewater treatment plant, the oxidation ditch and UNITANK processeswere evaluated.
The oxidation ditchprocess was selected because of itrequires less equipment and consumes less
energy, and i s simpler to operate, andhas lower operational costs.

PotentialEnvironmentalImpacts and Mitigation Measures
Constructionphase. Adverse impacts during the construction o f the wastewater collection
system, wastewater treatment plants, public toilets, and solid waste transfer stations include
noise, airborne dust, traffic disruptions, and spoiled material disposal. To mitigate these impacts,
contractors will spray construction sites with water duringthe dry and windy seasons, develop
and follow noise reductionplans, avoid night constructionwhenever possible, maintain
equipment inproper working order, develop plans to detour traffic around construction sites, and
dispose o f contaminated soil only at pre-approved sites.

One o fthe major potential concerns duringthe project's constructionphase i s how to properly
dredge the Zhuexi Creek. Sedimenttesting, including leachingtests, has shownthat heavy metal
concentrations inthe Zhuexi's sediment exceed the standards for agricultural application, but are


                                                  62

lower than those for hazardous waste. Dredging will also create bad odors, and sediment could
impact roadways ifliquidleaks during transport. Final disposal o fthe sediments may also impact
disposal sites, particularly groundwater, ifnot handled properly.

To mitigate these negative impacts, dredging will be carefully timed.Residents adjacent to the
river will be consulted, andwill be notified ahead o f dredgingactivities. All sedimenthauling
trucks will be watertight, and routes will be carefully selected to avoid heavy traffic and urban
centers. The sediment will be disposed o f ina dedicated zone inthe newly constructed Liuzhou
solid waste landfill, a well designed facility with an impermeable liner, leachate collection and
treatment mechanisms, storm water management controls, and other environmental control
measures.

Nightconstructionwill significantly impact surrounding areas, particularly inurbanareaswhere
public toilets and solid waste transfer stations will be built. However, night constructioncannot
be avoided at the WWTP sites, where concrete pouring, aeration, andwork with other large tanks
require non-stop and continued operations. Such activities will last a maximum o f about four to
five days for each operation. Inprinciple, night construction will be banned inurbanareas. When
night constructioncannot be avoidedat the WWTP sites, the following mitigation measureswill
be taken: (a) nearbyvillages will be informed o fthe night constructionand consulted ahead o f
time; (b) night construction will not occur during school exam periods (lasting about one week in
the summer) and harvest periods (about two weeks each summer and fall); (c) stationary
equipment will be placed as far away from villages as technically possible; (d) equipment with
low noise levels will be usedto pour concrete; (e) temporary noise barriers may be erected;     (0if
necessary, contractors will arrange to temporarily house extremely vulnerable people (such as
the illand elderly) away from the impactedarea; and (g) supervisory personnel from the PMO
will be assigned to monitor constructionwork.

All contractors will undergo mandatory cultural relics trainingbeforebeginningwork. Ifany
cultural relics or archeological finds are discovered during construction, the following steps will
betaken: (a) all construction activities will stop, andprotective measureswill betaken to protect
the sites and finds; (b) the contractor will immediately informthe cultural authority ofthe chance
finds; (c) archaeologists will be called to the site to undertake proper investigations; (d) project
designchanges may be considered, ifnecessary and/or recommended by the professional
archaeologists, or requestedby the cultural relics authority; and (e) construction activities may be
resumed only after the site has been fully investigated, and a permit granted by the cultural relics
authority.

Operationphase. As effluent from wastewater treatment plants will still have relatively high
concentrations o fpollutants (higher than surface water quality standards allow), and high
volumes o f effluent flows will be discharged inlimitedlocations, river water will still be
adversely impacted. A mathematicalmodel predicts that wastewater discharged to the Liujiang
Riverwill form a narrow plume several kmlongdownstream o fthe discharge outlets. Since the
plume will be very narrow - about 5-6 meters against a total river widthvarying from 5-60
meters -its impact will be limited. The Jiuquhe River will still exceed the designated surface
water quality standards, mainly for ammonia nitrogen and BOD, duringthe dry season from
December to February. However, ifthe upstream reservoir releases more water during the dry
season, it i s expected that surface water quality standards can be met.




                                                   63

Wastewater treatment plant operations will generate noise and bad odor, impacting surrounding
residential areas. Neighboring villages near the Baisha and Labao WWTPs will be insidethe
"protective" distance from the facilities, indicating that these villages will be impactedby the
nuisance odor from these two treatment plants.

Baishan WWTP.Impactedcommunities near the Baishan WWTP include Huilongguo village
andthe Liuzhou Nurse School. These two sites are located about 55 mand 98 mrespectively
from the proposed grit removal o fthe WWTP. As the bufferhmpact zone o f the WWTP is 310 m
from the plant, boththe village and school are withinthe impactedzone andwill be affectedby
the plant's nuisance odor and noise.

After carefully reviewing site conditions and limitations, process requirements, the effectiveness
o fthe proposed measures, and other engineering technical, and economic factors, relocating
impactedhouses and the dormitory was chosen as a mitigation measure. The relocationwill be
completed before the completion and commissioningof the WWTP.

Labao WWTP.Air emissiondispersion modeling undertakenduring the EA indicates that the
bufferhmpact zone of the Labao WWTP i s 120 m.As part o fXiaducun village was only about
56 m from the original site o f the WWTP, the WWTP treatment has beenmoved farther from the
village towards a railway line, considered future expansionland.

SZudgemanagement. Sludgewill come from mainlytwo sources: dredgedsludge from the
Zhuexi Creek (about 25,000 tons) and sludge from the operating WWTPs (250 tondday).
Sedimentsamples, taken upriver and inthe lower reaches of southern andnorthernbranches of
the Zhuexi River, and sludge samples from Longquanshan wastewater treatment plant (phase I),
were collected and analyzed.

The Zhuexi Creek sediment mustbe safely disposed of inthe Lichonggoulandfill as non-
hazardous industrialwaste. The Liuzhou Environmental SanitationDivisionholds a permit to
deposit WWTP sludge inthis landfill.

The Lichonggou solid waste landfill is a well engineered large scale municipal solid waste
disposal facility utilizing advanced pollution control technologies. The groundwater layer i s
more than 40 mthick, and there i s a 20 mthick layer of XIXIA group hardness andhalf hardness
coarse lamellar silica limestone combined withmud silicolites, which have extremely poor
hydraulic permeability. A HighDensity Polyethylene (HDPE) membranehas been installed, and
leachate will be collected for treatment before beingdischarged. A thorough monitoring program
i s inplace to help ensure that any leachate that leaks into the ground or surrounding environment
i s detected promptly to allow timely mitigation actions.

There is no environmentally sensitive receptor around the landfill. The closest village i s about
1.1kmfrom the landfill. The landfill gas collection and treatment system i s established and
collected gas can be combusted and utilized by combustion equipment settled on the top o f the
airway to prevent effluvium impact on the ambient air.

Sludge transport routes will be established beforehand to avoid residential areas and business
zones, andwell-sealed vehicles will be usedto preventleakage.




                                                  64

Public Toilets and Transfer Stations. One o f the two originally proposed transfer stations was
cancelled, since it was too close to a school and residential areas. Many public toilets and solid
waste collection stations are also located insensitive areas. These facilities may generate odor,
noise, and/or increased traffic. Some residents' concerns may be attributable to their perceptions
o f similar facilities inthe city, eventhough the newpublic toilets and solid waste transfer
stations will be designed with stringent environmental protection measures. These facilities will
prepare an operation plan to minimize impacts on the surrounding environment.

EnvironmentalManagementPlan
Duringfacility construction, anenvironmental management systemwill be set up involving the
PMO,individual project owners, monitoring institutions, EPB,as well as contractors and
construction supervision companies. These organizations will be staffed with qualified and
experienced personnel.

Duringthe operationphase, LMWTC and ESDwill eachhave its own environmental
management staff or division to implementmitigation measures and other requirements o fthe
EMP. They will also be responsible for ensuringthat the project complies with all pertinent
environmental laws, regulations, policies, and standards, inadditionto providing general
supervision and coordination assistance inconjunction with other departments. All project
implementing agencies will maintain close contact with the EPB.

The Liuzhou EPB will enforce all applicable laws and standards. It will receive andreview
environmental monitoring and supervision reports and may also inspect construction sites and
operational facilities, as required and/or empowered by laws, to measure environmental
performance and compliance status.

An environmental monitoringinstitution, contracted bythe project implementingagencies, will
be mainly responsible for implementingthe environmental monitoringplan, and for preparing
periodic monitoring reports that detail compliance status and recommend mitigation actions.

Contractors and construction supervision companies will be responsible for implementing
mitigation measures during the project's construction phase. Project operators will be responsible
for the operation phase. Before constructionbegins, all contractors will attend a mandatory
training program addressing environmental policies, EA results, the EMP,monitoring
requirementsand skills, reporting, and site environmental management. All contractors will be
requested to have full time staff on site for daily monitoring and implementation o f mitigation
measures.

PublicConsultationandInformationDisclosure
Public Consultation. Two rounds o fpublic consultations were conducted with local citizens and
groups affected by the project. The first round o f consultations was conducted duringthe EA
TOR stage, and the second round o f consultations was held duringthe period when the draft EA
was written. The largest group consulted was those livingby Zhuexi Creek. The project's EA
team consulted 760 people inthis area, or about 3.4% o f the total population (22,656 people)
potentially affected by project activities.




                                                  65

The consultations clearly demonstrated that citizens, particularly those livingnear the targeted
rivers, are very displeased with the river pollution and the current state-of-affairs, and were
highly supportive o fthe project. The public expressedconcerns about facility-generated odor,
noise, and dust, construction-induced traffic congestion, night construction, fly swarms from
dredgedsludge, resettlement, and land acquisition. These concerns are addressedappropriately in
the relevant EA and RAP reports.

Information Disclosure. Information on EA report preparation was publishedinthe October 27,
2004 edition o f the local newspaper "Liuzhou Daily". The EA report was also made available to
any interested groups or people at the LiuzhouPMO. Inaddition, information on EA report
preparationwas posted on the websites o fthe Liuzhou ConstructionCommission
(http//jswyh.gov.cn) and the EA consultant. All EA documentation has been available for public
review at the Liuzhou City Public Library since November 2004.

B. LandAcquisitionand ResettlementActionPlan




Key Factors                     Wastewater,          Solid Waste       Municipal Sanitation    Total
                                ComDonent            ComDonent              ComDonent




No. o f non-residential unitsI       75                   0                      27           I 102
affected
Resettlement cost (RMB             203-94               5.50                   28.96           238.40


Alternatives
A numberofmeasureswere adopted to reduce resettlement: (a) deepening, instead o fwidening,
Zhuexi Creek; (b) reducingthe house demolition area from a width o f 60m to 50m along Zhuexi
Creek ;(c) creating culverts, instead o f open channels, at upstream portions o f Zhuexi Creek; (d)
canceling one o f the solid waste transfer stations; and (e) including"limited landacquisition and
relocation" as one o fthe five criteria indeterminingthe sites for construction o f newpublic
toilets.

Consultations
Local people and organizations affectedby the project were consulted on the project's
significance andpotential impacts. About 20 formal meetingswere heldwith primary and
secondary stakeholders. Consultations with andinterviews of local people were undertaken



                                                  66

duringRAPpreparation. Inregards to the wastewater component, compensation policies were
discussed and the rehabilitation programwas worked out. Regarding the public toilet component,
18 toilet sites were dropped from the proposal because o f citizen objections and other reasons. A
mechanismto monitor public reaction duringthe course o f project implementation was also
established to ensure that project-related complaints and/or suggestions are addressedcompletely
and promptly. This includes assigning monitoring work to a deputy director at the PMO;
establishing complaint hot lines and a visitors' room at PMO to receive public opinions; and
requiringroutine visits o f liaison officers to the project area, etc.

Compensation
LMGwill adopt the World Bank's resettlement compensationpolicies inthisproject. People
affected by the project had the opportunity to discuss compensation rates and, by and large,
citizens accepted the rates. However, some people complainedthat the offered rates were lower
than those inpast projects. The Liuzhou PMO will continue to consult with citizens on
compensation rates before any resettlement begins. The key rates are listed inthe following
table:

        Items                                                 ICompensation Rates (RMB)1
         1. Land
            1.1 Landacquisition                                3,132-56,000/mu
            1.2 Resettlement compensation                      4,697-1 05,00O/mu
        2. Residentialhouses
            2.1 Brick-concrete                                 1.500/mL
            2.2 Brick-wood                                    jl;300/mL
            2.3 Simple                                        I100-200/mL
       I 3. Non-residentialhouses                             I                         I
            3.1 Brick-concrete                                 900-1,500/mL
            3.2 Compensation of productionand business loss 335/person for 3 months

Rehabilitation
Following land acquisition, 90 farmers will discontinue farming. A rehabilitationprogram was
developed based on consultations with these farmers, including the following measuresto restore
and improve incomes and livelihoods:
     0   Establish a Resettlement Production Support Fund;
     0   Practice preferential policies inemployment;
     0   Shiftfrom agricultural to non-agricultural employment;
     0   Arrange for farmers to be employed inconstructingproject facilities; and
     0   Encourage at least one memberinthe family to seek employment inthe city.

Residences to be relocated will be able to purchase apartments inbetter environments thantheir
expropriated houses. Regardingreplacement, "buildings for wage-earners" will be provided to
all those relocated, andpreviously owned houses will be available for those who wishto
exchange houses. The vulnerable and poor will be able to rent inexpensive housing.

O f 43 enterprises, only two needto move. All 59 shops are affected. Information will be
provided to those needing to relocate as house rentals become available nearby.




                                                    67

CapacityBuilding
The Investment ConstructionandDevelopment Company Limited(ICDC) and LMWTC are
responsible for implementation o f resettlement under the wastewater component, while the
Liuzhou City Appearance Management Bureautogether with the ESDwill spearhead
implementation o f resettlement for the municipal sanitation and solid waste management
components. The Liuzhou PMO will coordinate the overall implementation o f resettlement.
Resettlement staff will be trained under the project. Resettlement will be monitored regularly by
project implementing agencies and independentexternal monitors. Two internal monitoring
reports and two external monitoring reports will be submittedto the Bank every year during
resettlement implementation. An assessment o f each component's resettlement activities will be
carried out upon completion o f resettlement.

FundingArrangementsand Schedule of Implementation
The LMGhas committed to allocate funds for resettlement ina timely manner. The detailed
financial arrangements are includedinthe RAP and the implementation schedule i s summarized
below:

Year                    2005         2006            2007          2008          2009          Total
Wastewater             48.85         33.24          74.00         40.00           7.86        203.94
Solid waste             4.79          0.48           0.24                                       5.50
Public toilet           3.02          6.13           8.01           8.35          3.45         28.95
Total                  56.66         39.85          82.25         48.35          11.31  II    238.39

C. Minoritynationalities

Liuzhouhas a total populationo f 1.8 million and 48 minority nationalities, 66% o f whom are
Zhuang. Eighty-ninepercent o f the minority population lives inrural areas. Inthe LZEMP
project area, which covers four urbandistricts and the town o f Labao, there are six minority
nationalities, representing 15% o fthe total population. Within this area, minority nationalities
live together with the Han, particularly on the downtown side of Zhuexi Creek, where about 90%
o f the population i s Han. Minority nationalities are concentrated inparticular areas; for example,
75% o f the population inYanghe i s Molao; and 40% o f the population inLongquanshan i s
Zhuang. The livelihood modes and the production patterns o f the Molao and the Zhuang are
similar to those o fthe Han, except that minority nationalities have lower average incomes.

There are 4,367 Huiliving inLiuzhou, forming 0.46% o f the total population. The Huiare not
concentrated inspecific communities, except near Park Road. The Huiand Hanhave a friendly
relationship. Traditionally, the Huilive cleanly and sanitationi s an important community value.
Thisproject has been greatly supported by the Huipeople.

Based on the above, the minority nationalities do not exhibit the features o f indigenous peoples
as defined inthe Bank's OD 4.20, and it was concluded that this policy does not apply for this
project.




                                                  68

                       Annex 11:ProjectPreparationand Supervision
             CHINA: LIUZHOUENVIRONMENT MANAGEMENT PROJECT

                                                  Planned                Actual
PCN review                                      10/15/2003            11/25/2003
Initial PID to PIC                              02/12/2004            02/12/2004
Initial ISDS to PIC                             03/11/2004            03111/2004
Appraisal                                       12/06/2004            12/06/2004
Negotiations                                    03/22/2005            03/22/2005
Board/RVP approval                              05/24/2005
Planneddate of effectiveness                    10/31//2005
Planneddate of mid-termreview                   01/31/2008
Plannedclosing date                             06/30/2011

Key institutions responsible for preparationofthe project:
    0    Project Management Office (PMO), LMG
    0    LiuzhouMunicipal Wastewater Treatment Company Ltd (LMWTC) establishedin
         December 2004 and fully owned by the LiuzhouMunicipal Government (LMG)
    0    LiuzhouConstruction Investmentand Development Co. Ltd(ICDC)
    0    Liuzhou's Environnemental Sanitation Division (ESD)
    0    Liuzhou's Environnemental Protection Bureau(EPB)

Bank staff and consultantswho worked onthis project include:




Hiroaki Suzuki            Lead Operation Specialist & Team Leader          EASUR
Margaret Png              Senior Counsel                                   LEGEA
Chongwu Sun               Senior Environmental Specialist                  EASEN
Youlan zou                Senior Social Development Specialist             EASSD
ZhentuLiu                 Senior ProcurementExpert                         EAPCO
MingyuanFan               Municipal Engineer                               EASUR
HongkunYang               Procurement Specialist                           EAPCO
Yi Geng                   Financial Management Specialist                  EAPCO
Mariko Ogawa              Operations Officer                               EASEG
DeanThompson              Acting Program Assistant                         EASUR
Robert O'Leary            Senior Finance Officer                           LOAGl
                                  World BankPeerReviewers
Alain R.Locussol          LeadWater Specialist                             SASEI
Jaehvang So               LeadInfrastructure Specialist                    SASEI




                                               69

LDahong                           Consultants
        Li        EnvironmentalManagement Specialist          Consultant
Eddie Hum         PlanningExpert                              Consultant
lEdouardMotte     Isanitation Engineer                     I  Consultant  I
Hew MacConnell    Financial and Institutional Specialist      Consultant
Hardy M.Wong      Solid Waste Management Specialist           Consultant
IJohnTuner       IUtilityExpert                            I  Consultant
Kaori Ikeda       Institutional/Financial Expert              Consultant
LusiLi            Management Specialist                       Consultant
Roger Heath       Industrial Pollution Control Expert         Consultant
Yangxiang Wang    Industrial Pollution Control Expert         Consultant
Yahong Wang       Financial Specialist                        Consultant
Yukiko Uchiyama   Economist                                   Consultant




                                       70

                    Annex 12: Documents inthe ProjectFile
     CHINA: LIUZHOU ENVIRONMENT MANAGEMENT PROJECT


1.  Detailed Project Description
2.  Summary Implementation Plan
3.  Liuzhou Industrial Wastewater PollutionControl Action Plan (December 16,2004)
4.  Legal and Institutional Framework
5.  Key Assumptions of Financial Projection
6.  Illustrative 15-yearFinancial Projections
7.  Terms of Referencefor Technical Assistance for Implementation ofthe Wastewater
    Component
8.  Terms of Reference for TA to Help Develop the LMWTC as an Institution
9.  Terms of Reference for T A to ImproveEfficiency of Solid Waste Management
    Operations
10. Feasibility Study Summary Report
11. Feasibility Study for Wastewater component
12. Feasibility Study for Municipal Sanitation Component and Solid Waste Management
    Component
13. Social Assessment for Wastewater Component
14. Social Assessment for Municipal Sanitation Component and Solid Waste
    Management Component
15. Environment Assessment for Wastewater Component
16. Environment Assessment for Municipal Sanitation Component and Solid Waste
    Management Component
17. Environmental Assessment Summary
18. Environmental Management Plan for Wastewater Component
19. Environmental Management Plan for Municipal Sanitation Component and Solid
    Waste ManagementComponent
20. Resettlement Action Plan, December 2004
21. ProcurementCapacity Assessment
22. LiuzhouWastewater Treatment Company LimitedBusiness Plan, January, 2005
23. Service Agreement betweenthe LMG andthe LMWTC, January, 2005
24. Project Implementation Plan
25. Project ConceptNote, November, 2003
26. Aide Memoire, May, 2004
27. Aide Memoire, September, 2004
28. Aide Memoire, December, 2004




                                        71

                                      Annex 13: Statement of Loans and Credits
                   CHINA: LIUZHOUENVIRONMENT MANAGEMENT PROJECT


                                                                                                              Difference between
                                                                                                              expectedandactual
                                                         Original Amount inUS$ Millions                         disbursements

Project ID FY   Purpose                                 IBRD       IDA        SF       GEF   Cancel. Undisb.   Orig.   Frm. Rev'd
PO57933    2005 CN- Tai BasinUrbanEnvironmentPrj.     61.00        0.00     0.00       0.00   0.00    61.00    0.00         0.00
PO75730    2005 CN-HunanUrbanDevelopment              172.00       0.00     0.00       0.00   0.00   172.00    0.00         0.00
PO65463    2004 CN - JiangxiIntegratedAgric. Modern.  100.00       0.00     0.00       0.00   0.00   100.00    1.50         0.00
PO65035    2004 CN-Gansu& Xinjiang Pastoral           66.27        0.00      0.00      0.00   0.00    65.61    4.53         0.00
                Development
PO66955    2004 CN-Zhejiang UrbanEnvmt                133.00       0.00      0.00      0.00   0.00   133.00    0.00         0.00
PO73002    2004 CN-Basic EducationinWesternAreas      100.00       0.00      0.00      0.00   0.00   100.00    0.00         0.00
PO77615    2004 CN-GEF-Gansu& Xinjiang Pastoral        0.00        0.00      0.00      10.50   0.00   10.50    0.80         0.00
                Develop
PO67337    2003 CN-2ndGEF EnergyConservation           0.00        0.00      0.00      26.00   0.00   14.60   16.57         0.00
PO40599    2003 CN-TIANJM URB DEV I1                  150.00       0.00      0.00       0.00   0.00  148.50   -1.50         0.00
PO58847    2003 CN-3rdXinjiang Hwy Project            150.00       0.00      0.00       0.00   0.00  106.13    9.47         0.00
PO68058    2003 CN-YixingPumpedStorageProject         145.00       0.00      0.00       0.00   0.00  140.95    2.13         0.00
PO76714    2003 CN-Anhui Hwy 2                        250.00       0.00      0.00       0.00   0.00  250.00   15.33         0.00
PO70441    2003 CN-HubeiXiaogan Xiangfan Hwy          250.00       0.00      0.00       0.00   0.00  156.78  -20.56         0.00
PO70191    2003 CN-SHANGHAIURBENVMT APLl              200.00       0.00      0.00       0.00   0.00  198.00   -2.00         0.00
PO64729    2002 CN-SUSTAMABLE FORESTRY DEV             93.90       0.00      0.00       0.00   0.00   76.07    1.58         0.00
                PROJECT
PO58846    2002 CN-Natl Railway Project               160.00       0.00      0.00       0.00   0.00   37.04    0.37         0.00
PO71147    2002 CN-TuberculosisControlProject         104.00       0.00      0.00       0.00   0.00   92.67  -11.33         0.00
PO60029    2002 CN-Sustain.ForestryDev(Natura1          0.00       0.00      0.00      16.00   0.00   14.11    3.00         0.00
                Forest)
PO70459    2002 CN-Inner Mongolia Hwy Project         100.00       0.00      0.00       0.00   0.00   88.82    6.49         0.00
PO68049    2002 CN-Hubei Hydropower Dev inPoor        105.00       0.00      0.00       0.00   0.00   87.68   12.84         0.00
                Areas
PO58845    2001 Jiangxi I1Hwy                         200.00       0.00      0.00       0.00   0.00  133.42    8.75         0.00
PO56199    2001 CNJrd InlandWaterways                 100.00       0.00      0.00       0.00   0.00   80.46    5.96         0.00
PO56516    2001 CN  - WATER  CONSERVATION              74.00       0.00      0.00       0.00   0.00   41.14    9.71         0.00
PO56596    2001 CN-ShijiazhuangUrban Transport        100.00       0.00      0.00       0.00   0.00   85.41    52.47        0.00
PO47345    2001 CN-HUAI RIVER POLLUTION               105.50       0.00      0.00       0.00   0.00   89.85   -15.65        0.00
                CONTROL
PO51859    2001 CN-LIAO RIVER BASIN                   100.00       0.00      0.00       0.00   0.00   74.72    32.02        0.00
PO45915    2001 CN-UrumqiUrbanTransport               100.00       0.00      0.00       0.00   0.00   52.54    47.34        0.00
PO45910    2000 CN-HEBEIURBANENVIRONMENT              150.00       0.00      0.00       0.00   0.00   119.36   46.36        0.00
PO49436    2000 CN-CHONGQMG URBANENVMT                200.00       0.00      0.00       0.00   3.70   157.50   65.17        0.00
PO56424    2000 TONGBAIPUMPED STORA                   320.00       0.00      0.00       0.00 100.00   155.85   96.19        0.00
PO45264    2000 CN-SMALLHLDR CATTLE DEV                93.50       0.00      0.00       0.00   0.00    12.84    6.87         0.00
PO42109    2000 CN-BEIJINGENVIRONMENTI1               349.00       0.00      0.00      25.00   0.00   286.54  180.67         0.00
PO58844    2000 3rd HenanProvHwy                      1so.00       0.00      0.00       0.00   0.00    61.19   26.86         0.00
PO58843    2000 GuangxiHighway                        200.00       0.00      0.00       0.00   0.00   102.57   46.57         0.00
PO64924    2000 CH-GEF-BEIJING ENVMT I1                 0.00       0.00      0.00      25.00   0.00    25.93   18.84         2.86
PO64730    2000 CN  - YangtzeDike Strengthening       210.00       0.00      0.00       0.00   0.00   111.52   95.52         0.00
                Project
PO50036    1999 Anhui Provincial Hwy                  200.00       0.00      0.00       0.00   9.60    34.96   34.16         0.00



                                                                 72

PO51705 1999  Fujian I1Highway                    200.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00  65.73   63.07     0.00
PO51856 1999  ACCOUNTING REFORM&                   27.40   5.60   0.00   0.00   0.00   17.89  17.84     0.00
              DEVELOPMENT
PO41268 1999  CN-Nat Hwy4FIubei-Hunan             350.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   59.72  37.72     0.00
PO57352 1999  CN-RURAL WATER IV                    16.00  30.00   0.00   0.00   0.00  21.81   15.87     8.72
PO58308 1999  CN-PENSION REFORMPJT                  0.00   5.00   0.00   0.00   0.00    1.77    1.75    0.00
PO56216 1999  CN  - LOESS PLATEAU I1              100.00  50.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   24.54  26.67     0.00
PO60270 1999  CN-ENTERPRISE REFORMLN                0.00   5.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   2.71     4.29    4.07
PO38121 1999  CN-GEF-RENEWABLE ENERGY               0.00   0.00   0.00  35.00   0.00   28.91  27.18     7.95
              DEVELOPMENT
PO51888 1999  CN  - GUANZHONGIRRIGATION            80.00  20.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   32.26  25.50     0.00
PO49665 1999  CN-ANNINGVALLEY AG.DEV               90.00  30.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   19.19   10.38    0.00
PO46051 1999  CN-HIGHER EDUC. REFORM               20.00  50.00   0.00   0.00   0.00    5.70    7.31    0.00
PO43933 1999  CN-SICHUANURBANENVMT                150.00   2.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   91.74   78.60   24.15
PO42299 1999  TEC COOP CREDIT IV                   10.00  35.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   36.03  -11.40    0.00
PO41890 1999  CN-Liaoning Urban Transport         150.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   36.96   36.96    0.00
PO36953 1999  CN-HEALTHI X                         10.00  50.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   36.85   22.30    0.00
PO03653 1999  CN-Container Transport               71.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   18.61   3.62   22.20    0.79
PO46829 1999  RENEWABLEENERGY                     100.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   12.87   99.87    8.23
              DEVELOPMENT
PO46564 1999  CN  - Gansu & InnerMongoliaPoverty   60.00  100.00  0.00   0.00   13.30  44.87   34.07    -6.75
              Red.
PO03614 1998  CN-GuangzhouCity Transport          200.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   20.00 100.31  120.31   100.31
PO03606 1998  ENERGY CONSERVATION                  63.00   0.00   0.00   22.00   0.00  35.87   18.81     0.00
PO35698 1998  HUNANPOWERDEVELOP.                  300.00   0.00   0.00   0.00  145.00  31.45  173.45   -18.46
PO49700 1998  CN- IAIL-2                          300.00   0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00   3.97    3.97     0.66
PO37859 1998  CN-GEF Energy Conservation            0.00   0.00   0.00   22.00   0.00   0.71   22.06     0.00
PO03619 1998  CN-2nd InlandWaterways              123.00   0.00   0.00    0.00  37.00  19.18   54.54     6.46
PO40185 1998  CN-SHANDONGENVIRONMENT               95.00   0.00   0.00    0.00   1.40  20.07   21.47     1.58
PO03566 1998  CN-BASIC HEALTH (HLTHI)               0.00  85.00   0.00    0.00   0.00  38.40   23.65     0.00
PO46563 1998  CN  - TARIM  BASINI1                 90.00  60.00   0.00    0.00   2.67  14.78   16.88     0.00
PO45788  1998 Tri-Provincial Hwy                  230.00   0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00  19.18    16.12    0.00
PO03539  1998 CN  - SUSTAINABLE   COASTAL         100.00   0.00   0.00    0.00   2.06  47.54   46.27    36.72
              RESOURCESDEV.
PO51736  1998 E. CHINNJIANGSU PWR                 250.00   0.00    0.00   0.00  86.00  50.31  136.31    13.22
PO46952  1998 CN  - FOREST.DEV.  POOR AR          100.00  100.00   0.00   0.00   0.00  29.62   -71.61    9.25
PO36949  1998 CN-Nat Hwy3-Hubei                   250.00    0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00  21.15   21.15     0.00
PO36414  1998 CN-GUANGXI URBANENVMT                72.00  20.00    0.00   0.00   0.00  71.56    66.02   25.79
PO03637  1997 CN-NAT'L RURAL WATER 3                0.00   70.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.56     3.77    3.35
PO03590  1997 CN  - QINBA  MOUNTAINS               30.00  150.00   0.00   0.00   0.00  13.16    16.34   -0.95
              POVERTY REDUCTION
PO35693  1997 FUEL EFFICIENT IND.                   0.00    0.00   0.00  32.80   0.00   6.83    32.81    0.00
PO03654  1997 Nat HwyZ/Hunan-Guangdong            400.00    0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00  48.52    48.52   20.68
PO03650  1997 TUOKETUO POWEWINNER                 400.00    0.00   0.00   0.00 102.50  37.37   139.87   27.63
PO38988  1997 CN  - HEILONGJIANG   ADP            120.00    0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   7.72     7.72    4.54
PO44485  1997 SHANGHAIWAIGAOQIAO                  400.00    0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00  84.49    56.03   44.04
PO36405  1997 CN  - WANJIAZHAI   WATER TRA        400.00    0.00   0.00   0.00  75.00  22.58    97.58   10.00
PO03602  1996 CN-HUBEI URBANENVIRONMENT           125.00   25.00   0.00   0.00  28.32  39.72    70.08   32.41
PO03599  1996 CN-YUNNAN ENVMT                     125.00   25.00   0.00   0.00  19.48  35.68    56.92    7.10
PO40513  1996 2nd HenanProv Hwy                   210.00    0.00   0.00   0.00  19.00   16.69   35.69   23.69
PO03594  1996 CN  - GANSU   HEX1CORRIDOR           60.00   90.00   0.00   0.00   0.00  73.92    58.83    0.00
PO03589  1996 CN-DISEASE PREVENTION(HLTH7)          0.00  100.00   0.00   0.00   0.00    1.97   10.99    0.00



                                                         13

PO34618   1996   CN-LABOR MARKETDEV.                    10.00      20.00     0.00     0.00     0.00       5.66     7.75       0.00
PO03648   1996   CN-SHANGHAISEWERAGEI1                 250.00       0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00      39.94    39.94       4.81
PO03571   1995   CN-7th Railways                       400.00       0.00     0.00     0.00    119.00     10.28   129.28      20.28
PO03639   1995   CN-SOUTHWEST POVERTY                  47.50     200.00      0.00     0.00     0.01       1.21    25.36      25.36
                 REDUCTION PROJECT
PO03647   1995   China Economic Law Reform -LEGEA        0.00      10.00     0.00     0.00     0.00       0.50     0.83        0.00
PO03603   1995   CN-ENT HOUSING & SSR                  275.00      75.00     0.00     0.00     57.46     38.52    93.86        2.17
PO03596   1995   CN-Yangtze BasinWater Resources       100.00    110.00      0.00     0.00      1.92      0.34     4.75        4.75
                 Project
PO03540   1994   CN-LOESS PLATEAU                        0.00    150.00      0.00     0.00     0.00       1.12     0.50        0.00
PO03632   1993   CN-ENVIRONMENT TECH ASS                 0.00      50.00     0.00     0.00     0.00       1.11     1.73        1.41
                                              Total:  11,719.07  1,722.60    0.00    214.30   862.03   4,981.42 2,925.76    456.82



                                                              CHINA
                                                   STATEMENT OF IFC's
                                                Heldand DisbursedPortfolio
                                                  InMillionsofUSDollars

                                                             Committed                               Disbursed
                                                           IFC                                      IFC
      FY Approval   Company                      Loan      Equity      Quasi   Partic.     Loan     Equity     Quasi    Partic.
      2001          Peak Pacific                  0.00      0.00     25.00      0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00
      0             Rabobank SHFC                 0.45      0.00       0.00     0.45       0.45      0.00      0.00     0.45
      2000          SSIF                          0.00      6.00       0.00     0.00       0.00      0.89      0.00     0.00
      1998          ShanghaiKrupp                28.92      0.00       0.00    65.63      28.92      0.00      0.00     65.63
      1999          ShanghaiMidway                0.00     16.02       0.00     0.00       0.00     16.02      0.00     0.00
      1999          Shanxi                       16.75      0.00       0.00     0.00      14.20      0.00      0.00     0.00
      1993          ShenzhenPCCP                  3.76      0.00       0.00     0.00       3.76      0.00      0.00      0.00
                    Sino Gold                     0.00      0.00       0.00     0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
      2002
      2001          Sino-Forest                  25.00      0.00       0.00     0.00      20.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
      1995197       SuzhouPVC                     0.00      0.00       0.00     0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
      1998          WIT                            5.00     0.00       0.00     0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
      2000          Wanjie Hospital              15.00      0.00       0.00     0.00      15.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
      1996          Weihai Weidongri               1.03     0.00       0.00     0.00       1.03      0.00      0.00      0.00
      2003          XACB                          0.00     19.93       0.00     0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
      1993          Yantai Cement                 6.33       1.95      0.00     0.00       6.33      1.95      0.00      0.00
      0             ZhenJing                      0.00      0.00       0.00     0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
      2003          Zhengye-ADC                  15.00      0.00       0.00     0.00       2.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
      2002103       Advantage                     0.00      0.50       0.00     0.00       0.00      0.50      0.00      0.00
      2003          BCIB                          0.00      0.00      11.60     0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
      1999100102    Bank of Shanghai              0.00     24.67       0.00     0.00       0.00     24.67      0.00      0.00
      2002          CDH ChinaFund                 0.00     16.36       0.00     0.00       0.00      2.38      0.00      0.00
      1998100       CIGHoldings PLC               0.00      3.00       0.00     0.00       0.00      3.00      0.00      0.00
      2003          CSMC                          0.00     12.00       0.00     0.00       0.00      7.20      0.00      0.00
      1998          ChengduHuarong                6.73      3.20       0.00     7.82       6.73      3.20      0.00      7.82
      1998          Chengxin-IBCA                 0.00      0.36       0.00     0.00       0.00      0.36      0.00      0.00
      1987192194    ChinaBicycles                 0.00      0.00       0.00     0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
      1994          China Walden Mgt              0.00      0.01       0.00     0.00       0.00      0.01      0.00      0.00



                                                                 74

1994      ChinaWalden Ven                  0.00      0.00   0.00    0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00   0.00
1994      Dalian Glass                     0.00     2.40    0.00    0.00      0.00     2.40      0.00   0.00
1995      Dupont Suzhou                    9.35     4.15    0.00    0.00      9.35     4.15      0.00   0.00
1994      Dynamic Fund                     0.00      8.76   0.00    0.00      0.00     7.10      0.00   0.00
2003      Great Infotech                   0.00      3.50   0.00    0.00      0.00     2.10      0.00   0.00
1999      Hansom                           0.00      0.08   0.00    0.00      0.00     0.08      0.00   0.00
2002      HuarongAMC                     23.74       3.00   0.00    0.00     14.74     0.01      0.00   0.00
2002      IEC                            20.00       0.00   0.00    0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00   0.00
1998      LeshanScana                      5.36      1.35   0.00    0.00      3.76     1.35      0.00   0.00
2001      MaanshanCarbon                   9.00      2.00   0.00    0.00      9.00     2.00      0.00   0.00
2001      MinshengBank                     0.00     23.50   0.00    0.00      0.00    23.50      0.00   0.00
2001      NCCB                             0.00     26.58   0.00    0.00      0.00    26.46      0.00   0.00
1996      NanjingKumho                     3.89      3.81   0.00    11.07     3.89     3.81      0.00  11.07
2001      New ChinaLife                    0.00     30.70   0.00    0.00      0.00    23.32      0.00   0.00
1995      NewbridgeInv.                    0.00      1.95   0.00    0.00      0.00     1.95      0.00   0.00
1997198   Orient Finance                   0.00      0.00   0.00    0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00   0.00
2003      PSAM                             0.00      1.93   0.00    0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00   0.00
1997100   PTPHoldinas                      0.00      0.03   0.00    0.00      0.00     0.03      0.00   0.00
                     I


                       Total portfilio: 195.31    217.74   36.60    84.97    139.16   158.44     0.00  84.97




                                                              Approvals PendingCommitment
           FY Approval     Company                         Loan     Equity      Quasi     Partic.
           2002            ASIMCO                          0.00       0.00       0.01       0.00
           2003            Anjia                           0.00       0.01       0.00       0.00
           2004            CCB-MSNPL                       0.03       0.00       0.00       0.00
           2004            CUNA RCCI                       0.00       0.01       0.00       0.00
           2003            Cellon                          0.00       0.01       0.00       0.00
           2002            Darong                          0.01       0.00       0.00       0.01
           2002            HuarongAMC                      0.02       0.00       0.00       0.00
           2002            IEC                             0.00       0.00       0.01       0.00
           2002            KHIT                            0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00
           2003            Peak Pacific2                   0.00       0.01       0.00       0.00
           2003            SAIC                            0.01       0.00       0.00       0.00
           2002            SML                             0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00
           2002            Sino Mining                     0.01       0.00       0.00       0.01
           2002            ZhongChen                       0.03       0.00       0.00       0.03
                                Total pendingcommittment:  0.11       0.04       0.02       0.05




                                                         75

                                           Annex 14: Countryat a Glance
             CHINA: LIUZHOUENVIRONMENT MANAGEMENT PROJECT


                                                                East    Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                            Asia 8 mlddle-
                                                      China   Pacific  income      Development diamond'
2002
Population,mid-year(miliions)                         1,281.0   1,838     2,411                Lifeexpectancy
GNIpercapita (Atlas method, US$)                        950      950      1,390
GNI (Atlas method, US$billions)                        1,29.1   1,740     3,352                       T
Average annual growth, 1996-02

Population (%)                                           0.8       1.0       10
Laborforce (%)                                           0.9       1.2       1.2   GNI                                 Gross
                                                                                   per                                primary
M o s t recent estimate (latest year available, 1996-02)                           capita                           nrollment
Poverty(%ofpopulation belownationalpovertyline)            5
Urbanpopulation (%of totalpopulation)                    38        38        49
Life expectancyat birth (pan)                             71       69        69                       I
Infantmortality (per10001ivebirths)                       30       33        30
Child malnutrition (%ofchildrenunder5)                    0         15       11         Access to improved water source
Access to an improvedwatersource (%ofpopulation)          75       76        81
Illiteracy(%ofpopulation age rS+l                         14        t3       t3
Gross primaryenrollment (%of school-age population)      0 6      0 6        111     -China
   Male                                                  0 5      0 5        111            Louer-middle-income group
   Female                                                0 8      0 6        10

KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
                                              1982     1992     2001     2002
                                                                                   Economic ratios.
GDP (US$ billions)                             2215    454.6    1,87.1   1232.7
Gross domestic investment/GDP                   33.2    36.2     38.5       410
Exports of goods and servicesiGDP                8.9     19.5    25.5      29.5                     Trade

Gross domestic savings/GDP                      34.8    37.7     40.9      44.0
Gross national savingslGDP                      35.1    38.0     40.0      43.8                       T

Current account baiance/GDP                      2.4      1.9      1.5      2.9    Domestic
Interestpayments/GDP                             0.2     0.6       0.5      0.5    savings                         Investment
Total debt/GDP                                   3.8     15.9     14.6      Q.6
Total debt serviceiexports                       8.0     8.6       7.7       6.1                       1
Present valueof debt/GDP                                           14.1
Present vaiueof debtiexports                                      51.8                            Indebtedness
                                   1982-92 1992-02     2001     2002 2002-06
(average annualgmMh)
GDP                                     9.7      9.0     7.5       8.0      7.5        -China

GDP percapita                           8.1      8.0     6.7       7.2      6.6             - Louer-middle-income am UD


STRUCTURE o f the ECONOMY
                                              1982     1992     2001      2002     Growth o f investment and GDP ( X )
(%of GDP)
Agriculture                                     33.3     21.8     15.8      14.5   2o T
Industry                                        45.0    43.9      50.1      51.7
   Manufacturing                                37.3     33.1    34.2       44.5                                             I
Services                                         21.7   34.3      34.1      33.7

Privateconsumption                              50.7    49.2     45.7       42.5           97     98    99    00    01    02
Generalgovemment consumption                     14.5    t3.1     t3.4      0.5
Imports of goods andsewices                      7.3     18.0     23.1      26.5              -GDI           -GDP


                                           1982-92 1992-02      2001      2002     Growth of exports and imports (Oh)
(average annualgruMh)
Agriculture                                      4.6     3.7       2.8       2.9   40
industry                                         11.6    11.3      8.4       9.9   30
  Manufacturing                                  11.2    0.4       9.0       8.1   20
Services                                         117     8.4       8.4       7.3   10
                                                                                                                             I
Privateconsumption                               11.4     8.1      2.8       1.9    0
Generalgovemment consumption                     9.9     8.4      0.5        7.0l-,I       97     88    89    00     01
Gross domestic investment                        9,5     9.7      Q.9       14.9
Imports of goods and sewices                     9.7     Q.8      0.8       27.5           -Exports         -Imports      O2




                                                               76

                                                                                                                        China

PRICES and GOVERNMENT FiNANCE
                                         1982    1992     2001     2002        Inflation (%)
Domestic prices                                                                                                                  I
(%change)
Consumer prices                             6.0     6.4      0.7     -0.8
Implicit GDP deflator                      -0.2     7.9       1.2    -2.6

Government finance
(%of GDP,includes currentgrants)
Current revenue                           22.9     14.7      17.1    17.9
Current budgetbalance                               2.o       1.1     0.0
Overall surplusldeficit                    -0.3    -1.0     -4.7     -3.0              -GDP     deflator -CPI


                                                                                      ,
TRADE
                                         I982    1992     2001     2002
(US$ millions)                                                                 Export and import levels (US$ mill.)

Totalexports (fob)                       22,321 84,940   266,155  325,565   p        o
 Food                                    2,908   8,309    12,780   14,623
 Fuel                                     5,314  4,693     8,420    8,372   300,000
 Manufactures                            12,271 67,936   239,802  297,085
Total imports (cif)                      19,285 80,585   243,610  295,203   200,000

 Food                                     4,201  3,146     4,980    5,237
 Fuelandenergy                              183  3,570    17,495   19,285     100,000

 Capital goods                           3,204   31,312  107,040  137,030            0

Export price index(995.100)                  41     85        83       78               98  97    98     99    00    01     02

Import price index(995=W0)                   71     95         91      86                    Exports         mlmports
Terms of trade (995=WO)                     58      89         91      90

BALANCE o f PAYMENTS
                                         1982    1992     2001     2002
(US$ mfilfons)                                                                 Current account balance to GDP             ( O h )


Exports of goods and services            24,906 94,198   299,409  365,395
Importsof goods and services             20,555 86,752   271,325  328,013     5 T
Resource balance                         4,350   7,446    28,084   37,383

Net income                                 376     249    -19,174  -14,945
Net current transfers                      486    1,155    8,492    12,984

Current account balance                   5,2Q   8,850     17,401  35,422

Financingitems (net)                      -995  -10,952   30,046   40.085
Changes in net reserves                  -4,217   2,102  -47,447  -75,507     1     96   97   98    99       00    01      02
Memo:
Reserves includinggold (US$ millions)           24,842   220,051  297,721
Conversion rate (DEC,loca!fUS$)             2.4     5.9       8.3      8.3

EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
                                         1982    1992      2001     2002
/US$ millions)                                                                  :omposition of 2002 debt (US$ mill.
Total debt outstanding and disbursed      8,358 72,428    170,1x3 155,678
  iBRD                                        0  3,752     11,550   12,051
  IDA                                         1  4,287     8,654    8,729                               A: 12.051

Total debt service                        2,125   8,618   24,297   23,688             43

  IBRD                                        0    460      1,550    1,631
  IDA                                         0      30       151      175

Compositionof net resourceflows
  Officialgrants                             47    327       240
  Officialcreditors                        657   2,343      2,156    -839
  Privatecreditors                         -122  8,949     -4,017  -13,593
  Foreigndirect investment                 430    11,156  44,241   49,308
  Portfolio equity                            0   1,243     3,015   2,286
                                                                                               F:62,103
World Bank program
  Commitments                              330    1,865      782      563        5  IBRD                         E - Bilateral
  Disbursements                               1   1,331     1,791    1,733      I IDA
                                                                                  --       D Other multilateral
                                                                                            -                    F - Private
  Principal repayments                        0     197      904     1,157      >-IMF                            G - Short-tern




                                                            77


