Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 4781-CHA 
 
Project Agreement 
 
(Liuzhou Environment Management Project) 
 
between 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
and 
 
GUANGXI ZHUANG AUTONOMOUS REGION 
 
Dated August 11, 2005 
 
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 4781-CHA 
PROJECT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated August 11, 2005, between INTERNATIONAL BANK 
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and Guangxi Zhuang 
Autonomous Region (Guangxi). 
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between Peo
ple’s 
Republic of China (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make a loan to 
the Borrower in the amount of one hundred million Dollars ($100,000,000) on the terms 
and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that Guangxi agree 
to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in this Agreement; and 
WHEREAS Guangxi, in consideration of the Bank’s entering into the Loan 
Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Agreement; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
Definitions 
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General Conditions (as so 
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth. 
ARTICLE II 
Execution of the Project 
Section 2.01. (a) Guangxi declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out, 
and shall cause to be carried out by Liuzhou and LMWTC, the Project with due diligence 
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering 
and public utility practices, and social and environment standards acceptable to the Bank, 
and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for the Project. 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Bank and Guangxi shall otherwise agree, Guangxi shall carry out, and 
shall cause to be carried out, the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program 
set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
Page  3
-
2
-
Section 2.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement, as said provisions may be further elaborated in the Procurement Plan. 
(b) 
Guangxi shall update, and shall cause to be updated, the Procurement 
Plan in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish such update to the 
Bank not later than twelve (12) months after the date of the preceding Procurement Plan, 
for the Bank’s approval. 
Section 2.03. (a) Guangxi shall carry out, and shall cause to be carried out, the 
obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General 
Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records 
and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of this Agreement. 
(b) 
For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, Guangxi shall: 
(i) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and 
furnish to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing 
Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose 
between the Bank and Guangxi, a plan for the continued 
achievement of the objectives of the Project; and 
(ii) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
Guangxi on said plan. 
Section 2.04 (a) Guangxi shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange views with 
the Bank with regard to progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations under 
this Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan. 
(b) 
Guangxi shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of 
the purposes of Loan, or the performance by Guangxi of its obligations under this 
Agreement. 
ARTICLE III 
Financial Covenants 
Section 3.01. (a) Guangxi shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements, in accordance with 
consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect the 
operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project. 
Page  4
-
3
-
(b) Guangxi 
shall: 
(i) 
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for each fiscal year (or other period 
agreed to by the Bank), audited, in accordance with consistently 
applied auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;  
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six (6) months after the end of each such year (or such other 
period agreed to by the Bank): (A) certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section, 
for such year (or such other period agreed to by the Bank), as so 
audited; and (B) an opinion on such statements by said auditors,  
in scope and detail satisfactory to the Bank; and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records and accounts and the audit of such financial statements, 
and concerning said auditors, as the Bank may from time to time 
reasonably request. 
Section 3.02. (a) Without limitation upon Guangxi’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in paragraph 12 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, Guangxi shall 
prepare and furnish to the Bank financial monitoring reports, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Bank, which sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by each said report, showing separately funds 
provided under the Loan, and explains variances between the actual and planned uses of 
such funds. 
(b) 
The first such financial monitoring report shall be furnished to the Bank 
not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of the first calendar semester after the 
Effective Date, and shall cover the period from the incurrence of the first expenditure 
under the Project through the end of such first calendar semester; thereafter, each 
financial monitoring report shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) 
days after each subsequent calendar semester, and shall cover such calendar semester. 
ARTICLE IV 
Effective Date; Termination; 
Cancellation and Suspension 
 
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective. 
Page  5
-
4
-
Section 4.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of Guangxi 
thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in 
accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify Guangxi thereof. 
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force and 
effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE V 
Miscellaneous Provisions 
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing.  Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly 
given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telex or facsimile to the 
party to which it is required or permitted to be given or made at such party’s address 
hereinafter specified or at such other address as such party shall have designated by 
notice to the party giving such notice or making such request.  Deliveries made by 
facsimile transmission shall also be confirmed by mail.  The addresses so specified are: 
For the Bank: 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818
H
Street, NW 
 
Washington, DC 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
INTBAFRAD 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(1-202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI)   
 
 
For Guangxi: 
World Bank Project Management Office, 
 
Liuzhou Municipal Government 
Office Courtyard of Liuzhou Urban Investment 
 
and Construction Development Co. Ltd. 
Tanzhong Middle Road 
Liuzhou City, Guangxi Zhuang Autonmous Region 
People’s Republic of China 
 
Facsimile: 
 
86-0772-2827625 
Page  6
-
5
-
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of  Guangxi may be 
taken or executed by its Chairman or Vice Chairman, or by such other person or persons 
as said Chairman or Vice Chairman shall designate in writing, and Guangxi shall furnish 
to the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature 
of each such person. 
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument. 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in 
Beijing, People’s Republic of China, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By: /s/ David Dollar 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
GUANGXI ZHUANG AUTONOMOUS REGION 
 
By: /s/ Guo Shengkum 
 
Authorized Representative 
Page  7
-
6
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Procurem
ent and Consultants’ Services 
Section I
.
General
A. 
All goods, works and services (other than consultants’ services) shall be procured 
in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines: Procurement under 
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” dated May 2004 (the Procurement Guidelines), and with 
the provisions of this Schedule.  
B. 
All consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with Sections I and IV 
of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers” dated May 2004 (the Consultant Guidelines), and with the provisions of this 
Schedule.   
C. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Schedule to describe particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts, have the 
meanings ascribed to them in the Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as 
the case may be. 
Section II.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Services (other 
than Consultants’ Services)
A. International 
Competitive 
Bidding.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, contracts shall be awarded on the basis of International Competitive 
Bidding.  The provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Procurement Guidelines, 
providing for domestic preference in the evaluation of bids, shall apply to goods 
manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.  
B. 
Other Procurement Procedures
1. National 
Competitive 
Bidding.
(a) Goods estimated to cost less than 
$500,000 equivalent per contract and works estimated to cost less than $15,000,000 
equivalent per contract, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
National Competitive Bidding.  
(b) 
The procedures to be followed for National Competitive Bidding shall be 
those set forth in the Law on Tendering and Bidding of the People's Republic of China 
promulgated by Order No. 21 of the President of the People's Republic of China on 
August 30, 1999, with the following clarifications required for compliance with the 
Guidelines: 
Page  8
-
7
-
(i) 
All invitations to prequalify or to bid shall be advertised in a 
newspaper of national circulation in the Borrower’s country, 
except for civil works contracts that are estimated to cost less than 
$2,000,000 equivalent each and for goods contracts that are 
estimated to cost less than $300,000 equivalent each, which may 
be advertised in a provincial daily newspaper.  Such advertisement 
shall be made in sufficient time for prospective bidders to obtain 
prequalification or bidding documents and prepare and submit 
their responses.  In any event, a minimum of thirty (30) days shall 
be given to bidders between the date of advertisement in such 
newspaper and the deadline for submission of bids, and the 
advertisement and bidding documents shall specify the deadline 
for such submission.   
(ii) 
Qualification requirements of bidders and the method of 
evaluating the qualification of each bidder shall be specified in 
detail in the bidding documents. 
(iii) 
All bidders that meet the qualification criteria set out in the pre-
qualification document shall be allowed to bid and there shall be 
no limit on the number of pre-qualified bidders. 
(iv) 
All bidders shall be required to provide security in an amount 
sufficient to protect Guangxi in case of breach of contract by the 
contractor, and the bidding documents shall specify the required 
form and amount of such security.    
(v) 
The time for opening of all bids shall be the same as the deadline 
for receipt of such bids. 
(vi) 
All bids shall be opened in public; all bidders shall be offered an 
opportunity to be present (either in person or through their 
representatives) at the time of bid opening, but bidders shall not 
be required to be present at the bid opening. 
(vii) 
No bid may be rejected solely on the basis that the bid price falls 
outside any standard contract estimate, or margin or bracket of 
average bids established by the Borrower or Guangxi, as the case 
may be. 
(viii)  Each contract shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated 
responsive bidder, that is, the bidder who meets the appropriate 
standards of capability and resources and whose bid has been 
determined: (A) to be substantially responsive to the bidding 
Page  9
-
8
-
documents; and (B) to offer the lowest evaluated cost.  The 
winning bidder shall not be required, as a condition of award, to 
undertake responsibilities for work not stipulated in the bidding 
documents or otherwise to modify the bid as originally 
submitted. 
(ix) 
Each contract financed with the proceeds of the Loan shall 
provide that the suppliers and contractors shall permit the Bank, 
at its request, to inspect their accounts and records relating to the 
performance of the contract and to have said accounts and 
records audited by auditors appointed by the Bank. 
(x) 
Re-bidding should not be allowed solely because the number of 
bids is less than three (3). 
3. Shopping
.
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per 
contract  and works estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Shopping. 
Section III
.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
A. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.  For purposes of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines, the short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $300,000 
equivalent per contract may comprise entirely national consultants. 
B. Other 
Procedures
1. Quality-based 
Selection
.
Services for assignments which the Bank 
agrees meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 3.2 of the Consultant Guidelines may 
be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality-based Selection in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 through 3.4 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
2. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
.
Services estimated to 
cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1, 3.7 and 3.8 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
3. Individual 
Consultants
.
Services for assignments that meet the 
requirements set forth in the first sentence of paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines 
may be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 5.2 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.  
Page  10
-
9
-
Section IV
.
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
Except as the Bank shall otherwise determine by notice to the Borrower, the 
following contracts shall be subject to Prior Review by the Bank:  
(a) 
each contract for works estimated to cost the equivalent of $5,000,000 or 
more;  
(b) 
the first contract for works procured by each PIU using Shopping 
procedure;  
(c) 
each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $500,000 or 
more;  
(d) 
the first contract for goods procured by each PIU using National 
Competitive Bidding procedure;  
(e) 
the first  contract for goods procured by each PIU using Shopping 
procedure;  
(f) 
each contract for consultants’ services procured using Quality- and Cost-
Based selection procedure; and  
(g) 
the first contract for consultants’ services procured using Consultants’ 
Qualifications selection procedure.  
In addition, the record of justification referred to in paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines for each contract for the employment of individual consultants 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more shall be subject to prior approval of 
the Bank.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
Page  11
-
10 - 
 
SCHEDULE 2 
Implementation Program 
Project Management
1. 
Guangxi shall cause Liuzhou to maintain, for purposes of carrying out the 
Project, the following organizations, with terms of reference, staffing and other resources 
acceptable to the Bank, throughout the period of implementation of the Project:  
(a) 
The Leading Group, which is composed of the Executive Vice Mayor of 
Liuzhou and representatives from various departments of the Liuzhou municipal 
government, responsible for providing policy guidance and inter-department coordination 
for implementation of activities under the Project. 
(b) 
The Project Management Office established within the Liuzhou 
Development and Reform Commission and headed by the Deputy Director of said 
commission, responsible for daily supervision and coordination of Project 
implementation activities. 
(c) 
The ESD Project Management Unit established within ESD and 
composed of a director, two procurement experts, a project management expert, a 
sanitation engineer, a resettlement expert and a financial expert, responsible for 
implementation of Parts B, C, E(1), E(3), E(4) and F of the Project. 
 
(d) 
The EPB Project Management Unit established within EPB and 
composed of a director, two environment experts, a civil engineer and a financial expert, 
responsible for implementation of Parts D, E(1) and F of the Project. 
Resettlement and Environment Protection
2. Guangxi 
shall: 
(a) 
take, and shall cause Liuzhou and LMWTC to take, all necessary actions 
to minimize to the extent possible any involuntary loss by persons of shelter, productive 
assets or access to productive assets or income or means of livelihood, temporarily or 
permanently in carrying out the Project;  
(b) 
for this purpose, implement, and cause Liuzhou and LMWTC to 
implement the Resettlement Action Plan, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank; and 
 
(c) 
provide, and cause Liuzhou and LMWTC to provide, to the Bank for its 
prior concurrence, any proposed modification or waiver of any of the Resettlement 
Action Plan, prior to putting into effect such modification or waiver. 
Page  12
-
11 - 
 
3. 
Guangxi shall implement, and shall cause Liuzhou and LMWTC to implement, 
the Environmental Management Plan in a manner satisfactory to the Bank and designed 
to ensure that the Project is implemented in accordance with sound environmental 
practices and standards. 
4. 
Guangxi shall, and shall cause Liuzhou and LMWTC to:  
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable them to monitor and 
evaluate, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Bank, the implementation of the 
Resettlement Action Plan and the Environment Management Plan, the achievement of the 
objectives of said plans, including the engagement of experienced and qualified 
independent monitoring agencies acceptable to the Bank; 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank by January 31 and July 31 of each year, commencing on January 31, 2006, 
semi-annual reports of the results of such monitoring and evaluation activities, together 
with any revisions proposed to be introduced into such Plans in order to achieve their 
respective objectives; and  
(c) 
introduce such revisions into such plans as shall have been agreed with 
the Bank. 
Financial Arrangements
5. 
Guangxi shall make the principal amount of the Loan available to Liuzhou under 
arrangements satisfactory to the Bank, which shall include, without limitation, the 
following principal terms. 
 
(a) 
Guangxi shall make available the principal amount to Liuzhou in Dollars 
(on the date, or respective dates, of withdrawal from the Loan Account) of the value of 
the currency or currencies so withdrawn on account of the Project. 
 
(b) 
Guangxi shall recover: (i) such principal amount so made available; and 
(ii) an amount equal to one percent (1%), or such other percentage as may be determined 
by the Bank from time to time pursuant to Section 2.04 of the Loan Agreement, of such 
principal amount, over a period of twenty (20) years, inclusive of a grace period of five 
(5) years. 
 
(c) 
Guangxi shall charge interest on such principal amount, withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time at a rate equal to the rate of interest applicable from time to 
time to the Loan pursuant to Section 2.06 of the Loan Agreement. 
Page  13
-
12 - 
 
(d) 
Guangxi shall charge a commitment charge on such principal amount, not 
withdrawn from time to time at a rate equal to three fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per 
annum.  
Subsidiary Loan Agreement
6. 
Guangxi shall cause Liuzhou to relend a portion of the proceeds of the Loan, 
allocated in accordance with arrangements satisfactory to the Bank for the carrying out 
Parts A(1) through A(5), E(1), E(2) and F of the Project, under a subsidiary loan 
agreement to be entered into between Liuzhou and LMWTC: (i) on the principal terms 
set forth in Section I of Schedule 3 to this Agreement; and (ii) under conditions which 
shall have been approved by the Bank, and which shall include, without limitation, those 
set forth in Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
7. 
(a)  
Guangxi shall ensure that Liuzhou causes LMWTC to: (i) perform, in 
accordance with the provisions of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, all of the obligations 
of LMWTC herein set forth; (ii) take or cause to be taken all action, including the 
provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to 
enable LMWTC to perform such obligations; and (iii) not take or permit to be taken any 
action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.  
 
(b) 
Guangxi shall cause Liuzhou to exercise its rights under the Subsidiary 
Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower, the Bank, 
Guangxi and Liuzhou, and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and except as the 
Bank shall otherwise agree, not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement or any provision thereof. 
LMWTC Revenue Requirements 
8. 
With respect to LMWTC’s revenue requirements set forth in paragraphs 6 and 7 
of Section II in Schedule 3 to this Agreement, in the event that any review carried out 
under said paragraphs 6 and 7 shows that LMWTC would not meet said requirements, 
Guangxi shall take, and shall cause Liuzhou to take, all necessary measures to enable 
Liuzhou to meet said requirements, including without limitation, adjustments of the 
structure or levels of LMWTC’s wastewater charges to cover LMWTC’s operating 
expenses and depreciation related to LMWTC’s assets. 
Public Toilets 
9. 
Guangxi shall cause Liuzhou: (a) to furnish to the Bank by December 31, 2006, 
the results of a study, including recommendations, prepared in accordance with terms of 
reference acceptable to the Bank, on the management and financing of public toilets 
operation; and (b) implement said recommendations taking into account the Bank’s 
comments thereon.  
Page  14
-
13 - 
 
Solid Waste Management 
10. 
Guangxi shall cause Liuzhou: (a) to furnish to the Bank by December 31, 2007, 
the results of a study, including recommendations, prepared in accordance with terms of 
reference acceptable to the Bank, on the strengthening of ESD’s institutional capacity and 
capacity for municipal solid waste management; and (b) to implement said 
recommendations taking into account the Bank’s comments thereon.  
Industrial Pollution Control Action Plan
11. 
Guangxi shall cause Liuzhou to carry out the Industrial Pollution Control Action 
Plan in a manner satisfactory to the Bank and not modify or amend the Industrial Pollution 
Control Action Plan without the prior concurrence of the Bank.  
Monitoring and Reporting
12. 
Guangxi shall cause Liuzhou to: 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the Bank, the 
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank, on or about January 31 and July 31 of each year, commencing on 
January 31, 2006, a semi-annual report, integrating the results of the monitoring and 
evaluation activities performed pursuant to sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph 
(integrating the report furnished by LMWTC pursuant to paragraph 5(e) of Section II in 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement), each such report to: (i) set out physical progress in the 
implementation of the Project, both cumulatively, and in respect of the preceding 
calendar semester, and explain variances between the actual and planned Project 
implementation; and (ii) set forth the status of procurement under the Project as at the end 
of the period covered by said report;  
(c) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank and furnish to 
the Bank on or about October 31, 2007, a mid-term report on the progress achieved in the 
carrying out of the Project during the period preceding such report and setting out the 
measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and 
(d) 
review with the Bank by January 31, 2008, or such later date as the Bank 
shall request, the mid-term report referred to in sub-paragraph (c) of this paragraph, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and 
the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations 
of the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter. 
Page  15
-
14 - 
 
SCHEDULE 3 
Principal Terms and Conditions of the 
Subsidiary Loan Agreements 
 
For the purposes of paragraph 6 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement the Subsidiary 
Loan Agreement shall be entered into on the terms set forth in Section I of this Schedule 
and on the conditions set forth in Section II of this Schedule. 
Section I.
Terms of Availability
1. 
The principal amount of the Subsidiary Loan made by Liuzhou to LMWTC shall 
be the amount equivalent in Dollars (on the respective dates of withdrawal from the Loan 
Account) of the value of the currency or currencies so withdrawn on account of Parts A(1) 
through A(5), E(1) and E(2) of the Project. 
2. 
LMWTC shall repay: (a) such principal amount; and (b) an amount equal to one 
percent (1%), or such other percentage as may be determined by the Bank from time to 
time pursuant to Section 2.04 of the Loan Agreement, of such principal amount, over a 
period of not more than twenty (20) years, inclusive of a grace period of five (5) years.  
3. 
LMWTC shall pay interest on the principal amount thereof withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time at a rate not less than the rate of interest applicable from 
time to time to the Loan pursuant to Section 2.06 of the Loan Agreement.  
4. 
LMWTC shall pay a commitment charge on such principal amount, not 
withdrawn from time to time at a rate equal to three fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) 
per annum. 
Section II.
Conditions
The Subsidiary Loan Agreement shall include the following principal conditions. 
1. 
LMWTC shall undertake to: (a) carry out Parts A(1) through A(5), E(1), E(2) and 
F
of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with appropriate 
management, financial, engineering and public utility practices and social and 
environmental standards acceptable to the Bank, and provide, promptly as needed, the 
funds, facilities and other resources required for the purpose; and (b) without limitation 
on the foregoing, take all measures necessary to ensure that Parts A and F of the Project 
shall be implemented in accordance with the Resettlement Action Plan and the 
Environmental Management Plan. 
2. 
LMWTC shall undertake to procure the goods, works and consultants' services to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions of 
Page  16
-
15 - 
 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, and utilize such go
ods, works and consultants’ services 
exclusively in the carrying out Parts A(1) through A(5), E(1) and E(2) of the Project.  
3. 
LMWTC shall undertake to enable the Bank, Guangxi and Liuzhou to inspect 
such goods and the sites and works included in Part A(1) through A(5), of the Project, the 
operation thereof, and any relevant records and documents. 
4. 
LMWTC shall undertake to take out and maintain with responsible insurers such 
insurance, against such risks and in such amounts, as shall be consistent with sound 
business practice, including, without limitation, such insurance to cover hazards incident to 
the acquisition, transportation and delivery of goods financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan to the place of use or installation, any indemnity thereunder to be made payable in a 
currency freely usable to replace or repair such goods. 
5. 
LMWTC shall undertake to: 
 
(a) 
Maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with 
sound accounting practices their operations and financial condition. 
 
(b) 
Have its financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and 
expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable 
to the Bank.  
 
(c) 
Furnish to the Bank, Guangxi and Liuzhou, as soon as available, but in 
any case not later than six (6) months after the end of each such year, certified copies of 
said financial statements and accounts for such year as so audited; an opinion on such 
statements by said auditors in such scope and detail as the Bank, Guangxi or Liuzhou 
shall have reasonably requested; and all such other information concerning said records, 
accounts and financial statements, as well as the audit thereof, as the Bank, Guangxi or 
Liuzhou shall reasonably request. 
 
(d) 
Prepare and furnish to the Bank, Guangxi and Liuzhou all such other 
information concerning said records, accounts and financial statements, as well as the 
audit thereof, as the Bank, Guangxi, and/or Liuzhou shall reasonably request. 
(e) 
LMWTC shall undertake to: 
(i) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor 
and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators 
satisfactory to the Bank and to Guangxi the carrying out of Parts 
A(1) through A(5), E(1), E(2) and F of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof; and 
Page  17
-
16 - 
 
(ii) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, to 
Guangxi and Liuzhou, and furnish to Guangxi for its review, 
consolidation and submission to the Bank in accordance with 
paragraph 12 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement on or about 
January 15 and July 15 of each year, commencing on 
January 15, 2006, semi-annual reports integrating the results of 
the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to 
clause (i) of this sub-paragraph (e) on the progress achieved in 
the carrying out of Parts A(1) through A(5), E(1), E(2) and F of 
the Project during the period preceding the date of each such 
report. 
6. 
(a) 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, LMWTC shall undertake to 
produce for each of its fiscal years after its fiscal year ending on December 31, 2005, 
total revenues equivalent to not less than the sum of its: (i) total operating expenses; and 
(ii) the amount by which debt service requirements exceed the provision for 
depreciations.
 
(b) 
LMWTC shall undertake, before October 31 of each of its fiscal years, 
commencing in 2005 on the basis of forecasts prepared by LMWTC and satisfactory to 
the Bank, review with Guangxi and Liuzhou as to whether LMWTC would meet the 
requirements set forth in sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph 6 in respect of such year and 
the next following fiscal year and shall furnish to the Bank the results of such review 
upon its completion. 
(c) 
If any such review shows that LMWTC would not meet the requirements 
set forth in sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph 6 for LMWTC fiscal years covered by 
such review, LMWTC shall promptly take all necessary measures (including, without 
limitation, adjustments of the structure or levels of its wastewater charges to cover 
LMWTC’s operating expenses and depreciation related to LMWTC’s assets) in order to 
meet such requirements. 
(d) 
For purposes of this paragraph 6: 
(i) 
The term “total revenues” means the sum of total operating 
revenues and net non-operating income. 
(ii) 
The term “total operating revenues” means revenues from all 
sources related to operations. 
(iii) 
The term “net non-operating income” means the difference 
between: 
Page  18
-
17 - 
 
(A) 
revenues from all sources other than those related to 
operations; and 
(B) 
expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, 
incurred in the generation of revenues in (A) above. 
(iv) 
The term “total operating expenses” means all expenses related 
to operations, including administration, adequate maintenance, 
taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, and provision for 
depreciation on a straight-line basis at a rate of not less than four 
(4%) per annum of the average current gross value of LMWTC’s 
fixed assets in operation, or other basis acceptable to the Bank, 
but excluding interest and other charges on debt. 
(v) 
The average current gross value of LMWTC’s fixed assets in 
operation shall be calculated as one half of the sum of the gross 
value of LMWTC’s fixed assets in operation at the beginning 
and at the end of the fiscal year, as valued from time to time in 
accordance with sound and consistently maintained methods of 
valuation satisfactory to the Bank. 
(vi) 
The term “debt service requirements” means the aggregate 
amount of repayments (including sinking fund payments, if any) 
of, and interest and other charges on, debt. 
(vii) 
Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be necessary to 
value, in terms of the currency of the People’s Republic of 
China, debt payable in another currency, such valuation shall be 
made on the basis of the prevailing lawful rate of exchange at 
which such other currency is, at the time of such valuation, 
obtainable for the purposes of servicing such debt, or, in the 
absence of such rate, on the basis of a rate of exchange 
acceptable to the Bank. 
7. 
(a) 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, LMWTC shall undertake not 
to incur any debt unless a reasonable forecast of the revenues and expenditures of 
LMWTC shows that the estimated net revenues of LMWTC for each fiscal year during 
the term of the debt to be incurred shall be at least 1.1 times, and by fiscal year 2014 at 
least 1.3 times,  the estimated debt service requirements of LMWTC in such year on all 
debt of LMWTC including the debt to be incurred. 
 
Page  19
-
18 - 
 
(b) 
For purposes of this paragraph 7: 
 
(i) 
The term “debt” means any indebtedness of LMWTC maturing 
by its terms more than one (1) year after the date on which it is 
originally incurred. 
 
(ii) 
Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a loan contract or 
agreement or other instrument providing for such debt or for the 
modification of its terms of payment on the date of such contract, 
agreement or instrument; and (B) under a guarantee agreement, 
on the date the agreement providing for such guarantee has been 
entered into. 
(iii) 
The term “net revenues” means the difference between: 
(A) 
the sum of revenues from all sources related to 
operations and net non-operating income; and 
(B) 
the sum of all expenses related to operations including 
administration, adequate maintenance, taxes and 
payments in lieu of taxes, but excluding provision for 
depreciation, other non-cash operating charges and 
interest and other charges on debt. 
 
(iv) 
The term “net operating income” means the difference between: 
 
(A) 
revenues from all sources other than those related to 
operations; and 
 
(B) 
expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of taxes 
incurred in the generation of revenues in (A) above. 
 
(v) 
The term “debt service requirements” means the aggregate 
amount of repayments (including sinking fund payment, if any) 
of, and interest and other charges on, debt. 
 
(vi) 
The term “reasonable forecast” means a forecast prepared by 
LMWTC not earlier than twelve (12) months prior to the 
incurrence of the debt in question, which both the Bank and 
LMWTC accept as reasonable and as to which the Bank has 
notified LMWTC of its acceptability, provided that no event has 
occurred since such notification which has, or may reasonably be 
expected in the future to have, a material adverse effect on the 
financial condition or future operating results of LMWTC. 
Page  20
-
19 - 
 
(vii) 
Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be necessary to 
value, in terms of the currency of the Borrower, debt payable in 
another currency, such valuation shall be made on the basis of 
the prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such other 
currency is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable for the 
purposes of servicing such debt, or, in the absence of such rate, 
on the basis of a rate of exchange acceptable to the Bank. 
8. 
Liuzhou shall have the right to suspend or terminate the right of LMWTC to the 
use of the proceeds of the loan made available under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement 
upon failure by LMWTC to perform its obligations under the agreement. 
 
