                                     Document of
                                    The World Bank




                                                           Report No: ICR1830



             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                              (IBRD-47810)

                                         ON A

                                         LOAN

                        IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 100 MILLION


                                        TO THE

                           PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA

                                        FOR A

                 LIUZHOU ENVIRONMENT MANAGEMENT PROJECT



                                   February 13, 2012




China and Mongolia Sustainable Development Unit
Sustainable Development Department
East Asia and Pacific Region
                                   CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                               (Exchange Rate Effective 6/30/2011)

                               Currency Unit = Renminbi Yuan (Y)

                               US$ 1. 00 = Yuan 8. 30 (at appraisal)
                               US$ 1. 00 = Yuan 6. 46 (at closing)

                                         FISCAL YEAR
                                     January 1 to December 31

                             ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

BOD      Bio-chemical Oxygen Demand                       M&E          Monitoring and Evaluation
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy                      O&M          Operation and Maintenance
COD      Chemical Oxygen Demand                           PAD          Project Appraisal Document
CPS      Country Partnership Strategy                     PAP          Project Affected People
DO       Dissolved Oxygen                                 PDO          Project Development Objective
DPS      Discharge Permit System                          PIU          Project Implementation Unit
EMP      Environmental Management Plan                    PMO          Project Management Office
EPB      Liuzhou Environmental Protection Bureau          PMU          Project Management Unit
ESD      Liuzhou Environmental Sanitation Department      PPP          Public-Private Partnership
FIRR     Financial Internal Rate of Return                PS           Pumping Station
GUEP     Guangxi Urban Environment Project                RAP          Resettlement Action Plan
ICB      International Bidding Competitive                SA           Social Assessment
KPI      Key Performance Indicator                        TA           Technical Assistance
LMG   Liuzhou Municipal Government                        WWTP         Wastewater Treatment Plant
LMWTC Liuzhou Municipal Wastewater Treatment
      Company Limited




                                Vice President:    Mrs. Pamela Cox, EAP
                              Country Director:    Mr. Klaus Rohland, EACCF
                        Acting Sector Manager:     Mr. Paul Kriss, EASCS
                          Project Team Leader:     Mr. Takao Ikegami, EASIN
                             ICR Team Leader:      Mr. Gang Qin, EASCS
                                                   CHINA
                                    Liuzhou Environment Management Project


                                                           CONTENTS

Data Sheet

1.          Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ..................................................... 1 

2.          Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .................................................... 4 

3.          Assessment of Outcomes ................................................................................................ 11 

4.          Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ............................................................... 16 

5.          Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ........................................................... 17 

6.          Lessons Learned.............................................................................................................. 21 

Annex 1. Project Costs by Component and Financing ................................................................. 24 

Annex 2. Outputs by Component.................................................................................................. 25 

Annex 3. Resettlement .................................................................................................................. 29 

Annex 4. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................................. 31 

Annex 5. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes............................. 34 

Annex 6. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................................... 36 

Annex 7. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results ................................................................... 37 

Annex 8. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................................... 38 

Annex 9. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................................... 53 

Annex 10. List of Supporting Documents and Pictorial Evidence of Achievements ................... 54 

Annex 11. Key Environmental Results ......................................................................................... 55 

Maps
 
A. Basic Information
                                                                           LIUZHOU
                                                                           ENVIRONMENT
Country:                China                    Project Name:
                                                                           MANAGEMENT
                                                                           PROJECT
Project ID:             P081346                  L/C/TF Number(s):         IBRD-47810
ICR Date:               02/13/2012               ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                           PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC
Lending Instrument:     SIL                      Borrower:
                                                                           OF CHINA
Original Total
                        USD 100.00M              Disbursed Amount:         USD 100.00M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 100.00M
Environmental Category: A
Implementing Agencies:
 Project Management Office of Liuzhou Environment Management Project
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                                  Revised / Actual
      Process             Date              Process             Original Date
                                                                                      Date(s)
Concept Review:         11/25/2003    Effectiveness:             11/09/2005           11/09/2005
Appraisal:              12/06/2004    Restructuring(s):                               05/10/2011
Approval:               05/24/2005    Mid-term Review:           01/31/2008           01/19/2008
                                      Closing:                   06/30/2011           06/30/2011

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                        Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                     Low or Negligible
Bank Performance:                                Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                            Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
           Bank                  Ratings               Borrower                     Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:                Satisfactory
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                                       Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
                        Satisfactory                                       Satisfactory
Performance:                                    Performance:



                                                 i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
     Implementation                            QAG Assessments (if
                               Indicators                                                  Rating
      Performance                                      any)
 Potential Problem Project                             Quality at Entry
                             No                                                  None
at any time (Yes/No):                                  (QEA):
 Problem Project at any time                           Quality of Supervision
                             No                                               None
(Yes/No):                                              (QSA):
DO rating before
                             Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                          Original             Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Sanitation                                                                  5                      5
Sewerage                                                                   88                      88
Solid waste management                                                      5                      5
Sub-national government administration                                      2                      2


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Municipal governance and institution building                               20                     20
Pollution management and environmental health                               40                     40
Urban services and housing for the poor                                     40                     40

E. Bank Staff
         Positions                           At ICR                                  At Approval
Vice President:              Pamela Cox                              Jemal-ud-din Kassum
Country Director:            Klaus Rohland                           David R. Dollar
Sector Manager:              Paul Kriss                              Keshav Varma
Project Team Leader:         Gang Qin                                Hiroaki Suzuki
ICR Team Leader:             Gang Qin
ICR Primary Author:          Gang Qin


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
To improve the environmental conditions in Liuzhou through improved wastewater treatment,
sanitation control, solid waste management, and industrial wastewater pollution control. This
objective will be achieved by implementing policy reforms and institutional development of
public utilities, introducing regulatory reforms of industrial wastewater pollution control and


                                                      ii
undertaking priority investments in sewerage networks, wastewater treatment plants, public
toilets, a solid waste transfer station and waste collection stations

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
NA

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                                Original Target                        Actual Value
                                                                     Formally
                                                 Values (from                          Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value                                 Revised
                                                    approval                          Completion or
                                                                  Target Values
                                                   documents)                          Target Years
                  Maintenance of water quality in the downstream portion of the Liujiang River at a
Indicator 1 :
                  minimum of Class III.
Value
quantitative or   class III                    class III                              class III
Qualitative)
Date achieved     11/26/2003                     11/09/2005                           06/30/2011
Comments          Achieved. This target was important as a dam was built in the downstream of Liuzhou
(incl. %          resulting in reduced river’s assimilative capacity. Maintaining water quality at Class III
achievement)      was necessary to secure the safety of the water source downstream of the dam.
Indicator 2 :     Citizen's satisfaction level regarding municipal sanitary conditions in the project area.
Value
                  No baseline survey
quantitative or                                No target set                          84%
                  available
Qualitative)
Date achieved     11/26/2003                     06/30/2011                         12/31/2010
Comments          Achieved. Citizen's satisfaction level increased continuously from 78% in 2007 to 84%
(incl. %          in late 2010 when public toilets were completed. (No survey results are available to
achievement)      reflect results upon closing.)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                               Original Target                           Actual Value
                                                                       Formally
                                                 Values (from                             Achieved at
   Indicator            Baseline Value                             Revised Target
                                                   approval                              Completion or
                                                                        Values
                                                 documents)                              Target Years
Indicator 1 :     Increase of municipal wastewater collected and treated.
                                                                                      475,000m3/day
                  60,000m3/day municipal       475,000m3/day
Value                                                                                 municipal wastewater
                  wastewater collected and     municipal
(quantitative                                                                         collected and treated
                  treated (built capacity      wastewater
or Qualitative)                                                                       (built capacity is
                  100,000m3/day)               collected and treated
                                                                                      500,000m3/day)
Date achieved     11/26/2003                   06/30/2011                             06/30/2011
Comments
(incl. %          Achieved as designed.
achievement)
Indicator 2 :     Provision of improved public toilet facilities and services.
Value             None                        Construction of 62                      Construction of 42

                                                     iii
(quantitative                                  public toilets and                    public toilets, 30
or Qualitative)                                procurement of 30                     portable toilets, 2
                                               portable toilets, 2                   mobile toilets.
                                               mobile toilets
Date achieved     11/26/2003                   06/30/2011                            06/30/2011
Comments
(incl. %          Partially achieved. 20public toilets were cancelled due to public objection.
achievement)
Indicator 3 :     Provision of improved solid waste management facilities and services.
                                              Construction of 42
                                              community solid
                                                                                   Construction of 1
Value                                         waste collection
                                                                                   solid waste transfer
(quantitative     None                        station and 1 solid
                                                                                   station (450
or Qualitative)                               waste transfer
                                                                                   tons/day).
                                              station (450
                                              tons/day).
Date achieved     11/26/2003                  06/30/2011                           06/30/2011
Comments
                  Not achieved. All 42 community solid waste collection stations were cancelled due to
(incl. %
                  public objection; only the solid waste transfer station was done.
achievement)
                  Reduced industrial wastewater pollution loads discharged into the river and the
Indicator 4 :
                  wastewater treatment plants.
                                                Reduce the mass of
                                                pollutants
                                                discharged by the
                                                top 11 polluters
                                                (COD 10,428 t/a, SS
                                                18,480t/a, Oil
                                                                                     COD load reduction
Value                                           17kg/a, BOD
                                                                                     9,668 t/a (2 of the 11
(quantitative     None                          5,184t/a, ammonia
                                                                                     industries went
or Qualitative)                                 2,700 t/a); by the
                                                                                     bankrupt)
                                                top 7 heavy metal
                                                dischargers (Pb
                                                2,856kg/a, CD
                                                943kg/a, As
                                                1,640kg/a, Zn
                                                16,418 kg/a)
Date achieved     11/26/2003                    06/30/2011                           06/30/2011
Comments          Partially achieved. All targeted industries complied with discharge standards. However
(incl. %          only information on COD load reduction was available. Reduction of heavy metals
achievement)      could not be measured on-line.
Indicator 5 :     Improved operational and financial efficiency of the project implementing agencies.
                                                Successful                           Project management
                                                implementation of                    TA was successfully
Value                                           TA for project                       implemented.
(quantitative     None                          management,                          Institutional
or Qualitative)                                 institutional                        development for
                                                development for                      LMWTC was
                                                LMWTC and ESD                        successful but not for

                                                    iv
                                                                                   ESD.
Date achieved   11/26/2003                  06/30/2011                             06/30/2011
Comments        Partially achieved. Although important institutional strides were made for LMWTC,
(incl. %        LMG did not support the institutional reforms envisaged for ESD which remains a
achievement)    government agency.

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

         Date ISR                                                             Actual Disbursements
 No.                              DO                          IP
         Archived                                                                (USD millions)
  1     12/22/2005            Satisfactory                Satisfactory                     0.50
  2     12/22/2006            Satisfactory                Satisfactory                     9.62
  3     12/20/2007            Satisfactory                Satisfactory                    36.09
  4     03/14/2008            Satisfactory                Satisfactory                    47.54
  5     06/23/2009            Satisfactory                Satisfactory                    68.98
  6     04/27/2010            Satisfactory                Satisfactory                    80.66
  7     06/27/2011            Satisfactory                Satisfactory                    97.44


H. Restructuring (if any)

                            ISR Ratings at     Amount
                  Board
 Restructuring              Restructuring Disbursed at Reason for Restructuring & Key
               Approved PDO
    Date(s)                                 Restructuring            Changes Made
                  Change     DO      IP
                                           in USD millions
                                                           In order to fully fund ongoing
                                                           works which were underfunded
                                                           due to (a) the depreciation of the
                                                           US dollar against the Chinese
                                                           Yuan and (b) price escalations of
                                                           construction inputs.
  05/10/2011        N         S       S          93.80     US$2,690,000 under Goods (Part
                                                           2(b)), US$4,400,000 under Goods
                                                           (Part 3(b)) and $320,000 from
                                                           Consultants’ services (3a) were
                                                           reallocated to increase Works (Part
                                                           1(a)) by US$1,835,000 and Works
                                                           (Part 1(b)) by US$5,557,000.




                                                 v
I. Disbursement Profile




                          vi
1.     Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1. 1 Context at Appraisal

Country and Sector Issues
Strong city performance is critical to China’s sustainable growth and economic development. At
the time the project was conceived, China’s cities and towns were fueling over 60% of the
country’s GDP, and that percentage was expected to rise as the urban share of China’s
population climbed. Because China’s cities play a major development role, improving municipal
management and services was an important element in China’s poverty reduction strategy.
Municipal services related to environmental problems such as air and water pollution, associated
with fast growth, were priority areas for development assistance. Cities in China’s western
regions in particular were targeted for assistance because of their comparatively low income
levels and higher poverty rates.
Both China’s Tenth Plan (2001-05) and the Bank’s Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) of 2002-
2007 gave priority to urban environmental protection, wastewater treatment and sanitation.
China’s cities were struggling with polluted water due to raw or poorly treated industrial and
domestic sewage. Insufficient wastewater treatment, weak enforcement of wastewater
regulations and inadequate overall managerial capacity were also identified as contributing
factors. Furthermore, solid waste and sanitary services and infrastructure were deficient and were
threatening urban sanitation and public health.
Such was the case of Liuzhou, a major industrial city of about 1.2 million inhabitants in the
western province of Guangxi. The Liujiang River, the city’s main water source, was highly
polluted by domestic and industrial sewage, due to a treatment rate of only 15%. The city’s fast
growing population (estimated to reach 1. 8 million by 2020) was straining its already burdened
water supply, sewerage and sanitation infrastructure, making further investments in these sectors
indispensable for sustained growth. In addition, public sanitation needed to be improved through
construction of facilities such as public toilets, solid waste collection stations and transfer
stations. Under this scenario, the Liuzhou Municipal Government (LMG) requested the Liuzhou
Environment Management Project in 2003.


1. 2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)
The Project Development Objective (PDO) as stated in the PAD was to improve the
environmental conditions in Liuzhou through improved wastewater treatment, sanitation control,
solid waste management, and industrial wastewater pollution control. This objective was to be
achieved by implementing policy reforms and institutional development of public utilities,
introducing regulatory reforms of industrial wastewater pollution control and undertaking
priority investments in sewerage networks, wastewater treatment plants, public toilets, a solid
waste transfer station and waste collection stations.

The key performance indications were: (1) maintenance of water quality in the downstream
portion of the Liujiang River at a minimum of class III, and (2) citizens’ satisfaction level



                                                1
regarding municipal sanitary conditions in the project area. More detailed results and outcome
indicators for each component were included in Annex 3 of the PAD.

1. 3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification
N/A

1. 4 Main Beneficiaries

The main beneficiaries are summarized below.

      Wastewater Component and Industrial Wastewater Pollution Control Component:
       Approximately 1. 2 million people in Liuzhou City were to benefit from improved
       wastewater service and river water quality. In particular, the residents alongside the
       Zhuexi Creek would benefit from improved surroundings, i.e., landscaping and creek
       river quality.
      Public Sanitation and Solid Waste Management Component: The residents of
       Liuzhou were to benefit from improved services, i.e., easier access to public toilets with
       better maintenance, and more efficient solid waste collection and disposal through
       community collection stations and a new solid waste transfer station.
      Institutional Reform and Capacity Building: The Project Implementing Units (PIUs),
       including Liuzhou Municipal Wastewater Treatment Co. , Ltd. (LMWTC), Liuzhou
       Environment and Sanitation Division (ESD) and Liuzhou Environment Protection Bureau
       (EPB) were to benefit from institutional reform and capacity strengthening.

1. 5 Original Components

Component A: Wastewater Component (Total Project Cost US$166. 5 million, IBRD
US$85. 31 million)

Sub-component A. 1: Wastewater Conveyance/Collection and Treatment (US$127. 86
million, IBRD US$70. 22 million). This sub-component was to develop a comprehensive
wastewater collection and treatment system including: (a) investing in about 73km of sewers, 76
km of interceptors, seven pumping stations (PS), and four WWTPs; (b) rehabilitating about 42
km of drains; and (c) supporting operations in the recently established autonomous wastewater
treatment company, LMWTC.

Sub-component A. 2: Zhuexi Creek Rehabilitation; (US$38. 64 million, IBRD US$15. 08
million). This component was to finance the rehabilitation of about 5. 6km of the southern
tributary of Zhuexi Creek and construction of a culvert along a four km section of its northern
tributary. The rehabilitation of the northern tributary included dredging and disposal of the
Creek’s benthic sediments and restoration or expansion of the northern tributary cross-section.

Component B: Municipal Sanitation (US$8. 82 million, IBRD US$3. 63 million). This
component was to construct approximately 62 public toilets and procure 30 portable toilets, two
mobile toilets, and six sanitation trucks. Toilets were to be placed in commercial and poor

                                                2
districts. Public-private partnerships were to be used whenever possible to reduce municipal
subsidies and improve operational efficiency.

Component C: Solid Waste Management (US$8. 89 million, IBRD US$6. 67 million). This
component was to construct one municipal solid waste transfer station and 42 waste collection
stations, and procure waste collection trucks and associated vehicles to transport waste to the
city’s second landfill.

Component D: Industrial Wastewater Pollution Control (US$1. 85 million, IBRD US$1. 39
million). This component was to help Liuzhou Municipal Government (LMG) implement
comprehensive industrial wastewater pollution control policies and programs. Major activities
included: (a) implementing specific industrial wastewater pollution control action plans for
major polluting enterprises; (b) introducing a Discharge Permit System (DPS); and (c) building
the capacity of the EPB by providing training and equipment.

Component E: Institutional Development and Capacity Building (US$2. 73 million, IBRD
US$2. 51 million). This component provided technical assistance (TA) to help: (a) implement
the project’s wastewater, solid waste management, and municipal sanitation component; (b)
develop the institutional capacity of the LMWTC; (c) improve the efficiency of solid waste
management operations and promote related institutional reforms; and (d) promote public-private
partnerships in public toilet operation.

1. 6 Revised Components

NA

1. 7 Other Significant Changes

A. Changes in Scope
Major changes in scope were made in the Wastewater, Municipal Sanitation and Solid Waste
components, as described below. However, the changes were never formalized through a
restructuring. The changes were normal and expectable, as more detailed information became
available during the ongoing design process and design changes were introduced, so they do not
affect the quality of supervision rating.

Wastewater Component. During implementation of the Baisha works, the sewer design was
revised. As a result, the Dongtai PS was no longer needed and the capacity of the Bailu PS was
expanded from 10,000 m3/day to 31,900 m3/day.

In the Yanghe New Industrial Development District, numerous changes were made as follows:




                                                3
     Planned at Appraisal     Built at                             Remarks
                             Completion

 Xaingluqiao Pump             Canceled       Sewer designs in this catchment were further optimized
 Station, (12,000m3/day)                     such that the PS was no longer needed

 Gutingshan Pump              Canceled       Canceled due to funding shortages caused by the
 Station, 50,000m3/day                       devaluation of the US dollar versus the Chinese Yuan

 Kaifaqu Pump Station,        Canceled       Canceled as the area it was supposed to serve was not
 70,000m3/day                                developed as originally planned

 Jinglan Pump Station,      100,000m3/day    This PS was downsized following a redesign of the
 195,000m3/day                               sewer system in the area.

 95. 31km of sewers         71km of sewers   With the cancellation of three of the PS above, the
                                             length of associated sewers was reduced accordingly.


In the Labao area of Liujiang District, the proposed Jiuquhe PS was canceled as development of
the area to be served did not go forward as expected. As a result, the length of associated sewers
was reduced from 62.9 km to 3.3 km.
Municipal Sanitation Component. The outputs of this component were reduced from 62 public
toilets foreseen at appraisal to 42 constructed at completion due to land acquisition difficulties in
urban areas. Although both local residents and property management companies supported
construction of the toilets at appraisal, they were strongly opposed to their construction during
implementation, leading to the reduced output.
Solid Waste Management Component. This component was also greatly scaled back. At
appraisal, 42 solid waste collection stations were to be located in the communities to facilitate
collection and disposal of domestic solid waste. The construction of the first batch of solid waste
collection stations was strongly opposed by local residents, property management companies and
developers. In the end, none of the solid waste collection station was constructed.
B. Restructuring to Reallocate Loan Proceeds and Add Grace Period
In May 2011, the Bank approved a restructuring to reallocate Loan proceeds in order to fully
fund ongoing works which were underfunded due to the depreciation of the US Dollar against
the Chinese Yuan and price escalations of construction inputs. US$2,690,000 under Goods (Part
2(b)), US$4,400,000 under Goods (Part 3(b)) and $320,000 from Consultants’ services (3a) were
reallocated to increase Works (Part 1(a)) by US$1,835,000 and Works (Part 1(b)) by
US$5,557,000.
To give sufficient time for final withdrawal application submissions after Loan closing date, a
four month grace period ending October 31, 2011 was also added.

2.        Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2. 1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry


                                                     4
Soundness of Background Analysis. The design of this project benefitted from sound
background analysis. When this project was being prepared, the sector background, major sector
issues and government strategies were thoroughly studied and addressed. The rationale for Bank
intervention was strong. The Bank had a proven track record with urban environmental
management and infrastructure projects in China, in particular with the then ongoing Guangxi
Urban Environment Project (GUEP, Ln. 4348, Cr. 3097) which targeted two other municipalities
in the same province as Liuzhou. As such, the Bank was able to provide LMG with expertise and
experience acquired from these China projects as well as from other wastewater and sanitation
programs in the Region, indeed the world. The Bank also enjoyed a strong comparative
advantage in advising on public utility sector policies and reforms, including public private
sector partnerships. However, there were issues with the design and lack of better understanding
of the potential community objections to the investments in solid waste collection stations and
sanitation facilities in neighborhoods, which resulted in the cancellation of many investments
under components B and C. The failure to achieve demand management through sewerage tariff
for major industries was over ambitious and unrealistic.
Lessons Learned. Lessons learned from a World Bank report entitled “Review of the Bank’s
Assistance to the Urban Water Supply and Wastewater Sector? (No. 24979) and from the GUEP,
included the following:
      Managing demand is much less expensive than investing in water supply increases and
       wastewater treatment. Demand management was a central topic of discussion throughout
       project preparation, and water recycling and other strategies related to demand
       management were incorporated into the project’s TA for the EPB and LMWTC;
      Utilities that are financially, legally, and institutionally autonomous can best maximize
       performance and efficiency. The LMG established LMWTC as a legally and financially
       autonomous company. Plans to maximize its efficiency were included in the TA
       component. The project was also designed to help LMG improve the operational
       efficiency of municipal solid waste management through institutional reform and
       capacity development programs.
      Like sewerage service, solid waste management requires adequate operations and
       revenues to build an effective refuse collection system, and commitment from city
       managers to set up adequate operation policies, in particular when landfills are far from
       the city center, thus requiring transfer stations. The LMG intended to improve the
       efficiency of its solid waste management operations by introducing both institutional
       reforms and cost recovery policies. The project provided TA to ESD to analyze various
       institutional options to achieve this objective.
      Targeting multiple cities with complex components can result in implementation delays,
       particularly when project management offices (PMOs) and implementing agencies lack
       staff experience in Bank operations. This project involved only one city and funded a
       limited number of high priority investments and programs. TA was also provided to the
       PMO and the project implementing agencies to strengthen their capacity to implement the
       project.
Assessment of Project Design: The comprehensive design of the project covered the four sectors
that were key to improving environmental conditions and included an important institutional
capacity building component to ensure efficiency and sustainability. In order to build capacity
and ownership of the works, each agency ultimately responsible for operating the works was also

                                               5
responsible for implementation. This “operator-to-implement? approach minimized disputes and
fault upon acceptance of the final works.
The design and preparation of each component were generally adequate to achieve the PDO,
although with some reservations. The design of the wastewater component (which accounted for
81% of total project investments) was successful, although lack of a comprehensive wastewater
master plan led to some major changes in scope. Public consultations carried out during
preparation of the public sanitation and solid waste management components were not
adequately tailored to the target beneficiaries, with reduced outputs in each case. The design of
the industrial pollution control component was successful except that no mechanism was put in
place to ensure that industries with self-supplied water would migrate to purchasing water from
the Liuzhou Water Company.
 This project covered four sectors but achievement of the PDO was monitored using only two
KPI, one on water quality to capture the outcome of the wastewater treatment and industrial
pollution control components, and one on citizen satisfaction with services to capture the
sanitation and solid waste components. The outcome of the project could have been monitored
more closely with addition indicators such as annual volume of solid waste collection. Also, no
baseline survey was conducted during preparation to determine the level of citizen satisfaction
before project start-up and no end-of-project target was specified either. Therefore, it was not
possible to track progress under implementation.
Inconsistent PDO. Although not a major concern, the PDO on page 3 of the PAD was different
from the one on page 23, which is also different from the one in the Loan Agreement. These
inconsistencies should have been corrected before Board presentation.
Government Commitment: As the major environmental problem in Liuzhou Municipality was
water pollution, the LMG issued a policy letter on industrial wastewater pollution control. In this
policy letter, the LMG committed to: (1) relocate the main polluters to the downstream area of
the Liujiang River and enforce the construction of dedicated wastewater treatment plants; (2)
enforce the environmental impact assessment for the newly established industrials; (3) reduce
fresh water consumption through proper demand management; (4) enforce environmental
management regulations, and strengthen the capacity of the EPB; (5) enforce the pollution
control action plan, discharge permission and levy pollution charges. This letter was a firm
indication of LMG’s strong commitment to the project.
Risk Assessment: The PAD correctly assessed the project risks as “substantial?. The substantial
risk that inadequate wastewater tariff increases would impact LMWTC’s financial situation
proved correct. However, the substantial risk that LMWTC’s inexperience and inadequate
technical capacity would delay implementation did not materialize thanks to appropriate design
and use of TA. Other risks that could jeopardize achievement of the PDO were not fully assessed,
including:
      Government’s lax commitment to public sanitation and solid waste management.
       Although the Bank had foreseen that public objections could be strong at appraisal, these
       components were included as LMG committed to support them. Unfortunately, during
       implementation, vociferous public objections led to significant setbacks to these
       components whilst LMG did little to address the situation, a risk the Bank did not foresee.



                                                 6
      Inappropriate public consultation on public sanitation and solid waste management.
       Public outcry over the placement of public toilets and solid waste collection stations was
       the result of inadequate targeting during the consultation process. Risk of public rejection
       was not cited in the PAD.
Termination of use of self–supplied water among major industries. Demand for water was to
be managed by terminating the use of self-supply water by major industries and replacing it by
city water supply. However, two problems arose: (a) the cost differential between city water and
self-supply water was significant, and (b) LMG had insufficient political influence on the
industries to order the needed shut-down. The Bank failed to appraise these risks.
Quality at Entry. The project was not reviewed by the Bank’s Quality Assurance Group. Many
components and intermediate outcome indicators were not achieved since potential problems
with sitting of sanitation and waste facilities were not properly assessed during preparation and
community support was not strong. The design of the components on institutional reform and
public sector participation were also too ambitious and failed. Therefore, despite the wastewater
component being highly successful, some good background analysis and effective incorporation
of lessons learned, clear rationale for Bank intervention, and strong government commitment, the
quality at entry is assessed as moderately satisfactory.

2. 2 Implementation

As described in Section 1. 7 above, the project underwent numerous changes in scope during
implementation, but was never “at risk?. The key factors in implementation are summarized
below.
Lack of a Comprehensive Wastewater Management Master Plan. When preparation of this
project began, Liuzhou Municipality had no wastewater management master plan which the
design institute could use to optimize plans and costs for the sewer networks, PS and WWTPs.
During implementation the design institute thoroughly reviewed the feasibility studies of all four
WWTPs and optimized the designs. Optimization led to the cancellation of five PS, reduction of
sewer lines, and reduced resettlement, while still maintaining the desired pollution load
reductions.
Cost Overruns in the Wastewater Component. The expected cost of the wastewater
component at appraisal was US$99. 84 million, but the final cost was US$117. 9 million, or a
18% increase. Increased costs were due to three factors: (a) the declining value of the US Dollar
vis-à-vis the Chinese Yuan; (b) price escalations of construction inputs; and (c) increased
resettlement costs due to the higher compensation rates demanded by Project Affected Persons
(PAPs) (not a greater number of PAPs or enterprises). These factors led LMWTC to cancel the
Gutingshan PS and its associated sewers, which are now being completed under the Second
Liuzhou Environment Project (LZEMP2, Ln. 8005, FY11). The price increase would have been
higher if the design institute had not been able to optimize designs as discussed above.
Changes due to Public Objection. Public consultations were carried out during preparation, but
the consultations did not directly target the communities living closest to the proposed works,
nor were the questionnaires correctly tailored to the proposed initiative. These two factors led to
heavy public opposition (“NIMBY? or “not in my back yard?) in both the public sanitation and


                                                 7
solid waste components, resulting in substantial reductions in scope. In the future, questionnaires
used in public consultations need to be carefully tailored to the stakeholders and the initiative.
Failure to Achieve Demand Management through Sewerage Tariff for Major Industries.
LMG decided to reduce wastewater by providing incentives to major industries to reduce water
consumption through sewage tariffs which were based on both the quantity and quality
(concentration) of wastewater discharged to sewers. This component was a relatively minor part
of the overall project, but the experience still produced useful lessons. Major industries using
self-supplied water instead of city water supply were supposed to shut down their self-supply
facilities and use smaller quantities of city supply water, thereby managing demand and reducing
wastewater; however, this assumption proved faulty as, according to the hierarchy of state-
owned enterprises in China, these major industries were at least of the same political seniority as
LMG, such that neither LMG nor LMWTC would have sufficient political power to enforce the
closure of these self supply facilities, as self supply was much less expensive than city water.
The revenue stream of LMWTC did increase year by year due to population growth, but this
growth did not make up for lost revenue due to unsuccessful water demand management. This
setback slowed LMWTC’s pace to achieve full cost recovery.
Insufficient Wastewater Tariff Increment. Raising the wastewater tariff was considered
critical to establishing a financially sustainable wastewater company. The Bank team put much
effort into increasing the tariff, but this very difficult to achieve in reality; ultimately, this is part
of the political process at the local level, which goes beyond the scope of this project. Increment
of utility tariff was extremely political sensitive and difficult in China as it was thought to be
relevant to the inflation. At appraisal the wastewater tariff was RMB 0. 50/m3 which had
increased to RMB 0. 80/m3 by loan closing; however this is lower than the expected tariff of
RMB 1. 2/m3 expected by 2010. Lessons learned from other water and wastewater projects in
China show that tariffs in China follow agreed domestic procedures and that covenants in project
legal agreements have very little influence. These lessons will better inform future covenant
terms and expectations.

2. 3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

M&E Design. Two outcome indicators (concerning river water quality and citizen satisfaction
levels regarding municipal sanitation) were selected to assess progress toward PDOs. These two
KPIs were broken down into a number of results indicators for each component. Overall, these
output indicators were sound and successfully covered the major issues related to each
component.
It is worth noting that in some cases, however, the linkage between output indicators and
outcome indicators was tenuous. For example, the connection between wastewater management
and industrial pollution control to the quality of surface water objective was not fully secured
from a technical point of view. As noted in Section 2. 1 above, there also should have been more
KPIs established to monitor and evaluate this comprehensive project.

M&E Implementation. LMWTC closely monitored the performance of its WWTPs, including
results indicators relevant to M&E (e. g. volume of wastewater treated and key pollutant load
reduction.

                                                    8
ESD conducted annual surveys of citizen satisfaction levels by distributing comprehensive
questionnaires to the users of public toilets. The users of the public toilets were requested to
participate in the survey by completing the questionnaire. Overall the surveys went smoothly.
EPB. Two automatic on-line monitoring stations were installed where the Liujiang River enters
and exits Liuzhou city. The EBP did (and continues to do) a satisfactory job of collecting and
analyzing a comprehensive set of parameters that inform adequate assessment of whether the
river water quality was/is meeting Class III standards.
The EBP was also responsible for M&E of the industrial pollution component. The project set up
a high tech, on-line monitoring system between 11 enterprises and the EPB. The system
monitored real time compliance with a comprehensive set of pollutant parameters, and included a
thorough real-time alarm system. When such alarm is sounded, the EPB promptly issues a
warning to the offending industry; if the industry does not take prompt corrective action within
two days, the EPB may issue a fine.
The EPB was also supposed to collect data on heavy metal discharges such as cadmium, arsenic
and lead. However, the EPB had difficulty monitoring data, due to inadequate budget and a large
number of industries from which to collect data.
 M&E Utilization. The water quality monitoring data was used to assess the water quality in the
downstream area of the Liujiang River for compliance with Class III standards. (See: Section 3.
2 below.)
The citizen satisfaction levels with municipal sanitary conditions were used to assess the
contribution of this project to overall sanitary improvements in the city, and to support public
service decision making.
The EPB utilized the automatic monitoring system to take corrective action in the case of
noncompliance with pollution emission standards as described above.

2. 4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Safeguard Compliance. This project triggered two safeguards: environmental assessment (OP 4.
01) and involuntary resettlement (OP 4. 12). It was appropriately designated as a category “A?
project because it involved substantial involuntary resettlement, and construction and operation-
related impacts were significant.
Environmental Management Plan. In accordance with the EMP, two environmental
management systems were set up within LMWTC and ESD in order to monitor the project’s
negative environmental impacts and the effectiveness of the proposed mitigation measures.
During the construction of the WWTPs, public toilets and solid waste transfer stations, dust
emissions, noise and wastewater discharges were strictly monitored. Both LMWTC and ESD
designated qualified staff to oversee the implementation of EMP with strong support from the
PMO and EPB (through the Liuzhou Environmental Monitoring Station).
During implementation, the site of the solid waste transfer station was changed and the EA was
updated accordingly to accommodate this change in accordance with OP 4. 01.
Involuntary Resettlement. During implementation, the PMO focused on reducing the
resettlement impact of the wastewater component through detailed project design reviews.

                                                 9
Impacts due to both land acquisition and house demolition were reduced. For example in the
wastewater component, 8,584m2 of land acquisition and 3,883m2 of structure demolition were
avoided, compared to targets in the Resettlement Action Plans (RAP). However, resettlement
costs actually increased by RMB 32. 72 million because the actual compensation rates for land
acquisition and house demolition rose compared to rates in the RAP due to inflation and rapid
economic growth in the city. The compensation funds were distributed to the affected households
as no land redistribution was undertaken. The livelihoods of those affected were restored by
establishing collective-owned businesses and through job placement assistance.
In the solid waste and sanitation components, a benefit of the reduction in scope was the
corresponding reduction in the cost of land acquisition. The relocated public toilets were mostly
located on green space to avoid resettlement and the community solid waste collection stations
were cancelled. As such, the compensation costs were RMB 12. 2 million less than forecast in
the RAP, even when considering the increased cost of RMB5. 2 million for land for the solid
waste transfer station.
The resettlement practices for both the wastewater and sanitation components were monitored by
the Shanghai Academy of Social Science and the external monitoring reports were submitted to
the Bank semi-annually. Resettlement Completion Report for the project was completed and
submitted in March 2011. The report concluded that the resettlement objectives of improving the
livelihoods of the PAPs after resettlement were indeed met. For details refer to Annex 3.
Fiduciary Compliance.
Financial Management. Overall financial management compliance was satisfactory. Fiduciary
risk was correctly rated “moderate? at appraisal. A well-established accounting system was set
up. This financial management system offered a powerful tool to the management of LMWTC
for monitoring and decision-making. The financial management of LMWTC was upgraded from
a traditional “planning driven? model used by China’s State Owned Enterprises, to a more
“market driven? model. The financial model is in line with both operational and fiduciary
requirements. The Bank trained LMWTC’s financial staff on the operation of the model in the
first half of 2006. The PMO submitted annual audit reports to the Bank in a timely manner and
opinions were clean.
Procurement. Procurement was carried out in a satisfactory manner and in compliance with
Bank procurement guidelines. No supplier or contractor ever complained or questioned the
fairness of the contract awards. Contracts were bid and awarded within normal turn-around times,
enabling the project to be completed on time.

2. 5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

Wastewater Component
LMWTC implemented the wastewater component and is now responsible for operating and
maintaining all of Liuzhou’s wastewater assets. LMWTC is well staffed with more than 110
employees. The operation and maintenance costs of LMWTC are covered by a combination of
wastewater tariff revenues and government subsidies. LMG has committed to increase the
wastewater tariff in order to make LMWTC financially autonomous by 2014.



                                                10
The operational performance of the four WWTPs was assessed just before loan closing. It was
found that the plants’ O&M was satisfactory and effluent quality was complying with discharge
standards (see table 2 in Section 3. 2 below). In addition, the quality of the Liujiang River
downstream of Liuzhou Municipality has remained stable at Class III surface water standard.
Water quality monitoring indicators developed under this project will be used by the EPB to
track water quality continually.
The sludge generated from four treatment plants is currently landfilled. After completion of the
Second Liuzhou Environment Management Project (LZEMP2), the sludge will be co-incinerated
by cement kilns located at the Yufeng Cement Plant in Liuzhou City. Therefore the impact of
sludge disposal on the environment will be minimized.
The project failed to achieve its water demand management goal by shutting down water self-
supply facilities of major industries. Nevertheless, the LMG recognizes that demand
management is one of the most efficient ways of reducing water pollution and has begun
allocating water quotas and imposing penalty tariffs if the quotas are exceeded. With constant
efforts by LMG, a 50,000m3/day water treatment plant which is a self-supply facility owned by
Liuzhou Railway Bureau, is expected to be taken over by LMWTC in 2012. The wastewater
tariff will then be billed to the users served by this plant. This is an important milestone of the
demand management campaign.
Municipal Sanitation Component and Solid Waste Component
Both the solid waste transfer station and the public toilets have been transferred to and are
managed by ESD, the agency in charge of O&M of solid waste collection, conveyance and
disposal as well as operation of public toilets. Under the current system, the operational costs of
ESD are secured by government budget. ESD is staffed by 240 employees which is adequate for
daily operations.
ESD arranges training for its staff in various competencies such as O&M skills, occupational
health and safety, human resources, finance and accounting, etc. ESD is now investigating the
prospect of gradually replacing the community solid waste collection stations with a “capped
garbage bin to transfer station? scheme which had been widely accepted by many cities in China.
ESD has also proposed adding an indicator on citizen satisfaction with sanitation to its routine
performance indicators.
In addition to the existing landfill and transfer station, LMG has decided to invest in an
additional landfill including a dedicated leachate treatment plant and a human feces disposal
plant to further enhance the city’s sanitation service level.

3.     Assessment of Outcomes

3. 1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

Rating: Highly Satisfactory
The project was highly relevant for Liuzhou Municipality at approval and remains so today. The
improvement of environmental conditions is increasingly important as China is experiencing
rapid economic growth and urbanization. Currently a long-term “energy saving and discharge
reduction? campaign is being conducted by the Ministry of Environmental Protection aiming to

                                                 11
reduce pollution by rational utilization of natural resources. In Liuzhou Municipality, the EPB is
imposing a strict environmental monitoring and pollution control action plan on recent fast-
growing industries, e. g., the automobile industry, in order to curb environmental pollution
impacts.
The project also remained relevant to the Bank’s Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) for 2006-
2010 and remains relevant under the new CPS currently slated for discussion in FY12. Both CPS
emphasize the importance of environment management. Notably the goal stated as Pillar 3 of the
2006-2010 CPS is to “Manage resource scarcity and environmental challenges, through reducing
air pollution, conserving water resources and optimizing energy use (partly through pricing
reforms), improving land administration and management, and observing international
environmental conventions?.

3. 2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

Rating: Satisfactory
The LZEMP aimed to improve environmental conditions in Liuzhou Municipality through
improved wastewater treatment, sanitation control, solid waste management and industrial
wastewater pollution control. Because the wastewater component was 81% of the Bank loan and
59% of the overall project cost, the achievements of the wastewater component are weighted
more heavily than the other components in this assessment. This means that, although two of the
project components are rated “Satisfactory? (versus three components being rated “Moderately
Satisfactory?), since the very successful Wastewater component comprised the vast majority
portion of total project investment and work, the achievement of overall PDOs is assessed to be
satisfactory.
Wastewater Sector: Satisfactory. The achievements under the wastewater component are rated
satisfactory. With the completion of four WWTPs and their associated PS and sewer networks,
the total built wastewater treatment capacity in Liuzhou Municipality has reached 500,000m3/d,
of which 400,000m3/d were financed by LZEMP. Currently up to 78% of wastewater discharge
is treated, and this level of treatment undoubtedly plays a decisive role in maintaining water
quality at Class III in the downstream areas of the Liujiang River. Compliance with Class III
water standards in the downstream monitoring sections between 2006-2010 is shown in Table 1
in Annex 11.
The COD and ammonia nitrogen loads are being reduced by the four WWTPs as shown in Table
2 in Annex 11. With the load reductions demonstrated therein, it is clear that four WWTPs are
substantially contributing to maintaining Class III water quality in downstream areas of the
Liujiang River. Even though no modeling results are available to predict the likely water quality
without these WWTPs, it can be easily conjectured that without the project, the water quality of
this section of the river would have likely dropped to Class IV (unsafe as a drinking water
source).
The Zhuexi Creek rehabilitation works have greatly enhanced the environment alongside the
creek. Property prices may be a useful proxy indicator of this. Before rehabilitation the average
property price in the area was less than RMB 1,800/m2; by 2010, it had more than doubled to
RMB 4,000/m2. (See: Annex 10 for photos of these improvements).


                                                12
Sanitation Sector: Moderately Satisfactory. Originally the project was to finance the
procurement and installation of 62 public toilets and 30 portable public toilets. However, public
opposition and related land acquisition difficulties led to the construction and installation of only
42 public toilets and 30 portable toilets. The number of permanent public toilets installed was
only 68% of the target and the number of people served per public toilet was only 67% (7,794
person-time per day surveyed against 11,619 person-time per day stated in the feasibility study)
of the projected figure. Nevertheless, citizen satisfaction with the services provided stood at 84%
in the final survey, a figure considered fully satisfactory.
Public-Private Partnership in Sanitation. At appraisal, LMG committed to introducing public-
private partnerships for the operation and maintenance of public toilets. However, a campaign
was launched in China recently enabling people to use public facilities (e. g. , parks, public
toilets, museums) for free, obviating the need for such partnership. The O&M of the public
toilets (RMB 8 million annually, compared to total revenues of RMB 20 billion) does not pose a
fiscal burden on Liuzhou Municipality.
Solid Waste Sector: Moderately Satisfactory. The project financed the construction of a
450t/day solid waste transfer station as originally foreseen except at a different location. The
originally proposed site became unavailable when the land use master plan was updated, so a
new site had to be identified, the land acquired, and safeguards work completed before
construction could begin. The new transfer station was commissioned just before loan closing.
Once it is operating at full capacity, it will process approximately 50% of the solid waste
generated in Liuzhou city, including in the new development zones. All the new solid waste
equipment purchased (solid waste collection and transportation trucks, street sweeping, sewer
blockage cleaning) is performing as expected to transport some 550 tons of solid waste daily to
the landfill.
However, none of the 42 community solid waste collection stations were built due to heavy
public opposition over their placement in the communities. ESD worked diligently to upgrade
the existing community solid waste collection stations by installing compacting facilities to
expand their capacity to receive additional solid waste from neighboring communities.
Industrial Wastewater Pollution Control: Satisfactory
The LZEMP was one of the few Bank projects in China that combined both municipal
wastewater treatment and industrial pollution control to influence water quality. A
comprehensive industrial pollution control action plan, principally involving wastewater
treatment and reduction of heavy metals, was satisfactorily implemented, thereby reducing
pollution flowing into the Liujiang River and helping it remain at Class III.
Eight of the top 11 industrial polluters were forced to build dedicated wastewater treatment
facilities. (The other three polluters either went bankrupt or achieved zero liquid discharge. ) The
combined built treatment capacity of these eight WWTPs is about 572,000 m3/day, which
eliminates approximately 10,000 tons of COD annually. At loan closing all the industries had
met the Discharge Standard for Municipal Wastewater (CJ3082-1999) or Integrated Wastewater
Discharge Standard (GB8978-1996) in the case of treated effluent discharges into sewers or
water bodies respectively.
For the reduction of heavy metals, one enterprise was shut down while the other six met the
discharge standards as noted above and were licensed. The EPB will neither permit expansion of

                                                 13
existing facilities nor approve the application of new licenses. Due to budget and technology
constraints the EPB was unable to monitor on-line the discharge of heavy metals and instead
relies on random samples once a year.
The Discharge Permit System (DPS) is being executed satisfactorily in the city. The EPB has
issued more than 120 permits (renewable annually after thorough appraisal) including permits for
the 11 major aforementioned industries.
One shortcoming of this component was its failure to reduce wastewater by managing water
demand through a sewerage tariff, as specified in the Policy for Industrial Wastewater Pollution
Control (see attachment, annex 1 of the PAD). However, the overall impact on the quality of the
river water has not been seriously compromised.
Institutional Development and Capacity Building: Moderately Satisfactory
 The establishment of LMWTC was an important milestone of the policy reform in the utility
sector. LMWTC took over wastewater management from the government. It owns all the assets
and has the right to collect sewage tariffs from customers and users of self-supplied water
directly instead of having that revenue pass through the Liuzhou Finance Bureau as before.
Shortcomings in the management of water demand to reduce wastewater were discussed in
Section 2. 2 and in the paragraph just above on industrial pollution.
Institutional reform in the sanitation and solid waste sectors was not satisfactory. For the time
being O&M of the facilities will remain with the government as any reform would require
government approval of an elaborate reorganization.
The EPB’s capacity was strengthened through implementation of the industrial pollution control
master plan. The EPB is now equipped with high-tech, on-line monitoring instruments and is
executing the discharge permit and licensing system satisfactorily.

3. 3 Efficiency

As ESD is a government entity, the usual type of economic analysis applied to the private sector
is not applicable. Therefore, economic and financial analyses were only conducted for
LZMWTC, targeting the operation and maintenance of treatment plants.
The financial rate of return (FIRR) for the wastewater component is estimated at 5. 8%, which is
lower than the rate of 9. 5% estimated at appraisal. This mainly results from the lower tariff base
actually realized for the project compared with that expected at appraisal and failure of self-
supplied water users to migrate to the water company.
Although the FIRR does not reach the originally appraised cost of capital of 7. 1% assessed at
appraisal, the cost of capital is substantially reduced since time of appraisal. In the FIRR
calculation, the appraisal team took a conservative approach to consider no tariff increase after
2020. If the continued tariff increases are considered beyond 2020, the FIRR for this project is
calculated to clear the cost of capital assessed at appraisal by increasing the tariff by 12% every
three years. The level of tariff for domestic customers in this calculation will be RMB2. 12 per
m3 in 2030, which is expected to be well within the affordable level for domestic customers.
LMWTC was envisaged at appraisal to operate on its own tariff revenues. However, due to the
lower tariff base, it has been relying on municipal government subsidies to meet its obligations.

                                                 14
The LMG fully supports LMWTC and has responded in a timely manner to meet LMWTC’s
financial needs. This enabled LMWTC to comply with financial covenants with the cost
recovery ratio covenant of no less than 1. 0 and the debt service ratio covenant of no less than1. 1.
This situation, however, will change in the medium term since LMWTC’s financial situation will
improve as wastewater tariffs increase. LMWTC is expected to be financially viable without
relying on government subsidies in 2014 when the wastewater tariff should reach RMB 1. 25 per
m3 from the current level of RMB 0. 80 per m3 (See Annex 4).

3. 4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Satisfactory
The overall rating is satisfactory. The project objective remains fully consistent with China’s
environmental protection policies and with the current and next CPS. The outcome of the project
is satisfactory. The water quality in the downstream of Liujiang River has been maintained at
Class III, thereby guaranteeing the safety of that water source. The citizen satisfaction levels
regarding municipal sanitary conditions in the project area have increased from 78% in 2008 to
84% in 2010. Important institutional reforms were made in the wastewater sector to strengthen
its capacity and sustainability.
However, as noted earlier in the ICR, only the first of five intermediate outcome indicators were
achieved. The remaining four were either partially achieved (indicators number 2, 4 and 5) or not
achieved (indicator number 3). Despite this, the PDO indicators of pollution reduction and
improvement of water quality and public satisfaction were fully achieved as these indicators
were most closely linked to the first intermediate outcome indicator as explained in Section 2. 3
of the M&E design.
During project supervision many efforts have been made by the PMO and task team to minimize
the impact of the partial failure of the solid waste and public sanitation investments, such as
replacing the permanent public toilets with portable public toilets and moving some public toilets
to new development areas (“Green Belts?) to reduce impacts and avoid resettlement.
Additionally, ESD was able to make improvements to existing community solid waste collection
stations, such as introducing on-site waste compacting, which helped increase the disposal
capacity and reduce negative environmental impact to communities. Both measures greatly
contributed to the achievement of the PDO indicator number 2 with resident satisfaction levels at
84%, despite.
As for the intermediate outcome indicator number 5, although the institutional reform of ESD
was not implemented as planned, the department is functioning well and providing satisfactory
services to the local community. Given the relatively small investment in solid waste and
sanitation services compared to the overall project investments, the failure to reform ESD only
had a very minor impact on the overall outcome rating.

3. 5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development




                                                15
In the early 2000s the wastewater tariff level was very low in Liuzhou Municipality. In order to
cover the operational costs of LMWTC, LMG increased the wastewater tariff, which imposed an
additional financial burden on the low-income households in the city.
In order to alleviate this burden, the LMG decided to exempt low-income families from paying
for the first four cubic meters of wastewater tariff per month per head. Given per capita water
consumption in low-income families is mostly less than 133L per head per day in the city, this
policy has actually exempted low-income families from paying a wastewater bill.
(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

LMWTC: The project has had a long-term impact on LMWTC in terms of institutional
strengthening. During preparation, a tailored financial model was established by the Bank to
support the operation of the treatment plants. Afterwards this model was updated by the Bank to
cater to the operational requirements of those plants.
With this financial system supported by the Bank, the management of LMWTC is able to pay
closer attention to the cost of wastewater treatment, specifically by enabling LMWTC to
understand the composition of the costs and to determine ways to reduce them.
The current institutional structure of the LMWTC was the outcome of the TA component. This
institutional structure takes into account such institutional requirements as operation and
maintenance of treatment plants and management of project implementation (wastewater
component). Specifically, this institutional structure focuses on the importance of competency
training, which enables staff of LMWTC to build up its capacity and contributes more to the
business of the company; LMWTC intends to strengthen this aspect under the LZEMP2.
Further evidence of the institutional strengthening of LMWTC is that current organizational
structure of the WWTPs has been replicated to the county-level treatment plants retro-financed
by the LZEMP2.
ESD: One of the TA consultants submitted a comprehensive proposal in terms of the
institutional strengthening of ESD; however, being purely a government agency, ESD is
currently unable to fully implement this proposal, as the suggestions were made in the view of
creating a private, competitive utility company. The ESD also tried a Public-Private-Partnership
(PPP) in managing public toilets, as originally proposed in the PAD. However, under central
government direction, the LMG declared the public toilets free-of-charge so PPP is not currently
an option. Even though not all of the institutional strengthening proposals can be carried out,
with the on-going reforms of the utility sector in China these institutional suggestions are
expected to add value to the environmental and sanitation management sector in Liuzhou City.


(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)
NA

3. 6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
NA

4.     Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Negligible
                                               16
Overall, LMG has demonstrated strong commitment to environmental improvements in the city.
The key elements of this project, namely the wastewater networks and treatment plants, were
completed on time, and a second project is already underway to further consolidate and extend
the benefits of this project. Although there were shortcomings in meeting the covenant for full
cost recovery (due to unrealistic expectations of political flexibility regarding tariff increases),
LMG has consistently provided timely and ample subsidies to permit LMWTC to maintain
operations satisfactorily. As covenanted in the Project Agreement of LZEMP, the LMG has
committed to increase the wastewater tariff to fully cover the operational cost of LMWTC,
although not until 2014. Success within the Wastewater component leaves no reason to doubt the
continuation of project success and eventual cost recovery, and therefore risks are assessed to be
negligible.
The water quality in the Liujiang River may deteriorate due to incremental pollution loads
conveyed from farther upstream or through an industrial pollution incident. However, with the
completion of county WWTPs in the upstream region (retro-financed under LZEMP2) the risk
for this is relatively low. These risks to the sustainability of the development objective and its
related outcomes are therefore also considered negligible.
With regard to the solid waste and sanitation sector, the ESD has strengthened management of
public toilets, the solid water transfer station and landfills. The public toilets are satisfactorily
maintained, and related costs are easily affordable. Also with local financing, ESD has proposed
constructing a second landfill in Liuzhou Municipality and may invest in upgrading the leachate
treatment for the existing landfill. ESD is investigating the feasibility of using the capped bins to
collect household solid waste instead of community solid waste collection station. This solid
waste management reform has been widely accepted by many cities in China and is so far
successful. Risks to the sustainability of this component are therefore also negligible.

5.     Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5. 1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
In order to improve environmental conditions in Liuzhou Municipality, the Bank employed a
comprehensive, multi-sectoral approach, including wastewater treatment, sanitation, solid waste
management, and industrial pollution control.
In the wastewater sector, the Bank succeeded in convincing LMG to establish LMWTC as an
autonomous agency dedicated to wastewater management, so that LMG would be free to focus
its attention on policy-making and strategic planning. LMWTC was involved in the construction
and commissioning of all four WWTPs, which significantly benefited default minimization such
that effluent quality compliance could be expedited. However, the intermediate outcome
indicators related to solid waste and sanitation were not achieved since potential problems with
sitting of sanitation and waste facilities were not properly assessed during preparation and
community support was not strong. Better surveys should have been designed to understand the

                                                 17
concerns of local people and commitment of communities to the investments. NYMBY (Not-In-
My-Backyard) issues are common in designing and implementing investments in these sectors,
but were not fully assessed and recognized during preparation.
The Bank’s expectations for wastewater tariff increases were also unrealistic due to the political
nature of these changes, which are beyond the scope of such projects. Through implementation
of other Bank projects, it has been recognized that, in China, tariff increases are very much
politically driven. In comparison with their political concerns, local governments do not accord
appreciable importance to compliance with financial covenants.
At project appraisal in late 2004, industrial pollution was serious in Liuzhou. Apart from laying
sewers and building WWTPs, the Bank also incorporated an industrial pollution control action
plan to further control water pollution. Appropriate TA focused on building the capacity of the
EPB, which would be playing a key role in implementing this action plan.
The Bank efficiently prepared and delivered the project in approximately 18 months and with a
budget of $430,500. This timing is average for Bank projects, though the costs were somewhat
high. Overall the process and main actors within project preparation were of high quality. The
team engaged a number of internal and external experts for project preparation and peer review.
The experts had rich experience in terms of environment, social, procurement, water and
sanitation, and financial management. As discussed in Section 2. 1, quality at entry was
satisfactory. Fiduciary, sustainability assessments were thorough, but the risk assessment and
public consultations were inadequate resulting in the significant changes in scope.
(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Satisfactory
Given Liuzhou had no previous Bank project experience, the Bank paid particular attention to
procurement, fiduciary and safeguard aspects in order to lay a strong foundation for expeditious,
high quality implementation, starting with a Project Launch Workshop in 2005. The Bank
worked closely with the implementing agencies to ensure that outcome indicators of each
component were understood and monitored. Much attention and support was given to the solid
waste and sanitation components to overcome the difficulties encountered. The team supervised
the project regularly and made substantial use of Bank resources in the Beijing Office, ensuring a
high level of client responsiveness and limiting total supervision costs to $376,000.
Substantial support was given to the solid waste and public sanitation components where public
opposition to the toilets and community solid waste collection stations was strong. The Bank
agreed with ESD to relocate many of the public toilets to the green belt of the city to mitigate the
land acquisition impacts. The solid waste transfer station and 31 out of 42 public toilets had to be
relocated requiring substantial safeguard re-appraisal. The Bank’s safeguards team worked
quickly and efficiently to review the new safeguards documents. Without such diligence, the
project might not have been completed by the original Loan closing date.
However, given the difficulties in implementing the public sanitation and solid waste
components, it would have been appropriate to adjust the project output targets for these two
components with a restructuring. Restructuring was mostly the result of the devaluation of the
dollar; the procurement plan was estimation, and actual costs then changed during
implementation. Supervision of this and other processes was satisfactory.

                                                18
The Bank took considerable pains to minimize the impact of land acquisition and resettlement.
For example, under the wastewater component, by helping the design institutes to optimize
engineering designs, about 0. 86 hectares of land acquisition was reduced, and about 3,883m2 of
structure demolition was avoided. In the sanitation component, most of the public toilets that
were finally constructed occupied open land or green belts of the city, thereby minimizing
resettlement impacts.
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Satisfactory
Overall the Bank’s performance was satisfactory, given satisfactory ratings in quality at entry,
supervision performance, and the overall project outcome rating is satisfactory.

5. 2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance

Rating: Satisfactory
The rating refers to both central government and Liuzhou Municipal Government.
Government ownership was strong throughout project preparation and implementation, except
that LMG’s support for the sanitation and solid waste components waivered when public
opposition arose. Supportive sectoral and institutional policies in place at the time where applied,
and in a number of cases enhanced. Examples include the transformation of LMG from service
provider to facilitator, transfer of managerial responsibility of the wastewater management to
LMWTC, and periodic, although inadequate, wastewater tariff increases. However, the
institutional reform of ESD was not carried out as solid waste and public sanitation remain
government responsibilities. Also public-private partnering in the public sanitation component
had to be abandoned when public services such as toilets were ordered to be provided free of
charge.
Implementation arrangements for both investments and technical assistance were satisfactory. A
PMO was established under the leadership of the Liuzhou Development and Reform Committee,
which enabled strong governmental support and coordination. With support from the Bank,
implementation issues were resolved in a timely manner, the exception being the cases of public
opposition. The fiduciary requirements were met. Stakeholder consultation and information
disclosure were timely and adequate for all safeguards.


(b) Implementing Agencies’ Performance

Rating: Satisfactory
This rating refers to the Liuzhou Municipal Wastewater Treatment Co. , Ltd (LMWTC), Liuzhou
Environment and Sanitary Division (ESD) and Liuzhou Environment Protection Bureau (EPB).



                                                19
All implementing agencies maintained strong commitment to achieving the PDO, proactively
carrying out their respective parts of the project, and addressing most obstacles as required. The
project was completed by the original closing date and the Loan was 100% disbursed.
LMWTC. The wastewater component was implemented smoothly and efficiently by LMWTC.
Due to the differences between Bank and Chinese procurement guidelines and practices,
LMWTC had to learn and apply both set of rules simultaneously, and endeavored to convince
governmental agencies in-charge to accept Bank rules with support from the Bank. As a result,
procurement was completed satisfactorily. Although inexperienced at project start-up, LMWTC
staff carried out all aspects of project implementation satisfactorily and had gained valuable
project experience by Loan closing. The same project team ably prepared and is now
implementing LZEMP2.
Although engineering designs were optimized to reduce resettlement impacts, the final
compensation costs related to the wastewater component exceeded the appraisal cost estimate by
$5. 66 million or RMB 32. 72 million. An external survey disclosed that the incomes of the PAPs
after the project were 106% higher than before the project. Generally the interests of PAPs were
carefully protected.
The Environmental Management Plan (EMP) was carefully executed during construction of
WWTPs and sewers. The independents institutions were engaged to closely monitor and evaluate
EMP implementation. No breach of EMP was identified during the project implementation.
Having taken over the wastewater asset from municipality the LMMTC is actively enhancing its
O&M capability. A comprehensive training program has been incorporated into the TA
component of LZEMP2 and is expected to be implemented since 2012.
ESD. The biggest problem ESD encountered was public opposition to the installation of public
toilets in urban areas, and the subsequent relocation of about half of them, as well as opposition
to the community solid waste transfer stations. In order to minimize the negative impact of the
delays on the environment, ESD replaced the cancelled public toilets with 30 portable ones to
maintain service levels. In addition, ESD worked diligently to upgrade the existing community
solid waste collection stations by installing compacting facilities to expand their capacity to
receive additional solid waste from neighboring communities.
EPB. The EPB performed satisfactorily in implementing the industrial pollution control action
plan. When implementation commenced, the EPB experienced difficulties with preparing
procurement bidding documents, selecting a site for the monitoring stations, monitoring water
quality on-line, and issuing discharge permits. Eventually the EPB was gained experience in
these areas and completed implementation on time. Its on-line system for monitoring compliance
with industrial wastewater treatment is fully functional and effective, but unfortunately it was not
equipped to monitor reduction of heavy metals.
All covenants were complied with except wastewater tariffs were not increased as foreseen
during preparation. See Annex 2 for a table on the status of compliance with covenants.
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Satisfactory



                                                20
Both the government and the implementing agencies performances are rated satisfactory and the
project outcome is satisfactory.

6.     Lessons Learned

6.1 Risk assumptions relevant to tariffs must be carefully assessed.
The Bank, during both appraisal and supervision, worked under the assumption that substantial
migration from major self-supplied water industries to the water supply company would take
place such that tariff collection from self-supplied users could be substantially improved by
various initiatives to be taken by LMG as part of the Industrial Wastewater Action Plan.
However, as described in Section 2. 2, this assumption proved unattainable as the hierarchy of
stated-owned enterprises and local government was not fully recognized.
Lesson learned from this case is that, in order to make a sound financial analysis, the risk of any
assumption made to the likely volume of wastewater relevant to the tariff collection must be
carefully examined and institutionally assessed.
6.2 Lack of a city wastewater master plan can easily lead to overdesign.
A comprehensive wastewater master plan is essential to managing wastewater in a large city like
Liuzhou. During project preparation, the city had no master plan to support the preparation of the
wastewater component. Therefore the feasibility studies prepared at appraisal concentrated on
the scope of the investments but did not simultaneously examine the rationale of the design as
part of a greater whole. When designs were considered as part of a master plan, efficiencies were
identified which resulted in the cancellation of many proposed investments.
When preparing a wastewater management project for a city without a comprehensive master
plan, the Bank should have all feasibility studies reviewed by a panel of experts representing all
the relevant specialties. This would avoid overdesign and increase efficiency.
6.3 Public consultations must be directly targeted to connect the direct beneficiaries to the
    proposed initiatives.
Public opposition to the community solid waste collection stations and to the public toilets
resulted in major reductions in project scope. Upon closer review of the public consultation
process, it was found that the participating residents were selected from within or nearby the
community, but they were not necessarily those who lived closest to the proposed infrastructure,
i. e., the public toilets and/or collection stations. Furthermore, the questionnaires were designed
more around the architectural aspects of the facilities rather than focusing on the public’s
acceptance of facilities in their neighborhoods. Against this backdrop, public objection is much
less surprising.
In future, public consultations must target the direct beneficiaries of the infrastructure and should
not only discuss the aesthetic aspects, but also their actual placement within the community to
gauge community acceptance before implementation begins.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies
The following issues and suggestions were raised in the borrower’s report dated 20 July 2007
and a meeting with the PMO on 22nd July 2010.
                                                 21
 (a)    “The review of bidding documents sometimes takes long time e. g. as long as 2-3 months.
In addition, different Bank staff may have different standard in reviewing technical specification
e. g. sometime a cascaded head-flow curve is requested for a pump set, which is unrealistic as
this kind of test curve is not a standard test conducted by pump manufacturer. ?
Comment: The Bank has updated its Business Standards requesting staff to respond to
borrower’s request to review bidding documents and evaluation reports within 7 working days if
the review is under Regional Procurement Manager (RPM) mandatory review limits (e. g.
through WB Beijing Office), 10 working days if it is subject to RPM review, or 17 working days
if it is subject to Operational Procurement Review Committee (OPRC) review, from the
submission of the complete documentation by the Task Team Leader.
In addition, the Bank agrees that technical specification should be realistic and achievable;
otherwise considerable costs will be added by the bidders for preparation of bidding document.
The Borrower should raise any such technical concerns early on so as to tailor the terms of the
contract to the local context.
(b)     “The project implementation agency (PIA) has to comply with both Bank operational
policy and domestic regulations. Sometimes they are conflicted each other such that PIA has to
spend time to coordinate. It is suggested that the Bank coordinate with government agencies in
China to launch common standards from project preparation through implementation to simplify
these procedures?
Comment: The Bank’s operational policy has been well assessed and examined by many projects
and proven to be most appropriate; certainly these policies have been crafted to cooperate as
smoothly as possible with domestic regulations. This operational policy is also updated from
time to time to reflect the most recent changes in project operation and local context. Bank staff
is available to present to government agencies the operational policy upon PIU’s request, to help
minimize any time or effort lost by perceived conflicts or misunderstandings.
(c)     Local construction commission requires that contractor/supplier and project manager
shall have proper domestic qualification certification in association with his job undertaken on
site. Otherwise construction permission license will not be issued. However, the successful
bidder of the ICB sometimes may not have this type of certification such that the execution of the
contract is extremely difficult as it is unable to be licensed.
Comment: The project implementing agency should coordinate with government agencies based
on the legal documents of the project. The Bank’s procurement specialist is also available to
present the procurement guidelines and procedures to local authorities upon request.
(d)     The safeguard expense is as high as some millions RMB and all paid by counterpart fund,
but the contribution to the project seems limited, especially in social safeguard policy.
Comment: The Bank team would like to acknowledge that the Borrower’s overall attention to
Bank policies in this project was commendable, and the project therefore did not require costly
or time-consuming remediation from a Safeguards standpoint. However, Safeguard policies are
mandatory on all Bank operations. The cost of correct safeguard policy implementation is worth
the expense as a breach of safeguards may cause significant environmental, social and even
economic damage to the borrower. It is highly important to the safety of all parties that they
uphold safeguard policy framework in all such projects.


                                                22
(e)    The compensation for land acquisition and resettlement currently can only be paid by
counterpart fund. With the economic growth the compensation level increases year by year and
can form a heavy financial burden on local funding. It is suggested that this compensation is
allowed to be paid by the Bank loan.
Comment: The Bank team recognizes the Borrower’s concerns on these issues. However,
according to the Bank operational policy, financing land acquisition and resettlement
compensation is not allowed. This was made clear from project onset, but noting the financial
burden of many localities, similar projects in the future will certainly note that this compensation
policy is worth re-emphasizing at times in order to make sure all Borrower expectations are
realistic.
(b) Cofinanciers
NA
(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e. g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)
NA




                                                23
                          Annex 1. Project Costs by Component and Financing
                          CHINA: Liuzhou Environment Management Project

                                               Appraisal Estimate       Actual/Latest Estimate           Percentage of
               Components
                                                (USD millions)             (USD millions)                 Appraisal
A. 1 Wastewater Component                             107. 89                    117. 90                      109[1]
Baisha Wastewater                                      32. 35                     35. 69                       110
Longquanshan Wastewater                                22. 44                     23. 28                       104
Yanghe Wastewater                                      35. 12                     45. 70                      130[2]
Labao Wastewater                                       9. 93                      13. 23                       133
Zhuexi Wastewater
                                                       8. 16
Conveyance
                                                                                  66. 62                       163
 A. 2 Zhuexi Creek Urban
                                                       32. 64
 Rehabilitation
 B. Municipal Sanitation
                                                       7. 45                        2. 65                      33
 Component
 C. Solid Waste Management
                                                       7. 51                        8. 38                     116[3]
 Component
 D. Industrial Wastewater
                                                       1. 56                        1. 56                      100
 Pollution Control Component
 E. Institutional Development and
                                                       2. 30                        2. 00                      87
    Capacity Building Component
Total Baseline Cost                                   159. 46                    199. 11                       125
Physical Contingencies                                 11. 16                         -                         -
Price Contingencies                                    18. 16                         -                         -
Total Project Costs                                   188. 78                    199. 11                       105
Interest during Construction                           16. 33                       6. 51                      40
Front-end fee IBRD                                     0. 50                        0. 50                      100
Total Financing                                        205. 6                    199. 61                       97
[1]: Estimate and percentage excluding Zhuexi Wastewater Conveyance.
[2] & [3]: The cost increment was caused by devaluation of US Dollar against the Chinese Yuan, although the scope of these two
components decreased.

Source of Funds                                    Type of            Appraisal             Actual/Lat        Percentage of
                                                   Cofinancing        Estimate              Estimate          Appraisal
                                                                      (USD                  (USD
                                                                      millions)             millions)
Borrower                                                                   105. 6              99. 61                  94
International Bank for Reconstruction and                                  100. 00             100. 00                 100
Development
Total Financing                                                            205. 6              199. 61                 97




                                                               24
                                     Annex 2. Outputs by Component
                          CHINA: Liuzhou Environment Management Project

Output comparison: A comparison of outputs by component, at appraisal and completion is
shown in the table below.

                   Output Description                     Unit    At Appraisal     Actual Completed
A. Wastewater Component
Baisha Wastewater
  Wastewater pumping stations                             Nr           2                   1
                                                          m3/d   3,000and 10,000        31,907
  Sewerage system                                         km         13. 24             16. 25
  Wastewater treatment plant                              m3/d      100,000            100,000
Longquanshan Wastewater
  Wastewater treatment plant                              m3/d      150,000            150,000
Yanghe Wastewater
  A two-hour capacity flood water retention tank                       1                   1
  Twin river crossing pressure main Sewer                 km          2x1                2x1
  Wastewater pumping stations                             Nr           4                   1
                                                          m3/d   12,000; 50,000;       100,000
                                                                 70,000; 200,000
  Sewerage system                                         km         95. 31              71[1]
  Wastewater treatment plant                              m3/d      125,000            125,000
Labao Wastewater
  Wastewater pumping station                              Nr           1                   0
                                                          m3/d       18,000                0
  Sewerage system                                         km         62. 19             3. 32[2]
  Wastewater treatment plant                              m3/d       25,000             25,000
Zhuexi Wastewater Conveyance                              km         13. 85             17. 04
A. 1. Zhuexi Creek Urban Rehabilitation                   km         14. 70              8. 88
B. Municipal Sanitation Component
  Public Toilets                                          Nr           62                 42
  Portable Public Toilets                                 Nr           30                 30
  Mobile public toilets                                   Nr           2                   2
  Sanitation/vacuum 5-ton trucks                          Nr           6                   6
C. Solid Waste Management
Component
  Solid waste transfer station of capacity 450 t/d        Nr           1                   1
  Community solid waste collection stations               Nr           42                  0
  Refuse collection vehicles of 4-5 tons                   Nr          28                 28


                                                     25
                    Output Description                                 Unit           At Appraisal                Actual Completed
  Refuse collection vehicles of 10 tons                                Nr                    18                         18
   Refuse collection vehicles of 16 tons                               Nr                    11                         11
   Street sweepers                                                     Nr                    10                         10
   Street washers                                                      Nr                    5                           5
   Maintenance vehicles                                                Nr                    5                           4
   High pressure washing vehicles                                      Nr                    5                           5
   Monitoring vehicles                                                 Nr                    2                           2
   Inspection vehicles                                                 Nr                    2                           2
D. Industrial Wastewater Pollution
Control Component
   Environment monitoring equipment                                    set                   1                           1
   Information management equipment                                    set                   1                           1
E. Institutional Development and
Capacity Building Component
   TA for project implementation and management                        Nr                    1                           1
   TA for the institutional development of the LMWTC                   Nr                    1                           1
   TA to improve operational efficiency of SWM                         Nr                    1                           1
   TA to promote PPP for public toilets                                Nr                    1                           1
* Out of the 71 km newly constructed sewers, 6. 49 km were built under the Bank loan and the rest were funded by Yanghe’s
own funds.
** Due to large depreciation of US Dollar against China Yuan during implementation, the original project budgets were not
adequate to support full construction of the originally proposed sewers, so it was agreed to include the construction of the
remaining sewers under LZEMP2.


Outcomes of the project and outcome of result indicators by components: The key outcomes
of the project are shown below.

                                                         Base-
Outcome Indicators                                       line      2005       2006      2007       2008         2009   2010   2011
                                                         2004
Maintenance of water quality in the
downstream portion of the Liujiang River at a            100%      100%       100%      100%       100%         100%   100%   100%
minimum of Class III

Citizens’ satisfaction level regarding
municipal sanitary conditions in the project             -         -          -         78%        81%          82%    84%    N. A.
area1

Note: The calculation method was identified in the feasibility study and the details are in the project file.




                                                                  26
The outcomes of result indicators for each component are shown below.

A. Wastewater Component
                                                      Base-
 Result Indicators                                     line      2005         2006     2007     2008    2009      2010      2011
                                                      2004
 Built capacity (1,000m3/day )                         100        100         100      100      350      350       500       500
 Average volume treated (1,000m3/day)                   60        90          100      100      200      350       475       475
                      2
 Cost recovery ratio (times)                           1. 0       1. 0        1. 0     1. 0     1. 10    1. 0      1. 0      1. 0
 Debt service coverage ratio (times)                   1. 1       1. 1        1. 1     1. 1     1. 1     1. 1      1. 1      1. 1
Note: Cost recovery ratio is calculated by operating revenues divided by the sum of operating costs and debt services greater than
provision of depreciation


B. Public Sanitation Component
                                                      Base-
 Result Indicators                                     line      2005         2006     2007     2008    2009       2010      2011
                                                      2004
 Public toilets constructed annually                    0             0        0        0         5        0         3        34
 Portable public toilets constructed annually           0             0        0        10       10       10         0         0
 Users of public toilets (portable inclusive)
 funded by the project (number of person-               0             0        0       2,923    3,320   5,904     7,794        -
 times daily)

C. Solid Waste Management Component
                                                      Base-
 Result Indicators                                     line      2005         2006     2007     2008    2009       2010      2011
                                                      2004
 Solid waste transfer station completed per
                                                        0             0        0        0         0        0         1         0
 annual
 Solid waste transfer station completed
                                                        0             0        0        0         0        0         1         1
 cumulatively
 Quantity of solid waste collected and/or
                                                       584        694         805      919      897      990       1078        -
 transferred in the project area (tonnage/day)
 Reduction of unit operational costs (per ton-
                                                        0             0        0        0       5. 9     6. 1      6. 1        -
 km; 2004 cost)

D. Industrial Pollution Control Component
                                                        Base-
 Result Indicators                                       line         2005     2006     2007     2008    2009      2010      2011
                                                        2004
 Cumulative number of industries complying
 with discharge standards out of top 11                      8            8        9        9      9       9         9         9
 polluters
 Cumulative number of industries complying
 with discharge standards out of top 7 heavy                 7            7        7        7      7       7         7         7
 metal polluters
 Installation of online monitoring instruments
                                                             6            6        7        7      7       0         0         0
 by major industries

                                                                 27
 Installation of online monitoring instruments
                                                           0          0         0          0         2           0            0      0
 in Liujiang River

E. Institutional Development and Capacity Building Component
                                                      Base-
 Result Indicators                                     line     2005      2006      2007       2008      2009          2010       2011
                                                      2004
 Duration of TA for project management                            √         √          √         √           √           √          √
 Duration of TA of institutional development
                                                                  √         √          √         √           √
 and capacity building of LMWTC
 Duration of TA of institutional development
                                                                  √         √          √         √
 and capacity building of ESD



The table below illustrates the status of compliance with covenants.
 Project            Description of Covenant                                                    Due Date              Status
 Agreement
 Reference
 Schedule 2,        LMWTC shall furnish to the Bank, on or about January 31 and                Recurrent,            Complied with
 Para 12            July 31 of each year, a semi-annual report of the results of               starting 31
                    such monitoring and evaluation activities, together with any               January
                    revisions proposed to be introduced into such Plans in order to            2006
                    achieve their respective objectives.
 Schedule 3,        LMWTC shall furnish to the Bank, in any case not late than                 Recurrent,            Complied with
 Section II,        six months after the end of each such year, certified copies of            starting 31
 Para 5             its audited financial statements and accounts for such year.               October
                                                                                               2006
 Schedule 3,        LMWTC shall undertake to produce for each of its fiscal year               Recurrent,            Not complied
 Section II,        ending31 December 2005, total revenue equivalent to not less               starting              with. *
 Para 6             than the sum of its: (i) total operating expenses; and (ii) the            31October
                    amount by which debt service requirements exceed the                       2006
                    provision for depreciations.
 Schedule 3,        LMWTC shall undertake not to incur any debt unless a                                             Complied with
 Section II,        reasonable forecast of the revenues and expenditures of
 Para 7             LMWTC shows that the estimated net revenues of LMWTC
                    for each fiscal year during the term of the debt to be incurred
                    shall be at least 1. 1 times, and by fiscal year 2014 at least 1. 3
                    times, the estimated debt service requirements of LMWTC in
                    such year on all debt of LMWTC including the debt to be
                    incurred.
* Note: The Bank team agrees that setting a tariff (and revenue) in the legal covenant was not realistic and should not have been
done, although the team should be commended for its many efforts put into achieving the goal of increasing the tariff – although
in the end this initiative failed.




                                                               28
                                    Annex 3. Resettlement
                    CHINA: Liuzhou Environment Management Project

Summary. Resettlement activities were carried out satisfactorily, and all PAPs were resettled in
accordance with the agreed resettlement action plan (RAP). The actual compensation standards
for both land acquisition and house demolition were higher than those stipulated in the RAP. All
compensation payments were made on time, and all PAPs were fully consulted during the entire
resettlement process. PAPs’ incomes have been restored. Impacts due to both land acquisition
and house demolition were reduced compared to data collected during preparation of the RAPs.
Resettlement costs actually increased because the compensation rates for land acquisition and
house demolition rose. The compensation funds were distributed to the affected households as no
land redistribution was undertaken. The livelihoods of those affected were restored by
establishing collective-owned businesses and job placement assistance.

Independent Monitoring. The resettlement practices for both the wastewater and sanitation
components were monitored by the Shanghai Academy of Social Science and the external
monitoring reports were submitted to the Bank semi-annually. Resettlement Completion Reports
for the project were completed and submitted in March 2011. The report concluded that the
resettlement objectives of improving the livelihoods of the PAPs after resettlement
implementation were indeed met. The institutional arrangements for land acquisition and house
demolition were clearly defined; the resettlement agencies were well staffed and had good
communication skills; the performance of the resettlement staff was satisfactory during project
preparation and implementation. Living standards of the PAPs were restored and incomes were
restored or enhanced.

Compensation for Land Acquisition and Income Restoration. Resettlement activities were
carried out in accordance with the RAP and the resettlement-related regulations issued by the
local governments. Resettlement impacts were reduced by optimizing design. For example, in
the wastewater component, 8,584m2 of land acquisition was reduced, and almost 4000m2 of
structure demolition was avoided. In the sanitation component, most of the public toilets
occupied open land or green space in the city and therefore resettlement was avoided. Actual
compensation rates were higher than those stipulated in the RAPs. For example in the
wastewater component, compensation costs increased by about RMB 32. 73 million. The
external monitor conducted sample income restoration surveys during the monitoring exercise,
and the survey indicated that for those households investigated through the sampling, the average
annual family income was RMB12,900 before resettlement and rose to RMB13,330 after
resettlement. It revealed that the affected households were able to restore their annual revenue
after resettlement. It also found that residential conditions had improved after resettlement to
some degree due to upgrades in the structure of the housing. Formerly, their housing was mostly
timber-brick whereas now the housing is cement-brick. Amenities such as gas, telephone,
sewerage have been installed.

Public Participation. During resettlement implementation, the policies and procedures relating
to public participation (such as evaluations and public hearings, etc.) were strictly adhered to.
The PAPs were able to select the agencies responsible for house evaluation and house demolition,


                                               29
so as to ensure fairness, transparency, and smooth implementation of house demolition and
enterprise relocation.

Complaint Handling Mechanism. The complaint handling mechanism was designed and
implemented smoothly. PAPs were free to express their complaints to their village committee or
directly to the PMO.

Vulnerable Groups Assistance. Special attention was paid to vulnerable groups(widows,
elderly, disabled, children). During implementation, special financial assistance, special housing
arrangements and labor assistance were provided to vulnerable PAPs on request. PAPs were
satisfied with these arrangements. The resettlement and land acquisition compensation is detailed
in the table below.

Component                                               Unit     RAP                   Actual             Difference
Wastewater
   - Land acquisition                                    m2             519,340            510,756                    -8,584
   - Housing demolished                                  m2              54,128             50,245                    -3,883
   - Affected enterprises                                Nr                  76                 72                        -4
   - Affected Persons                                    Nr               3,858              2,254                    -1,604
   - Compensation cost                                  RMB         181,537,705        214,276,671              32,729,966[1]
Municipal Sanitation
   - Land acquisition                                    m2              10,007              9,034                      -973
   - Housing demolished                                  m2              11,992              2,573                    -9,419
   - Affected enterprises                                Nr                   0                  0                         0
   - Affected Persons                                    Nr                   0                  0                         0
   - Compensation cost                                  RMB          28,955,685         12,560,271             -16,395,414[2]
Solid Waste Management (transfer station)
    - Land acquisition                                   m2              23,856              25,310                 +1,454
    - Housing demolished                                 m2                   0                   0                       0
    - Affected enterprises                               Nr                   0                   0                       0
    - Affected Persons                                   Nr                   0                   0                       0
    - Compensation cost                                 RMB           4,506,138           9,698,846            +5,192,708[3]
Solid Waste Management
(community collection station)
    - Land acquisition                                   m2               3,318                    0                -3,318[4]
    - Housing removed                                    m2                   0                    0                       0
    - Affected enterprise                                Nr                   0                    0                       0
    - Affected Persons                                   Nr                   0                    0                       0
Compensation cost                                       RMB             996,984                    0              -996,984[4]
Total land acquisition                                   M2             556,521             545,100                   -11,421
Total housing demolished                                 M2               66,120             52,818                   -13,302
Total affected enterprises                               Nr                    76                 72                          -4
Total affected persons                                   Nr                3,858              2,254                    -1,604
Total compensation cost                                 RMB         215,996,512        236,535,788                20,530,276
[1]: Compensation costs increased due to increased compensation standards.
[2]: Compensation costs declined due to partial cancelation of public toilets.
[3]: Compensation costs increased due to increased compensation standards and land acquisition area.
[4]: All 42 community solid waste collection stations were cancelled so land acquisition and resettlement were unnecessary.



                                                               30
                          Annex 4. Economic and Financial Analysis
                    CHINA: Liuzhou Environment Management Project

A. Economic Analysis
The economic rate of return for the wastewater component was not calculated at appraisal due to
the difficulty in quantifying the benefits of the project relating to environmental and public
health improvements. However, given the then evidentially deteriorating quality of drinking
water caused by untreated wastewater discharged to the Liujiang River, it was inferred that
justifiable economic benefits would be brought by the project through increasing capture and
treatment of wastewater in the project area. The financial rate of return calculated at appraisal
supported this justification.
A cost-effectiveness assessment was conducted at appraisal to find the suitable capacity of each
wastewater treatment plant for five candidate locations. Four cases were evaluated in terms of
net present value of total costs. The least cost case was not selected since it would be affected
most by the wastewater flow generated from Yanghe (a new developing area), which was not
certain at appraisal. Instead, the second least cost case became the base for the project design
because of the greater reliability of wastewater flows.
B. Financial Analysis

Financial Rate of Return
The financial rate of return (FIRR) was reevaluated for the wastewater component under the
following major assumptions:
(1) The project evaluation period of the wastewater component is 26 years from 2005 to 2030;
(2) The project cost incurred is RMB 1,375 million, which is close to the total project cost of
    RMB 1,400 million assessed at appraisal;
(3) The water volume supplied by the water supply company will increase from the current level
    of 348,000 m3 per day to 415,000 m3 per day in 2020 by 2. 0% per annum on average, and
    will stay at the same volume thereafter;
(4) The wastewater tariff will increase from the current level of RMB 0. 80 per m3 to RMB 1. 00
    per m3 in 2012, to RMB 1. 25 per m3 in 2014, to RMB 1. 35 per m3 in 2018 and thereafter.
    The tariff assumptions from 2014 are the same as assumed at appraisal;
(5) Government subsidies are not included in this calculation.
The FIRR is estimated at 5. 8%, which is lower than the rate of 9.5% estimated at appraisal. This
mainly results from the lower tariff base actually realized for the project compared with that
expected at appraisal. Water volume supplied by a water supply company is the most important
tariff revenue base for a wastewater company. Migration from self-supplied users to the water
supply company did not take place at the magnitude expected at appraisal during implementation.
As shown in the table below, the water volume supplied by the water supply company was




                                                31
348,000 m3 per day in 2010, which is 62% of the volume estimated at appraisal. The tariff
revenue from self-supplied users stayed very low1.
                 Water Consumption for 2010 in the Area served by LMWTC
                                      ('000 m3/day)
                                    Actual (A)         at Appraisal (B)   A/B
    Volume for Tariff Base                       521                746         0.70
     from WSC                                    348                558         0.62

     from self-supplied users                    173                188         0.92
    Total Self-supplied volume                   607                285         2.13
    Total Water Consumption                      955                843         1.13


Although the FIRR did not reach the cost of capital of 7. 1% assessed at appraisal, it may be
justifiable as it is below the cost of capital for a similar type of project under the current situation.
In the FIRR calculation, the appraisal team took a conservative approach to consider no tariff
increase after 2020. If the continued tariff increases are considered beyond 2020, the FIRR for
this project is calculated to clear the cost of capital assessed at appraisal by increasing the tariff
by 12% every three years. The level of tariff for domestic customers in this calculation will be
RMB2. 12 per m3 in 2030, which is expected to be well within the affordable level for domestic
customers.


Entity Level Analysis
The financial performance of LMWTC was reviewed and financial projections were conducted
to find whether it will be financially viable in the future. The projections were made only for the
first LZEMP, and do not include the impacts from the LZEMP2, which is now under
implementation.
LMWTC was envisaged at appraisal to operate on its own tariff revenue. However, due to the
lower tariff base, it has been relying on the municipal government to meet its obligations. The
municipal government fully supported LMWTC and responded timely to LMWTC’s financial
needs. This enabled LMWTC to comply with the financial covenants. This situation, however,
will change in the medium term since LMWTC’s financial situation will improve as wastewater
tariffs increase. LMWTC is expected to be financially viable without relying on government
subsidy in 2014 when the wastewater tariff reaches RMB 1. 25 per m3 from the current level of
RMB 0. 80 per m3, as shown in the table below.




1
 Tariff revenue for 2010 from self-supplied water users was RMB 3 million for water consumption of 173,000
m3/day while revenue from the water supply company was RMB 86 million for 348,000 m3/day.


                                                            32
                                           Summary of Financial Performance and Projections for LMWTC

                                                                    Actual                                              Projected
                                                            2008        2009          2010         2011         2012          2013   2014   2015

Water Volume Served by WSC ('000 m3/ day)                    271          318          348          352          365          379    393    392

Wastewater Tariff (RMB/m3)                                  0.60         0.80         0.80         0.80          1.00         1.00   1.25   1.25

Wastewater Tariff Revenue (RMB million)                       58           84           89           93          121          144    187    187
from WSC                                                      55           81           86           91          119          123    161    161
from Self-supplied Users                                       3            3            3            3            3           21     26     26

Subsidies                                                     38           28           27           92          108             9     0      0
Net Income                                                    77           71           38          -48          -16            -1    41     40

Cost Recovery Ratio                                          1.1          1.0            1.0           1.0         1.0         1.0    1.2    1.2
Debt Service Coverage Ratio                                  1.1          1.1            1.1           1.0         1.0         1.0    1.4    1.4
* Figures for 2010 are provisional.
** Water supply operation for Liuzhou Railways which is now classified under self-supplied users will be managed by WSC in 2013.




                                                                                  33
           Annex 5. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

                       CHINA: Liuzhou Environment Management Project

(a) Task Team members
                                                                            Responsibility/
           Names                             Title               Unit
                                                                              Specialty
Lending
Hiroaki Suzuki          Lead Operation                          EASUR       TTL
Margaret Png            Senior Counsel                          LEGEA
Chongwu Sun             Senior Environmental Specialist         EASEN
Youlan Zou              Senior Social Development Specialist    EASSD
Zhentu Liu              Senior Procurement Expert               EAPCO
Mingyuan Fan            Municipal Engineer                      EASUR
Hongkun Yang            Procurement Specialist                  EAPCO
Yi Geng                 Financial Management Specialist         EAPCO
Mariko Ogawa            Operations Officer                      EASEG
Dean Thompson           Acting Program Assistant                EASUR
Robert O’Leary          Senior Finance Officer                  CTRLD
 Supervision/ICR
Hiroaki Suzuki          Lead Urban Specialist                   FEUUR       TTL
Victor Vergara          Sector Leader                           EASIN       TTL
Takao Ikegami           Senior Sanitary Engineer                EASIN       TTL
Sing Cho                Urban Specialist                        EASCS       Co-TTL
Xin Ren                 Environmental Safeguard Specialist      EASCS
Tomoko Kato             Operations Officer                      EASIN
Lynn Wang               Financial Management Consultant         EAPFM
Eddie Hum               Engineer Consultant                     EASIN
Konrad Buchauer         Wastewater Sludge Management Expert    Consultant
Jianjun Guo             Procurement Specialist                  EAPPR
Jun Zeng                Social Development Specialist           EASCS
Yi Geng                 Sr Financial Management Specialist      EAPFM
Gang Qin                Water & Sanitation Specialist           EASCS       TTL for ICR




                                                     34
(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                  Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                 USD Thousands (including travel
                             No. of staff weeks
                                                            and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY03                              0. 2                             8. 24
  FY04                             21. 98                         164. 99
  FY05                             49. 31                         257. 22
                    Total:         71. 49                         430. 45


Supervision/ICR
  FY06                              9. 83                          66. 54
  FY07                             10. 48                          68. 44
  FY08                              9. 88                          54. 77
  FY09                              8. 03                          64. 73
  FY10                             10. 39                          49. 96
  FY11                             15. 45                          71. 56
                    Total:         64. 06                         376. 10




                                                  35
     Annex 6. Beneficiary Survey Results
                   (if any)

NA




                     36
     Annex 7. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
                         (if any)
NA




                           37
           Annex 8. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR
                     CHINA: Liuzhou Environment Management Project



1. Project objectives, design and of quality at entry

1. 1 Background
Liuzhou is located in the northeast part of Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region. Liujiang River
provides the basic water source for Liuzhou industries, commercial and domestic use. The City’s
rapid development and population increase lead to the overloaded water supply and municipal
sanitation infrastructures become more and more tense. A huge amount of untreated wastewater
and storm water discharged into Liujiang River and polluted the River. The shortage of clean,
sound operated and reasonable distributed public toilets is another urgent municipal sanitary
problem, which hinders the city’s modern development. In addition, another problem to be
solved is to build more solid waste collection stations and transfer stations in the newly-
developed residential blocks, and to purchase multi-function vehicles to collect and transport
solid wastes.

1. 2 Original objectives and key indicators
The overall project development objective is to improve environmental conditions in Liuzhou by
improving wastewater treatment, industrial pollution control, municipal sanitation and solid
waste services and management. This objective will be achieved by: developing autonomous
public utilities and helping develop their institutional structures; introducing regulations and
reforms of industrial wastewater pollution control; and investing in sewer networks, wastewater
treatment plants, public toilets, one solid waste transfer station and waste collection stations.
The key indicators to check the progress of achieving project development objectives are:
maintenance of water quality in the downstream portion of the Liujiang River at a minimum of
Class III; the citizens are satisfied with municipal sanitary conditions within the Project covered
area.

1. 3 Revised objectives
The main objectives and indicators remain valid and no revision has been made during the
implementation period.
1.4 Main beneficiaries
The Project covers wastewater collection/treatment, industrial pollution control, municipal
sanitation and solid waste management. The Project contributes greatly to improve Liuzhou
environment and the public living quality. The Liuzhou citizens and the towns and counties
located at downstream of Liujiang River will be the direct beneficiaries of this “Clean Water and
Blue Sky Project?.

1. 5 Original components
A. Wastewater Component

                                                38
This Component is to help Liuzhou City to develop and construct one integrated sewerage
collection and treatment system. 73 km sewers, 76km interceptors, 7 pumping stations and 4
WWTPs will be built; about 42km discharge ditch will be reconstructed; and supports to help the
wastewater company to be of autonomous operation.
B. Municipal Sanitation Component
62 public toilets will be built in business and poverty-stricken districts, 30 portable public toilets,
2 mobile public toilets and 6 sanitation trucks will be procured to improve the public health and
sanitation levels.
C. Solid Waste Management Component
Constructing one transfer station with a near term design capacity of 450 metric ton per day and
an ultimate capacity of 600 tons per day; constructing 42 community collection stations in the
city’s four urban districts; purchasing various vehicles and equipments, to improve the Liuzhou
Environmental Sanitation Department ( ESD)’s solid waste management capacity.
D. Industrial Pollution Control Component
To strengthen industrial wastewater pollution control through reducing the heavy pollutants load
and action plan that enhancing EPB pollution monitoring and management capacity.
E. Institutional Development and Capacity Building Component
1）technical assistance to strengthen LMWTC, ESD, and EPB’s capacity to implement thei own
  Components.
2）technical assistance and supports to LMWTC’s institutional development as a company.
3）technical assistance to ESD to improve capacity in municipal solid waste management, and
  provide supports for institutional development.
4）TA to promote public-private partnerships for public toilets.

1. 6 Revised components
Changes were made to the scope of works and investment to reflect changing circumstances, city
master plan, to cope with the changing exchange rate and make use of loan savings that arose
during implementation. The main changes are as follows:

A. Component A – Wastewater Component
A. 1. Wastewater Collection, Conveyance and Treatment
Baisha Sewerage and Wastewater Treatment Plant (appraisal: RMB 317. 89million, actual:
228. 54 million )
1）There is some change on the length of interceptors and culverts as compared to the
  construction drawings at the design stage. The actual constructed final length is 16. 25km.
2）Through the sewerage network optimized design and adjustment, construction of one lifting
  station can be reduced. The actual completed Bailu lifting station capacity is 31,907 m3/d.
Longquanshan Wastewater Treatment Plant (appraisal: RMB 220. 448million, actual: 151.
04 million )

                                                  39
1）Some technical measures are taken such as to optimize the sewerage design, to adjust the
  pipeline buried depth which is further justified by the design institute, one pumping station
  was cancelled.
Yanghe Sewerage and wastewater treatment plant (appraisal: RMB 345. 031million, actual:
289. 57 million)
1）There is some big change on the length of sewers compared to the construction drawings at
  the design stage. The actual constructed final length of interceptors is 7. 9km. Construction
  of twin river crossing pressure sewers, a lifting station with capacity of 100,000 m3/d, a
  stormwater pumping station with capacity of 38. 8m3/s and a short term flood storage facility.
2）2. some technical measures are taken such as to optimize the sewerage design, to adjust the
  pipeline buried depth which are further justified by the design institute, and one pumping
  station is cancelled; the other pumping station is located at Yanghe planning area where is to
  be developed, therefore construction of this pumping station and its associated collection
  sewers is suspended.
3）3. Gutingshan lifting station and the associated pipelines （ YH-PL-03(a)） , and Yanghe
  drainage mains（ YH-PL-03(b)） are cancelled (which is due to exchange rate changed and
  insufficient loan ) and will be constructed in LZEMP phase 2 financed by the Bank.


Labao Sewerage and wastewater treatment plant (appraisal: RMB 97. 608million, actual: 73.
89 million)
1）There is some significant change on the length of sewers, except that some sewers are
  constructed by the local government and the developers, the actual constructed final length of
  reinforced concrete sewers/culverts is 3324m based on the construction drawings at the
  design stage.
2）The original planned lifting station is located in Labao County has yet to be developed area,
  the development cannot proceed as planned. Therefore, this station and its associated
  collection sewers are cancelled.
3）Interceptors along the Jiuquhe river and drainage sewers at the county hospital （ LB-PL-01(b)
  are cancelled (which is due to exchange rate changed and insufficient loan) and will be
  constructed in LZEMP phase 2 financed by the Bank.


Zhuexi Wastewater Conveyance system (appraisal: RMB 80. 261million, actual: 71. 03
million)
1）Based on the construction drawings at the design stage, there is some changes on the length
  of sewers, the actual constructed interceptors is 17. 04 km (including rehabilitation and
  reconstruction of the existing interceptors).




                                               40
A2. Zhuexi Creek Urban Rehabilitation (appraisal: RMB 320. 712million, actual: 365. 21
million)
The Southern tributary of Zhuexi Creek urban rehabilitation
1）Compared to the original plan, rehabilitation reduced 3. 74km, the reasons are as follows: a).
  the local government adjusted the land utilization; eliminating some winding river section
  and keeping the straight section; b) reconstruction of Xianggui Railway, rehabilitation within
  the railway scope will be responsible by the railway department.
2）Actual completion of 6. 91km of creek rehabilitation, interceptors along two sides of the
  creek with a total length of 16. 1km; dredging of sediment, constructing embankment,
  culverts, landscaped illumination, park, 4 water-filled rubber dams, 4 landscaped bridges and
  6 access bridges.
The Northern tributary of Zhuexi Creek urban rehabilitation
1）Compared to the original plan, about 2. 2km culverts and rehabilitation is reduced, the
  remaining part will be constructed by the local government and real estate developer.
2）Actual completion of 1. 97km length of culverts, interceptors along the creek with a total
  length of 0. 67km, 1 reinforced concrete overflow dam, landscaped illumination, park etc.


Component B - Municipal Sanitation Component
Public toilets (appraisal: RMB 2. 5733million, actual: 1. 8623 million)
1）In the original plan 62 public toilets would be constructed. However, most of the sites were
  selected in the prosperous zones and population intensive areas, and a large amount of land
  acquisition and relocation was involved; the construction could not proceed smoothly due to
  overwhelming public opposition.
2）As agreed by the Bank, and after coordination with Liuzhou City Planning Bureau and land
  department, site selection was revised to public land and empty scope to avoid a great deal of
  land acquisition and to mitigate impact on the citizens. Eventually, based on the reality it was
  identified that 43 public toilets would be built.
Portable public toilets ： (appraisal: RMB 1. 6484million, actual: 0. 6796 million)
1）Portable public toilets were procured as original planned and without change, which include
  30 portable public toilets and 2 mobile public toilets. In addition, 6 sanitation/vacuum trucks
  were procured as planned, which were procured with sanitation vehicles in one contract.

Component C - Solid Waste Management Component
Solid waste transfer station, collection station: (appraisal: RMB 3. 7129million, actual: 5.
0017 million)
1）It was planned to construct one transfer station, the original site is a farm protective land, and
  it is impossible to get the land use approval. As agreed by the Bank, and after coordination
  with Liuzhou City Planning Bureau and land administrative departments, the site is changed
  to Guiliu Road, south of chemical factory with a total land area of 23855. 88 ㎡.
                                                41
2）It was planned to build 42 community collection stations. During the land use consultation
  and construction period for the first awarded collection stations contracts, the developer,
  community management committee and Aps strong disagreed and conflict occurred, which
  led to no collection station can commence construction. The Bank was informed about this
  and agreed to cancel the construction of 42 collection stations.
Procurement of equipments and vehicles (appraisal: RMB 3. 6176million, actual: 3. 5047
million)
1）Eight waste transport vehicles, 11 waste containers: no change on the procurement number,
  the vehicles and containers are associated used with the transfer station, and be listed in and
  procured together with the transfer station contract.
2）Twenty-eight refuse collection vehicles, 18 waste transport vehicles, ten street sweepers, five
  street washers, four maintenance vehicles, five high pressure washing vehicles, two
  monitoring vehicles (cube vans) for inspection and monitoring functions, and two ordinary
  vehicles for inspection, route management and complaints and response to contingency
  situations: no change on the procurement number.

Component D - Industrial Pollution Control Component (appraisal: RMB 15. 45 million,
actual: 9. 34 million)
1）This Component is to strengthen the Liuzhou EPB monitoring capacity, provided necessary
  trainings and equipments. There are no any changes during implementation.

Component E –Institutional Development and Capacity Building Component (appraisal:
USD 2. 73 million, actual: RMB12. 63 million)
1）E1TA to support implementation of the project’s wastewater, public toilets and solid waste
  management components
2）As the original consulting service contract period is shorter than the LZEMP implementation
  period, a contract extension agreement was signed on Feb. 18, 2010 to ensure the continuity
  and integrity implementation of the consulting service. And the contract is extended to Jun.
  30, 2011.
3）E2TA for the Institutional Development of LMWTC
4）The consulting service started from Sep. 2006. All physical work has been completed at the
  end of December 2009 except some delay of the domestic and overseas study tours, and the
  delay extended about 8 months.
5）E3TA to improve the operational efficiency of solid waste management operations and to
  promote institutional reforms
6）This was implemented together with E4, see E4 for details.
7）E4 TA to Promote Public-Private Partnerships for Public Toilets
8）In the original technical assistance TOR, the above 2 contracts’ background is similar, there
  are many similarities in their objectives, scope, contents and ways of working, and
  requirements on the qualifications of the consultants and on the work is basically consistent.

                                               42
  As agreed by the Bank, the above 2 TA contracts will be combined in one. On the basis that
  ensure the TA contract budget USD260,000 is not changed, more consulting service will be
  provided and better TA effects will be achieved.
9）The original planned implementation period is from June, 2006 to December 2010, and the
  actual implementation period is from June, 2008 to May 2011. The above revision and
  change has been discussed with the Bank. And the agreed solutions were written in the
  Bank’s Aide Memoire and in other correspondence.


1. 7 Other significant changes
There are no other significant changes on design, scope, scale, implementation and schedules, etc.
except the above descriptions.


2. Major factors affecting implementation and outcome
2. 1 Project Design and Quality at Entry
We believe the LZEMP design and quality at entry was satisfactory in most respects as
evidenced by the fact that it has responded to urgent pollution control priorities in as determined
by the national, provincial, and municipal governments. Selection of the project, objectives,
construction contents and implementation plan fit well with the Liuzhou city master plan and
individual sub-planning objectives. However, there were some specific shortcomings:
Wastewater component
This component was prepared a bit earlier（from 2002 to 2004）, some new requirements in the
national environment protection policy cannot be reflected/implemented in the component(e. g.
in 2009, it is required that influent on-line monitoring facility should be installed at the WWTPs,
construction of opening ditch for effluent discharge for the EPB to use portable flow meters ).
And thus deficiencies arose at the WWTPs.
Due to the historical reasons, sewerage network in the city old districts is a combined system;
wastewater is intercepted by the interceptors. If the storm water flow exceeds one time of the
wastewater flow, some wastewater will overflow with storm water into the Liujiang. In the future
these problems have to be further researched in the water quality changes in Liujiang.
Sanitation and solid waste component
The component’s original objectives and construction conform to the reality and development
needs in Liuzhou City. The scale was small but the quantity was quite large, and scattered around
the city, and the actual impact was fairly extensive. Especially the community and citizens’
public health awareness was weak, in addition, the associated policy was not strong enough,
construction of some sanitation component was not smooth, site selection had to be changed, the
works quantity reduced even some construction/works be cancelled (such as the solid waste
collection stations).
2. 2 Project Implementation
Major factors affecting implementation and outcome are summarized as follows:

                                                43
Factors outside the control of government or implementing agencies

Wastewater component
Market price escalation on major construction materials caused problems for construction
progress on some civil works contracts.
During implementation the exchange rate between RMB and US dollar changed significantly,
which led to the actual usable loan insufficient, and local counterpart funds need to be increased.
And some wastewater contracts have to be cancelled due to this reason.

Environmental Sanitation component
Site selection was affected by national land control policy, city planning adjustment, land
acquisition and resettlement could not proceed as planned, which further affected the entire
component progress, and led to site selection revised and the construction quantity reduced.
Exchange rate changed after the loan becomes effective and market price escalation on major
construction materials caused problems for construction progress on some civil works contracts.
And some procurement of goods exceeded the budget set during the project appraisal stage.

Factors generally subject to government control
Some environmental sanitation contracts have to be revised and construction delayed due to the
land acquisition impact (the PAP’s strong disagreement and great difficulty in land acquisition),
and some construction did not proceed as design.

Factors generally subject to the Bank control
There is no contract template for “civil works and supply, installation and testing of equipment
and commissioning?, and the current used contract is developed from “supply and installation of
equipment contract?, requirements for civil works are not detailed enough. In addition, at the
implementation late stage, the bank’s sanction on China Construction Corporation led to no
disbursement for the variations, which had been implemented by its subsidiary before the
sanction and exceeded 15% of the contract value.

3. Outcomes/Achievements of Objectives

3. 1 Achievements of Overall Objectives
The overall project development objective is to improve environmental conditions in Liuzhou by
improving wastewater treatment, industrial pollution control, municipal sanitation and solid
waste services and management. The project contributes greatly to improve Liuzhou
environment, reduce pollutants discharged into the Liujiang River. The newly constructed sewer
network has played its role and ensures the 4 new constructed WWTPs can treat the collected
wastewater close to the design load and flow. In Liuzhou, the wastewater treatment capacity
increased from 100,000m3/d to 500,000m3/d，and the rate of treatment increased from 15%
before the project implementation to 75%. Maintenance of water quality in the downstream
portion of the Liujiang River at a minimum of Class III. There is a trend that water quality at


                                                44
some river section at Class III changed to Class II. Good ecological water environment is created
and the citizens fully enjoy the outcomes of LZEMP.
Through the implementation of LZEMP, Zhuexi creek, the largest inland river in Liuzhou, has
been effectively rehabilitated, and the ecology and landscape along the creek progressively
recovered. Wastewater is intercepted and avoiding to be discharged directly into the creek,
meanwhile, the creek flood control capacity improved. In particular, the landscaping entirely
changed the dirty, decayed, and mess situations along the creek. Water pollution is effectively
controlled in Zhuexi, and the environment, city appearance and sanitation levels improved,
drinking water supplies safeguarded. As Zhuexi urban rehabilitation completed, at the same time,
wastewater discharged along the Zhuexi is intercepted and conveyed to Longquanshan WWTP
for treatment, and the effluent achieved the discharge standard and safeguarding the drinking
water supplies in Liujiang.
The success implementation of LZEMP phase 1, positively contributes to the Liuzhou
environment management, Premier Wen Jiabao praised, “Green Mountain, clear water and clean
ground? has become a name card for the city. Since 2009, Liuzhou was awarded “China Habitat
Environment Prize?, “National Garden City? and “China Energy Saving and Emission Reduction
20 top cities? etc.
The newly constructed public toilets and procured portable public toilets have been put into use,
which to some extent resolve the problem of insufficient number and unreasonable distribution
of public toilets. The newly purchase of waste collection and transport vehicles and the
environmental sanitation vehicles, with the vehicles addition and replacement, further reduce the
cleaners’ labour intensity, and decrease the secondary pollution during waste collection and
transportation.

3. 2 Outputs by component
We believe that each component at least achieves the agreed/set targets. And in some
circumstances, outcomes of some components are better than expected. (There are detailed
descriptions and data for outputs of each component in the appendix and in the summary table. )
Wastewater component

Four WWTP have been newly-constructed and expanded, pumping stations and the associated
sewers with a total length of 45. 42km have been completed. Various equipments are in sound
operation and the effluent achieves the design requirements. Rehabilitation of Zhuexi Creek 8.
88km (the southern tributary 6. 91km, the northern tributary 1. 97km), dredging of sediment,
constructing embankment, 4 water-filled rubber dams, landscaped illumination, park, 4
landscaped bridges and 6 access bridges. Anticipated objectives were fully met.

Environmental Sanitation component
The newly-constructed 43 public toilets, 30 portable public toilets, 2 mobile toilets and 1 waste
transfer station have been put into use. Anticipated objectives were fully met. The procurement
of waste collection and transportation vehicles, sanitation vehicles, repair equipments identified
in the Project Appraisal Report has been completed. And they are put into use.

EPB component

                                                45
The procurement of information management facilities, environment monitoring facilities and
lab test facilities, and construction of 2 water quality monitoring stations identified in the Project
Appraisal Report has been completed. And they are put into use.

3. 3 Overall outcomes
Wastewater component:
In total, we completed 4 ICB packages, with the value of Euro 2281658，USD3474793，and
RMB 323. 7899 million; 20 NCB packages, with a value of RMB 479. 8823 million; 8 inquiry
purchasing packages with a value of RMB4. 6637 million; 2 consultancy packages, with the
value of USD 948,000 and RMB1. 2257 million for Package A，with the value of USD956, 800
and RMB1. 6376 million for Package B.
The actual completed total investment is RMB1, 135. 04 million, (of which, RMB152. 0738
million is used for land acquisition and resettlement, RMB 12. 5689 million is used for survey
and design, and RMB6. 571million is used for construction supervision) about 3% more than the
USD166. 5 million identified in WB Project Appraisal Report and also 25 % more than the
preliminary design estimated of RMB 1,492. 83million.
Environmental Sanitation component:
In total, we completed 2 ICB packages, with a value of RMB 22. 7207 million（equals to USD3.
1404million）; 9 NCB packages, with a value of RMB53. 6762 million（equals to USD7.
9079million）; 1 consultancy package, with the value of Euro175,065 + USD26,100（equals to
RMB2. 1144million）
The completed physical quantities of the component are less than the agreed targets. It is
estimated that the completed investment is USD11. 3526 million (equals to RMB78. 5113
million. In addition, RMB23. 9018 million is used for land acquisition and resettlement, RMB 3.
1397 million is used for survey and design, and RMB1. 5655million is used for construction
supervision, other cost is RMB19. 89 million, and the total is RMB 127million) about 3. 91%
less than the USD11. 8145 million identified in WB Project Appraisal Report and also 36. 07 %
less than the preliminary design estimated of RMB 167. 5458 million, reduced RMB 60.
4275million.
EPB component:
All procurements have been completed. That is we completed 2 ICB packages, with a value of
USD1. 4045 million，equals to RMB 9. 4911 million; one inquiry purchasing package with a
value of USD 57,000 equals to RMB610, 000.

3. 4 Capital utilization, withdrawal and auditing
Up to this Report is produced, a total of RMB 1411. 67million has been available for the
components, of which the WB loan is USD 100 million (equals to RMB639. 96 million, and
local counterpart funds RMB771. 71 million. (As detailed in the appendix: Table of Funds Plan
and Utilization)
A total of RMB 1263. 47 million has been raised for various components, of which the WB loan
is USD 100 million, and local counterpart funds RMB623. 51 million. Applications for

                                                  46
withdrawal and payment with a total value of USD100 million have been made, of which USD93.
259million has been actually paid. It is planned the remained USD6. 741 million would be
disbursed by the WB within the grace period (i. e. before October 31, 2011).
Wastewater component:
Up to this Report is produced, a total of RMB 1192. 5 million has been raised for the component,
of which the WB loan is USD 87. 97 million, and local counterpart funds RMB629. 5272 million.
Applications for withdrawal and payment with a total value of USD87. 97 million have been
made for the component, of which USD84. 924 million has been actually paid. It is planned the
remained USD3. 046 million would be disbursed by the WB within the grace period.
Environmental Sanitation component:
Up to this Report is produced, a total of RMB 86. 03 million has been raised for the component,
of which the WB loan is USD 10. 63 million, and local counterpart funds RMB22. 034 million.
Applications for withdrawal and payment with a total value of USD10. 63 million have been
made for the component, of which USD7. 075 million has been actually paid. It is planned the
remained USD3. 555 million would be disbursed by the WB within the grace period.
EPB component:
Up to this Report is produced, a total of RMB 9. 59 million has been raised for the component, of
which the WB loan is USD 1. 4 million. Applications for withdrawal and payment with a total
value of USD1. 26 million have been made for the component, of which USD1. 26 million has
been actually paid. It is planned the remained USD0. 14 million would be disbursed by the WB
within the grace period.

3. 5 Economic Benefits
As described in the Project Appraisal Document, benefits from wastewater, municipal sanitation
related investments are difficult to quantify, particularly those relating to environmental and
public health. As a result, calculation of an economic internal rate of return (EIRR) was not
attempted. Cost-effectiveness analysis was conducted instead.
Wastewater Component
Construction of WWTP and associated sewer networks is the integration of urban infrastructure
and urban water environment management sustainable construction. Operation of the WWTPs,
no tangible products produced, and not generated direct economic benefits, but it will create
huge social fortune. The ecological environment will be in virtuous circle. Economic, social and
environmental benefits of wastewater treatment project are outstanding.
In this project, 4 WWTPs were newly built and expanded. Up to the end of 2010, wastewater
treatment capacity achieves 50×104m3/d，and the rate of treatment exceeds 75%，which is of
great significance to achieve the water quality objective in Liujiang, and to improve the water
quality drawn by the water supply company.
Environmental Sanitation Component
Environmental sanitation component is a non-revenue investment. During implementation,
according to the LMG, using public toilets is free of charge. As a result, there is no any direct
economic benefit for this component. But urban environmental and social benefits are increased.

                                               47
EPB Component
Industrial pollution control component is a non-revenue investment. Information management
facilities and water quality monitoring and test facilities were procured to strengthen EPB
monitoring and management capacity. Therefore, there is no any direct economic benefit for this
component.

3. 6 Other outcomes

Poverty Alleviation and social improvement
This Project has also had important social benefits, despite its objectives being originally focused
on environmental improvement. More than 500 permanent jobs have been created at ESD and
LMWTC, and many temporary jobs were created during the construction of the facilities.
The newly constructed public toilets and procured portable public toilets have been put into use,
which to some extent resolve the problem of insufficient number and unreasonable distribution
of public toilets. The newly purchase of waste collection and transport vehicles and the
environmental sanitation vehicles, with the vehicles addition and replacement, further reduce the
cleaners’ labor intensity, and decrease the secondary pollution during waste collection and
transportation.

Industrial Pollution Control Component
For the 11 top polluters, the Liuzhou Zinc Product Plant and Dongfeng Chemical Plant stopped
production; wastewater has been reused in Yufeng Cement Group and no wastewater discharged.
The remaining 8 industrials have completed the action plan set during the project appraisal and
ensure discharge in line with standard. At present, Discharge Permit released to the industrials is
ongoing, and it is planned discharge permit release will be completed within this year. For the 7
top heavy metal dischargers, of which 6 discharge in line with standard. And the Liuzhou Zinc
Product Plant not achieved standard has stopped production.

Institutional strengthening component
Both consulting service contracts (Package A & B) for wastewater component are successfully
implemented through the consultants and LMWTC’s joint efforts. Such extensive technical
supports are extremely necessary to effectively prepare the bidding documents, to improve the
IAs management levels, and to facilitate the new company to operate as an independent
enterprise, and they are also helpful to ensure the Project procurement and implementation
comply with the WB procedures.
ESD component consists of “TA to improve capacity in municipal solid waste management, and
supports for institutional development? and “TA to Promote Public-Private Partnerships for
Public Toilets? 2 consultancy contracts. These 2 contracts are combined for implementation.
Both contracts are successfully implemented through the consultants and the Employer’s joint
efforts. Anticipated effects and targets are fully achieved.

3. 7. Overall outcomes assessment
With the help and guidance of the Bank Team, through the IAs’ hard work, the Project
implementation and overall outcomes are satisfactory, and original targets are achieved.

                                                48
4. Overall sustainability assessment
On the whole, the entire LZEMP is sustainable. As for the commercial services and the general
public services funded by the government, independent agencies have been arranged and
different financings would be adopted.

4. 1 Institutional development and managerial sustainability
LMWTC was formed in Dec. 2004, in compliance with Chinese law a managerial autonomous
entity, is responsible for wastewater component implementation, and operation of WWTPs,
pumping stations and wastewater collection, conveyance systems.
Zhuexi, Jinglan pumping station is operated and maintained by the Flood Control Department of
Water Conservancy Bureau (WCB), and funded by LMG. Zhuexi creek maintenance is the
responsibility of the WCB’s Inland Waterway Management Department and also funded by
LMG. Storm water and the existing combined sewers are managed by the Sewerage
Management Department under the leadership of Municipal Management Bureau and funded by
LMG.
Night soil Collection and Disposal Services are managed by District Government Environmental
Sanitation Departments. This service is partly local government funded (in relation to public
toilets and public buildings) and partly by charges levied for emptying and maintaining privately
owned septic tanks.

4. 3 Operational sustainability
LMWTC has been awarded Class A qualification for operation of wastewater treatment facilities
by the Chinese Ministry of Environmental Protection. The Bank funded investments have been
constructed to good quality standards with no obvious inherent design weaknesses identified to
date. Sewer network, WWTPs, pumping stations financed by the WB is in sound operation.
Industrial pollution discharging to municipal sewers is considered to be reasonably well under
control and is not giving rise to significant problems in wastewater operations or compromising
the ability of the WWTP to meet discharge standards. All WWTPs equipped with mature
operational systems. And a formal planned maintenance system is established.

4. 4 Financial sustainability
Liuzhou Government is forever conscious of the flood risk to the City with drainage and flood
protection given high priority in the budget allocation process. The rapid economic growth in
Liuzhou has resulted in a similarly rapid growth in government revenues and budgets. LMG is
now much better placed to sustain and improve budget allocations than at the time of the
Project’s appraisal.
The wastewater tariff has been increased for a number of times since the project appraisal. The
tariff provides sufficient revenues to the LMWTC and this allow LMWTC to meet its operation
and maintenance needs and financial covenants from the beginning to 2010.




                                               49
Income collection performance averages 95% and is considered satisfactory. All proceeds from
the wastewater tariff are remitted directly in full to LMWTC, which allows the Company to
monitor income collection performance and gives it financial autonomy.

5. Bank and Borrower performance

5. 1 Bank Performance
The World Bank’s role has been generally satisfactory in project selection, preparation, appraisal
and implementation. The Bank’s staffs actively involved in this project has provided very useful
assistance, advice, guidance, training and supervision to the staff of the different project agencies
in Liuzhou, and the diligence of Bank staff is very much appreciated by Liuzhou PMO and by
the municipal government. The Implementing Agencies recognize that Bank involvement has
been helpful in optimizing the technical performance of the Project, and in particular, the WB
missions provided flexible and effective supports during implementation.
Meanwhile, there has been a greater understanding of local circumstances by the members of the
Bank supervisory team. This helped to resolve issues that had earlier caused difficulties, and
created a genuine atmosphere of partnership between Liuzhou and the Bank. The Bank has also
shown flexibility in its relationship with Liuzhou. We are very satisfied with and appreciated the
WB’s supports.

5. 2 Borrower Performance
The Project proceeded faster than the original plan; this is owed to the outstanding management
from the PMO and various IAs. The wastewater treatment capacity reached 350,000m3/d at the
end of 2007. LMWTC achieved all the performance targets in June 2010, and wastewater
treatment capacity increased to 500,000m3/d，the outcomes achieved 6 months earlier than
planned. Up to date, all facilities financed by the Bank are in sound operation and anticipated
targets are fully met. Not only the project proceeded smoothly, but also withdrawal and payment
followed up timely. We think that the overall progress of the Project is satisfactory.

6. Lessons learned
The implementation of the Liuzhou Environment Management Project was coordinated by
Liuzhou PMO acting on behalf of Liuzhou Municipal Government. The PMO staffs have learned
many detailed lessons from this experience which they hope to be given the opportunity to apply
during future projects.

6. 1 Project Specific Lessons
The IAs have learned the following lessons during implementation:
Project Design
1. From the urban environment management micro perspective to identify the objectives, to
select construction contents and implementation plans, which can fit well with the Liuzhou City
Master Plan and individual sub-planning targets.



                                                 50
2. Environment appraisal report, social assessment report, environment management plan,
resettlement action plan, financial model, procurement plan well covered the entire project
process, which to some extent ensure the project facilitation and targets achievement.
Procurement and Construction Management Lessons
1. The IAs staff get familiar with the WB procedures through the WB financed Project, and their
abilities in project management, procurement, contract and finance management have been
greatly improved.
      At the early stage of procurement detailed preparation should be done, and duly updating
       procurement plan based on project progress.
      The bidding documents should be prepared carefully, strict control on variations during
       project implementation.


Consulting Service
   1. Consulting services for project implementation worked well, and played a positive role in
      implementation and the expected objectives achieved. The consultants work diligently
      and made great contributions in design review and project management.

   2. Whilst reform objectives as appraised by the Bank have remained valid, the detailed
      implementation of institutional and financial reforms have had to be modified during the
      life of LZEMP as circumstances and government policies (national and local) changed.

   3. The TA consultants suggested alternative solutions on institutional strengthening. These
      suggestions were based on their experiences both in China and abroad, and were helpful
      in shaping the reform strategy eventually adopted by LMG.

6. 2 Lessons of Wider Significance

Project Design
This Environment Management Project covers wastewater collection/treatment, industrial
pollution control, municipal sanitation and solid waste management. Where some local policies
and regulations are different from the Bank standards then this needs to be taken up by the Bank
at national level and not at the project level.

Procurement and Construction Management
1. Whether price adjustable contracts could be used to combat market price fluctuation, and use
of adjustable contracts could have made implementation smoother, avoid delay and disputes.
There are some discrepancies between the national procurement procedure and the WB one;
communication should be strengthened. If the implementing agencies and corresponding
departments could not explain it clearly, it is better that the Bank could provide clear
clarifications.
Well managed and transparent procurement processes can enhance the economic benefits of
projects. Open, fair and effective management will be helpful for smooth project implementation.

                                               51
Institutional Development and Financial Reform
The institutional reforms in the Liuzhou wastewater sector have been cited by the Bank as a
model from which other cities can learn.
Regular increases in the wastewater tariff have allowed the creation of a financially strong
wastewater utility that has been able to meet WB financial covenants throughout the project. The
wastewater tariff has also proved a useful source of counterpart funds to the Project. Meanwhile,
the government has considered the poor population’s actual affordability in increasing water and
wastewater tariffs, and appropriate exemption measures have been taken.




                                               52
     Annex 9. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders
NA




                                    53
      Annex 10. List of Supporting Documents and Pictorial Evidence of Achievements
                      CHINA: Liuzhou Environment Management Project

1.   Project Appraisal Document (PAD) No. 30699-CHA dated April 27, 2005
2.   Draft Borrower’s Completion Report dated August 18, 2011
3.   Aide Memoires and ISRs
4.   Monitoring Report on Resettlement Action Plan by Independent Monitoring Agencies
5.   Semi-annual Progress Status Reports from the Borrower

Photos before and after Zhuexi Creek rehabilitation are attached as below.




             Before Rehabilitation                               After Rehabilitation




            Before Rehabilitation                                After Rehabilitation




                                               54
                                 Annex 11. Key Environmental Results
                        CHINA: Liuzhou Environment Management Project


Table 1. Compliance with Class III Standards
 Pollutants                       Class III Surface
                                                       2006             2007     2008      2009         2010
                                  Water Standards
 Dissolved Oxygen                      ≥5 mg/L         7. 43            7. 64    8. 15     8. 17        8. 11
 Ammonia Nitrogen                     ≤1. 0 mg/L       0. 629           0. 714   0. 496   0. 435        0. 443
 COD                                  ≤20 mg/L             /             2. 3     2. 3     2. 3          2. 3
 BOD5                                  ≤4 mg/L             2              2        2        2            1. 1
As can be seen in the table above, with the completion of four WWTPs, water pollution
indicators either improved or were prevented from deteriorating even as both the economy and
the population continued to grow rapidly. Furthermore, a dam was recently built in the
downstream of Liuzhou City and it significantly reducing the Liujiang River’s assimilative
capacity.


Table 2. COD and Ammonia Reduction by WWTP
WWTP                                               COD Load Reduction               Ammonia Nitrogen Load
                                                        (ton/a)                       Reduction (ton/a)
Baisha (operation started Jan 2009)                             3,625                           520
Longquanshan (operation started Mar 2009)                       7,086                           937
Yanghe (operation started Jun 2010)                             3,228                           312
Labao (operation started Sep 2010)                               538                               60
                                      Total:                   14,477                        1,829
Compliance with Class III standards is very sensitive to dissolved oxygen and ammonia nitrogen
concentrations. The dissolved oxygen level is also strongly correlated to chemical oxygen
demand (COD). In comparison with other pollutants, the ammonia weights highest in complying
with the Class III, as indicated in Table 1.




                                                      55
                                         MONGOLIA
                XINJIANG
                                                                             ONG
                                                                                  OL                        LIAONING
                                                                                                                       D.P.R. OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                  CHINA
                                                                         I M
                                                                     NE            BEIJING

                                                                                                                                                           LIUZHOU ENVIRONMENT MANAGEMENT PROJECT
                                                                                                                        KOREA
                                                                                   BEIJING

                                                                                         HEBEI     TIANJIN
                                                                                                                            REP. OF
                                                                                                                  Yellow KOREA
                                                                                                                                                                         PROPOSED WATER TREATMENT PLANTS

                                                      NINGXIA
                                                                           SHANXI
                                                                                             SHANDONG
                                                                                                                   Sea
                            QINGHAI
                                              GANSU




                                                                                                         JIA
                                                                SHAANXI          HENAN                                                                                                                        EXISTING:




                                                                                                            NG
                                                                                                 ANHUI
                                                                                                                            East                PROJECT:




                                                                                                             SU
                                                                                                                           China
                                                                                                                   SHANGHAI
                                                                                                                            Sea                        HYDRO DAM UNDER CONSTRUCTION                                   WATER TREATMENT PLANTS
                                                                                 HUBEI
                                                                     G
                   XIZANG                                         IN
                                         SICHUAN
                                                                 Q
                                                                                                           ZHEJIANG
                                                                                                                                                       PUMPING STATION                                                WASTE WATER TREATMENT PLANT (WWTP)
                                                                NG
                                                           O
                                                         CH




                                                                                             JIANGXI
                                                                            HUNAN
                                                                                                                                                       WASTE WATER TREATMENT PLANTS (WWTP)                            CONVEYOR
                                                      GUIZHOU                                            FUJIAN
                      National
                      Capital                                                                                                                          PROPOSED SEWER LINES                                           EXISTING OR UNDER CONSTRUCTION LIFTING STATION
                                       YUNNAN                             Liuzhou                                  TAIWAN
                      Province                                                      GUANGDONG
                                                                                                                          PACIFIC                      PROPOSED INTERCEPTORS                                          INTERCEPTOR UNDER CONSTRUCTION
                      Boundaries                                GUANGXI                      HONG KONG                    OCEAN
                    MYANMAR
                     International                                                        MACAO
                                                                                                                                                       RIVER CROSSING INTERCEPTOR                                     LANDFILLS
                      Boundaries         LAO        VIETNAM
                                          P.D.R.
                                                                          HAINAN                                  PHILIPPINES




                                                                                                                                                                                    Liu-Jiang River

                                                                                                                                   Yanggoulin


                                                                                                                                                                 Baisha WWTP




                                                                                                                                       LIUBEI
                                                                                                                                      DISTRICT
                                                                             Liu-J
                                                                                  iang
                                                                                                                                                                                                        CHENGZHONG
                                                                                       Ri                v er                                                                                             DISTRICT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         gR




                LIUNAN                                                                                                                                                                                                                         YANGHE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               YANGHE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   J ia n




                DISTRICT                                                                                                                                                                                   Jinglan                             DISTRICT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Liu-




                                                                                                                                                                                                          Pumping
                                                                                                                                                                                                           Station

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      River Crossing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Interceptor
                                                                                                                                                                                               Longquanshan
                                                                                      Zhuexi                                                                                                      WWTP
                                                                                   Rehabilitation



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Sewer
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Interceptor



                                                                                                                                                              YUFENG
                                                                                                                                                              DISTRICT

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Yanghe WWTP




                                                                                                         Labao Pumping
                                                                                                            Station
                            Labao WWTP

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Hydro Dam
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Under Construction,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          20 km southeast



                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Chonggoulin
FEBRUARY 2005




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       IBRD 33733




                This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
                                         MONGOLIA
                XINJIANG
                                                                            ONG
                                                                                 OL                        LIAONING
                                                                                                                      D.P.R. OF
                                                                                                                                                                          CHINA
                                                                        I M
                                                                    NE            BEIJING

                                                                                                                                                      LIUZHOU ENVIRONMENT MANAGEMENT PROJECT
                                                                                                                       KOREA
                                                                                  BEIJING

                                                                                        HEBEI     TIANJIN
                                                                                                                            REP. OF
                                                                                                                  Yellow KOREA
                                                                                                                                               INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION CONTROL AND SANITATION COMPONENTS




                                                      NINGXIA
                                                                          SHANXI
                                                                                            SHANDONG
                                                                                                                   Sea
                            QINGHAI
                                              GANSU




                                                                                                        JIA
                                                                SHAANXI         HENAN




                                                                                                           NG
                                                                                                ANHUI
                                                                                                                             East




                                                                                                             SU
                                                                                                                            China
                                                                                                                   SHANGHAI
                                                                                HUBEI                                        Sea                                     PROPOSED PUBLIC TOILETS




                                                                    G
                   XIZANG




                                                                  IN
                                         SICHUAN




                                                                 Q
                                                                                                          ZHEJIANG




                                                            NG
                                                                                                                                                                     PROPOSED SOLID WASTE COLLECTION POINTS




                                                           O
                                                         CH
                                                                                            JIANGXI
                                                                           HUNAN
                                                                                                                                                                     TRANSFER STATION
                                                      GUIZHOU                                           FUJIAN
                      National
                      Capital                                                                                                                                        LANDFILLS
                                       YUNNAN                             Liuzhou                                  TAIWAN
                      Province                                                     GUANGDONG
                                                                                                                          PACIFIC
                      Boundaries                                GUANGXI                     HONG KONG                     OCEAN
                    MYANMAR
                     International                                                       MACAO
                      Boundaries         LAO        VIETNAM
                                          P.D.R.
                                                                         HAINAN                                   PHILIPPINES




                                                                                                                                                                           Liu-Jiang River


                                                                                                                                         Yanggoulin




                                                                                                                                       LIUBEI
                                                                                                                                      DISTRICT
                                                                                                        Liu-J
                                                                                                              i   ang
                                                                                                                                                                                               CHENGZHONG
                                                                                                                      R   i v er                                                                 DISTRICT




                                                                                                                                                                                                Guiliu
                                                                                                                                                                                             Transfer
                                                                                                                                                                                              Station




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                iv e
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            gR
                               LIUNAN                                                                                                                                                                                                  YANGHE

                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Jian
                               DISTRICT                                                                                                                                                                                                DISTRICT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       L i u-




                   Zhuexi Creek




                                                                                                                                                         YUFENG
                                                                                                                                                         DISTRICT




                                                                                                  He
                                                                                  Jiu Qu




                                                                                                                                                                                                         Chonggoulin
FEBRUARY 2005




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  IBRD 33734




                This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
