                                         Document of
                                     The World Bank




                                                                           Report No: 35651

                       IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                         (IDA-35580)

                                            ON A

                                           CREDIT

         IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 4.0 MILLION (US$5.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                           TO THE

                                 REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS

                                           FOR A

                      SUSTAINABLE COASTAL TOURISM PROJECT




                                         June 20, 2006




Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development Sector Management Unit
Central America Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region

                                 CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                          (Exchange Rate Effective January 25, 2006)

                                  Currency Unit = Lempira (Lps.)
                                       Lps. 1.00 = US$ 0.0530786
                                        US$ 1.00 = 18.8400 Lps.

                                         FISCAL YEAR
                                    January 1 ­ December 31

                           ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AECI      Spanish International Cooperation Agency (Agencia Espanola de Cooperación Internacional)
AHMON     Association of Municipalities of Honduras (Asociación de Municipios de Honduras)
CAS       Country Assistance Strategy
EOP       End of Project
GEF       Global Environment Facility
GOH       Government of Honduras
IDB       Inter-American Development Bank
ICB       International Competitive Bidding
ICR       Implementation Completion Report
IDA       International Development Association
IHT       Honduras Institute of Tourism (Instituto Hondureño de Turismo)
INA       National Agrarian Institute (Instituto Nacional Agraria)
IHAH      Honduras Institute of Anthropology and History (Instituto Hondureño de Antropología y
          Historía)
INFOP     National Training Institute (Instituto Nacional de Formación Profesional)
IPDP      Indigenous Peoples Development Plan
LAC       Latin America and Caribbean Region/World Bank
LIL       Learning and Innovation Loan
MACAHO    Association of the Municipalities of the Honduran Caribbean (Mancomunidad de Municipios del
          Caribe Hondureño)
NCB       National Competitive Bidding
NGO       nongovernmental organization
PAAR      Rural Land Management Project (Proyecto de Administración de Areas Rurales)
PAD       Project Appraisal Document
PATH      Land Administration Project (Programa de Administracion de Tierras de Honduras)
PHRD      Policy and Human Resources Development / Japan Trust Fund
PIU       Project Implementation Unit
PSR/ISR   Project Status Report/Implementation Status Report
QAT       Quality Assurance Team/Latin America and Caribbean Region
QBS       Quality-Based Selection
QCBS      Quality and Cost-Based Selection
SCT       Sustainable Coastal Tourism
SEA       Strategic Environmental Assessment
UTM       Municipal Tourism Units (Unidad Turistica Municipal)


                                 Vice President:       Pamela Cox
                              Country Director         Jane Armitage
                                 Sector Director       Laura Tuck
                             Task Team Leader          Maria-Valéria Pena

                                         HONDURAS
                    SUSTAINABLE COASTAL TOURISM PROJECT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            6
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            17
6. Sustainability                                                                18
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 19
8. Lessons Learned                                                               22
9. Partner Comments                                                              24
10. Additional Information                                                       25
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             26
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             28
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             30
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             31
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             33
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                34
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            35
Annex 8. Borrower's Contribution                                                 36
Annex 9. Data Tables                                                             42
Annex 10. Endnote References                                                     45

Project ID: P057859                                                  Project Name: SUSTAINABLE COASTAL TOURISM
                                                                     PROJECT
Team Leader: Maria-Valeria Pena                                      TL Unit: LCSEO
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 20, 2006


1. Project Data
                   Name: SUSTAINABLE COASTAL TOURISM                              L/C/TF Number: IDA-35580
                            PROJECT
   Country/Department: HONDURAS                                                           Region: Latin America and the
                                                                                                     Caribbean Region

        Sector/subsector: Other industry (37%); Sub-national government administration (34%); Central government
                            administration (29%)
                  Theme: Water resource management (P); Biodiversity (P); Rural non-farm income generation (P);
                            Environmental policies and institutions (P); Municipal governance and institution building (P)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 09/14/2000                                     Effective: 10/25/2001                05/29/2002
     Appraisal: 05/14/2001                                         MTR: 12/15/2003                  03/15/2004
      Approval: 07/25/2001                                      Closing: 06/30/2005                 12/30/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          Republic of Honduras/Honduras Institute of Tourism (IHT)
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Pamela Cox                                     David de Ferranti
Country Director:               Jane Armitage                                  Donna Dowsett-Coirolo
Sector Director:                Laura Tuck                                     John Redwood
Team Leader at ICR:             Maria-Valeria Pena                             Marea Hatziolos
ICR Primary Author:             Kathryn Johns Swartz;
                                Maria-Valeria Pena


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        HS
                      Sustainability:      HL
   Institutional Development Impact:       H
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          HS


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The North Coast and Bay Islands of Honduras possess outstanding natural and cultural resources,
including a portion of the Mesoamerican Barrier Reef System, several national parks, historic sites, and the
populations of ladinos/mestizos , Garífunas , Miskitos , and Bay Islands Creole or Isleños . These
                                  1            2           3                                        4


resources endow the Honduras coastal area with a tourism potential that is unique in the Central American
region.

Tourism in Honduras has grown consistently over the past decade, including a 50 percent increase in the
number of visitors between 2000 and 2004. When the Sustainable Coastal Tourism Project was being
prepared, the Government of Honduras (GOH) was just beginning to recognize the tourism potential of the
Caribbean area. At the time, there was no policy framework for the strategic development and sustainable
management of these resources and a concern that when tourism development occurred, it would be
environmentally unsustainable and economic growth would not benefit local residents and particularly the
poorest populations in the area.

The project was developed to address these concerns and identify the conditions that would catalyze
sustainable tourism with benefits for local communities. The Project Development Objective was to create
an enabling environment for the development and management of sustainable coastal tourism along the
North Coast mainland and offshore Bay Islands, through a learning and participatory process that: (a)
promotes dialogue on the objectives and elements of sustainable coastal tourism; (b) identifies best practice
means to promote its adoption; (c) strengthens capacity at municipal and local levels to manage and benefit
from sustainable coastal tourism; and (d) rewards innovation in pursuit of these objectives.

The project area included three departments along the North Coast and the Bay Islands Department, with
specific attention to the Municipality of Omoa in the Department of Cortés; the Municipalities of Tela and
La Ceiba in the Department of Atlántida; the Municipality of Trujillo in the Department of Colón; and the
Municipalities of Utila and Guanaja in the Bay Islands. 5




3.2 Revised Objective:
N/A

3.3 Original Components:

The project, designed as a Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL), had four components financed with a SDR
4.0 million (US$5.0 million equivalent) IDA Credit, Government of Honduras (GOH) counterpart of
US$0.56 million, and beneficiary contributions of US$0.48 million, for a total cost of US$6.04 million
equivalent.

Component 1: National Strategy and Institutional Support for Sustainable Coastal Tourism (US$1.32
million; 21.9 percent of total project cost financing). This component would finance the development and
implementation of a national strategy for sustainable coastal tourism on the North Coast, including tourism
plans and development scenarios for priority areas. There were three sub-components:

Sub-component 1.1: Formulate and promote a participatory approach to policy dialogue with public and
private sector stakeholders at the national, regional and local levels - US$0.33 million. This
sub-component would finance workshops in project areas and background studies related to Honduras'
sustainable tourism potential.



                                                    - 2 -

Sub-component 1.2: Develop and implement a national tourism strategy for the North Coast, which
includes integrated, sustainable tourism action plans over the short, medium and long term - US$0.47
million.

Sub-component 1.3: Provide technical assistance to promote reform of policy, legal and regulatory
instruments and improve institutional arrangements in support of plan implementation - US$0.52
million. This component would finance technical assistance and build the capacity of Project
Implementation Unit (PIU) staff, the Honduras Institute of Tourism (Instituto Hondureño de Turismo, or
IHT) staff in its new Environment Unit, and staff in the six Municipal Tourism Units (Unidades Turisticas
Municipales, or UTM) to be established (see Component 2 below).

Component 2 ­ Institutional Strengthening, Training, and Technical Assistance at the Municipal
Level (US$2.01 million; 33.3 percent of total project cost financing). This component would develop the
capacity of coastal municipalities to engage in sustainable tourism development planning. A
complementary sub-component would support restoration works in Trujillo. There were three
sub-components:

Sub-component 2.1: Create tourism and environmental technical assistance units at the municipal level
to provide resources for local tourism development and environmental management - US$0.97 million.
This sub-component would finance the development of Municipal Tourism Units (UTM) in Utila, Guanaja,
Omoa, Tela, Trujillo, and La Ceiba.

Sub-component 2.2: Provide training for municipalities in identified areas of need - US$0.34 million.
This sub-component would support training for the participating municipalities in topics related to coastal
tourism and environmental management.

Sub-component 2.3: Conduct heritage site restoration activities for Trujillo's historic city center -
US$0.70 million. This sub-component would support the creation of a cultural tourism destination
demonstration site through the restoration of historic sites in Trujillo, one of Central America's oldest
towns. This activity would be coordinated with the Honduras Institute of Anthropology and History (
Instituto Hondureno de Antropologia y Historia, or IHAH) and the Spanish International Cooperation
Agency (Agencia Espanola de Cooperacion Internacional, or AECI).

Component 3 ­ Pilot Entrepreneurship Program for Sustainable Coastal Tourism (US$2.15 million;
35.6 percent of total project cost financing). This component would support the establishment of an
entrepreneurship center and a matching seed grant fund to support innovative tourism enterprises. There
were three sub-components:

Sub-component 3.1: Design and deliver micro and small business enterprise training to stimulate
productive capacity and create business opportunities - US$0.25 million. This sub-component would
support the establishment of a Sustainable Coastal Tourism Enterprise Center, including training in the
preparation of market studies, business plans and development of skills necessary to stimulate productive
capacity and opportunities for public-private partnerships in sustainable tourism enterprise.

Sub-component 3.2: Test and prepare for replication pilot innovation subprojects in local communities
focused on sustainable tourism (e.g., ecolodges, handicrafts, tour guides and operators, and adventure
travel outfitters) involving entrepreneurs in partnership with NGOs or government - US$1.14 million.
This sub-component would support technical assistance for tourism product development and finance a


                                                    - 3 -

seed grant program to stimulate innovative proposals for public/private partnerships in some form of
tourism enterprise. Up to 29 grants totaling up to $30,000 each would be awarded on a 2:1 matching basis.
Grant administration would be contracted out to an eligible firm or NGO.

Sub-Component 3.3: Build capacity in indigenous communities for preparation, financing and
implementation of pilot innovation subprojects focused on sustainable tourism involving entrepreneurs in
partnership with NGOs or government - US$0.76 million. This sub-component would finance a training
program, provision of technical assistance, and a matching seed grant fund targeting the indigenous
population. Up to 14 matching grants totaling $28,000 each would be awarded to eligible communities or
to NGOs/representatives on their behalf. Grants would be awarded on the basis of a 3:1 match.

Component 4 ­ Project Management (US$0.56 million; 9.3 percent of total project cost financing). This
component would support the establishment of a Project Implementation Unit (PIU) in the IHT to
implement the project, process all procurement in accordance with World Bank guidelines, and handle
financial management and monitoring and evaluation. In addition to the PIU in Tegucigalpa, a sub-team of
technical specialists would be based in La Ceiba to oversee field activities and carry out community
outreach along the North Coast.

3.4 Revised Components:
N/A

3.5 Quality at Entry:
ICR Rating: Satisfactory. The Quality at Entry is rated satisfactory for the following reasons: (a) the LIL
was consistent with the objectives of the 1999 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS); (b) the project
supported the GOH's strategy for tourism development as part of the reconstruction effort after Hurricane
Mitch devastated much of Honduras in October 1998; and (c) the project design was based on substantial
analytical work and lessons learned from Latin America and around the world on how to stimulate
sustainable tourism. Preparation included a partial Environmental Assessment (Category B), a Social
                     6


Assessment, and an Indigenous Peoples Development Plan (IPDP). As a LIL, this project was designed to
be flexible and respond to new priorities and plans implemented by the IHT, and this functioned as planned.


Honduras' North Coast is a complex area characterized by poverty, land conflicts and unclear land rights,
as well as competing priorities among the private sector, international tourists, indigenous/ethnic
communities, and civil society organizations, in a scenario of increasing crime and security concerns in
certain areas. These factors complicated the preparation of a participatory project and generated relatively
high expectations. The Bank managed these complexities and completed extensive background studies with
the support of a strong local team that traveled frequently to the project area.

Yet, as a result of these complexities, the project preparation period was relatively long (interrupted by
Hurricane Mitch, the worst natural disaster to strike Honduras in modern times) and the preparation cost
was relatively high (over US$700,000, including a US$500,000 PHRD grant). Some of the lengthy
preparation was also due to the Bank's need for assurances that the communal land titling issues in the
North Coast were being or would be addressed by the GOH through parallel initiatives, including the
World Bank-financed Rural Land Management Project, its Supplemental Credit, and the World
Bank-financed Land Administration Project.

Unresolved land issues, especially those related to Garífuna communally-held lands, were clearly identified
as a possible controversial issue. However, the Project Appraisal Document (PAD) acknowledged that land


                                                     - 4 -

regularization and resolution of land tenure issues are a huge challenge and went far beyond the scope of
the LIL. However as a first step, a Land Diagnostic to identify the legal and technical obstacles to more
efficient land administration in the North Coast, to be financed by the GEF-financed Biodiversity in
Priority Areas Project, was included as a dated covenant in the Credit Agreement of the LIL.

The project design was appropriate for a LIL, as it was exploring a new area of growth in Honduras and
seeking to develop a framework for sustainable pro-poor tourism development which would prepare the
GOH for a larger follow-on project. The GOH did request the Regional Development in the Copán Valley
Project (Cr. 3764 2003), a US$12.0 million follow-on project to be implemented by the IHT, to sustainable
tourism development with creation of an archeological tourism circuit including the Copán Archeological
Park. That project was approved by the Executive Directors of the World Bank on May 3, 2005.

Country Assistance Strategy. The LIL was included in the 1999 CAS, which discussed economic growth
that benefits coastal communities in the aftermath of Hurricane Mitch. The project was designed to support
capacity building to manage natural and cultural resources, innovation in private-public partnerships,
promotion of private sector-led growth, and greater participation of civil society.

Government Strategy. Tourism was identified as a key part of the GOH's strategy for National
Reconstruction and Transformation after Hurricane Mitch. The LIL supported the Government's strategy
in the tourism sector both in terms of creating a framework for sustainable coastal tourism and in
generating employment. At the time of project preparation, government institutions in the tourism sector
were weak and had not established strong working relationships with other stakeholders, particularly the
private sector. The project was designed to strengthen the institutional capacity of the IHT and support its
efforts to network among the private sector, civil society organizations, and other involved parties.

Assessments. The Environmental Assessment highlighted the need to build capacity for municipal level
environmental planning. The assessment included preparation of an Environmental Management Plan that
emphasized strengthening the IHT's Environmental Unit and the municipalities' environmental/tourism
units. An extensive Social Assessment was carried out and an Indigenous Peoples Development Plan
(IPDP) was prepared to ensure that these groups benefited from the project activities. The project
addressed many of the issues identified in the Social Assessment by linking the project to complementary
World Bank-financed projects, such as the Rural Land Management Project.

The issue of HIV/AIDS also surfaced as a serious concern and a portion of World Bank funding was
allocated specifically to address HIV/AIDs in North Coast communities. However, after project approval,
the GOH received US$23.0 million in international funds directed towards HIV/AIDS programs, which
included activities that were originally budgeted in project. Therefore, at the time of the Mid-term Review,
the GOH and the Bank agreed that these IDA resources would be reallocated to other activities within the
project.

Risks. The project identified the main risks, some of which were mitigated over time. Three risks were
identified as high: (a) lack of government investment in physical infrastructure to support tourism
destinations; (b) short implementation period and weak project management capacity; and (c) security
situation in the North Coast and high rate of HIV/AIDS in coastal communities. With the Government that
took office in 2002, there was a strong interest and financial backing for building the infrastructure needed
to support tourism destinations and the PIU proved capable of executing the project within the available
time. The security situation was mitigated somewhat with the special tourism police financed by the IHT,    7


but security concerns and the HIV/AIDS crisis remain high risks to the economic potential of the North



                                                     - 5 -

Coast. Weak government leadership in the sector was identified as a concern, but the IHT team included
strong leaders in promoting environmental and social sustainability in tourism development on the North
Coast.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
ICR Rating: Highly Satisfactory. The overall achievement of objective is rated as highly satisfactory
since the project successfully helped to create an enabling environment for the development and
management of sustainable coastal tourism in the North Coast and Bay Islands of Honduras, and exceeded
the planned activities in some cases. Since many activities only concluded in 2005, it is too early to
evaluate long-term impacts. However, based on initial indications, field visits and feedback from
beneficiaries and stakeholders, it is highly likely that the project will achieve substantial development
results. These results are expected to be sustained based on continuing tourism growth in Honduras (see
Table A9.1). In recent years, tourism has become one of the most important factors in the Honduran
economy, with the North Coast, Bay Islands, and Copán Archeological Park areas contributing nearly all
of the tourism inflows.

Six of the seven impact indicators of the LIL were achieved and the project exceeded expectations for
                                                               8


performance, particularly related to the matching seed grant fund Fondo Prosperidad (Prosperity Fund),
technical assistance to improve artisan work, and the restoration work in Trujillo. The project started with
an implementation delay as there were ten months between Board approval and project effectiveness, but
the PIU was able to complete nearly all activities, and some new initiatives, within the planned time. A
six-month extension of the Closing Date was needed to complete two restoration works in Trujillo that were
affected by inclement weather.

The project had a broad, cross-cutting communications/dissemination strategy and emphasized learning and
participatory approaches to sustainable tourism. The project was also responsive to the needs of the IHT to
improve its planning of sustainable tourism and environmental management. The LIL provided direction
and structure to the IHT's actions during 2002-05, particularly for public-private collaboration. In 2005,
the project was one of 12 projects recognized by the World Bank's "Results Showcase" in the Annual
Strategic Forum for its results and impact on beneficiaries, particularly through the Fondo Prosperidad.
The main outcomes and impact indicators of the LIL at the national, municipal, and local levels are detailed
below (see also Annex 1):

(1) Strategy for Sustainable Coastal Tourism in the North Coast. The Regional Sustainable Coastal
Tourism Strategy was prepared using a participatory methodology during 2003-04 and finalized,
disseminated, and implementation initiated in 2005. This impact indicator was fully achieved, although
with a delay (originally planned to be under implementation by 2003), mainly due to the above-mentioned
effectiveness delay and additional time needed for consultations prior to finalizing the document.

The Regional Strategy includes six Municipal Action Plans developed through a participatory process that
involved diverse sectors, including governmental authorities, tour operators, business leaders, community
leaders, and Garífuna communities. The Strategy and the Municipal Plans are available on the website of
the project (www.turismocostero.org) and serve as a framework for tourism development. The
accompanying Action Plan identified 112 actions, grouped into 24 priorities to be implemented over the
next two years, with identification of the responsible party and funding. Ten of the actions are currently
under implementation with government, donor, or municipality funding, including inter alia: training in
sustainable tourism practices for tourism service providers; improved management of solid waste, water



                                                    - 6 -

and sanitation systems in Trujillo (financed by the Inter-American Development Bank); and tourism
marketing and promotion. The Regional Strategy also served as a basis for the development of a National
Sustainable Tourism Strategy.

The participatory approach used to develop the Regional Strategy produced important results, including the
organization of municipal committees for tourism development and the formation of the Association of the
Municipalities of the Honduran Caribbean (Mancomunidad de Municipios del Caribe Hondureño, or
MACAHO), which is responsible for implementing and monitoring the strategy. MACAHO was founded in
October 2004 and is a legal entity with a budget and Board of Directors consisting of the main authorities
of the six municipalities in the project area. The development of the MACAHO was supported from the
beginning by the IHT, the Ministry of Governance and Justice, AECI, and the Association of
Municipalities of Honduras (Asociación de Municipios de Honduras, or AHMON).

One of the impact indicators of this activity was that the perceived economic, ecological and social benefits
of tourism by key stakeholders in the pilot destinations increased 35 percent from the baseline measure of
attitudes. Based on a study by the Department of Statistics in the IHT, the perception of the benefits
derived from tourism increased by 22 percent from 2003-05 in the project area. This is less than the
planned percentage, but it covers only three years, whereas the original indicator covered almost four years
(2002-05).

Pilot Strategic Environmental Assessment. As a complement to the Regional Strategy, the World Bank
team secured US$300,000 from the Norwegian Trust Fund for Environmentally and Socially Sustainable
Development for analytical work related to eco/cultural tourism development and a Strategic
Environmental Assessment (SEA) of the tourism sector. In coordination with the Environmental Unit in the
IHT, the SEA addressed: Environmental and Social Best Practice Guidelines; Wastewater Policy Analysis
and Management Plan; Solid Waster Policy and Management Plan; and Maximization of Income
Generation and Social Inclusion through Micro-enterprise Development.

The SEA currently serves as a framework to inform decisionmaking in the tourism sector. The SEA has
resulted in several environment and licensing legislation initiatives supported by the IHT, including inter
alia changes in the wastewater law to allow for more sustainable management of wastewater in tourism
areas. The Ministry of Tourism and the IHT were very satisfied with outcome of the SEA and it is being
disseminated as international best practice in SEAs.

(2) Municipal Strengthening. The project strengthened the tourism and environmental management
capacities in the six municipalities of La Ceiba, Tela, Trujillo, Omoa, Utila, and Guanaja. Through
agreements with the six municipalities, Municipal Tourism Units (Unidades Turisticas Municipales, or
UTMs) were established and staffed, as part of the technical team of the municipality; responsibilities
include providing technical assistance in many different areas, including tourism promotion, environmental
guidelines, networking and building partnerships, outreach to communities, and training for municipal staff
and local communities. A special Technical Unit was also created in La Ceiba to provide specialized
environmental expertise to the UTMs. These municipalities also had municipal-level Environmental Units,
supported in part by the Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment, and the UTMs worked closely
with these units in many of the environmental-related activities.

In four of the six municipalities (Tela, Utila, Trujillo, and Omoa), the project supported the development
and implementation of a database of tourism information which is consistently updated. This database
allows municipalities to identify and adopt tourism revenue capturing mechanisms at the local level, among
other types of information.




                                                     - 7 -

The UTMs faced challenges in working with the municipalities, mainly due to institutional weaknesses,
lack of leadership, and difficulties coordinating with the other public and private sector actors. During
implementation, the municipalities financed 25 percent of the salaries of the UTM coordinators. There was
some concern about the sustainability of all of the UTMs after project closing; however, at the time of
drafting the ICR, the operating costs of four of the six units were assumed by the municipalities (La Ceiba,
Tela, Trujillo, and Utila). Unfortunately, the units in Omoa and Guanaja were practically dissolved after
local government changes. The IHT has continued to maintain a dialogue with these municipalities to
explore funding options and encourage the continuation of the units.

(3) Cultural Tourism Demonstration Site. The restoration and rehabilitation civil works in Trujillo
exceeded the original plans as the work was very popular and it was expanded to other buildings and
facilities. In total, more than 25 sites and historic buildings in the Historic Center were restored; the
original target was five sites. The work in Trujillo was truly a collaborative effort among the IHT, AECI,
IHAH, the National Training Institute (Instituto Nacional de Formación Profesional, or INFOP), the
World Bank, the United States Agency for International Development, and local leadership of Trujillo.
There are indications that tourism to Trujillo is increasing, as the numbers of visitors increased from 6,433
in 2004 to 9,196 in 2005 (see Table A9.2).

The restoration work generated substantial interest from the general public about historic preservation and
there were many requests for technical assistance. The overall quality of the works was very good and
despite tropical storms and significant flooding in late 2005, the buildings that were restored suffered no
damage. The project also supported the indirect development of micro-enterprises related to the restoration
work, including carpentry, collection of waste and recycling, private museums, and small firms specialized
in restoration. The local Garífuna community in Trujillo is the most enthusiastic supporters of this program
and the municipality has assumed maintenance costs for some of the buildings restored by the project.

(4) Fondo Prosperidad. The Fondo Prosperidad was established in 2004 and managed by a
well-respected international NGO (selected through international competitive bidding), which also operates
a micro-lending program in Honduras. The Fondo included a competitive seed grant fund and technical
assistance and training to small and micro-enterprises and community enterprises. The grants and technical
                                                                                       9


assistance together are referred to as "subprojects."

Ninety-five seed capital co-investments grants, totaling over US$1.0 million, were awarded to eligible
enterprises in 25 communities in six municipalities. These subprojects helped hundreds of beneficiaries
establish and expand sustainable businesses that both provide income to support their families and enhance
their communities' economic viability through tourism development. Based on a questionnaire filled out by
beneficiaries, 61 percent benefited from enhanced facilities/installations, 23 percent from improved
production, 10 percent from better products, and 6 percent in greater sales. Examples of subprojects
include: recycling, artisan groups, hotels and bed and breakfasts, tour operators, kayak and boat rental
companies, a glass bottom boat enterprise, restaurants, bakery, art gallery, outdoor adventure company, a
historic museum, and transportation operators.

Most of the grants were awarded in 2004 and 2005 and there was close monitoring of the execution of the
grants and the planned activities by the NGO and IHT. In general, all of the grants were successful, with
99 percent of the assigned resources disbursed. At the time of preparation of the ICR, all of the enterprises
are operating well, but it is too early to assess the future sustainability of these enterprises.

The competitive process utilized by the Fondo consisted of a general call for subprojects, which resulted in



                                                       - 8 -

approval of 69 grants, and a special Business Development Program in Tela, which awarded 26 grants (see
below). For the 69 subprojects, there were 144 direct beneficiaries (57 private entrepreneurs and 87 as
members of groups) representing 57 micro-enterprises, 10 business associations; 1 business chamber, and 1
NGO. The grants provided direct employment for approximately 426 individuals (276 men and 150
women). The grants included co-investment from the beneficiaries, which totaled 139 percent of the total
Fondo grants. Over half of the beneficiaries were women (55 percent) and the beneficiaries by ethnicity
were: Garífuna: 42 percent; Ladino/mestizo 33 percent; Isleño 22 percent; and foreign residents 3 percent.
Approximately 54 percent of the resources benefited Garífuna micro-enterprises (100 percent in the
Business Development Program in Tela). The Fondo Prosperidad model was so successful that it was
replicated in the follow-on Copán Valley Project and it has been recognized by the GOH and other Central
American countries as a model for supporting pro-poor, small-scale tourism development. Additional data
regarding the subprojects can be found in Section 4.2 below.

Business Development in Tela. A targeted Business Development Program in Tela supported 26
subprojects, mainly among poor, ethnic (Garífuna), female-led micro-enterprises. The implementation of
this program helped to build trust between the IHT and the local Garífuna communities. (See Section 4.2
below.)

Technical Assistance for New Tourism/Artisan Products. This program was developed separately from the
Fondo to consolidate and enhance tourist/artisan products developed by Garífuna artists in the project
areas. From July 2004 to February 2005, high quality technical assistance and training was provided to 16
micro-enterprises, the majority of which are Garífuna. This assistance resulted in the generation of 78
product designs to be produced in the following lines: candles, jewelry, shirts and clothing, and bags and
purses. (See Section 4.2 below.)

(5) Environmental Actions for Sustainable Tourism Development. A series of environmental activities
were carried out to improve the tourism potential of the zone based on sustainable development principles,
including: Municipal Environmental Action Plans, the Rehabilitation of Coral Gardens (one of two such
projects in Latin America), Solid Waste Management in the Bay Islands, a "Clean Honduran Caribbean"
Campaign, a recycling program in hotels, and an environmentally-sensitive program to eradicate the jején
or "no-see-um" sand fly. The jején program has been noted as a best practice by the Quality Assurance
                         10


Team in the Latin America Region. These activities filled important financing gaps for the IHT in terms of
helping to improve the conditions for sustainable coastal tourism in the North Coast and Bay Islands. Some
challenges to sustainable tourism development remain, including regular garbage collection and improved
sanitation systems, but the project made a contribution in certain areas of environmental enhancement. (See
Section 4.2 below.)

(6) Land Issues/Indigenous Peoples Development Plan
The IPDP for the project included some actions to be financed by the LIL and others that were ongoing or
to be financed by complementary World Bank-financed projects. On land issues, the IHT signed an
agreement with the World Bank-financed Rural Land Management Project and World Bank-financed Land
Administration Project. The following actions were carried out as part of the IPDP:

    a) Completion of the Land Titling Diagnostic in October 2002, financed by the GEF-financed
    Biodiversity in Priority Areas Project. This Diagnostic was prepared by an expert team and contains
    substantial information on the legal issues, claims, conflicts, and trends on the ground.

    b) Execution of aerial photographs in the Departments of Atlántida and Colón (441,847 hectares) as an




                                                     - 9 -

    input into the land titling process.

    c) Introduction of conflict resolution strategies in the municipal planning process for the
    above-mentioned Regional Sustainable Coastal Tourism Strategy.

    d) Execution of urban land planning for the Municipalities of Omoa and Tela and the process of
    consultation.

    e) Allocation of 54 percent of the Fondo resources to Garífuna enterprises. In the Business
    Development Program in Tela, 100 percent of beneficiaries were Garífuna.


4.2 Outputs by components:
Component 1: National Strategy and Institutional Support for Sustainable Coastal Tourism. Highly
Satisfactory. Overall, the outputs of this component were highly satisfactory, although the Regional
Strategy was launched later than originally planned. The Regional Tourism Strategy for the Honduras
Caribbean was officially launched at the national level in December 2005 and is currently under
implementation. The innovative participatory planning process used in the development of the strategy
helped to build a strong consensus about the strategy and led to the formation of the Association of the
Municipalities of the Honduran Caribbean (Mancomunidad de Municipios del Caribe Hondureño, or
MACAHO), which is responsible for the implementation of the strategy.

A Municipal Strategic Planning process was carried out in the six participating municipalities (Omoa,
Tela, Utila, Guanaja, La Ceiba, Trujillo) with approximately 394 participants and documents were
prepared, which are available on-line at www.turismocostero.org, including: methodology, objectives and
strategies, programs, actions, implementation, and participants. The on-line information also includes
information on the history, demography, socioeconomic issues, calendar of events, tourist travel, and
photos of each municipality.

Based on the results of this process, the Regional Strategy was prepared during regional- and national-level
dialogues. The Strategy includes the results of the Municipal Strategic Planning process; methodology; as
well as identification of objectives, strategies, and lines of action for tourism in the North Coast area. The
Strategy also includes annexes on urban development, an inventory of tourism attractions, characteristics of
tourist segments of interest, legal aspects, a national ecotourism strategy, tourism circuits, criteria for hotel
classification, good practices, and an investment program.

Communications and Dissemination. The project financed a cross-cutting communications/dissemination
campaign in the project areas and nationally with the following activities:

    a) Design and launch of webpage for the project (www.turismocostero.org) with discussion forums and
    an informational bulletin. This site was nominated as the best government web site in 2005. From 2004
    to the end of 2005, there were approximately 5,427 visitors to the site.

    b) Production of a monthly informational bulletin reaching 1,068 individuals on the Internet, of which
    296 subscribed to the bulletin.

    c) Dissemination of approximately 83 press releases and publication of 18 special reports in the project
    areas.

    d) Preparation of public information notices for local radio during the Clean Honduran Caribbean
    Campaign.

    e) Design of tourism signs, garbage cans, hats and shirts, and other promotional items.



                                                     - 10 -

The project also developed promotional materials to support the future sustainability of the UTMs,
including: 21,000 tourist maps and 14,000 postcards of the six project municipalities; 6,000 brochures
about tourist sites in Omoa and Trujillo; and 14,000 copies of the Caribe Hondureño Magazine. The
project also financed the production of 58 small, illuminated tourism informational signs in the main streets
in La Cieba, Tela, Omoa, and Trujillo. After project closing, it is expected that the UTMs will manage the
content of these signs and solicit sponsorships. This income will help support the functioning of the UTMs.

Specific Studies. This component supported the following studies that have informed planning in the IHT:

    · Level of Satisfaction of Foreign Tourists that visit Honduras.
    · Investigation of the USA Market related to Honduras.
    · Market Study on the Vacation Habits of the Honduran People.
    · Study on the Behavior of International Tourists in Honduras.
    · Tourist Classification of Hotels and Services in Honduras.
    · Design and Adoption of Legal and Policy Instruments for the Sustainable Tourism Strategy.

The Environmental Unit in the IHT also carried out an environmental classification of hotels in Honduras.
This process was fully participatory and the hotels were in agreement with the final results. This was not
certification, but rather a process to provide information to visitors about quality standards and to the
hotels regarding how to become more environmentally friendly and attractive to travelers.

Component 2 ­ Institutional Strengthening, Training, and Technical Assistance at the Municipal
Level. Highly Satisfactory. Overall, the outputs of this component were highly satisfactory, particularly
the improvements in Trujillo. The main activities are detailed below:

Sub-components 2.1 and 2.2: Technical Assistance and Training for Local Tourism Development and
Environmental Management. Satisfactory. The project financed the creation of Municipal Tourism Units
(UTM) in the six project municipalities. The technical specialists provided support to the municipalities
and served as resource people for the local communities on tourism-related opportunities. All of the UTMs
created a Tourist Information Center in the municipality stocked with maps, the Caribe Hondureño
magazine, postcards, promotional videos, and guides to local tourism sites. The UTM in Trujillo has a
multiple use room that can be used for community meetings. Some of the main activities carried out by the
UTMs include:

    · Provided training to 5,902 individuals through 230 workshops on sustainable tourism development
    and environmental management. These training workshops were carried out in coordination with
    community organizations, business owners, and local government personnel.
    · Developed environmental actions plans and environmental inspections in the municipalities, in
    coordination with the Municipal Environmental Units.
    · Organized and launched Environmental Committees in the municipalities.
    · Carried out environmental sensitivity campaigns including clean up, garbage removal, radio
    programs, signs, etc.
    · Developed a Best Practice Manual in Environmental Issues, which was approved by the municipal
    authorities.
    · Established six new tourism circuits, based on sustainable tourism development, including the
    Trujillo Circuit, the Forts Route, the Garífuna Coast, Cruises of the Bay Islands, National Parks, and
    La Ceiba and Cayos Cochinos.



                                                    - 11 -

    · Planned and organized cultural activities in the municipalities including carnivals, fairs, and special
    events to promote tourism.

Some of the UTMs performed better than others, and all of the UTMs encountered some common
challenges in performing their duties, including: weak human resource capacity for tourism in the
municipality; limited budget support for the UTMs and tourism-related activities; lack of support from the
municipalities for trash removal; and poor coordination among all stakeholders in the municipalities. In
some cases, these challenges were addressed over time and the participatory planning process for the
Regional Tourism Strategy helped to bring together all the stakeholders to agree on priority issues, but in
other municipalities, these problems persist.

Training. The project financed training and workshops in the project areas for the general public, for micro
and small business owners in tourism management, and for university students to be trainers in tourism
management and environmental impacts. Some of these workshops included: presentation/ introduction of
the project; forum on the Mesoamerican Barrier Reef; Sustainable Tourism and Ecotourism; Introduction
to the UTMs; training for taxi drivers on tourism culture and customer service; training in restaurant
service and technical assistance in providing tourism services; inventory of tourism attractions;
development of profiles of tourism projects; design of urban spaces; the role of the municipality; and
conflict resolution. Among the training programs for micro-enterprises was a three-day course on "My
First Business," which included the formation of a simulated micro-enterprise and the selection of
personnel, a feasibility study, development of a business plan, and the simulation of a business day.

Environmental Activities. There were several innovative activities that directly supported environmental
conservation and/or tourism enhancement in the project areas. These programs included:

Solid Waste Management in the Bay Islands. The project financed the collection of solid waste and
sensitization among the residents about reducing, reusing, and recycling materials. This effort generated
visible changes in some areas on the Bay Islands, particularly in the Cayo Bonacca in Guanaja, but full
implementation was hindered by the lack of recycling on the islands together with the expense and difficulty
of shipping items to the recycling plant in La Ceiba (located on the mainland).

Coral Gardens Project. The Bay Islands coral reefs have been affected by many factors, including water
contamination from sediment and run-off and uncontrolled fishing. In coordination with a well-respected
international NGO and the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB)-financed Environmental Management
in the Bay Islands Project, a coral garden in the Bay Islands was restored with the conservation of coral
species. The introduction of coral gardens is expected to maintain and improve the environmental quality in
the Bay Islands as a base for sustainable economic development. This technique has only been implemented
in two countries in Latin America--Honduras and Jamaica.

This program was multifaceted and included conservation and restoration of the coral reefs, community
awareness (e.g., ten brochures in English and Spanish on coral reefs and sustainable fishing), and local
participation in management of coastal and marine resources. The program specifically sought to conserve
and rescue the Acropora coral species, which provide an essential habitat for marine species. The program
also worked with local fishermen to create economic opportunities based on better fisheries management
and greater participation in the tourism industry.

Local volunteers were mobilized to map, monitor and stabilize wild coral species to recuperate the
biological diversity of the coral reefs. This effort was supported by multiple stakeholders including the
government, hotel resorts, diving industry, youth groups, fishermen, and conservation organizations. The


                                                   - 12 -

above-mentioned NGO is currently raising funds to expand this program and begin a second phase in Tela,
Omoa, and Trujillo.

Hotels Recycling. This program was designed to encourage recycling of solid wastes generated in the hotels
in La Ceiba, including separation of recyclables and fostering the concept of social responsibility. The
Technical Unit in La Ceiba led this program, together with a local recycling company. The program
included identification of recyclables (e.g., paper, plastics, cans, cardboard), location of recycling
containers, and training of hotel employees (124 individuals). To date, 11 hotels are voluntarily
participating in the program and they receive a payment from the local recycling company based on the
type and amount of material and condition.

"Clean Honduran Caribbean" Campaign. A national campaign was launched during spring breaks in
2004 and 2005 to inform the local population and visitors about maintaining clean beaches and tourist
areas in the municipalities of Omoa, Tela, La Ceiba, Trujillo, Utila, Guanaja, and Copán Ruinas. The
campaign provided garbage containers, recruited volunteers to keep tourist areas clean, posted signs about
tourist areas, and provided information about tourist security. In total, 450 volunteers supported the UTMs
in beach monitoring.

Pilot Recycling Program. A pilot recycling program was designed for 2005 to address some of the
problems encountered in the previous year. One village in each of the municipalities of Omoa, Tela y La
Ceiba was selected and 121 volunteers were identified. In order to help launch this program, the
coordinator of the Technical Unit in La Cieba carried out a study tour to visit a local, micro-enterprise
recycling project supported by the World Bank-financed Gender Equity Project in Mexico. This visit
provided valuable information for the launch and coordination of this pilot program.

The objective was to support a change in attitude of the vacationers and local residents regarding garbage
disposal and increase awareness about the importance of recycling. This program had the strong support of
a private sector partner that provided hats and t-shirts to the volunteers in each municipality, as well as
signs and garbage bags for the containers. The volunteers distributed information on recycling, provided
garbage bags to people, and cleaned and separated solid waste materials. Other partners in this effort
included new recycling micro-enterprises in Omoa and Tela, which benefited from the Fondo Prosperidad,
and the existing recycling company in La Ceiba. The pilot program was very successful with collection of
large quantities of cans and plastic bottles. For example, after witnessing the positive effects of recycling, a
local restaurant in one of the villages decided to implement a permanent system of garbage separation for
recycling. The students involved in the program also commented about how easy it was to think about
separating garbage into recyclables and many seemed to have a new appreciation for the people who
collected garbage and sorted it for recyclables. The program also helped to stimulate the interest of local
residents in recycling materials, particularly when the companies provided cash for the items.

Jején Control Program. The prevalence of the jején on the Bay Islands was a concern for the IHT in terms
of promoting sustainable tourism development. In order to learn more about this problem, the IHT
proposed an environmentally-sensitive Pilot Program of Integrated Management of the Jején in the Bay
Islands, which included the participation of a prominent NGO, other donors and the private sector. This
program was launched in 2003 and included a technical component with a fumigation plan for adults and
larvae with environmental monitoring; a research component on biological controls; the use of
non-chemical alternatives; and a social component with public awareness, and monitoring and evaluation.
This program was approved by a World Bank Pest Management Specialist prior to being launched and
based on the initial results, the World Bank identified this is a best practice example in the Latin America
and Caribbean Region of pest management. This work is continuing with support from the GOH and other



                                                     - 13 -

donors.

Sub-component 2.3: Heritage Site Restoration in Trujillo. Highly Satisfactory. The restoration and
revitalization activities in Trujillo were highly satisfactory and exceeded the original plans with more than
25 sites and historic buildings restored in the Historic Center. All of the works were inaugurated with
participation from a Bank mission in December 2005. The coordination with the AECI, IHAH, and other
partners was excellent. Some of the main activities included:

    · Establishment of a technical office of the Historic Center of Trujillo with the Director financed by the
    project and an architect financed by AECI.
    · Implementation of a topographic survey of the Historic Center of Trujillo.
    · Completion of small works in 2002 to accommodate visitors for the ceremony of the 500-year
    anniversary of the first Catholic mass in the Americas.
    · Restoration and inauguration of the Historic Fort of Santa Barbara in October 2003. Likewise, a
    small museum about the colonial period and Garífuna culture was included inside the fort.
    · Completion of a socioeconomic study of the Historic Center and buffer zone of Trujillo.
    · Development of regulations for the preservation of the Historic Center of Trujillo.
    · Restoration and adaptation of the National Training Institute (Instituto Nacional de Formación
    Profesional, or INFOP) building, one of the most significant architectural buildings in the city. This
    building also serves as a training center for the region.
    · Restoration and adaptation of the colonial Comandancia of Trujillo for use as a tourist information
    center and for the Office of the Historic Center of Trujillo.
    · Provision of technical assistance for the remodeling of 22 buildings in the historic center.
    · Construction of a small traditional boat pier to improve tourist access from the Bay Islands and as a
    point of departure for tours of the Guaymoreto Lake and the Bay of Trujillo. The pier improves the
    image of the shoreline and encourages tourists to stay longer in the city. The pier was formally
    transferred to the municipality for maintenance in coordination with the UTM.

Component 3 ­ Pilot Entrepreneurship Program for Sustainable Coastal Tourism (Fondo
Prosperidad). Highly Satisfactory. The NGO managing the Fondo established an office in the project area
and initiated a series of public meetings to present information about the program (about 420 individuals
participated in the sessions). In the first call for proposals, approximately 400 subproject proposals were
received. These proposals were evaluated by the NGO based on the eligibility requirements and the eligible
proposals were presented to the Approval Committee. Of these, 69 were selected to receive seed grants and
an additional 26 were approved under the Business Development Program in Tela (see below).

These 69 micro-enterprises were trained in basic accounting, business management and administration so
that the beneficiaries could handle the seed grant funds. Each subproject had a plan of investment and
disbursement, and the NGO carried out monitoring and evaluation of the activities. A database with the
baseline situation of the subproject beneficiaries was established and will be used for future impact
evaluations. Concurrent audits were carried out and recommendations made as necessary; and the NGO
team carried out field visits to all of the subprojects during project implementation.

The average seed grant amount for the selected subprojects was US$14,000. Subprojects represented the
following sectors in the tourism industry: Hotel: 25 percent; Tour operators: 19 percent; Artisan groups 16
percent; Solid waste management/recycling 8 percent; Tourist information: 5 percent; and Transport 4
percent. Approximately 60 percent of the Fondo resources were concentrated in the municipalities of La
Ceiba, Trujillo, and Utila. Utila had the most subprojects (15) and Omoa had the lowest rate of
participation. Forty-three percent of the Fondo resources were awarded to female micro-enterprises or


                                                      - 14 -

associations of women. A total of 25 micro-enterprises led by women were beneficiaries of the Fondo.
Tables A9.3 and A9.4 provide additional data on the Fondo and Box A9.1 presents a short case study of
beneficiaries from Utila.

It bears noting that the Enterprise Center, as originally proposed in the PAD, was not established as it was
agreed that this center would duplicate the services being provided by the NGO administering the Fondo.

Fondo Prosperidad Business Development Program in Tela. During the first call for subprojects, there
was no participation from the Municipality of Tela. After investigating this situation, the IHT became
aware that there were some conflicts in this area related to hotel development and therefore, most people
were suspicious about the Fondo and did not participate. Community leaders however, were supportive of
the program and asked for another call for proposals, particularly for the Municipality of Tela. The
Garífuna Tourism Board worked together with the IHT to develop a program that was appropriate for the
population, specifically for Garífuna women, which would strengthen the capacity of these poor
entrepreneurs through technical assistance and training in production, marketing, and management and
administration of the enterprises.

A feasibility study was carried out to determine opportunities for tourism initiatives and training was
provided to interested groups in the preparation of proposals and business plans. Twenty-six
micro-enterprises were selected, mainly from the villages of Tornabë and Miami, to receive seed grants and
technical assistance; the total budget for this program was US$250,000. All 26 subprojects benefited the
Garífuna population, with 15 subprojects (64 percent of the funds) benefiting Garífuna-owned, female-led
micro-enterprises (the most vulnerable population group in Honduras). A sample of subprojects supported
includes a crab and fishing enterprise that employed 60 people during times allowed for fishing by
environmental authorities in Tela, small food preparation and restaurant micro-enterprises. Given the initial
climate of suspicion and anti-government sentiment in Tela, the success of this small program was
significant.

Technical Assistance for New Tourism/Artisan Products. This program was managed by a specialist in the
development of high-quality artisan products in coordination with poor women's groups in Honduras,
which are successful at an international level. The technical assistance was provided in a collaborative
manner with the specialist providing advice based on market interests and demands, then working closely
with the groups to develop product lines. Workshops and training events benefited approximately 202
artisans (majority Garífuna and women). In addition to developing 78 product designs, the technical
assistance helped the community groups secure primary materials and develop an informational brochure
for each item, which was disseminated in an exhibition in Tegucigalpa. At present, the artisan groups are
now producing and selling their items to buyers in Omoa, Tela, La Ceiba, Trujillo, Roatán, and San Pedro
Sula. The micro-enterprises will need to continue to build their capacity to produce quality products. The
start-up costs are often difficult to secure and there is relatively little experience in strategic planning and
commercialization.

Component 4 ­ Project Management. Highly Satisfactory. A PIU was established, trained, and it carried
out all project coordination and administration, procurement, financial management, and monitoring and
evaluation. A state-of-the-art financial management system, with procurement and accounting modules,
was developed and installed, based on the requirements of the World Bank for reporting, monitoring, and
budget management. The PIU established a monitoring and evaluation system based on the logical
framework in order to provide regular reporting and ensure information was available for the Mid-term
Review and final report. A Technical Unit was established in La Ceiba to oversee field activities and
undertake community outreach in the project areas.


                                                     - 15 -

The PIU successfully developed strategic alliances with a number of different organizations during
implementation to enhance sustainability when the project concluded, including:

    a) Inter-agency agreements with the six municipalities for the UTMs.

    b) Inter-institutional agreement with IHAH for supervision of historical preservation work in Trujillo.

    c) Agreement with the University of San Pedro Sula for technical assistance to continue improving the
    Historic Center of Trujillo in a permanent and sustainable way.

    d) Partnership with INFOP and the Ministry of Education to support sustainability of the restored
    INFOP training center in Trujillo.

    e) Alliance with the World Bank-financed Rural Land Management Project related to land issues.

    f) Linkages with the NGOs managing the Coral Gardens Project and the Jején Pilot Project.


The PIU team worked well together to implement (i) project activities, (ii) additionally identified activities,
and (iii) prepared the follow-on Regional Development in the Copán Valley Project, which as approved by
the Executive Directors of the World Bank in 2005. The introduction of this new project, which was
managed by the same Project Coordinator, caused some slowdowns in the LIL, but once a new team was
established, both projects began implementing smoothly. Financial management and procurement
performance are discussed in Section 7.6.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not applicable. As a LIL, the objective and outputs of the project were primarily institutional and the
effectiveness and benefits of the project were shown as the result of a learning process. This learning was
successful as demonstrated in the follow-on Regional Development in the Copán Valley Project.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
N/A

4.5 Institutional development impact:
ICR Rating: High. The overall institutional development impact is rated high since the project
significantly improved IHT's ability to use its human and financial resources and it also enhanced the
capacity of the six project municipalities to manage and plan for sustainable tourism development. The
training and technical assistance provided to beneficiaries of the Fondo Prosperidad has also improved the
operations of 95 small and micro-enterprises operating in the tourism area in the North Coast and Bay
Islands.

Honduras Institute of Tourism. The impact on the IHT is rated as high. When the project was designed,
IHT was a relatively weak agency and did not have a clear direction or leadership on the concept of
sustainable tourism. The project contributed to strengthening IHT, building a more effective Environmental
Unit, developing strong communications and public relations, and provided support to the other
departments within IHT. The project also helped IHT establish a strategic direction for sustainable tourism
in the North Coast and Bay Islands with the Regional Strategy for Sustainable Coastal Tourism and build a
foundation for greater participation of local communities in tourism planning. Given its strong performance
in the project, IHT is now implementing the Regional Development in the Copán Valley Project, a larger
project with many different activities; many of the project staff from the LIL are now working on this
follow-on project.



                                                    - 16 -

Project Municipalities. The impact on the municipalities is rated as substantial. The UTMs provided
strong support to the municipalities during implementation and this effort has resulted in the formation of
municipal tourism committees, MACAHO, and the development of Tourism Information Centers in all six
project municipalities. The UTMs provided training to municipal staff and the local communities on a
variety of different topics related to tourism planning and management and based on feedback from
participants, there is a greater degree of understanding of and appreciation for sustainable tourism.
However, the UTMs faced challenges in working with the municipalities, mainly due to the weak capacity
of the municipalities, political changes, and limited budgets. Four of the municipalities have assumed the
operating costs of the UTMs, which indicates the value of the services provided by the UTMs to the
municipalities.

There was a significant impact on the human resource capacity in the Municipality of Trujillo, due to the
presence of the UTM and the restoration work in the Historic Center. The municipal leaders are very
proactive on sustainable tourism and the historic preservation of their town. The activities in Trujillo have
led to a revitalization of the city and the strong participation of local citizens and leaders in many different
tourism activities, including clean-up campaigns and tourism promotion.

Fondo Prosperidad and Artisan Training. The institutional development impact on the beneficiaries of
the Fondo Prosperidad subprojects and the technical assistance provided to the artisans is rated as high.
Based on feedback from beneficiaries, the support provided by these programs significantly improved their
capacity to manage their enterprises, expand operations, and launch new products to meet tourist demand.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Heavy Rains. Two of the reconstruction works in Trujillo were delayed by tropical storms in mid-2005
and the project was extended by six months in order to complete those activities.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Counterpart Funds. There was timely provision of counterpart funds for the project, which produced
efficient project implementation.

Municipal Capacity and Leadership. The project successfully strengthened the capacity of the
municipalities sustainable tourism management. However, the UTMs faced issues that were beyond their
control, including political changes, new priorities, and limited budget resources, which limited some of
their effectiveness.

Land Conflicts. There are continuing conflicts related to Garífuna lands in the North Coast. Land
regularization and resolution of land tenure issues is the responsibility of the National Agrarian Institute (
Instituto Nacional Agraria, or INA) and the GOH continues to work on these issues.

Security Situation. The security situation in parts of the North Coast continues to be problematic, mainly
due to poverty, gangs, and low apprehension and conviction rates of criminals. The GOH has placed a
priority on improving the security situation in Honduras with a "zero tolerance" policy and the tourism
police, supported by the IHT, have had an impact in those areas where they are deployed.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
IHT's Commitment. The IHT was very pro-active in terms of implementing the project and internalizing
the lessons learned from the various actions. This strong commitment from the IHT was a crucial factor in


                                                     - 17 -

the timely and successful completion of the project.

5.4 Costs and financing:

The total project cost was US$6.18 million equivalent, with US$5.33 million (SDR 3.69 million) financed
by IDA and US$0.85 million equivalent financed by the GOH and local communities (see Table 1). 93
percent of the IDA Credit was disbursed and the remaining resources were cancelled.

                     Table 1: Actual Project Costs by Financing Source (US$ million)
                      Source              Total Cost          Actual Total         % of
                                          (Original)              Cost            Revised
                                                                                   Cost
                      IDA                     5.00                5.33*            93**
                      GOH                     0.56                0.85              152
                      Local                   0.48          Included in GOH         --
                      communities
                      TOTAL                   6.04                6.18              102
                   *With exchange rate fluctuations, the original US$ amount was US$5.79 million.
                   US$5.33 million was disbursed and US$0.45 was cancelled.
                   ** % of Revised Cost for IDA Credit is based on SDR amounts, which more accurately
                   reflects percentage disbursed.



6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
ICR Rating: Highly Likely. The overall sustainability of the project is rated as highly likely. The
sustainability of each of the main project actions is detailed below:

1.      Regional Sustainable Coastal Tourism Strategy. Highly Likely. The new government of
Honduras has expressed support for the implementation of priority actions in the Regional Sustainable
Coastal Tourism Strategy. In addition, the MACAHO is charged with implementing this Strategy and the
Action Plans for each municipality and thus far, there are indications that this organization is functioning
as planned. The policy environment continues to be favorable for the promotion of sustainable tourism
management and planning in the project areas and tourism growth continues to increase, which will provide
incentives for the municipal authorities and others involved in the tourism industry to continue to implement
these plans and programs.

2.      Municipal Capacity Building. Likely. The sustainability of the achievements of the UTMs is
likely in all project areas, but the operating costs of the UTMs are only being covered in four of the six
project municipalities. The programs launched by the UTMs, such as the Hotels Recycling Program, the
pilot recycling program, and the Clean Honduras Caribbean campaigns are expected to continue due in
large part to increased leadership in the municipalities, incentives produced by increased tourism,
involvement and in-kind donations from the private sector, and the large corps of trained volunteers.
However, it is too early to evaluate the impact of the revenue-generating initiatives launched by the IHT to
help fund the UTMs, including informational signs that are available for sponsorships, sale of items in the
Tourist Information Centers, and additional budgetary support from municipalities. In some of the
municipalities, fees were established for parking near beaches, which is also generating income for the
UTMs. IHT is proactively seeking funds to help support the UTMs and continue to build capacity for
tourism management at the local level.



                                                      - 18 -

3.       Fondo Prosperidad and Business Development. Highly Likely. The achievements of the Fondo
Prosperidad are highly likely since (i) the program awarded subprojects to only the most promising
enterprises and (ii) a highly qualified NGO provided training and technical assistance to ensure that funds
were spent appropriately and enterprises had plans for future sustainability. These enterprises are
dependent on a consistent and growing tourism industry in the North Coast and Bay Islands, but they are
also now in a better position to seek out other funding sources and/or enhance their programs based on the
lessons they learned as part of the Fondo Prosperidad.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
There are indications that the new government will continue to support the municipalities in the North
Coast and Bay Islands related to sustainable coastal tourism planning and management. The follow-on
Regional Development in the Copán Valley Project is also implementing well and the IHT is continuing to
support the pro-poor approach to tourism development, as piloted and developed under this LIL.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
ICR Rating: Satisfactory. Bank performance during preparation was satisfactory. The Bank team was
staffed with very experienced professionals and consultants and extensive analytical studies were carried
out during preparation. The team benefited from the close involvement of a Bank staff member in the
Honduras Country Office and a consultant who worked closely with the Bank team. The PAD is a
comprehensive document with significant information on lessons learned and innovations in the
management and planning of sustainable tourism initiatives in the Americas and around the world.

A review of the preparation documents in the electronic archives did show some gaps in information,
particularly regarding preparation missions and Aide-Memoires, and implementation of the PHRD. These
gaps are mostly due to the fact that the Task Team Leader for project preparation was not in the Latin
America Region Vice Presidency, but rather in the Environmentally Sustainable Development Vice
Presidency with different filing systems.

To complement preparation funds, the GOH requested PHRD preparation funds of US$500,000 to be
administered by the Bank to support analytical work, including the environmental, economic and fiscal
analyses, the Social Assessment, IPDP, a review of existing legislation and the regulatory framework, and
design of the training program. This grant implemented from 1999 to 2001 and was fully executed.

A LIL was an appropriate lending instrument for this type of activity and the project design addressed the
main issues facing the GOH. Yet, the extensive analyses during preparation were more similar to a regular
investment credit than a LIL, in which many of these studies would have been carried out during
implementation. This resulted in a relatively lengthy and costly preparation, mainly due to the complicated
nature of the North Coast area, with numerous interest groups, politicization of issues, and land issues. All
of these factors, particularly the Bank's concern about land, caused some delays in the preparation
activities as new issues arose and then had to be addressed. Even with these delays, the LIL was still a
suitable lending instrument as it provided the GOH with incentives to pilot new initiatives, launch a
program like the Fondo Prosperidad, and take the lead on developing participatory planning for
sustainable coastal tourism.

The Bank team approached all of the issues in the North Coast carefully, but there was a trade-off between
fully assessing all of the possible issues, of which there are many, and moving forward with a LIL that


                                                   - 19 -

could have done some of this work in implementation. The long preparation process raised expectations
from community groups very early and they were impatient for the promised results.

7.2 Supervision:
ICR Rating: Satisfactory. The Bank carried out effective supervision of the LIL with regular Supervision
Missions, a comprehensive Mid-term Review, and excellent documentation of findings in Aide-Memoires
and follow-up reporting. The transition to a new Task Team Leader after Board approval was very smooth.
The ratings provided in the Project Status Reports/Implementation Status Reports (PSR/ISR) were
realistic. The Bank missions were staffed with specialized consultants, procurement specialists, and
operations specialists to ensure that the project remained focused on achievement of the development
objective. On occasion, there were special mission visits by the Bank Financial Management Specialist
and/or the Procurement Specialist. The Bank team remained intact during the entire project implementation
period, which contributed to a strong relationship with IHT.

A Technical Specialist in the Bank's Honduras Country Office provided outstanding support to IHT during
implementation. This individual was involved in preparation and was very knowledgeable about the project
design and planned activities. The Specialist participated in all Supervision Missions and provided
follow-up.

Since the project was slow to start, the Bank helped the PIU to prioritize the launch of the civil works in
Trujillo and then advance to other activities. The Bank also provided support to the PIU when it was
simultaneously implementing the LIL and preparing the Regional Development in the Copán Valley
Project. This was a difficult time for the PIU, but the Bank helped the unit to plan for two parallel
implementing teams with one Coordinator, a structure that worked well. Bank staff also showed flexibility
in responding to the priorities of IHT and the alignment of these needs with the development objective of
the LIL.

IHT noted that the communication with the Disbursement Department was complicated at times since they
would return a withdrawal application if there were inconsistencies, without checking with the Financial
Management Specialist in the PIU beforehand. The return of the applications was a problem when it was a
minor issue that could have been cleared up by consulting with IHT, as it slowed down disbursement and
execution progress. IHT also would have benefited more training from the Bank's Financial Management
Team in the presentation of semester and annual financial reports.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
ICR Rating: Satisfactory. The overall Bank performance during lending and supervision was satisfactory
for the following reason: (a) the LIL had a solid design and good supervision from the Bank; (b) the Bank
team was responsive to the Borrower's needs; and (c) consistent supervision, support, and technical
assistance from the Bank ensured timely completion of the project and full achievement of the project
development objective.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
ICR Rating: Satisfactory. The Borrower's performance in preparation is rated satisfactory for the
following reasons: (a) the Borrower carried out all required analyses including the environmental and social
assessments and the IPDP; (b) the Borrower responded to the Bank's request for additional information
related to land issues and coordinated with INA; and (c) the Borrower worked diligently to prepare a
project that would address sustainable tourism issues at multiple levels, with inclusion of local
communities, the municipalities, and higher-level national stakeholders.



                                                    - 20 -

7.5 Government implementation performance:
ICR Rating: Highly Satisfactory. The Ministry of Finance provided counterpart funds, except for a few
occasions when there was a minor delay. This was always resolved immediately when the IHT made
contact with the Ministry of Finance. The Ministry of Finance was also consistently supportive of the
project and accommodated Bank Supervision Missions when necessary.

The GOH provided substantial support to the growing tourism industry in the country and for this reason,
ensured and maintained strong leadership of the Ministry of Tourism.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
ICR Rating: Highly Satisfactory. The performance of the Ministry of Tourism and IHT was highly
satisfactory at all levels. The PIU had a strong Coordinator and experienced and trained staff members.
Even with a lengthy effectiveness delay at the start of the project, the project only needed a six-month
extension. It was clear that IHT had true ownership of this project; it was not a Bank-driven agenda. In
short, IHT truly believed in building community support and private/public sector partnerships for
sustainable coastal tourism development. IHT also identified new funding needs and took the initiative,
within the context of the development objective and with Bank approval, to pilot several new activities to
enhance the tourism potential of the zone.

The performance of the PIU was very good. The PIU team remained intact during project implementation
and had close coordination and support from both the Minister and Vice-Minister of Tourism. Once the
effectiveness conditions were met, the only time the project execution slowed down was during the
preparation of the Regional Development in the Copán Valley Project. Once this follow-on project was
effective and a new implementing team was in place, implementation of the LIL accelerated. The PIU
produced regular reports and special monitoring and evaluation information for the Supervision Missions,
the Mid-Term Review and final reports.

Financial Management. After some initial delays and clarifications in early implementation due to the
implementation of a new financial management system, the Financial Management Reports were submitted
on time ­ every three months, and were generally of good quality. Based on a financial management review
carried out in 2006, the financial management system and arrangements, which link procurement,
accounting, and disbursement, were found to be satisfactory.

Audits. All the required audits were delivered to the Bank with only minor delays between 0-3 months and
the IHT always informed the Bank when the delivery was expected to be late. The final audit of 2005 was
not yet due when the ICR was finalized. Audits were received for 2001/02 and 2004 with an unqualified
(clean) opinion by the auditor on the financial statement, and for 2003, the audits were issued with a
qualified opinion by the auditor. All the audits reports were reviewed by the Bank's Financial Management
Specialist and considered acceptable. There were generally some minor observations that were
communicated to IHT and addressed either with a clarification or action plan for certain issues. IHT
always responded immediately to these requests and communicated this to the Bank.

Procurement. The procurement performance of the PIU was weak at the start, but after the team
participated in Bank procurement training, the performance improved. The procurement process also
improved substantially with the oversight of a highly qualified Coordinator who had significant experience
in donor-financed projects. The first post-review of procurement carried out during the Mid-term Review in
2004 concluded that procurement was satisfactory during the period covered, in which all major contracts
for the project were defined.



                                                    - 21 -

The final post-review in February 2006 was carried out after the Closing Date after the PIU team was
dismantled, the lead Procurement Officer had departed, and the new government administration was not yet
confirmed. The review identified some areas of less than satisfactory performance, including an inadequate
filing system that did not reflect all the documentation available in the Bank's internal archives and the lack
of documentation made available to the mission, principally due to the absence of the procurement team.
Other areas of concern included: (a) a lack of understanding about the Bank's procurement procedures,
also due in large part to the absence of the procurement team since the majority of contracts were procured
according to the Bank's procedures; (b) a high number of direct contracts, many of which were due to the
law in Honduras mandating that all contracts finish at the end of the calendar year, even though the
competitively awarded work surpassed this period; and (c) the need for more internal controls, which was
apparent at the time of the mission due to the absence of the procurement team. During project
implementation, these internal controls were reviewed by the auditors and detailed in the quarterly Financial
Management Reports that were reviewed by the Bank's Financial Management Specialists. As the project
is closed, all other issues, including the need to continue to build a strong procurement team, were
communicated to the PIU of the Regional Development in the Copán Valley Project.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
ICR Rating: Highly Satisfactory. Overall, the performance of the Borrower is rated highly satisfactory
for the following reasons: (a) the GOH carried out all necessary actions to prepare the project and address
Bank concerns; (b) IHT made a significant effort to build trust among community members in the project
areas and was successful in introducing a greater awareness of sustainable tourism development and the
environmental issues; (c) the project established a foundation for local-level participation in tourism
development and strengthened the capacity of IHT to continue to build a tourism development strategy for
the country that is based on sustainability and creating a high-quality experience for travelers; and (d) IHT
has strengthened its institutional ability to prepare and implement large investment projects with
accountability and results.

8. Lessons Learned

There were lessons learned in following areas: Sustainable Tourism, Municipal Capacity Building, and the
Fondo Prosperidad.

A. Sustainable Tourism

1. Include actions that produce short- and long-term results. In the process of building ownership for
     sustainable coastal tourism, it is important to integrate both short- and long-term incentives. For
     example, the development of the Regional Strategy was a long-term process, but the Fondo
     Prosperidad awarded grants and provided training which produced immediate impacts.

2. Future of tourism development in the Honduran Caribbean. Honduras is entering a critical period for
     building a future for sustainable coastal tourism. The potential of tourism income from larger-scale
     investments in the Caribbean is very attractive, but it can conflict with smaller-scale, community-based
     tourism and the interests of local communities. The participatory planning process and Regional
     Strategy financed by the project are important steps towards building a consensus among the local
     residents and municipal governments about the priorities for tourism development. In future programs
     and developments in the North Coast area, it will be important to continue open communication and
     consultation with all stakeholders, particularly related to the use of land and beaches for tourism




                                                     - 22 -

   development.

3. Challenges to increased tourism. Honduras has increased its numbers of visitors, but it still remains in
   fourth place in terms of number of tourism arrivals in Central America. The income per visitor has also
   increased, but it is less than half of the income in Costa Rica and Panama, and only higher than El
   Salvador and Nicaragua in Central America. Honduras will need to continue to capitalize on its
   culture, people, environment, and cultural heritage, and address the problems that affect the quality of
   the tourist's visit, including poor infrastructure, public security, sanitation and environmental concerns,
   and social problems (IHT Visitor Satisfaction Survey, 2003).

4. Quality technical assistance. Micro-enterprises can flourish when provided with high-quality technical
   assistance geared toward enhancing access to markets. The technical assistance provided to artisans,
   specifically to develop culturally-appropriate items and product lines that would be attractive and
   interesting to consumers, was one of the innovative aspects of this project.

5. Expand awareness of sustainable tourism. The next step in promoting sustainable coastal tourism will
   be to build on the pilot programs, such as the Clean Honduran Caribbean campaign, and seek to create
   ownership of programs related to solid waste management and recycling in local communities. Future
   programs will have to support the necessary infrastructure and provide technical expertise for the
   development of enterprises that are involved in garbage collection and/or recycling.

B. Municipal Capacity Building

1. Municipal Governance. Future projects will need to continue overall strengthening of the human
   resource capacity in the municipalities in Honduras. It will also be important to consider options for
   sustainability of units such as the UTMs early on and develop agreements with municipalities for their
   continuity.

2. Historic restoration projects can build enthusiasm and have a multiplier effect. The integration of a
   cultural heritage revitalization component in a tourism project can have a multiplier effect on other
   initiatives in a community, including strengthening municipal capacity and creating linkages with other
   partners and donors.

3. Importance of leadership and teamwork. In order to build successful environmental campaigns or
   programs, it is important for municipalities to lead the effort and encourage community members to
   work together. For example, the pilot recycling initiative was most successful in a village where there
   was involvement of municipal representatives, school children, the private sector, the community, the
   UTM, and the Municipal Environmental Unit.



C. Fondo Prosperidad

1. Management of the fund. It is important to assess the implementation capacity of the government
   agency to implement these types of funds, as well as consider contracting fund management out to third
   parties. In this case, it was agreed during project preparation to contract out the fund management due
   to weak capacity in IHT. However, over the course of preparation, IHT's capacity improved and in the
   end, it was the view of government that it could have managed the fund. This is an option that should
   be considered in order to save on the high administration costs charged by a third party. However, there
   is also some flexibility that is gained by working with an NGO, particularly one that has a local


                                                     - 23 -

    network and experience in micro-finance.

2. Provide training up-front. In the first call for proposals, many potential beneficiaries lacked complete
    business plans. In a very poor environment with limited human resource capacity, it is important to
    plan for assisting potential beneficiaries before they submit proposals, through training and technical
    assistance, to learn how to prepare business plans and the other requirements of the subproject
    proposals.

3. Social communications. A strong social communications campaign is needed when launching this type
    of fund. In the first call for proposals, there was low participation in some municipalities. To address
    this issue, the responsible NGO, with assistance from the UTMs, expanded its social outreach
    program, going door-to-door in some instances to invite enterprises to a workshop to ensure more
    participation. Also, in the Bay Islands of Honduras, information must be provided in English and
    Spanish.

4. Continual technical assistance. Many beneficiaries required consistent and close follow-up during
    implementation of the Fondo grants. This type of assistance should be expected and budgeted into
    project implementation when a fund is designed for small-scale entrepreneurs and/or community
    enterprises where formal education levels are low. When small civil works are involved, close
    monitoring of design plans and execution is even more important.


9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The Executive Summary of the Borrower's Contribution is in Annex 8 and a letter from the Ministry of
Finance, expressing agreement with the ICR content, is below.




                                                    - 24 -

(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information




                                             - 25 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                       1
                 Indicator/Matrix                             Projected in last PSR                        Actual/Latest Estimate
A strategy for Sustainable Coastal Tourism       Completed: 7 local workshops, 1 regional       Strategy was completed, distributed (800
on the North Coast, developed and under          workshop, 1 national dialogue event with local copies) and presented to the international
implementation with stakeholder participation organizations, local authorities, public and      development assistance organizations in
and support of national and local government. private sectors.                                  2005.

Perceived economic, ecological and social        Perception is positive.                        According to Statistics Department of IHT,
benefits of tourism by key stakeholders in the                                                  the perception of economic benefits derived
pilot destinations increases 35% from                                                           from tourism has increased by 22% from
baseline measure of attitudes between                                                           2003 to 2005.
Project initiation and EOP.

Tourism revenue capturing mechanisms             Registry of tourism providers established in   A database with tourism information that is
identified and adopted at municipal level by     six municipalities.                            updated is established in four of six
EOP in at least four municipalities.                                                            municipalities (Tela, Utila, Trujillo, and
                                                                                                Omoa).

Institutionalized mechanisms for the             Mechanism was achieved through                 The Fondo Prosperidad established the
equitable distribution of tourism benefits from establishment of Fondo Prosperidad.             mechanisms for identification, selection,
the Project, including eligibility criteria for                                                 financing, and monitoring of small grants and
innovation grants to private sector and                                                         training awarded to private sector tourism
communities, established and functioning by                                                     operators and communities.
middle of 2003.

Strengthening and regularization of a legal,     An agreement was signed with IDA-financed a) Completion of the Land Titling Diagnostic.
institutional, and procedural framework for      Rural Land Management Project to define the b) Aerial photographs in the Departments of
the titling of communal lands, the expansion     activities to be carried out related to land.  Atlántida and Colón (441,847 hectares).
of titles to include ancestral lands, and                                                       c) Introduction of conflict resolution strategies
conflict resolution mechanisms in the Project                                                   in the municipal planning process.
area by end of 2004.                                                                            d) Urban land planning for the Municipalities
                                                                                                of Omoa and Tela.

A participatory strategy for resolving conflicts Achieved, including carrying out workshops     The workshops on conflict resolution resulted
and securing land tenure in indigenous           in communities.                                in the development of working groups of the
communities in Project area established by                                                      private sector, ethnic organizations, and local
beginning of 2003 and incorporated into                                                         authorities.
strategy for Sustainable Tourism on the
North Coast.

HIV/AIDS issues identified and resources         Resources were mobilized, but reassigned
mobilized to support awareness and               due to factors external to the project.
prevention in most vulnerable communities of
North Coast by early 2002.


Output Indicators:
                                                                                       1
                 Indicator/Matrix                             Projected in last PSR                        Actual/Latest Estimate
Component 1: Sustainable coastal tourism
development strategy designed and
implemented at the national and local levels

- Sustainable Tourism Action Plan for the        Achieved                                       Regional Strategy was finalized in 2005 and
North Coast drafted in year 1; plan under                                                       under implementation.
implementation at the local level in years 2
and 3                                                                                           Action Plans for each municipality were
                                                                                                developed and priorities are under
                                                                                                implementation.
Component 2: Municipal officials have the
knowledge, skill, and tools needed to develop
and coordinate sustainable tourism.




                                                                     - 26 -

- Six municipalities provided with incremental    Achieved.                                       A UTM was established in each municipality
technical staff and equipment in tourism and                                                      with professionals in tourism and
environmental management by EOP.                                                                  environmental management, equipment and
                                                                                                  budget from the municipality.

                                                                                                  -Six municipalities provided with staff and
                                                                                                  equipment. At EOP, four of six are
                                                                                                  functioning.

- At least one revenue capture mechanism                                                          -Revenue capture mechanisms established
introduced by each municipality participating                                                     through municipal decree. Municipal incomes
in training and technical assistance activities                                                   will be enhanced with the administration of
by EOP.                                                                                           the illuminated signs for rent, beach parking
                                                                                                  fees, and other potential rentals.
A voluntary environmental rating and
certification program is successfully piloted.

- Environmental Management Systems                Mechanisms are in process of being              Through an agreement with the Municipal
(EMS audits are conducted at five pilot sites developed. Pilot sites are in process of            Environmental Units, inspections were
by EOP.                                           identification, and audits carried out in 2004. programmed and carried out in each
                                                                                                  municipality.

- Criteria for environmental and social           Criteria are defined; presentation to local
sustainability of coastal tourism operations      governments.                                    Criteria developed and approved by the
established and agreed with IHT and local                                                         municipal authorities in a Best Practice
communities.                                                                                      Environmental Manual.
Honduran North Coast is emerging as a
sustainable tourism destination with
distinctive natural and cultural attractions

- At least five new tourism destination           Six packages were developed: Circuito           The MACAHO was created, which will
packages based on a sustainable tourism           Trujillo and the Rutas de Fortalezas, the       implement and coordinate the Regional
model and incorporating sustainability criteria Costa Garífuna, the Cruceros de la Isla de la Sustainable Coastal Tourism Strategy,
promoted by IHT by EOP.                           Bahia, the Parques Nacionales and the La        including the new destination packages.
                                                  Ceiba y Cayos Cochinos.
Heritage restoration activities established for
Trujillo as a basis for attracting tourists.

- At least five heritage sites or building        More than five sites restored in Trujillo.      Over 25 sites restored in Trujillo.
facades restored and supported with signaled
interpretation and walkways.
Micro-and small entrepreneurs trained                                                             Micro- and small entrepreneurs trained as
                                                                                                  part of Fondo Prosperidad.
- Small Business Enterprise Center                It was agreed this would not be implemented
established and operational by end of year 2.     to avoid replicating the Fondo Prosperidad
                                                  activities.
Component 3: Pilot small and medium
enterprises are developed

- At least ten additional public-private sector Six Tourism Information Centers were              95 subprojects in Fondo Prosperidad.
innovation projects (in addition to Trujillo) are established; An Artisan Market was
initiated by EOP.                                 established in Omoa; and Municipal Tourism
                                                  Police in Ceiba and Tela (20 in each).


- At least seven innovation subprojects           Subprojects financed with three Garífuna        Fondo Prosperidad financed 50 subprojects
targeting indigenous populations are initiated    groups.                                         managed by Garífuna communities.
by EOP.

1End of project




                                                                      - 27 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (IDA and counterpart in US$ million equivalent)
                                                 Appraisal Actual/Latest       Percentage of
                                                 Estimate        Estimate    Appraisal Estimate
Component
1. National Strategy and Institutional Support       1.32          0.56             43
2. Institutional Strengthening for                   2.01          2.52            125
Municipalities
3. Pilot Entrepreneurship Programs                   2.15          2.25            105
4. Project Management                                0.56          0.85            152
Total Project Costs                                  6.04          6.18            102
Total Financing Required (excluding                  5.00          5.33            107
Gov't)
Total of Actual is higher than original due to exchange rate fluctuations.


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                 Procurement Method 1/
                                          NCB             Other 2/        N.B.F.       Total Cost
Expenditure Category
                                                             0.76                         0.76
1. Works                                                   (0.66)                        (0.66)
2. Goods                                   0.14              0.07                         0.21
                                          (0.12)           (0.06)                        (0.18)
3. Services                                                  2.63           0.28          2.91
                                                           (2.60)                        (2.60)
4. Training                                                  0.36                         0.36
                                                           (0.34)                        (0.34)
5. Subprojects                                               1.50                         1.50
                                                           (1.04)                        (1.04)
6. Operating Costs                                           0.30                         0.30
                                                           (0.18)                        (0.18)
   Total                                   0.14              5.67           0.28          6.04
                                          (0.12)           (4.88)                        (5.00)

    1. Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA credit. All costs
         include contingencies.
    2. Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping,
         consulting services, services of contracted staff of the PIU, training, technical
         assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i) managing the
         Project; and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
    3. N.B.F. = Non-Bank financing




                                                     - 28 -

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Final Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                         Procurement Method 1/
                                    ICB           NCB            Other 2/       N.B.F.        Total Cost
   Expenditure Category
1. Works                                           0.42            0.75                          1.17
                                                  (0.37)          (0.66)                        (1.03)
2. Goods                                           0.03            0.40                          0.43
                                                 (0.025)          (0.35)                        (0.37)
3. Services                         0.80           1.20            0.31                          2.31
                                   (0.80)         (1.20)          (0.23)                        (2.23)
4. Training                                                        0.36                          0.36
                                                                  (0.36)                         (0.36)
5. Subprojects                                                     1.27                          1.27
                                                                  (1.13)                        (1.13)
6. Operating Costs                                                 0.65                          0.65
                                                                  (0.22)                        (0.22)
   Total                            0.80           1.65            3.74           0.00           6.18
                                  (0.80)          (1.59)          (2.95)         (0.00)         (5.33)

Data provided by IHT. Numbers may not add due to rounding.

    1. Figures in parenthesis are the amounts financed by the IDA credit.
    2. Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting
        services, services of contracted staff of the PIU, training, technical assistance
        services, and incremental operating costs related to (i) managing the Project; and (ii)
        re-lending project funds to local government units.
    3. N.B.F. = Non-Bank financing


Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
.Component                    Appraisal Estimate              Actual/Latest          Percentage of
                                                                 Estimate         Appraisal Estimate
                              IDA          Gov't*         IDA        Gov't*     IDA            Gov't*
1. National Strategy          1.27             0.05         0.56        --            44           --
and Institutional
Support
2. Institutional              1.52             0.49         2.33       0.19          153          42
Strengthening for
Municipalities
3. Pilot                      1.67             0.48         1.63       0.62           98         129
Entrepreneurship
Programs
4. Project                    0.54             0.02         0.81       0.04          147         200
Management
TOTAL Project                  5.0             1.04        5.33**      0.85          106          82
Costs
*Includes contributions from local communities.
**Higher than original Credit amount due to exchange rate fluctuations. Based on SDR values, 93 percent
of IDA Credit was disbursed.




                                                  - 29 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Not applicable.




                                      - 30 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty                 Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)         Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                        Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              6/1999                    1    Tourism Specialist/Firm.
                                             Beginning in June 1999, several
                                             missions were carried out under a
                                             contract, with exact dates not
                                             available.
              9/1999                    1    Env. Engineer
              3/2000                    5    TTL; NRM Economist; Tourism
                                             Specialist; Env. Engineer;
                                             Operations Spec.
              9/2000                    2    Social Scientists
              10/2000                   4    TTL; Env. Engineer; Operations
                                             Spec., Env. Spec., Procurement
                                             Specialist
              11/2000                   1    TTL; Country Director (meeting
                                             in DC with Minister of Tourism)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              5/2001                    8    TTL; Env. Engineer; Land
                                             Specialist; NRM Specialist;
                                             Land Titling Consultant;
                                             Indigenous Peoples
                                             Specialist; NRM Economist;
                                             Lawyer
              6/2001                    3    TTL; Lawyer, Env. Engineer

 Supervision
              12/31/2001                     PSR Update                            S               S
              01/25/2002                2    TASK MANAGER (1);                     S               S
                                             PROCUREMENT (1)
              04/06/2002                4    TASK MANAGER (1);                     S               S
                                             CULTURAL SPEC.,
                                             OPERATIONS SPEC.,
                                             CONSULTANT (1)
              07/12/2002                3    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);                 S               S
                                             PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1); OPERATIONS
                                             SPECIALIST (1)

              9/2002                         TASK TEAM LEADER (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1); OPERATIONS
                                             SPECIALIST (1)
              02/18/2003                7    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);                 S               S
                                             OPERATIONS ANA/PROC. (1);
                                             LOCAL DEV. SPECIALIST (1);
                                             CONSULTANT (1);



                                              - 31 -

                                                   CONSULTANT FAO (2);
                                                   FINANCIAL MGMT. SPEC. (1)
               07/25/2003                     5    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);             S          S
                                                   CONSULTANT/OPERATIONS
                                                   (2); CONSULTANT/SOCIAL
                                                   SCIENTIST (1);
                                                   SPECIALIST/RESIDENT M (1)
               10/31/2003                     2    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);             S          S
                                                   SOCIAL SCIENTIST (1)
               03/12/2004                     7    MTR: TTL; PROC. SPEC, JPA,        S          S
                                                   OPERATIONS SPEC; 3
                                                   CONSULTANTS (SOCIAL
                                                   SCIENTISTS, CULTURAL
                                                   TOURISM SPECIALIST)
               9/2004                         2    TASK TEAM LEADER (1); JPA        HS          HS
               4/2005                         5    TASK TEAM LEADER (1); JPA        HS          HS
                                                   (1); CONSULTANTS IN
                                                   TOURISM (3)

 ICR
               12/2005                       3     TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            HS          HS
                                                   JPA (1); CONSULTANT
                                                   (1)
               2/2006                        2     PROC. SPEC (1);
                                                   CONSULTANT
               3/2006                        1     TASK TEAM LEADER (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                       Actual/Latest Estimate
                                        No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                      24                      118,478*
  Appraisal/Negotiation                           20                       100,000
  Supervision                                     52                       257,861
  ICR                                              5                       20,000
  Total                                         101                        496,339
*A Bank-executed PHRD Grant for preparation of US$500,000 was also used during lending for this
project, which does not appear on this table.




                                                   - 32 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
        Indigenous Peoples
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 33 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 34 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

IHT, 2006. Informe Final de Proyecto Turismo Costero Sostenible.

IHT, Interim Progress Reports, Presentations to Bank Supervision Missions, FMRs.

Hawkins & Associates. An Assessment of the Tourism Potential of Honduras: Observations and
Recommendations for Sustainable Coastal Tourism, April 2002.

World Bank, Project Status Reports/Implementation Status Reports, #1- 12.

World Bank, Aide-mémoires, Back-to-Office Reports, etc. in Project Files

World Bank, Project Appraisal Document. Honduras Sustainable Coastal Tourism Project, July 19, 2001.

World Bank, Credit Agreement. Honduras Sustainable Coastal Tourism Project, November 22, 2001.




                                                 - 35 -

Additional Annex 8. Borrower's Contribution

Full text in Project Files. Unofficial translation

                     SUSTAINABLE COASTAL TOURISM PROJECT 2002-2005
                             FINAL REPORT--EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

1. Overview
The Government of Honduras (GOH) believes that tourism offers the greatest opportunity for short-term
economic growth based on the sustainable use of Honduras' remarkable natural and cultural resources
located on the Northern Coast and the Bay Islands. It therefore seeks to expand this opportunity on a local
level as a mainstream activity that can create jobs, generate investment opportunities, increase foreign
currency flows, and guarantee broad-based social and economic growth.

Public-private partnerships involving a wide range of stakeholders (government agencies, the private sector,
and social and community organizations, particularly indigenous peoples, Afro-Hondurans, and farmers)
can promote investments and economic growth in this area, with significant potential benefits for coastal
communities.

Based on this framework, the Sustainable Coastal Tourism Project emerged as a World Bank-supported
pilot project to be implemented in four coastal municipalities ­Omoa, Tela, La Ceiba, and Trujillo­ and
two island municipalities ­Guanaja and Utila­ with a participatory approach engaging communities, civil
society, and the private sector under the National Sustainable Tourism Strategy.

The Project Development Objective of this Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL) is to create an enabling
environment for the development and management of sustainable coastal tourism along the North Coast
mainland and offshore Bay Islands, through a learning and participatory process.

Project implementation includes four large components:

1)      National Strategy and Institutional Support for Sustainable Coastal Tourism.
2)      Training in Institutional Strengthening and Technical Assistance for Municipal Governments.
3)      Entrepreneurial Pilot Programs for Sustainable Coastal Tourism.
4)      Project Administration.

2. Performance Assessment

Component 1: National Strategy and Institutional Support for Sustainable Coastal Tourism.

Specific objective: Establish a regional strategy for Sustainable Coastal Tourism for priority areas
along the Northern Coast bordering the Caribbean.

Goal 1: Establish a participatory methodology for broad based policy dialogue and consensus with local
and national entrepreneurs, municipal governments, Garífuna (ethnic) organizations, and international
development aid organizations.

Outcome: The responsible participation of 394 people was achieved, the majority of whom are local
entrepreneurs involved in tourism activities, municipal workers and technicians, and nongovernmental



                                                   - 36 -

organizations related with municipal development. Through workshops in each municipality, these
participants agreed upon the Strengths, Weaknesses, Opportunities and Threats, mission, vision, objectives,
and action programs driving tourism, as well as appointed local representatives for the regional strategy.

Goal: Create and implement a Regional Sustainable Tourism Strategy for the Northern Coast, backed by
the municipal governments from Omoa, Tela, La Ceiba, Trujillo, Utila, and Guanaja, as well as authorized
by the Central Government.

Outcome: The six municipalities, through the respective mayor's offices, offered support for the Tourism
Strategy Report produced. They showed their support for the outcomes and facilitated the dissemination
and introduction of the strategy to international development aid organizations.

Goal: Facilitate planning for actions, policy reforms, legal instruments, and regulations.

Outcome: The level of local commitment by entrepreneurs and the general population led local governments
to form an organizational structure that supervises the fulfillment of target plans and programs proposed in
the Strategy through the creation of the Association of the Municipalities of the Honduran Caribbean
(MACAHO), a legal entity with funding and an executive board formed by the highest authorities from the
six municipalities in the project's area of influence.

The participatory process in creating the strategy generated important outcomes, such as the organization
of municipal committees on tourism development, the formation of the MACAHO, and, of great
importance, the production of the Strategy and its methodology, which served as the basis for developing
the Strategy.

Component 2: Training in Institutional Strengthening and Technical Assistance for Municipal
Governments.

Specific objective: Supporting planning and management capacity building for the sustainable use of
coastal and marine resources for tourism activities in the coastal municipalities bordering the
Caribbean, including: local governments, the private sector, and organizations located in these
municipalities.

Goal: Establish a Municipal Tourism Unit (UTM) in each of the participating municipalities.

Outcome: The local government, entrepreneurs, general population, and tourists have a local tourist
information center with staff members trained to provide continuous support for investment project design
and information on tourism and environmental legislation, documents and securing financial resources.

The municipalities that have assumed the overhead costs of UTMs are La Ceiba, Tela, Trujillo, and Utila.
In Guanaja and Omoa, on the other hand, the Tourism Units practically disappeared when new officials
were elected to the local governments.

Goal 2: Training municipal personnel in areas related to environmental management.

Outcome: 5,902 people were trained in 230 workshops held in the municipalities within the project's area
of influence; community organizations, business owners, and local government personnel participated.

Goal 3: Restore over 25 historic sites and buildings in historic downtown Trujillo.


                                                      - 37 -

Outcome: The following areas were restored: 1) La Comandancia; 2) Old Courthouses; 3) INFOP; 4) the
Santa Bárbara Fort; 5) Central Park, 6) technical assistance was provided for the rehabilitation of 22
buildings in Historic Downtown; and 7) "Señorita Aguilar" street.

Component 3: Entrepreneurial Pilot Programs for Sustainable Coastal Tourism.

Objective # 3: Strengthen productive, technical, and financial skills of small businesses located in the
Project's area of influence.

 Goal: Train small and micro-enterprises through the Training Program to promote their productive
 capacity and create business opportunities as a joint initiative with institutions and universities offering
 training services.

 Outcome: Women were trained in the design of new production models, business owners were trained in
 tourism culture, and college students were prepared to train others in tourism and environmental issues.
 Another example of micro-enterprise training was a methodological simulation called "My First
 Company," which involves simulating the establishment of a micro-enterprise over three days and
 includes selecting the managers (general, marketing, production, finance, and personnel). Then a
 feasibility study was carried out based on the estimation of a balance point by calculating fixed and
 variable costs, contribution margins, and sales goals for generating earnings. With this business plan,
 company stocks are purchased, the business plan is implemented, production is carried out, and sales are
 made all day; then wages, salaries, commissions, and dividends are paid, the company is liquidated, and
 the value of shared stocks is returned. All of this occurs prior to the discussion of potential companies and
 the planning of a production company for either goods or services.

 Goal: Finance and launch Innovative Pilot Projects focused on coastal tourism by the public sector,
 NGOs, and small and micro-enterprises.

 Outcome: Innovative projects.

 Goal: Support or implement Innovative Pilot Projects located in indigenous communities by the public
 sector, NGOs, and small and micro-enterprises.

 Outcome: Innovative projects related to Garífuna and women.

Component 4. Project Administration

Goal: Capacity building with the IHT technical team according to project intervention areas.

Goal: Administrative coordination, procurement, monitoring, and evaluation of the activities designed and
included in the Project Implementation Plan.

Goal: Introduce international standards aligned with the World Bank in the project's procurement and
monitoring operational systems.

Outcome: A Computerized Bi-currency System for procurement, finance, and accounting, especially
designed to implement World Bank procedures, submit reports, and ensure improved budget management.
A monitoring and assessment system with impact indicators under the project's logical framework


                                                     - 38 -

established to ensure a mid-term and final project assessment.

3. Description of Implemented Activities:

· Terms of reference were defined for the hiring of the different consultants needed for project
implementation.

· Proposals were requested, received, and evaluated and companies and consultants were hired to obtain the
following outcomes: 1) Design of legal instruments and policies for implementing a sustainable tourism
strategy; 2) Regional Sustainable Coastal Tourism Strategy, 3) Research on the satisfaction level among
foreign visitors in Honduras; 4) Studies on international travelers' behavior linked to Honduras; 5)
Training in restaurant services and technical assistance for tourism services in six municipalities; 6)
Tourism signage plan and garbage bins; 7) Hotel classification; 8) Municipal Tourism Coordinators; 9)
Management of the Fondo Prosperidad, operations manual, and eligibility criteria; 10) Restoration and
rehabilitation of the old commander's building; 11) Restoration and rehabilitation of the INFOP building;
12) Restoration and rehabilitation of the old courthouse; 13) Construction of a pier for small boats; 14)
Restoration and rehabilitation of the Santa Bárbara fort; 15) Basic clean-up in Trujillo; 16) Development
of new lines of handicraft and textile products; 17) Planning, Monitoring, and Assessment System; 18)
Surveying Trujillo's historic downtown area; 19) Master Plan for revitalizing Trujillo's historic downtown
area; 20) Operational planning and logical framework workshop; 21) Project website; 22) Project
administrative and financial system; 23) External audits.

· Technical specifications were created for acquiring furniture, office equipment, information technology
equipment, and vehicles.

· Cooperation agreements were established between the IHT and other institutions: the Rural Land
Management Project, aerial photographs; Municipalities of Omoa, La Ceiba, Tela, Trujillo, Guanaja, and
Utila; Organizations representing Garífuna ethnic communities; Ministry of Education; INFOP; and IHAH.

· A training program was developed through workshops in six municipalities that addresses: 1)
Conceptualization of the Sustainable Coastal Tourism Project, Dialogue and consulting to create the
Regional Strategy, Forum on the Mesoamerican Reef System, sustainable tourism and ecotourism,
socialization of the UTMs structures, training for taxi drivers on tourist culture and quality service;
inventory of tourist attractions; local cultural development; candle production; the role of civil servants and
record of tourist services offered; creation of tourism project profiles; community development, tourism,
and the environment, urban space design; local development and sustainable tourism, the role of the
Municipality; monitoring and statistics; conflict resolution; development of new handicraft products;

Other activities:
· Funding the Jején Research and Control Program in the Bay Islands; Financial and technical support for
the Garífuna Lanigi mua dance group Corazon de la Tierra, a guide to prepare tourism project profiles, a
guide to identify needs in the handicrafts area; a fact sheet to identify tourist attractions; creation and
distribution of investment profiles, compendium of laws on tourism and the environment, promotional
material about the country, socio-demographic information and municipal investment guidelines;
Procedural and Guidelines Manual created for Municipal Tourism Units; annual operations plan for each
UTM; municipal tourism commission organized; operating Tourist Information Centers; organization and
coordination of sponsored carnivals and fairs; Creation of basic services map; Establishment of a database
on the perception of municipal income; organization of clean-up campaigns; development of videos and



                                                      - 39 -

promotional posters for tourist attractions; tourism micro-enterprise identification manual.

Suggestions for improved administrative performance

· Regarding disbursements, when inconsistencies are found in the disbursement requests, it would be best if
Bank staff contacted the PIU prior to them being returned, since amounts were deducted without consulting
the PIU, which then slowed down the disbursement of requested amount.
· World Bank financial experts should train the PIU personnel in the proper way to submit quarterly and
annual reports to the World Bank.
· No obstacles were presented by the Ministry of Finance regarding disbursements. However, there were
small delays in the disbursement of the national counterpart, which did not match the amounts to be
executed with external funding. The timely intervention by the Ministry of Tourism prevented any further
problems.

Benefits
· A marked increase in the annual income growth rate per visitor within the project's area of influence.
· Existing hotel offerings and tourism services were classified.
· More than five strategic alliances were established between the public and private sectors supporting
tourism and business infrastructure investments.
· The municipalities adopted the action plans developed by the Regional Sustainable Development
Strategy.
· Public and private institutions and external cooperation agencies accepted and adopted the Regional
Strategy.
· The population of each municipality in the project's area of influence is more knowledgeable about the
region's biodiversity under the regional tourism framework.
· The population has adopted at least five practices consistent with biodiversity conservation in coastal
tourism areas.
· The Municipality and other local authorities are aware of environmental legislation and regulations
related to project implementation.
· The amount of quality basic services offered for national and foreign visitors has increased.
· Over 30 new innovative public-private projects were established in the project area (Bed & Breakfasts,
suppliers, guides).
· Over 30 innovative projects with indigenous communities were implemented at the end of the project.
· The number of businesses created or strengthened by the project meeting satisfactory standards for
international and local tourism has increased.
· A population of 285,000 people in six different municipalities has been integrated with complementary
tourism opportunities under the development vision of a single tourism development strategy.
· Fourteen coastal communities have benefited from the implementation of pilot projects, strengthening the
initiatives of the tourism micro-enterprises.
· More than 200 people (owners, members, or employees) have benefited from seed investment funds to
access or remain in the tourism sector.
· Entrepreneurial training: The 95 micro-enterprises selected by the Approval Committee were trained in
basic accounting, corporate management, and administration.
· Monitoring and assessment: Throughout the project, the technical team of the NGO managing the Fondo
and the Sustainable Coastal Tourism Project conducted monitoring and assessment visits to the 95
subprojects to verify the adequate administration of funds, identify specific technical assistance or logistical
shortcomings or needs.



                                                     - 40 -

   · Forty-three percent of the resources were allocated to women micro-entrepreneurs or women's
   associations with a shared goal.
   · The Municipality with the highest percentage of women-led micro-enterprises is Tela; Omoa is the
   municipality with the lowest participation rate in the Fondo Prosperidad.
   · Population groups involved: mestizos ­the majority group in Honduras ­ the Garífunas, an African
   American group concentrated along the country's Atlantic coast, the Isleños, born on the Bay Islands and
   whose native tongue is Caribbean English, and others, such as foreign residents in Honduras.
   · Resources (54%) were mostly allocated to Garífuna-run micro-enterprises; in the Municipality of Tela,
   100% of resources were allocated to Garífuna-run micro-enterprises.
   · The Fondo Prosperidad has directly benefited more than 200 families in the Honduran Caribbean
   through job creation.



           Fondo Prosperidad                          US$

Program Funds                                        1,271,000.00
Grant Funds                                          1,157,000.00
Training Funds                                         114,000.00

Number of approved Projects                                      95
Percent of approved Funds                                  100.00%
Total approved funds                                 1,001,908.00

Total training costs                                     29,201.00
Percent of training funds                                   25.61%



   Lessons learned:

   · As a team, the PIU developed adequate skills and knowledge to carry out all of the planned activities in
   an efficient and transparent manner, as demonstrated by the five financial audits, the World Bank team
   missions, and the international recognition received as one of the 12 most successful projects in the World
   Bank portfolio.

   · Payment to the NGO for the Fondo Prosperidad's management had extremely high costs for Honduran
   society. PIU personnel have demonstrated strong capacity for directly managing a fund of such importance
   for poverty reduction in Honduras.

   · Local governments, private companies, and marginalized and vulnerable groups support tourism when
   they see specific initiatives with short-term results, receive the needed information, and can become a social
   audit of government investments.

   · According to the perception of micro-entrepreneurs, financing provided by the Fondo Prosperidad
   improved their facilities (61%), production (23%), products (10%), and sales (6%).

   · Micro-entrepreneurs are willing to receive a national or foreign volunteer to provide technical consulting
   and 90% of them are willing to cover the volunteer's food and board expenses.




                                                         - 41 -

Additional Annex 9. Data Tables

                              Table A9.1: Honduras Tourism Statistics 2002-05
                                              2002      2003    2004 (p)  2005( e)    % increase
                                                                                      2004-05

       Total Number of Visitors(`000)         788.1    886.6     1056.6    1194.1       13.0


       Number of Tourists (`000)              549.5    610.5     672.1     749.4        11.5


       Visitors as part of excursions         238.6    276.1     384.5     444.6        15.6
       (`000)

       Income from foreign currency           341.5    373.2     401.2     431.3         7.5
       (`000)

       Tourism as part of the GDP (%)         14.8      15.3      16.2      16.8         5.9


       Average daily expenditure of           60.1      63.4      51.6      61.9        19.9
       tourists (US$)

       Direct Employment                     34,207    38,428    43,172    48,452       12.2


       Indirect Employment                   43,006    46,511    50,301    56,488       12.3


p: Preliminary numbers        e: Estimates
Source: IHT, Department of Planning



                                       Table A9.2: Number of Visitors to Trujillo
                            Month                                Years
                                                       2004                2005
                            January*                    963                 219
                            February                    609                1,132
                            March*                      915                 213
                            April                      1,382               2,111
                            May                         191                 551
                            June                        566                1,414
                            July                        499                 841
                            August                      452                1,045
                            September                   262                 718
                            October                     215                 709
                            November                    176                 243
                            December                    203                 456
                            TOTAL                      6,433               9,196
                        *Numbers are lower, after busy months with Christmas and Holy Week.
                                         Source: Municipal Tourism Commission




                                                       - 42 -

                          Table A9.3 Women in the Fondo Prosperidad
Municipality                            % Female-led Micro-              % of Fondo Resources
                                             enterprises
Tela                                             23                                  18
La Ceiba                                         28                                  22
Trujillo                                         44                                  53
Omoa                                             50                                  65
Utila                                            47                                  46
Guanaja                                          14                                   6




                        Table A9.4 Fondo Prosperidad Indicators (69 subprojects)
Results                    Data
Amount for Seed Grants     US$1.0 million total

                           25 communities in six municipalities.

                           Co-investment from Beneficiaries US$1.5 million (139.76%)

                           99 percent of assigned funds were disbursed.
Number of Seed Grants      69
                           Average amount per grant per subproject was US$14,000 with smallest seed grant of
                           US$1,165 and largest at US$30,600
Categorization of          Hotel: 25%; Tour operators: 19%; Artisan groups 16%; Garbage recycling: 8%;
subprojects                Tourist information: 5%; Transport 4%.
Number of Direct           144 persons (individual business owners or organizations) including:
Beneficiaries                  ·    57 individual micro-enterprises
                               ·    10 business associations
                               ·    1 business chamber (Camara Empresarial)
                               ·    1 NGO
Strengthened employment    426 persons (276 women, 150 men) in the 69 micro-enterprises
Co-investment              Individuals: 33%
contribution               Associations or women's groups: 25%
Beneficiaries by Ethnicity Garífuna: 42% (54% of resources); Ladino 33%; Isleño 22%; Foreign residents 3%
Beneficiaries by Gender    Women: 55%; Men 45%




                                                   - 43 -

                                   BOX A9.1: Case Study of Fondo Prosperidad
Noticing the increasing number of tourists coming to their native land, two individuals were determined to create a
new tourist attraction on the Bay Islands. They dreamed about giving tours on glass-bottom boats to show off the
beautiful coral reef. Seeing an opportunity to generate a stable income to provide for their families, a small
enterprise was born.

"We wanted to introduce the glass floor boat so that children and the elderly can observe the reefs without the risks
involved with diving," said the beneficiary. Both men worked long and hard to launch their business. However,
this was not an easy task. The glass-bottom boat was very expensive and required a special docking facility. They
reconstructed the one boat they had and put it to work, transporting tourists who arrived at the island.

In 2005, the enterprise applied to the Fondo Prosperidad program to obtain the economic assistance they needed to
purchase the glass floor for the boat and to further expand their venture. With the additional money they were
eligible to receive from the NGO's micro-lending program, the entrepreneurs decided to build a tourist pier with an
observation deck on the top, in addition to a special area to dock the boats. Not only has the Fondo helped generate
additional income for the enterprise, but the introduction of the glass bottom boat has made this enterprise one of
the most popular tourist attractions on the island, providing the individuals exactly what they were looking for: a
reliable source of sustainable income and the opportunity to provide a better life for their families. Source:
http://www.chfhq.org/files/935_file_Honduras_MAR_06.pdf




                                                       - 44 -

Additional Annex 10. Endnote References

1. Terms of Spanish origin used to designate the people of mixed European and indigenous non-European
ancestry.
2. The Garífuna are descendants of the Island Carib indigenous population and a group of African slaves
who escaped two ship-wrecked Spanish slave ships in 1635. Through a mixture of these cultures and the
influence of European settlers in the Americas, the Garífuna have a diverse culture that incorporates
African traditions of music, dance, religious rites, and ceremonies; Native American cultivation, hunting,
and fishing techniques; and a French and Arawak influenced language. There are 46 communities with a
population of approximately 200,000, living in the Departments of Cortés, Atlántida, Colón, Gracias a
Dios and the Bay Islands.
 3. The Miskito indigenous population lives mainly in the Gracias a Dios Department along the North
Coast. This department was not part of the project area. However, the Miskitos have expanded their
settlements to urban areas outside of their traditional territories.
4. The Bay Islands population/Isleños includes Afro-Antilleans (from the West Indies), Anglo-Antilleans,
Garífunas, Miskitos, Spanish-speaking Hondurans, Americans and Europeans. Bay Islands English is
spoken on the islands.
5. The project area included municipalities in all four departments. Roatán in the Bay Islands was
considered for a Municipal Tourism Unit (UTM), but the Inter-American Development Bank-financed
Environmental Management in the Bay Islands Project was financing similar activities in Roatán. Thus, in
order to use resources in the LIL most effectively, the GOH and the Bank agreed to support the UTM in
Guanaja in the Bay Islands.
6. An Assessment of the Tourism Potential of Honduras: Observations and Recommendations for
Sustainable Coastal Tourism, April 2002.
7. The tourism police were installed in the municipalities of Tela, La Ceiba, the Bay Islands, San Pedro
Sula, and Tegucigalpa. These units were established through agreements with the national police and the
local tourism chambers of commerce. The IHT was responsible for training in tourism culture, languages,
and legal and police policies. The tourism police were provided with uniforms, but they are not armed.
Agreements were established with the police of France, Miami (USA) and Japan for donations of
equipment and training, and Indonesia donated motorcycles.
8.The HIV/AIDS indicator was eliminated.
9. Eligible enterprises were either legally constituted; informally constituted and needing technical
assistance to be constituted, or initiatives that were interested in becoming new micro-enterprises.
Micro-enterprises have five or fewer employees; small enterprises are defined as between 5 and 15
employees.
10. The jején is a nearly invisible sand flea (no-see-um) that is found near beach areas in the Bay Islands.
One in four people is allergic to the bites and each one turns into a big red sore like a mosquito bite that can
be very itchy for days.




                                                     - 45 -

- 46 -

