21958
%I
INSlTUT OF TOURISM
OF HONDURAS                The Worli Bank Resident Mission in Honduras
Socio-Ethnographic Evaluation
Sustainable Tourist Project
on the North Coast offHonduras
Tegucigalpa M.D.C.                      October, 2000
iL  u.



CONTENT
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY                                                       4-19
CHAPTER 1.   SHORT OUTLINE OF THE NORTH COAST OF HONDURAS
A.    Outline of the Influence Area of the North Coast
A.l Climate                                                       20
A.2 Geomorphology                                                 20
A.3 Main Ecosystems                                               21
A.4 Natural Resources and Environment                             22-24
A.5 Demographic Information                                       25
CHAPTER II.        TOURISM IN HONDURAS
A.    Tourist Activity at National Level
A. . Importance in National Economy                               26
A.2 Tourist Demand                                                26
A.3 Trends                                                        27
A.4 Land Ownership and Property Rights                            27
B. Outline of Tourism on North Coast
B.I Historv                                                       28
B.2.Tourist Areas                                                 28
B.3 Toun'st trends in the area                                    28
BA4.Current Tourist Activity                                      29-30
CHAPTER llI.    SOCIO-ETHNOGRAPHIC SURVEY
A. Objective                                                            31
B. Description of Area of Study                                         31
C. Results                                                               31
C. I General Description of the Sample                               31 -32
C.2 Schooling                                                        32-35
C.3 Ethnic Origin                                                    35-36
CA Languages                                                         36-38
C.5 Community Languages                                              38-39
C.6 Regional Languages                                               39-40
C.7 Organization                                                     40-43
C.8 Community Organization                                           43
C.9 Information Supply and Decision Making                           43
C. 10 Health Situation                                               43-46
C. I  Land Use                                                       47-48
C. 13 Labor situation                                                48
C. 14 Existence and Use of Forest                                    49-50
C. 15 Natural and Cultural Resources                                 50
C.16 Available Tourist Infrastructure                                50



C. 17 Tourist Activities and Related Activities                    51-53
C 18 Antiquity of Tourist Enterprises                              53-54
C. 19 Investment Needs for Sustainable Tourism                     54-56
C.20 Training with Environmental Approach                          56-58
C.21 Training needed for Sustainable Tourism                       58
C.22 Infrastructure Needed for Tourist Enterprises                 59-61
BIBLIOGRAPHY                                                           62
ANEXES
No. I Plan for Participation
No.2 Indigenous Development Plan
No.3 Maps
APPENDIX
No. Description and general analysis of the sample. socio-ethnographic survey



4
EXECUTRIE SUMMARY'
Introduction
1.    The purpose of the social-ethnographic assessment of the North Coast is to evaluate
the different activities related to the development and management of sustainable tourism at
municipal and community level, land use, land management and land ownership, from a
gender perspective; to identify the main direct beneficiaries of the project that participate in
the preparation and execution of the project, as well as other stakeholders, to identifv the
possible negative impact of the proposed activities and to propose methods for their
mitigation; to identify the most proper opportunities for technical and institutional
strengthening to initiate activities of sustainable management of tourism at municipal and
community level, including the improvement of the balance between the participation of
men and women in the community organizations and local authorities in the municipal
sphere to achieve a better planning and execution of the project, to identify mechanisms
preferred by the beneficiaries to participate in each of the project's components; to identify
the main links between the natural and cultural heritage, including the following aspects: (i)
traditional religious rituals, Garifuna dances, etc. (ii) strong ties between the cultural
survival, local control of natural resources, specifically its link with the protected areas; and
to explore the possibilities of co-financing and sinenergy with other programs in the
influence area.
Description of the Area
2.    The study is carried out in the area defined as the North Coast of Honduras, from
Omoa to the municipal boundary of the Iriona Municipalitv with the Gracias a Dios
department and the island group the Bay Islands. This area includes 4 departments: the
municipalities Omoa and Puerto Cortes in the Cortes Department; the Atlantida
Department, with emphasis on the municipalities of Tela and La Ceiba. and the Garifuna
villages around them, and secondly the municipalities El Porvenir, La Masica and Jutiapa.
The Department Col6n, with emphasis on the municipalities Trujillo and Santa Fe and
including the Ganrfuna villages around them, and secondly the municipalities Iriona, Limon
Balfate, Saba, Tocoa and Sonaguera. The Bay Islands, with emphasis on the context of the
municipalities Utila and Roatan and secondly the municipalities Santos Guardiola and
Guanaja and their communities.
Results
3.    The four teams of surveyors (one per department, consisting of three technical staff
per team), carried out 427 surveys under community leaders, small entrepreneurs, local
authorities and non-governmental organizations, as well as 12 focal group exercises with
the same actors.
- In the sample there is a clear predominance of men, almost 2/3 of the sample. The age
range best represented in the sample of both men and women is between 31-50 years of
age. In all age categories mestizo men and women form the majority, with the exception



of the people of 61 and older. In that age g,roup there are twice as much Garifuna men
as mestizo men. while the difference among women is not significant.
Schooling level
4.    Summary about the schooling level in the influence area
The prevailing categories of the sample that are also similar in absolute terms are those
with more than 12 years of schooling and those between 4-6 years of education. This
means those with complete secondary education (a third of the sample) and those with
at least 4 years of primary school (another third of the sample). The other schooling
ranges (1-3, 7-9 and 1-1 I years of schooling make up the last third of the sample).
The data reveal the trend that men and women have an equal chance to access first
cycle of primary education (1-3 years). This trend not only continues for women, but
their opportunities to finish the second cycle, or primary school increase (3-6 years).
This trend remains stable and favors women even more in the third cycle (7-9 years) of
basic education, traditionally known as the basic education plan. However, when
entering the diversified cycle that concludes secondary school (11-12 years), the curve
abruptly drops for women and a proportional inverse growth is observed for men, in
such a way that only a very small percentage of women finish secondary school. This
means that for a large percentage of women primary school is the end station. However,
once women have managed to pass the threshold of 11 years of schooling, finishing
secondary school, the likelihood for them to continue their education improves
remarkably, although the gap with men is not closed
The mestizo men and women have a preferential access to primary and secondary
school compared to the Garifuna and island population. The differences between
mestizos and Garifunas are significant towards the end of secondary school and after
finishing secondary school. The differences between Garifunas and islanders are
important in the first cycle of primary school, and they increase again after the third
cycle until after secondary school. For the majority of the male islanders the access to
the first cycle of primary school is limited, and once surpassed that level the third cycle
is the end station for the majority.
The differences between mestizo and Garifuna women gain importance after the third
educational level or basic education plan. However, the Garifuna women recover and
are at the same level as mestizo women when finishing secondary school. However,
after having finished the secondary school, the gap is extremely big and only a minority
continues. The differences between Gafifuna women and island women are significant
from the first cycle and throughout the second cycle of primary school, but in the third
cycle the participation increases considerably to disappear completely from the
registration towards the end of secondary school. This means that as for island men, the
third cycle is the end station. Afier finishing secondary school, a very small proportion
continues. Summarized, the trend among mestizo men and women is to finish
secondary school and they will likely continue their studies, above all the women that
finish secondary school. Among the Gafifuna men and women the trend is weaker, with
a critical moment for men at the end of the third cycle, and for women at the end of



6
primary school. For the island population the critical point is during the first cycle, and
once this threshold is passed it is repeated at the end of the third cycle, which for
women is definitely the end station.
Ethnic representation
5.    The most ethnic representation foundings
- Half of the sample (51.76 %) consists of mestizo men and women; the Garifuna men
and women form around one third of the sample (3 5. 13 %), while the island men and
women make up 11  % of the sample. The foreign residents represent 1.64 % of the
sample, Among the women, the mestizo group is better represented while on the
contrary among men the Garifuna population is better represented.
Apart from the Garifuna and island population no other indigenous group is represented
in the sample. The Miskito speakers mentioned in the sample are mestizo, Garifuna, and
island people. The sample in general can be considered representative in terms of the
proportion between the majority ethnic group (mestizo) in the country and the North
Coast, especially regarding the culturally different population (Garifuna and island
populations), the ethnic groups of this region.
Prevailing Languages
6.    Prevailing languages among the north cost population
As was to be expected, the prevailing maternal language of the people surveyed is
Spanish, followed by Garifuna and Island English. The incidence of foreign languages
(standard English, Italian, French and German) as mother tongue is completely
irrelevant in the survey. Spanish is not only the first language of the mestizo
population, but also of around 10 % of those who declared to be not mestizo, meaning
that Spanish is the first language of a certain number of Garifunas, among which more
men than women.
Garifuna has a significant percentage as the second language in importance, apparently
adopted as such by mestizo people and in a lesser degree by the island population as a
second language in areas of convergence. Island English as a second language is
slightly used as second or third language by mestizo and Garifuna people. There is
rather a trend to use standard English as a bridge by the mestizo population (9.37 %)
and even by the Garifunas in the convergence areas. The significant percentage and
third place of standard English entails that it is the language the mestizo population
learns after Garifuna and the one the Garifunas learn after Spanish. However, it is
obvious that at community level English is not general among the mestizo, garifuna or
island population.
- Summarized, the typical mestizo person on the North Coast of Honduras is more likely
to speak Garifuna as second language, standard English as third language and if he/she
is between 21-30 years of age this person has a schooling level of nine years or more,
and will speak Miskito as fourth language. The typical Garifuna person on the North
Coast of Honduras is more likely to speak Spanish as a second language, standard



7
English as a third language and if he/she is between 21-30 vears of age and has a
schooling level of 9 years or more he/she will most likely speak Miskito as fourth
language. The typical island person on the North Coast of Honduras, is more likely to
speak Spanish as a second language, standard English as a third language. Garifuna as a
fourth language and if he/she is between 2 1-30 years of age and has nine years or more
of schooling, it is possible that he/she speaks Miskito as the fifth language.
Level of Organization
7.    The level of organization
-  A large majority of the people surveyed (67.51%) belong to some organization, mostly
local community or regional organizations; in second place religious organizations
(33.45%), in third place ethnic organizations and in fourth place environmental
organizations.
The community organizations are neighborhood organizations, parent's associations,
fishermen's associations, associations of retired teachers, savings and loan cooperatives,
community banks, rural banks, or the association of tourist guides. The regional
community orsanizations are the associations or transporters, the associations of sport
divers, the association of agricultural producers, the association of traditional and non-
traditional exporters and teacher's or professional associations.
In second place are the religious organizations (33 45 %): the catholic and evangelical
churches. It is noted that there is still a trend for the catholic church to be the biggest
one, but the evangelical church is only slightly below the catholic church regarding
participation. Third place is taken by the ethnic organizations, OFRANEH and
NABILPA. However, they are not equally important in the whole region. OFRANEH
has its main centers in Tela, Santa Fe, Trujillo, La Ceiba, Limon and Iriona. of minor
importance are El Porvenir, La Masica, Jutiapa. Balfate and Bonito Oriental, Saba,
Sonaguera, Tocoa, Puerto Corte and very marginally Omoa. NABILPA has its center in
Roatan, no presence is registered in Guanaja and Utila.
The fourth place (10.21 %) is taken by environmental organizations (close season.
production of fire wood trees, control of pesticides and herbicides, traditional fishing
methods, protection of the reef, counting turtles, training materials). These
environmental organizations consist of all or at least part of the non-governmental
organizations. Finally, a small percentage (3.5%) are members of the chambers of
commerce of Tela, Tocoa and La Masica) and the chambers of tourism Tela and Omoa.
The relatively high percentage of organized participation of the people surveyed in
different types of initiatives reflects a great potential for concerted efforts, and some
kind of experience in management and execution for the common good; however, a
third part of the sample said not to belong to any organization. Generally, the active
organized people are members of two to three different organizations, and sometimes
even three or four. The vast majority (71.83%) of those that belong to some
organization have had some official post, which indicates a strong involvement of many



people at one time or another regarding the planning and execution of the organization's
activities.
Health Situation
8.    Health situation
The main health problems are in order of importance: respiratory infections, parasitic
infections and HIV/AIDS. Less common are mental disorders, occupational accidents,
malaria and dengue. Malnutrition is considered to be a minor problem and even less so
alcoholism (0.94 %) or drug addiction (0.940%O). Venereal diseases are practically
absent according to the people surveyed. The main source of information is the
Ministry of Health, followed at some distance by the television, the radio and
newspapers. It is observed that the people surveyed seem to have a good access to the
mass media by television and radio.
The knowledge resulting from personal experiences and from person to person, are less
important (together 14.76 %). In the campaigns on HIV/AIDS only half participated.
As a consequence the other half has remained at the margin of one of the most critical
health problems on the North Coast. The massive campaigns consist of talks in primary
and secondary schools and the health centers. The talks with the parents and
informative leaflets are second, third the churches and fourth the NGO's.
The influence of radio, television and newspaper campaign (4.3 1) is completely
secondary. Separately or jointly, they do they not have the impact that is attributed to
them as main sources of information on HIV/AIDS in the perception of the people. The
majority of the funds to finance the HIV/AIDS prevention campaigns, come from the
Central Government, more specifically the Ministry of Health with a small participation
from the Ministry of Education. The municipalities' input is minimal, but even lower
are the contributions from the NGOs.
The contributions from the church are also marginal, but it should be mentioned that the
evangelical churches contribute more than the catholic church. The ethnic
organizations contribute in the same degree as the churches. The occupational
accidents are not well represented in the sample, but the wounds from work instruments
are the most common, possibly cutting instruments such as machetes. Paralysis as a
consequence of diving without the proper equipment is becoming more important.
While the loss of limbs, or intoxication because of herbicides and burns are less
frequent.
In the Department of Cortes (Puerto Cortes and Omoa), the sample is almost entirely
among the mestizo population and HIV/AIDS as health problem comes first according
to the men, while the women think it has increased in absolute terms, but still comes in
third place. The average person who recognizes VIH/AIDS as the main health problem
has more than 12 years of schooling. In the Department of Col6n (Lim6n, Iriona,
Trujillo, Balfate, Bonito Oriental, Saba, Sonaguera and Tocoa) the sample has a fair
Garifuna representation. In the sample, the mestizo population thinks HIV/AIDS comes
second as health problem, on the other hand the women think it comes third and that its



9
relative importance also has not increased. However, for Garifuna men and women
equally, it is problem number 1. The average schooling of all the people surveyed is 4-6
years.
In the Department of Atlantida (La Ceiba, Tela, El Porvenir, La Masica and Jutiapa) the
sample has a fair Garifuna representation. In the sample the mestizo men are the ones
who put HIV/AIDS first as health problem, while according to the women it not only
comes third, but also has decreased in relative importance. On the other hand, the
Garifuna men consider the problem to be third, opposite to the Garifuna women who
not only consider it to be health problem no. 1, but also attribute a higher absolute
importance than any of the other groups mentioned. Also in this department the average
schooling level of the people surveyed is a minimum of 10-1 1 and more likely more
than 12 years.
In the Department of the Bay Islands (Roatan, Jose Santos Guardiola, Guanaja and
Utila), mestizo men and women as well as Garifuna men and women put HIV/AIDS in
first place as health problem. On the other hand, for the island men and women it
doesn't only come third, but also its absolute importance is.much less. In this
department the schooling level of the people surveyed is a minimum of 7-9 years and
more likely more than 12 years of schooling. Apparently, more schooling helps to
recognize the rate of the disease, at least among the mestizo men and women but it is
not the key point, as Garifuna men and women in Colon have the highest schooling
level of the sample. It rather seems that there are other mechanisms involved.
Land ownership and related matters
9.    Land ownership and related matters
- Around half of the sample thought that the neighbors have land, but also a third part
without land was registered. The majority of the landowners have full land titles and
around a third own has the usufruct of the land. Regarding the location of the lands,
the large majority of the owners have land on the beach (or mountain) in combination
with any of the following locations: valley, hillside or urban plots.
* Small landowners are the norm, so there are few medium owners, and the presence of
large owners is minimum (2.43 %). However, this could be misleading given that the
few big landowners together could have more than the others. Therefore it is necessary
to have an approximation of the size of each of these categories. The vast majority of
the land on beaches, forest, riverbanks and urban plots are private, in the forest for
example, the municipalities have not more than 2.25 %. The buffer zones are the onlv
category of which half is still owned by the municipalities.
- A minimal part of the lands is found in the core of the protected areas, above all in
Atlantida and Colon; this figure practically doesn't exist in Cortes and the Bay Islands.
The male owners are the majority both regarding full ownership as usufruct of the land.
Among women full ownership is a little better represented. Among the mestizo owners,
as well as among the Garifunas, usufruct is slighly higher. The Garifunas have more
usufruct than the mestizo population. Among the island population full ownership is
more common.



]()
Land use
]10 Land use
-  The vast majority of the land is used for agriculture, combined with some other activity
that could be a small business, rent, houses, fishing and cattle farming. A minority
declared to have land in protected areas or natural reserves, also a smaller percentage
registered to have land invaded by illegal residents. More than half of the land is
cultivated by the owner and their families; around a third hires salaried workers and a
minority involves family members. More than half of the producers cultivate year-
round and less than a third cultivate in certain seasons.
- Tow thirds of the agricultural producers cultivate mainly yam, followed in importance
by basic grains (corn, beans and rice). All producers combine the cultivation of yam and
basic grains with some paprika/pepper and tomatoes and even less with carrots,
cucumber and squash. The majority of the producers cultivate bananas, plantain,
mangos, citrus fruits and pineapple, combined with lichees, coconut, cacao and
watermelon. Additionally they plant avocados, nances, papaya, sugarcane, apples,
guanabanas, cashew, zapote, pashion fruit and rambutan. At a small scale are cultivated
cacao, African palm and coffee. The variety of crops is large and covers almost every
spectrum of agricultural products mostly consumed in the country.
- More than half of the producers plant for own consumption and sale, while the rest says
to only plant for own consumption. Those who do market their products supply the
local markets (80,51%), and less the regional market (22.88 %). Only a few export a
portion of their production, and a very small percentage (0.85%) exports their whole
production. Among those who sell to regional and local markets, a minority (3.39 %)
supplies to hotels and restaurants. This means that the large part of the agricultural
products the hotels and restaurants use do not come directly from the producers, but
possibly through intermediaries in the local and regional markets. The agricultural
producers of the North coast mainly satisfy their own needs of agricultural products, but
produce sufficient surplus to supply local and regional markets.
Labor
I.   Labor
More than the majority of the landowners cultivates with family members, a third hires
salaried workers, while a very small part cultivates with extended family. In the region
the payment is generally higher than or equal to the minimum wage. However, it is still
significant that a fifth of the informants said the pay is less than minimum wage. The
most common payment is weekly payment, the rest receives two-weekly payments or
monthly payments (25.33). Daily wage is used very little. Regarding the equity of the
salary the opinions differ; while more than half of the sample thinks payment is equal
for men and women, the other half thinks men are paid better. Also the opinions
regarding the duration of contracts are divided, around half thinks they are the same for
men and women, while the other half thinks the contracts for men are longer. The last
two observations reflect that regarding payment and contracts the traditional gender
differences still prevail in the region.



Eu
Existence and  use of forest
129. Existence and use of forest
- Less than half of the sample said to have forest in the community or on their land and
the opinion prevails that there is 'little' forest. This subjective categorv could not be
translated in absolute terms (km or ha) by the surveyors. The majority of the group that
answered positively regarding the existence of forest, used the forest and although this
exploitation involves more than one activity, the most important activity is related to the
exploitation of wood.
- The extraction of firewood is high (45.25%) but most important is the production of
wood for local consumption (54.74%). External sale is not important, not more than
12.00 % of the wood, in other words the other 88 % is used locally. This means that the
cutting and processing is most likely traditional and is used for building houses, small
boats and furniture. The group that said to use the forest, uses the forest as a place for
recreation and small-scale hunting, which was independent from recreational activities.
This could indicate that in the influence area, 'hunting' at best is not considered a sport
but a contribution to the family diet. However, a light tendency is noticed in using
'hunting' and 'recreation' as synonyms.
- The characterization of the forest as the generator of water seems to be little understood
and was only mentioned by the mestizo population. The forest is used to extract wood
above all by Garifunas, and only very little by mestizo population. Both use the forest
equally for recreation and for wood for local consumption. Only the Garifunas use it for
small-scale hunting. Only the mestizo population uses the forest for export wood, also
on a small scale.
Available Tourist Infrastructure
13.   Available tourist infrastructures
- The main services in the regions are eateries and hostels, as well as hotels and
restaurants. There is a clear differentiation between an eatery and a restaurant and
between a hostel and hotel, which without any doubt has to do with the kind of facilities
and prices. The little availability of boats and bus terminals make clear that there are
not enough.
- The position of the airports in the sample reveal that the air transportation does not have
impact regarding tourism. However, there are three international airports in the region,
as well as three regional or local airports. This also indicates that they are not
considered to be decisive for the influx of tourists, maybe because of the kind of
tourists, generally using land transportation. The tourist information centers also seem
to be concentrated in very few places and probably without coverage outside of the
more urbanized areas. The other services that make up the quality of the tourist product
are scarcely represented or are not mentioned. This all reflects the prevalence of a low
impact tourist development on the North Coast and little investment in this sector.



12
The green areas, the parking areas and tourist information centers seem to be packages
according to the people for which as a whole they do have some importance. The
sanitary services and public showers on the beach are preferred above those of the
central square or park, but its usefulness for tourists is still not acknowledged
sufficiently.
Camping facilities are associated with the visitor's center in protected areas, but this
tourist service is very little developed. Stables for horse-riding are rare and the service
that is offered by the decompression room is not considered to be instrumental for
tourism. Shortly, the tourist offer comes down to basic services (eateries and hostels
and restaurants and hotels). On the beaches, the main resource of the region, there are
generally no basic installations for the tourist to use them. The tourist information
centers are scarce and the prevailing means of transportation is over land. The visitor's
centers in the protected areas are or non-existent or are not considered to be
instrumental to attract tourists. In other words, the tourist development of the region is
of very low impact and doesn't offer alternatives, nor is it prepared to satisfy a visitor
with certain demands.
Tourist Activities or related activities
14.   Tourist Activities or related activities
-  The majority of the region's inhabitants work directly in a tourist activity or tourist
related activity. The vast majority of these people work in this sector year-round and
the rest only part of the year. The main activity is hotels and restaurants followed by
maritime transportation and urban and interurban transportation. A third of those that
work in the industry provide guide services.
*  Around a third of the activities are related to sport diving. Non-traditional services as
renting bikes and renting horses seem to be expanding. The participation of
entrepreneurs as service providers of repairs, food and materials in hotels and
restaurants is of little impact. Apparently the hotels and restaurants are provided by
other resources, not necessarily local.
-  The social centers or discotheques practically have no impact in the sector. This
indicates that the potential offered by nighttime entertainment is being little exploited
for tourist purposes, or that the tourists that visit the area have other interests. The
guides mainly divide their activities between visits to the city followed by visits to
archaeological sites and museums. However, there is not one archaeological site in the
region prepared for visits, for which these activities should have devastating effects on
the sites. There are three museums: San Pedro, Omoa and Roatan, which apparently
receive quite some visitors.
-  The tours that we would call ecological or adventure tours (bird watching, marine flora
and fauna and rafting) absorb together a third part of these activities. Summarized the
guide activities reflect three already traditional directions in tourism: the city as tourist
business center; archaeological sites and museums as center of cultural tourism and
activities related with nature or ecological tourism.



13
It is important to analyze more in detail the potential cultural tourism proves to have, at
this moment even more than ecological tourism in the region. Interesting is one
element completely absent in the demand for guide services and that is cultural tourism
of living cultures (artistic shows, culinary art, musical instruments and traditional uses)
in the region. The norm regarding the production of crafts is to combine two or more
different kinds of raw material. The most common materials are wood and bamboo,
palm, corral, and turtle-shell followed by materials derived from other shells and conch.
The processing of clay is much less important, as well as the products made of rattan. It
should be pointed out that a representative percentage (26.83%) of the crafts production
uses raw materials that mean a deterioration of marine life (corral and turtle-shells), as
turtles are in danger of extinction.
Amount of years of Tourist Enterprises
15.   Amount of years of Tourist Enterprises
- Almost two thirds of the enterprises are small, for which it is believed they are family
businesses with a reduced employment capacity. The expansion of these businesses is
gradual and there is not much variation observed over the last decade. In other words,
there are no drastic changes which reveals the limited growth of the sector. The origin
of the investment for these enterprises is basically completely local individual capital
with a third foreign individual capital. Only a fifth of the enterprises use bank loans.
This indicates that the banks do not form a feasible alternative as investment source.
T he contribution of seed capital for these enterprises by the local or central government
or NGOs is not important. This reflects the lack of funds for investment of the local
governments, given that they recognize the potential or tourism. The NGOs on the other
hand have a certain fear to become part of the sector.
- Summarized it is very interesting to see the prevalence of small enterprises together
with an almost absolute local private participation in financing, which could be one of
the reasons for the slow growth of the sector. That despite these conditions one fourth
of the enterprises are more than 10 years in business and that another fourth is in
business for 5-10 years indicates the sector is profitable, but the conservative growth
also reflects that there is little space for taking risks. Also, these small entrepreneurs
seem to have alternative income sources, probably agriculture is one of the most
important ones.
Needs of Investment in Sustainable Tourism
16.   Needs of Investment in Sustainable Tourism
- The urgent need for a basic infrastructure is shown here overwhelmingly. In the
perception of the people it is a prerequisite to get into business. Despite the emphasis
on basic services, there is also a rather precise notion that training of staff and
promotion are key to the success of tourism. At the same time there is more and more
recognition of the importance of the production of crafts, however no relation has been
made between the raw material and the sustainability and protection of the
environment.



14
It is significant that there is little notion of the importance of cultural tourism, despite
the fact that museum are instrumental for tourist guides. Only very marginally there is a
recognition of the importance of museums for the tourist potential. Indeed, the
preparation of archaeological sites for visitors is not mentioned. Training as such is in
absolute terms the most felt need. This underlines the little professionalism regarding
tourism in large areas of the North Coast and reveals the still existent need in regions
where there is already an advanced tourist development such as the Bay Islands.
Training with Environmental Approach
17.   Training with Environmental Approach
- There is a big vacuum of training with an environmental approach which means that to
find a balance between the use of the natural resources for tourism and its conservation,
a lot of work is to be done. The majority of the training activities are related to the
conservation of the natural resources and sustainable small-scale production, but it is
clear that the management and conservation of water sources comes first. The training
activities directed at tourism are few (tourist guide, sport diver, management national
monuments, archaeological site/area, museums) and has low coverage. Thus it is to be
expected that there is a widespread lack of knowledge regarding conservation and the
management of the cultural patrimony for tourist use.
- The management of a protected area does not necessarily have to be for tourist
purposes, which also applies to the first aid training for divers. Therefore these two
categories are intermediate categories, with a certain relevance for tourism. Clean
water (not pollution) is important for the general health of the population, but also for
wild life in general with subsequent purposes of exploitation. However, the not
pollution of water is a contribution to a better quality of life, and is therefore important
for tourism.
Training needed for sustainable Tourism
18.   Training needed for sustainable Tourism
- When asked about training the majority of people surveyed responded - tourism in
general - which is very ambiguous. It reveals a general lack of knowledge about the
sector that makes it hard to exactly define the need. The most felt need regarding
training is related to the relation with the tourist (client service, human relations,
learning a foreign language, guide services and awareness).
- The management of hotels and restaurants seem to be more important in this context,
and without any doubt it is the area where most experience is concentrated as these
services prevail in the sector. Little thought is given to the diversification of the tourist
supply related to nature (ecotourism, adventure, diving). In the case of diving, the
question rises if the little importance given to diving means that the need is more or less
covered or that on the main land no importance is given to this activity. Likewise, little
thought is given to the diversification of the tourist supply regarding cultural tourism.



15
This means that although there is an assumption that cultural, material and other
expressions have tourist potential. it is not clear how to prepare it and market it.
Infrastructure necessarv for a Tourist business
19.   Infrastructure necessary for a Tourist business
The comparison between the prioritv that small entrepreneurs give to the tourist
infrastructure and the availability of services reveals a gap in certain categories.
Despite the fact that there is a certain offer of hotels available, the small entrepreneurs
still consider the existence of hotels to be a first necessity. This could indicate that they
assume that with more hotels they could attract more tourists. On the other hand, the
second priority (public bathrooms and showers on the beaches) of the entrepreneurs
means their discontent with the reality. In a lesser degree, the same could be said of the
third priority (tourist information centers).
Regarding hostels (fourth priority), there is quite some offer, as also is the case with the
restaurants. There is a large offer of eateries, although mentioned as the sixth priority
by the entrepreneurs. The priorities and availability of parking areas, bus terminals and
green areas is pretty much balanced. The availability of visitor's centers in protected
areas is not equivalent to the priority given, but is not very much below it. The
availability of boats is practically twice as much as the priority given. Thus, according
to the entrepreneurs, there are more than enough boats available.
It is remarkable that the priority given to camp sites equals the priority given to this
activity which seem to indicate that the entrepreneurs still do not consider camp sites to
have a lot of potential. The availability of public bathrooms in the central park is only
a little bit less than the demand the entrepreneurs indicate, for which it can be
concluded that there are not more of these facilities because there has been no request
for them. On the contrary, the availability of facilities for maintenance of diving
equipment seems higher than the demand, but maybe it is because these services are in
certain areas.
Regarding stables for horse riding there is a balanced relation between the demand and
the offer, another resource that is not considered to have big potential. Another
balanced relation between the availability and the demand is those of decompression
chambers. Here one would think that the majority of the small entrepreneurs on the
North Coast are not offering diving services and given that this activity is focussed on
the Bay Islands it seems that the availability of decompression chambers ate the
moment is sufficient.
As priority 17 to 21 are mentioned basic infrastructure services (electricity, drinking
water, sewerage, roads and streets and latrines) that although it is true that the
availability provides a comparative advantage for the communities, they can not be
considered tourist infrastructure. The mentioning of basic infrastructure in the opinion
of a few is an indication that in certain communities of the sample the main difficulty is
the lack of more basic services for the local inhabitants. Finally, as priority 17 and 18
are mentioned the availability of airports and squares respectively, but none of them



16
was mentioned by the small entrepreneurs. It is interesting to see that airports are not
considered to be instrumental for tourism, maybe due to that the majority of the
destinations on the North Coast can be reached bv land, and in the case of the Bay
Islands transportation by boat is an alternative. This would indicate on its turn, that
tourism on the North Coast is above all national, or international with little economic
impact.
Participation Plan
Participation Strategy:
20.   identification of Early Risks an7d r esistanice
An Executive Unit and other organisms promoted by the Project should have the relevant
information regarding the demand, perceptions and beliefs of the population on the actions
undertaken. This includes managing expectations, improving the communication channels,
constant feedback between the different actors involved, especially groups in a
disadvantaged position such as the ethnic groups.
21.   7he Processes of Sharinig Iniformationi an7d Decision7 making
It is proposed to create an organism within the flowchart of the Project that allows for the
participation of the organizations that represent the benefiting population. This organism
takes on the form of a Stockholder's Group, similar to a consultation council where
policies, norms are discussed and consensus is reached regarding the strategic planning and
operational instruments to be executed by the Project Implementation Unit (PIU).
212. 1 Imelligenil Approach of the Diversi4! of Participation
In dealing with the population and their participation, there should be different forms and
mechanisms depending on their level of representation, both in the local sphere as in the
sphere of professional or ethnic associations.
23.   Participation and Organizational Development
Within the operational plans of the project, an activity on the development of the
organization is proposed, directed at local and regional organizations. Possibly some
attention should be given to the demands of those regional organizations that have a strong.
influence on the project's matters. It is recommended that the resources of the components
"National Strategy and Institutional Support for the SCT" and "Institutional Strengthening
at Municipal Level" meet criteria such as: to strengthen the role of key organizations such
as NGOs. and environmental organizations, associations of micro-small tourist
entrepreneurs; to balance the support to partners that deliver services to vulnerable
populations with the support to partners that want to solve the causes of poverty on the long
term and in a sustainable way; to support formation and development processes of local
organizations, especially municipal organizations; and to strengthen complementary
organization networks.
24.   General Association Model
* National level: lobbying, promoting a dialogue on policies, laws and practices that form
the basis for a shared strategy on sustainable tourist development in the project area;



17
Municipal level: the Project establishes the strengthening of municipal institutions to
increase the management capacity regarding tourist development. For example: the
municipalities should get the technical and administrative capacity to apply the
principle established in the law that "those who pollute, pay".
*    Local level: through pilot experiences to innovate practices and businesses, apply
reforms for transparent policies and regulations through dialogues and consultation with
the stakeholders and the provision of incentives for private participation of any size.
General Participation Model
.......~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ..............
NIUNICIPALITIES                                        r    -
Stockholders Group: Municipalities. Honduran  lnsitute for
t    Tounisni- NGOs.  Community  Girassroo Oraiton               
Fonn Stockholders Group and                                 Chambers   Of tousnv Uni             C
Chamen,  f torkni   Uniersities. Cooperation  Agoicies.
provides command for formal                                 P rixate Sector. Ethnic Organizations. Professioial Associations
planning                                                    * CGroups with ittle Representation ("omen groups. migrants.
etc)
.    Forms a intental                                            *    Establishes dialogue on policies and management ol
:          interdeparnamental Committee                           .         tourist development process
*    Helps to establish inter-                              :         Establishes and supervises topical WA'ork Groups
institutional coordination
insttutona  coord naDevelops  Vision  of Tourist  Industry
*    Has convening capacity                                 .         Consults with rest of public and lobbys
.    Applies municipal legislation and                 v         .    Provides legitimation. public profile and public
ensures that laws are obserned in                                accesssnblitv
termtor                                                     *    Negotiates positions to readc consensus. and
recommendations for action
V)
Project Implementation Unit
4           o*    Works as liason bex% een municipalities and the
*    Sockholders Giroup
. .................. ................  ....... ... .... .................................. ......... ...............S o k ld r G ou
*    Provides information. ss orks as tedinical secraarx
*    Provides Stockholders Group xi ith support staff
*    Administers the paticipatorn plannmg activities
*    Provides tedmical and research support
*    Monitors and evaluates results
25.    Lobbying anid Public Influence
In line with what has been stated, this Participation Plan will be a key element to achieve
the Project's objectives, as well as the lobbying, defined as dissemination of persuasive
information, the influence on those with an position of influence, action or decision making
for the public good, in name of the participating population or in association with
representative organizations.



18
26.    -Action Progfram per Strategic component
Strategic Component 1 Actiities 2U01                      Activities 2002                 _   Activities 20(33
Strengthening of        *   Selection of technical staff  *   Training of technical staff      *   Dissemination of
Organizational               in cooperation with                (trainers of trainers)              knowledge on
Capacities                   commurnity organization       *   Fomiulation. management              community level
*   Training of technical staff        and administration of tourist       (multiplying effect)
(train the trainers)              projects                        *   Taking measures. agreed
*   Building of capacities        *   Development of tourist               bv all. for conser%ation
according to cultures of          products compatible X ith            of natural environment
people involved                   culture of people involved          that provides the raw
*   Exchangc of experiences    *   Incorporating quality cointrol          material for production
between groups of                 for craft production                 of crafts
producers. promoters and    *   Proposal for land use for         *   Pilot programs for
service suppliers with            tourism on North Coast              diversification of tourist
tourist purposes              *   Consultation and agreement           offer
*   Inter-institutional                with NGOs for follow-up on   *   Incorporation of a
coordination (National            a) sanitation and b) land use        certification 'seal' of
Agricultural Institute.           (external audit)                    crafts made by
Registration of property.                                              Garifunas. islanders and
Municipalities and                                                     Miskitos.
Ministnr of Tourism) w ith                                        *   Regional Forum for
the object of sanitation in                                            presentation of
areas with tourist potential.                                          initiatives. and goals
reached
Promotion for           *   Training for sustainable       *   Assessment of patterns of use *   Rescue and
conservation and             use of natural resources           of traditional rau materials        diversification of
adoption of              *   Establishing mechanisms            and extractions of thcsc with       traditional craft
sustainable tourist          for coordination with              criteria of sustainabilitv          production
activities                   regional representatives      *   Exchange of experiences in    *   Organization of regional
from SINAP (among                 management of reservations          craft and gastronomy
othcrs). local                    in general. through                  fairs. b\ techniical staff
environmental NGOs and            sponsorship of short time       *   Production of
municipalities. to use their      assistantships for technical         informative and
installed capacity for            staff in training                    formative leaflets as
instruction purposes.        *   Program to rescue cultural           didactic material for
*   Training for the sustainable       values (archaeological, historn,    projection in training
use of cultural resources         oral tradition, music and dance,     centers of communiities
*   Establishing mechanisms            gastronomy natural medicine         w ith pilot projects.
for coordintion with       Fomiulation ofinmtiatves 10 impro e            t
for coordination uAith            the urbani image by tedmical stafT fn   *   Campaign to
regional representatives         training Nith advice from private and  disseminate pilots in
from IHAH (among                  irnstitutional expicts               process to spread first-
others). local               .   Follow-up on environmental and        hand knou ledge. and
environmental NGOs and            cuhura1 coordination                 reproduction of
municipalities. to use their  *   Feasibilitv studies of adding value to  experienceso
municipalities, to      ~selecte  uhural and natural          eprecs
installed capacity for            resourofs
instruction purposes. 



19
F Strategic   a Activities 2001          Activities 2002              Activities 2003
Component   I                          E
To secure a   1.  To guarantee the     '.  Preparation of work plans  .  Execution of work plans
better access to    incorporation of        with participation of actors *  Proposal for systemization
programs          community                in all stages of process     of environmental and
organizations in the  *  Monitoring of the first      cultural management on
technical advice team    stage of training in tourist  North Coast
for tourist              development and          *  Development of a network
development and          environmental                for commercialization of
environmental            management and               sustainable tourist
management of            incorporating necessary      products of the North
municipalities           adjustments                  Coast.
*  To generate           *  Feasibility studies of
appropriate spaces for   adding value to selected
equal participation of   natural and cultural
men and women and        resources
also of young people    *  Formulation of financing
*  Training of technical     plans of micro and small
advice team in tourist   enterprise
development and
environmental
management
*  To identify proposals
from individuals and
collectives that could
contribute to
sustainable tourism
*  Management training
for micro and small
_   enterprise                                                                     l
To secure      *  Dissemination of      *  Workshops for local and   *  Monitoring and evaluation
participation in    components of project  regional induction            workshops
monitoring        among target          *  Monitoring and evaluation  *  Obtain new resources to
and evaluation    population                workshops                    extend pilot.
*  Technical training of
advisor's team of
project taking into
account the particular
characteristics of
Ganrfuna, island and
Miskito cultures
*  Identification of micro
and small enterprises
|   Building capacity
among members of
communities to
constructively coach
the different stages of
| __________ _ |  the  project                                      l                            l



20
CHAPTER 1. SHORT OtVTLINE OF THE NORTH COAST OF HONDURAS.
A. Outline of the influence area of the North Coast.
1. 1. The influence area of the North Coast is located between the latitude 150 15' and 16
50' north and longitude 830 15' and 880 15' east, between the Cape of Gracias a Dios at
the east side and the border between the Republic of Honduras and Guatemala at the
west side.
A 1. Climate.
1.2. The North Coast or Atlantic Coast has a humid tropical forest climate, with an average
temperature of 26.2 C, and a relative humidity of 75 %.
Chart 1.               Characteristics of the North Coast climate
Location            Climate       1 Average vearlv     HOR       Temperature
(according to   precipitation      (%)
Koppel)       |                              average  Maximum  Minimum
Gracias a Dios.     Humid tropical  2.639 (in 167 rain   82      80.6     86.7       692
Col6n. Atlantida and forest         days)
north of Cortes I
Source; National Meteorological Service
A.2.   Geomorphology
1.3. Morphologically, the naticsnal territory is divided in three natural areas: the lowlands of
the Caribbean Sea, the h, .ilands of the interior, and the lowlands of the Pacific Ocean.
Additionally, the country has important island groups in the Caribbean and the Pacific.
The North Coast has all three climates: the lowlands of the Caribbean Sea, part of the
highlands of the interior, and the island group in the Caribbean.
Chart 2.               Morphological characteristics of the North Coast
Region    Location         General           Climate  Precipitation  Temperature   Vegetation
I                characteristics                                                      l
Lowlands of Coast (671 km) to   16.45%oofnational   Tropical  2.000 mm  75          Tropical
Carribeaw   600 meters above saa territory: lowlands    hot and
Sea       level                             rainv
Island    Bay Islands. 65 kevs, Territorial sea: 12  Verv    2.000 mm  78.8         Tropical
territories   from 0 to 80 meters  nautic miles  humid,
above sea level                   sub-
l _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  tropical  I
Source: "Environmental Profile ofthe Countrv"
The lowlands of the Caribbean are characterized by a high precipitation level, high
temperatures and a wide biological diversity. It has mainly fertile alluvial soil which makes
it the area with the most agro-industrial and industrial activity.



21
Island Territory of the Caribbean Sea'. here is located the biggest archipelago of the
Central-American region, the Bay Islands, with a total coast line of 215 Km2. formed by
three main islands: Roatan, Utila and Guanaja, with 155 Km2, 49.3 Km2, and 55.4 Km2
respectively, other small islands and around 65 keys.
A.3. Main Ecosystems
1.4    The ecological contrasts, product of the geo-morphological and climatological
characteristics of the influence area, determine the presence of a broad diversity of
ecosystems which vary from oceans, lakes, lagoons, rivers, reefs, and even cloud forests,
tropical and sub-tropical dryland
Chart 1        Main Vegetation Zones on the North Coast
Biological Area           Location
-  Humid Tropical Forest -  The coastal plains of the Atlantic coast
-  Dry Tropical Forest    -  Upriver from the rivers Ulua. Chamelec6n y Agunii
-  Ven Humid Sub-         -  The strip of land of the Departments Yoro and Colon bordering with
Tropical Forest          the interior
-   Humid Low-mountain  -  In the higher mountains. peaks and ranges of West Honduras
forest
-  Very humid low%-       -  North and East up the mountains
mountain forest
-  Vern Dr- Sub-tropical  -  Lowllands such as the Aguan Valley
forest
Source: "Enviroiniental Profile of Honduras"
There are 7 main different eco-systems identified: Very Dry Tropical Forest, transition to
sub-tropical (vdTF, Humid Subtropical Forest (hSF), Very Humid Subtropical Forest
(vhSF), Humid Subtropical Low-mountain Forest (hSLMF), Very Humid Subtropical Low-
mountain Forest (vhSLF).
Located here is the second largest coral-reef in the vorld that is home to a large diversity of vegetal and
animal life forms. giving this region international recognition. translated into an important influx of tourists.



22
Table 2.      Agricultural Units and Preferential tlse of Lands
Agricultural Unit/Preferential Use              Miles of hectares    Life Zones
1.   Alluvial soil. planes. high productivit-.                            HTF
Season and perennial crops wNith or without irrigation.  380         DTF
intensive cattle-farming.                       (11%)                HSF
IL-  Alluvial soil. planes. high productivitv.
Extensive cattle-farming.                       117
Forest for wood production. African palm. cashew and  (3%)           HTF
other pereinial crops.                                               DTF
III.  Alluvial soil very slight slope < 5%.           181                 DSTF
Seasonal and perenniial crops. intensive cattle-farming  (5%)        1HTF
tropical woods                                                       DTF
HSTF
DSTF
IV.  Soil on volcanic material. deep. slopes <10,.
All kinds of crops and intensive cattle-farmning  227                HSTF
(7%)                VHSTF
V.  Shallow soil on volcanic material. strong slope                       LMSTF
> 30%.                                          921                  MSTF
Onhl forest use.                                (27%)                DSTF
VI.  Soil on sediment or metamorphic. slope                               LMSTF
> 25%.                                          1530                 MSTF
Perennial crops such as coffee. sugarcane. citric fruits. (46%)      DSTF
forest.                                                              HSTF
VHSTF
Total                                           3356
source: prepared in consultation with different sources
DF-Dry Forest          HF - Humid Forest            VHF. Ver Hlumid Forest
M:F Mountain Forest   LMF: Low-Mountain Forest      T: Tropical           ST: Sub-tropical
A.4 Natural Resources and Environment
1.5. Hydric Resources: the North coast has the main water source of the country.
However. over the last decade this resource has been less available in some cases, due to
climatological alterations result of the Niino phenomenon, and the hydric cycle because of
the loss of forest.
1.6. Soil: more than 65 % of the soil in the area are exclusively forestland, and of the six
identified agro-ecological units in the national sphere, four of them are found in the area.
These lands are suitable for crops and intensive cattle-farming, a potential that in the case
of the influence area is well exploited compared to other areas of the country.
1.7 Forest: the country has the largest forest area in the Central-American region,
according to estimates by AFE-COHDEFOR in 1996, based on the forest map prepared at
that time. The current forest coverage is 5.7 million hectare which is 50.7 % of the current
use of land in the country. AFE-COHDEFOR has established a yearly loss of 108,000
hectares, mostly broad-leaf forest on the North Coast or Atlantic region.



23
Chart 3. Coverage and deforestation per type of forest on the North Coast 1962 -1990
(hectares)
Zone                           1962      oh of area    1991    % of area I Balance
Pine forest                    97.700    3.6          146.500 5.3      1 48.80((
Broadleaf forest               945.200   23.2         258.00() 9.1     -687.200
Mangrove forest                47.40(0    15.9        15.9   9.7       -42.400
Source: AFE-COHDEFOR
1.8. Marine Resources and Continental Waters: The marine ecosystems on the North
Coast are defined by five types of resources: corral reef, mangrove, beaches, coastal
lagoons and continental platform. The biological diversity on the continental platform
indicates the existence of feeding grounds, with underground vegetation, that provides
shelter and food to more than 1800 species of fish, 4 species of turtles in danger of
extinction, 40 species of corral that form part of the second largest barrier reef in the world,
5 species of marine pastures, and more than 100 kinds of algae. On the coast there is an
profuse network of river mouths, channels and coastal lagoons whose boarders are formed
by wetlands with mangrove, palms and mixed vegetation, the habitat of a wide variety of
birds, reptiles, fish, mammals and invertebrates. The area consists of some reserves among
which the Guaymoreta lagoon (Trujillo), the Cuero and Salado Wildlife Refuge (close to La
Ceiba) and the coastal part of the Rio Platano Biosphere Reserve. Also, there are the
lagoons Ibans and Caratasca (65.000 hectares) and the National Parks Jeanette Kawas in
Tela, Pico Bonito in La Ceiba, and Capiro y Calentura in Trujillo.
1.9. Fauna and Flora of land, coast and sea: The main ecosystems that form the habitat
and refuge for land species, are located in the woods that still exist on the slopes of El
Merend6n and Nombre de Dios, and in the tropical forest of the watersheds of the rivers
Paulaya, Tinto, Platano and Patuca, and almost the whole territory of La Mosquitia. The
fauna is very diverse, with only among the vertebrates more than 1000 species, among them
700 species of birds, 200 mammals and 200 reptiles, and a large amount of yet unidentified
species, as well as numerous invertebrates. Among the fauna are 41 species in danger of
extinction.
A.4.1. Main Problems of the Natural Resources and Environment
1. 10. Hydric Resources and Watersheds. The seasonal shortages, floods caused by
deforestation and degradation of the forest, and the pollution of the water resources because
of household and industrial discharges and erosion, represent the main problems regarding
the environmental security of the resources. The superficial waters mainly run into the
Atlantic ocean, where 11 of the 17 main watersheds flow over a longitude of 680
kilometers. In fact of the 112,492 Km2 of national territory, the water source that affects
the North Coast represents 92,720 Km2, which reflects the importance of the topic in the
area.



24
Table 3.      Main environmental problems with some watersheds of the North
Coast.
Watershed    Problems
Chamelecon    '  Flooding ofthe Sula valleN
l ligh domand for %% ater from urban centers. especially Sani Pedro Sulb
o  Higli denand for water from industries, pollution because of industrial discharges
I lua         .  Flooding ofthe Sula Vallex
P  Filling up of riverbed because of sediment ofthe watershed of rivers Jicatuvo and Otoro
t  High demand for %sater from industries. pollution because of industrial discharges
Aguan         -  Flooding
I -eIn           Flooding
Cangrejal        Flooding
I .1 l Forest: the continuous deforestation causes the loss and deterioration of the quality of
the forest in the influence area of the North Coast. This is observed in a reduction of the
availability of areas with wood potential, fauna and flora because of loss and deterioration
of their habitat. In case of the broad-leaf forest, more present in the region than pine forest,
its reduction takes on dramatic proportions, estimated at 50 % of its original coverage,
between 1964-1986. However, according to the estimates of AFE-COHDEFOR, based on a
comparison of the forest inventory of 1962 and the preliminary data of the forest map in
1990, a loss of 30 % is estimated. In the Atlantic region the biggest loss is registered with
76 % of the original coverage.
1.12. Marine and Coastal resources: the degradation of the estuaries and mangrove in the
area due to overexploitation and pollution of the resource is the main expression of the
environmental problems that without any doubt has an impact on the safety of the
population. Among the main factors are the following:
*  Lack of knowledge of the current situation and potential of marine coastal resources,
aggravated by the industrial fishing fleet that is excessively large.
*  Lack of regulation of the use of the marine coastal resources.
*  Inadequate management of watersheds.
3  Pollution.
l .13 Biodiversity and Protected Areas: The loss of wildlife areas and wildlife, has social
and ecological effects that affect the harmony in the country and that in the case of the
influence area of RENOR, is very marked. Among the main causes for the loss of the
biodiversity are mentioned: the loss of forest coverage, contradictory policies, and
degradation of biologic resources: overexploitation, lack of vigilance and control.
A.5    Demography
1. 14 The population of the influence area of the study is 1,457,755 inhabitants that
represent a little bit over 25 % of the total population of the country, which was estimated
at 5,642,208 inhabitants in 1996.



Chart 4. Population of the influence area, per department
Indicador      | Atlantida       Colon           Cortes              Bay Islands
Population      Urban: 158,767  Urban: 56.107  Urban: 578,510    l
1999            Rural:  171.019  Rural:          Rural: 307,570
Total: 329,786  159,082          Total: 886,080      Total 1997:
Total: 215,189 (Omoa and Puerto  26,700
Cortes= 105,360)
Income, 1999   Urban: 0.355      Urban: 0.302   Urban: 0.396
Rural:  0.303    Rural: 0.255    Rural: 0.358
Difference:      Difference:     Difference: 9. 7/ l
14.7%            15.6%                              l
Global fertility  Urban: 3.53    Urban: 4.60     Urban: 2.79
per area of     Rural: 5.96      Rural:  6.27   Rural:  5.17
residence, 1999
Average age    More than 18    Less than 17   More than 20
1998              _             1                                   l              l
Life            Women, 71.19  Women:             Women: 71.94        Global  1997:
Expectancy      Men: 62.53       68.25           Men: 63.95          65.0
1999                             Men: 59.82
ISchooling       3_95             2.70       1    4.55
(years), 1997    _
Expenditure in  $ 64.0            $69.1          IS 68.4
education in $
per capita 1998lll
Malnutrition    34.2              33. 5           29.8
ratell
Expenditure in  $ 20.5            $ 7.9           $ 15.2
health in $ per
capita. 1998
Human           Urban 1999:       Urban 1999:    Urban 1999: 0.617
Development   0.597               0.580           Rural 1999:
Index           Rural 1999:      Rural 1999:    0.568
0.519            0.440
Human           0.718             0.683           0.778
Development
Index per
Gender, 1999
Total affected  1131             336              246               l3
population per
|1,000 (Mitch) |                                  l                  l              l
Source. Repon on Human Development. Honduras 1999:19.21.24.47and 50(no similar data available for the Ba\ lslancds. those
mentioned are taken from page 69)



26
CHAPTER Il. TOUTRISM IN HONDURAS.
A. Tourist Activity Nation-wide
A.I. Importance for National Economy
2.1. In 1997 tourism brought in US $145 million, in 1998 US$ 164 million, despite the
tragedy caused by Hurricane Mitch. In 1999 tourism brought in US$ 185 million. Although
there has been an increase in tourism, the consequences of Mitch have put tourism third in
the national economy, also the agricultural sector has been seriously damaged, mainly the
banana, coffee plantations and others.
2.2. One of the main benefits of tourism is considered to be the generation of employment.
In order to measure its contribution it is important to mention that according to Article 36
of the Law on Tourism tourist services are all people or legal entities active in one of the
following activities: guides, drivers, specialized guides, diving guides and water sport
guides; travel agencies and tour operators, car rental agencies, boats and other real estate
and equipment destined for tourism; land, water and air transportation exclusively for
tourist use; hotels, motels, hostels, timeshare rooms, or hotel rooms and other lodging
facilities; restaurants, cafeterias and other directly connected to tourism, night clubs,
discotheques and casinos, except for those that are according to and qualified by the
National Institute of Tourism as not directed related to tourism, diving facilities, etc.
2.3. At present, it is calculated that tourism generates around 21,000 direct jobs and 36,000
indirect jobs. The direct jobs are basically those related to the around 560 installed lodging
facilities (hotels, bed & breakfast, motels, etc), with around 13,800 rooms, 18,00
restaurants and bars, 200 travel agencies and tour operators, and 80 car rental agencies.
A.2. Tourist demand
2.4. As of 1987 the patterns of the tourist demand in Honduras change, as up to that date
tourists came mainly from, the Central-American region (around 60.5 %). The tourist
demand indicates that the most visited destinations are the following, in order of
importance: Tegucigalpa, Bay Islands, San Pedro Sula, Copan and La Ceiba, associated
with the main tourist attractions such as archaeology, beaches and reefs, nature and
adventure, colonial towns, living cultures, modem cities and conventions.
A.3. Trends
2.5. Since 1950, when international tourism started to become accessible to the general
public, the tourist activity has increased each year with an average rate of 7.1 %. The
participation of Honduras regarding the total influx of tourism in Central-America was in
1996 9.9 % of the arrivals, and 7.3 % of income of hard currency, occupying sixth and



27
fourth place in the region, respectively. This means Honduras is one of the least dynamic
countries of the regions regarding increase of the influx of visitors2
2.6. In 1999 Honduras registered 428,000 visitors, and 185 million dollars in income
through currency, which means an increase of more than 2 digits in income and a fourth
place in the productive sector. However the investments are growing significantly
compared to the growth of the market, which is a concern because it could mean a crisis in
the hotel occupation. However this should not discourage investment or promotion
activities. Moreover, the efforts to increase the demand through promotion and
diversification of attractions should intensify. The trend is growth, and the basic strategies
to follow are:
-  Attract the segment of North-American tourism, especially those that travel for
relatively short periods of time (4 days, weekends)
-  To continue the exploitation of medium and long term tourism, trying to increase their
stay and spending. This should be applied both to the North-American and European
market.
-  To attract the segments of affinity groups, particularly of the North-American market.
-  Combination with beach for those visitors that look for a mixture of rest and
knowledge, and stay for a week.
-  To attract the market of North-American and European divers, especially those that will
stay for a week or more and have a high spending level.
A.4. Land ownership and property rights
Recently the reformn of Article 107 of the Constitution of the Republic of Honduras was
promoted. This Article forbids foreigners to buy land within 40 kilometers of the coast and
borders, thus being the main constraint for foreign investment. However, this initiative has
been abandoned due to the conflicts it caused.
Parallel to the proposal for reform of this Article by the National Congress, a communal
land titling process has been carried out in favor of the 45 Garifuna communities that live in
the main development zone of the Atlantic Coast, to comply with the objective to promote
the participation of local communities in the development of the tourist economy.
Regarding the land use, it is important to define the protection of historic and natural areas
in terms of the expansion of the physical facilities and of the population for which it is
necessary to measure the density, and develop a vision on traffic, road signs, and above all
the cultural impact of the population in tourist development zones.
2 Due probably to the fact that this information causes confusion and probablv attributed to that the
passenger's terminal was moved to San Pedro Sula. which could have caused incoherence in the numbers.



28
B. Outline of Tourism on the North Coast
B.1. Historv
2.8. The area does not have important vestiges of Spanish occupations of the colonial era,
probably because of the absence of exploitable mines for the early colonizers, as well as the
absence of indigenous people that would serve as a subsistence support for the Spanish
settlements. By the end of the XVII century, the indigenous presence in the north zone had
disappeared as a result of the forced relocation policy to the main land of the indigenous
groups of the north zone and the Bay Islands. By the end of the XVIII century, after the
arrival of the ethnic African-Caribbean group to the islands known as the Garifunas, and
their later movement to the continental coastal area, those that have settled in the area.
2.9. The difficult environmental conditions in the area, as well as the lack of roads, were the
main natural causes for the isolation of the area until the beginning of this century in which,
as a result from the awakening of the industrial consumption and the introduction of new
forms of economic exploitation, the establishment of large plantations with one single crop
was stimulated, managed by cooperatives. What is specifically related to the tourist sector,
the convergence of the air, land, and see transportation and the presence of valuable natural
and cultural elements in the area, present a ideal scenario for the establishment of an
adequate tourist offer.
B.2. Tourist areas
2. 10. A tlantitc coast: consists of the coastal area of the Caribbean Sea from the Omoa Bay
to the Trujillo Bay, with a large potential for the market of sun and beach and nature lovers,
as it has more than 400 km of beach and 7 protected areas varying from wetlands to cloud
forests and include the second largest botanical garden of the continent. Islands: include the
Bay Islands and the archipelago of the Cayos Cochinos (Hog Islands), the latter being a
reserve for scientific marine research. In this areas can be found one of the main national
riches consisting of the Marine Parks of Utila, Guanaja and Roatan, with unique coastal
reef systems.
B.3. Tourist evolution in the area.
2.11 According to statistics of 1999, the north coast has not managed to increase the growth
or dynamism of the tourist demand and offer. This process is demonstrated in the national
statistics where for 1999 the general influx of tourists reached 135,576 international
visitors3 of which 129,373 came by air and 6,203 by sea. Therefore, 96 % of the tourist
influx is by air. The origin of tourists by air to the North Coast is as follows: 67 % North-
American origin, 16 % Central-American origin and 10 % of European origin and 1-3 % of
South America, Asia, the Caribbean and Oceania. The visitors that come over land
represent only 4 % of the tourist influx to the area, with the following origin: 50 % North-
American, 23 % European, and 27 % coming from Central-America, South America, Asia
3 Does not include the influx of tourists tw land as the statistics only summarize the influx through customs.



29
and Oceania. It is important to point out that the North Coast represents 37 %0 of the total
tourist activity in the country, including arrival by different means of transportation.
B.4. Current Tourist Activitv
B.4.1. Potential of Eco-tourism on the North Coast
2.12. The North Coast and the Bay Islands possess the majority of natural attractions of the
Honduran coast. The archipelago of the Bay Islands has one of the biggest corral reefs of
the planet, with a rich marine flora and fauna, accessible for expert and amateur divers. The
three biggest islands also have attractive forests and beaches. Next to the island formations,
the Honduran Caribbean is rich in biological reserves located on the coastal lagoons, both
sweet water as salt water, mangrove, rivers and other coastal enclaves with Garifuna
communities who live in the coastal towns. The Trujillo bay stands out because of its
tranquil waters and peculiar attraction of its natural surroundings crowned by the mountains
Capiro and Calentura, at only 5 miles from the coast, rising up to 3600 feet above sea level,
with wonderful views of the coast, including the Bay Islands. At a little more than 3 miles
of the city, the Guaimoreto lagoon is found with its mangrove forest.
2.13 Right behind La Ceiba rises Pico Bonito, an impressive mountain of almost 7500 feet
high, above the plantations that surround La Ceiba. The river Cangrejal is used for river
rafting through a beautiful scenery. Towards the west, between La Ceiba and Tela is the
Reserve Cuero and Salado, between the mouth of these two rivers, accessible by a wagon
over an old railroad. In Tela are two natural reserves, apart from the bay: Punto Izopo, at
the east, and the national park Punta Sal. to the west, both with a wide biodiversity and
coastal ecosystems.
B. 4.2. Available Tourist Products
2.14. The availability of the following tourist products is concentrated on areas that are
easily accessible: archaeology and anthropology, reefs and beaches, nature and adventure.
colonial and modern cities, living ethnic groups and conventional groups.
* Archaeology atnd history: In the Bay Islands the precolombian and colonial
archaeology is concentrated in the museum of the Sandy Bay Marine Research Center
in Roatan. In San Pedro Sula the Museum of History of this city is found, in Omoa the
fortress of San Fernando de Omoa, and in Trujillo the fortress of Santa Barbara, with in
Roatan the fortress of Port Royal.
* Reefs anid beaches: The Atlantic Coast's main attraction are the white-sand beaches and
an exuberant tropical vegetation, frequently interrupted by crystal blue rivers that come
down from the steep slopes of the mountains. The Bay Islands is destination no. I for
diving because of the corral reef that is in good shape. There are also magnificent
refuges and other protected areas that protect the habitat of species in danger of
extinction.



30
*  Coloniacl a}dndOde'-7C cilie.s. Omoa is one of the villages whose colonial past offers the
visitor excellent examples of religious, civil and military art dating from the XVII to the
XIX century. La Ceiba and San Pedro Sula offer with their modernism a wide variety of
tourist facilities and an attractive cultural ambiance.
*  Living elihnic clultures: The Pech. Garifuna, Island population and, in minor degree, the
Miskitos. are the ethnic groups that form part of the cultural heritage of the north coast.
*  Grioup.s anid conventions: San Pedro Sula has an important number of hotels and other
tourist services designed especially for attending groups and conventions. Its proximity
to other centers of the North Coast makes it a departure point for any type of
exploration.
B.4.3. Strengths regarding Tourism
2.15. The tourist potential of the North Coast is enhanced by several strengths that reflect
the uniqueness and authenticity of the tourist products such as the cultural heritage, the
versatility to complement other destinations in the country, good roads and maritime
transportation, the receptiveness of entrepreneurs to new initiatives, the growth and
improvement of the tourist facilities and the convenient geographic location for a
redistribution of tourist movement in the area. It is important to point out that the tourist
products to be commercialized on the international market are: first Sun and Beach, an
opportunity to form a triangle of complementary products between the department
Atlantida, Bay Islands, Cayos Cochinos (Hog Islands) and the Tela Bay. In second place
eco-tourism and adventure supported by the eco-tourist movement, the concentration of
tourist agencies, and the biological-cultural corridor between Omoa-Trujillo. Thirdly
fishing and water sports, opening a wide range of opportunities for investment in small
businesses and the generation of sources of employment at different levels. Fourth is
highlighted the market of cruises, the historic potential being the exploitation of
commercial ports for embarking and disembarking of passengers.



31
CHAPTER 111. ETHNOGRAPHIC SURVEYt
A. Objective
3.1. To evaluate the different activities related to the development and management of
sustainable tourism at municipal and community level, land use, management of land and
land ownership from a gender perspective; to identify the main direct beneficiaries (men
and women) of the project that participate in the preparation and execution of the project,
making sure that their recommendations are taken into account in the design of the project,
as well as other stakeholders, to identify the possible negative impact of the proposed
activities and to propose methods for their mitigation or how to avoid them, to identify the
most proper opportunities for technical and institutional strengthening to initiate activities
for the management of sustainable tourism at municipal and community level, including the
improvement of the balance between the men and women's participation in the community
organizations and local authorities in the municipal sphere to achieve a better planning and
execution of the project; to identify mechanisms (local forms of organization) preferred by
the beneficiaries to participate in each of the project's components in the municipal and
community context; to identify the main links between the natural and cultural heritage.
including the following aspects: (i) traditional religious rituals, Garifuna dances, etc. (ii)
strong ties between the cultural survival, local control of natural resources, specifically its
link with protected areas; and to explore the possibilities of co-financing and sinenergy
with other programs of the World Bank, such as the PAAR Project, PROBAB of the Meso-
American Biological Corridor, with FHIS (for ex. Infrastructure, improve access to
services, long-term tourism, legal training on aspects such as land ownership, etc.).
B. Description of the Area
3.2. The study is carried out in the area defined as the North Coast of Honduras, from
Omoa to the municipal boundary of the Iriona Municipality with the Gracias a Dios
department and the island group the Bay Islands.
The influence area includes 4 departments: the municipalities Omoa and Puerto Cortes in
the Cortes Department, the Atlantida Department, with emphasis on the municipalities of
Tela and La Ceiba and the Garifuna villages around them, and secondly the municipalities
El Porvenir, La Masica and Jutiapa. The Department Col6n, with emphasis on the
municipalities Trujillo and Santa Fe and including the Garifuna villages around them, and
secondly the municipalities Iriona, Lim6n Balfate, Saba, Tocoa and Sonaguera. The Bay
Islands, with emphasis on the context of the municipalities Utila and Roatan and secondly
the municipalities Santos Guardiola and Guanaja and their communities.
C. Results
C.1. General Description of the Sample
3.3. The four teams of surveyors (one per department, consisting of three technical staff per
team), carried out 427 surveys under community leaders, small entrepreneurs, local
authorities and non-governmental organizations, between June 5 and July 2 in the area
described before. 261 men were surveyed (61.12 % of the sample) between 20 to more than



32
61 years of age, the largest age group being the age group between 3 1-50 (57.85%),
followed by the group between 51-more than 61 (28.35%). Also 166 women were surveyed
(39% of the sample) between 20 to more than 61 years of age; also here the largest group is
between 31-50 years (59.63%), followed by the category of 20-30 years (22.28%) and then
the age group 51-61 or more (18.07%).
Chart 5.     Number of Samples per Department
Department                        Total          %
Cortes                            72             16.86%
Bay Islands                       107            25.06%
Atlantida                         109            25.53%
Col6n                             139            32.55%
Total                             427 _100%
I       Fiocre 1Tlcc de Actor Entrev.iado               E SMALL ENTREPRENEURS
* COMMUNITY LEADERS
_________!'38________                          GOVERNMENTAL
I     TOTAL    42                                        ORGANIZATIONS
;                     .C10 MUNICIPAL AUTHORITIES
t ~   ~  ~ ~ ~~ 1 0  lCd  150,  C'O)  '50
Conclusions:
*  In the sample there is a clear predominance of men, almost 2/3 of the sample
*  The age range best represented in the sample of both men and women is between 31-50
years of age
*  In all age categories mestizo4 men and women form the majority, with the exception of
the people of 61 and older. In that age group there are twice as much Garifuna men as
mestizo men, while the difference among women is not significant.
*  There are no Garifuna men and women under 20 years of age in the sample.
*  There are no island women under 20 years of age in the sample, nor of 61 or more.
*  The majority of the surveyed men and women are between 31-50 years of age, the
economically active adults par excellence.
C. 2. Schooling level
3 .4.The prevailing category of the sample is the group with more than 12 years of schooling
(32.78%), the second largest group being the group with 4-6 years of education (31.85%),
meaning with a certain likeliness to have finished primary school, also because 13.11 % of
the sample is formed by people with 7-9 years of schooling. On the other hand, the group
that has almost finished secondary school is relatively small (8.19%), however, this could
4 Mestizos are persons of mixed European and Central American Indian ancestry.



be interpreted as a tendency to finish secondary school. Finally, the group with little
schooling (1-3 years) represents 10.54 % of the sample. A small group of people does not
have any schooling at all (3 .51%). The percentage of those with no schooling is minimal
among men (2.68%), and slightly higher among women (4.82%).
3.5. The breakdown of the schooling categories per sex, shows that there are more men than
women in the sample with more than 12 years of schooling, with a significant difference
(6.33 %). The same happens in the next category (10-11 years of schooling) where men are
better represented than women by an even bigger difference (8.30 %). In the category 7-9
years of schooling the balance is in favor of women (6.09 %), which is similar in the
category of 3-6 years of schooling (6.04 %). While in the group with 1-3 years of schooling
the percentage of men and women is similar. Illiteracy is slightly more frequent among
women (2.14%) compared to men.
3.6. Among men the mestizos are better represented in the schooling category of 12 years
or more (59.09%), followed by the Garifunas (28.410%) or the islanders (12.50%). The
difference between mestizo women (72.92%No) and Garifuna women is much bigger
(20.83%) as well as with the island women (4.17%). The schooling category of 10-1 1 years
is also better represented among mestizo men (64.29%) than Garifuna men (21.14%) or
islanders (3.570/%). There is no difference in this category for mestizo women (50.0%) and
Garifuna women (50.0%) but the island women are completely absent in this category
(0.0%). The schooling category of 7-9 years is less represented among the mestizo men
(32.14%) than the Garifuna men (46.43%), with a lower percentage among islanders (21.43
%). The difference between mestizo women 57.14%) and Garifuna women is again much
bigger (25.0 1%), also compared to island women (17.85%). The schooling category 4-6
years is better represented among mestizo men (41.56 %). than Garifuna men (29.87 %),
but between the latter and the island men (28.57 %). there is practically no difference. The
difference between mestizo women (50.0%) is small compared to Garifuna women
(42.59%) but considerable compared with island women (7.4%). The schooling category 0-
3 years is better represented among mestizo men (50.0 %) than Garifuna men (38.24 %).
and island men (11.76%). The difference between mestizo women (52.0%) is also less
compared to Garifuna women (44.0%) but rather big compared to island women (4.0%).
3.7.1n all schooling categories mestizo men and women are better represented than
Garifuna or island men or women. The only exception is the third cvcle of the basic
education plan (7-9 years), where the Garifunas are better represented (14.29%). The only
exception among women is towards the end of secondary school (10-1 1 years) where the
mestizo and Garifuna are equally represented. The big differences between mestizo men
and Garifuna men regarding schooling is in the last two categories, towards the end of
secondary school and after secondary school. Among women the difference between
mestizo and Garifuna women is rather significant in the third cycle of the basic education
(7-9 years), completely leveled towards the end of secondary school, but than the difference
increases enormously in favor of the mestizo women.
3.8. In case of the island men, compared to the Garifuna, the differences are significant
from the beginning of the first cycle of primary school, practically disappearing in the
second cycle, to sharpen again in the third cycle, and even more towards the conclusion of



34
secondary school to moderately reduce when finishing secondary school. This means that
mestizo men have more access to the first cycle of primary school, remaining the same
during the second cycle, to become even with Garifuna men in the third cycle after which
the difference increases again towards finishing secondary school, and after finishing
secondary school. During the primary and secondary school Garifuna men experiment two
fall backs, first in the second cycle towards the conclusion of primary school, and the other
towards the conclusion of secondary school, which remains stable after finishing secondary
school. During their schooling island men start the first cycle with a disadvantage, after
which they increase and maintain their participation throughout second and third cycle, and
then fall back abruptly, almost to the point of disappearing from the sample, to then again
moderately increase their participation after finishing secondary school.
Conclusions
*  The prevailing categories of the sample that are also similar in absolute terms are those
with more than 12 years of schooling and those between 4-6 years of education. This
means those with complete secondary education (a third of the sample) and those with
at least 4 years of primary school (another third of the sample). The other schooling
ranges ( 1-3, 7-9 and 1-11 years of schooling make up the last third of the sample).
-  The intermediate level of schooling (7-9 years of schooling) is found among 21.3 1 % of
the sample, in other words, those that probably finished at least basic education (9
years) and possibly more than that.
-  The people with a minimum level of schooling (1-3 years) represent only 10.54 % of
the sample.
D 3.51 % of the sample is illiterate (15 people). A low level of schooling or no schooling
at all, however, is related to age, as we will see afterwards.
* Taking into account that the age group of less than 20 is represented in the sample by
four (0.94%), the rest of the people of the sample are beyond the age of attending
primary or secondary school for which the school categories represented in the sample
are final.
* The data reveal the trend that men and women have an equal chance to access first
cycle of primary education (1-3 years). This trend not only continues for women, but
their opportunities to finish the second cycle, or primary school, increase (3-6 years).
This trend remains stable and favors women even more in the third cycle (7-9 years) of
basic education, traditionally known as the basic education plan. However, when
entering the diversified cycle that concludes secondary school (1 1-12 years). the curve
abruptly drops for women and a proportional inverse growth is observed for men, in
such a way that only a very small percentage of women finishes secondary school. This
means that for a large percentage of women primary school is the end station. However,
once women have managed to pass the threshold of 11 years of schooling, finishing
secondary school, the likelihood for them to continue their education improves
remarkably, although the gap with men is not closed
* Mestizo men and women have a preferential access to primary and secondary school
compared to the Garifuna and island population. The differences between mestizos and
Garifunas are significant towards the end of secondary school and after finishing
secondary school. The differences between Garifunas and islanders are important in the
first cycle of primary school, and they increase again after the third cycle until after



secondary school For the majority of the male islanders the access to the first cycle of
primary school is limited, and once surpassed that level the third cycle is the end station
for the majority.
* The differences between mestizo and Garifuna women become more significant after
the third educational level or basic education plan. However, the Garifuna women
recover and are at the same level as mestizo women when finishing secondary school.
Bu then, after having finished the secondary school, the gap is extremely big and only a
minority continues. The differences between Garifuna women and island women are
significant from the first cycle and throughout the second cycle of primary school, but
in the third cycle the participation increases considerably to disappear completely from
the registration towards the end of secondary school. This means that as for island men,
the third cycle is the end station. After finishing secondary school, a very small
proportion continues. Summarized, the trend among mestizo men and women is to
finish secondary school and they will likely continue their studies, above all the women
that finish secondary school. Among the Garifuna men and women the trend is weaker,
with a critical moment for men at the end of the third cycle, and for women at the end
of primary school. For the island population the critical point is during the first cycle,
and once this threshold is passed it is repeated at the end of the third cycle, which for
women is definitely the end station.
C.3. Ethnic origin
3.9.  Regarding the ethnic origin of the surveyed 51.76 % said to be mestizo, 35.13 %
Garifuna, 9.84 % islanders, and 1.41 said to be 'black' (6 persons), and 0.23 % indigenous
(I person) without specifying to which indigenous population he belongs. In the sample is
also a low percentage of foreigners (1,64% - 7 persons), characterized as 'white', 'Anglo-
Saxon', or 'European'. The classification 'islanders' refers to both men and women and black
and white. However, six persons identified themselves specifically as 'black'. To establish
their ethnic origin, the place of birth was identified which lead to the result that five of them
are probably (3 women and 2 men) from Roatan and one Garifuna woman from Masca,
Omoa. Thus we can conclude that 11 % of the sample are islanders from both sexes, and
black and white.
3.10O.f the total men surveyed, 49.04 % are mestizo, 38.31 % are Garifuna, 11.11 % are
islanders (includes 'black' people), and 1.53 % are European. Of the total surveyed women
56.02 % are mestizo, 10.84 % are islanders (includes 'black' women), 1.20 % are European
and 0.60 % are indigenous (I woman). In the sub-sample of women the mestizo origin is
better represented than in the sub-sample men, while on the other hand, in the sub-sample
men, the Garifuna origin is better represented than among women. The representation of
European men is slightly higher than of European women. The indigenous population is
virtually not represented in the sample, given the fact that the woman who declared to be
indigenous' was born in Utila. There is no Miskito man or woman in the sample, nor are
there Pech. In the sample there is no Garifuna man or woman under 20 years of age. All the
people in that age group are mestizo, with the exception of one island man. In the age
category 21-30 the majority are mestizo men and women, which is also the case in the
categories 31-50 years and 51-60 years. The only category in which Garifuna men and
women are in the majority is in the category 61- 74 years. In all other categories, from 21



36
years and up, all ethnic categories are represented, except for island women, absent in the
category 61 years or more.
Figure 3. EHHNIC ORIGIN
0.23%S
_  Mestizo - Ladino
O Garifuna
O Isleofo (a)
o Europeo
E Negra
35.13%                         _              Indigena
51 .76%
Conclusions:
*  Half of the sample (51.76 %) consists of mestizo men and women; the Garifuna men
and women form around one third of the sample (35.13 %), while the island men and
women make up 11 % of the sample. The foreign residents represent 1.64 % of the
sample.
* Among women there are more mestizos, while on the other hand among men the
Garifuna population is better represented.
*  Apart from the Garifuna and island population no other indigenous group is represented
in the sample. The Miskito speakers mentioned in the sample are mestizo, Garifuna, and
island people.
*  In the age groups from 21-60 years are represented all ethnic groups of the sample with
two exceptions: there are no Garifuna men or women in the age group under 20, and
there are no island women in the age group above 61.
*  In all age groups mestizo men and women form the majority with the exception of the
age group 61 and older, where Garifuna men and women are the majority.
*  The sample in general can be considered representative in terms of the proportion of the
majority ethnic group (mestizo) in the country and the North Coast, especially
regarding the culturally different population (Garifuna and island populations), the
ethnic groups of this region.
C.4. Prevailing Languages
3.11 I.As was to be expected, the prevailing native language of the people surveyed is
Spanish (56.67%), followed by Garifuna (31.85%) and Island English (10.07 %). The rest
(1.41 %) corresponds to Standard English, Italian, French and German. Spanish is the first
language of the majority of the people surveyed (68.85%) which is a higher percentage than
that of people that declared to be of mestizo origin (12.18%). Garifuna is the first language
of 19.67%, a smaller percentage (12.18%) than those who declared to be of Garifuna origin.
This would mean that Spanish is the first language of this group of Garifunas. Island



37
English is the first language of 9.60%o of the surveyed. and the second langua_te of 3.04 .
Spanish is the second language (28.34%) of practically all the Garifunas and islanders
surveyed, given that the sum of them is almost the same as the sum of speakers using
Garifuna and island English as their first language (29.27%). Or to put it differently, given
that the sum of the people that use Spanish as their first language (294), second language
(121), third language (2) is 417 and that the total sample consists of 427 people, this means
that only 10 people consider their command of Spanish not to be sufficient. This group
could be represented by the people from European or Anglo-Saxon origin in the sample.
3.12.1sland English is the second (3.04 %) or third (2.11 %) language, for a total of 5.15
% of the total sample, possibly mestizo and Garifuna. On the other hand, Standard English,
although the first language of only 1.41 % of the surveyed, together with the people who
said it was their second language (8.90%), their third language (9.13 %) or even fifth
language (0.23%), makes up for a total of 19.67% of the sample. This is a number
comparable to the usage of Garifuna as a seond language (17.56%), third language (0.47%)
or fourth language (0.23%/O) a total of 18.50%. Another interesting point worth mentioning
here is the marginal use of Miskito as a second (0.23%), third (0.70%), fourth (0.23%), or
fifth (0.23%) language, for a total of I.39% of the sample which reflects the presence of
Miskitos on the Bay Islands. It is remarkable that no one said to have Miskito as a first
language, but the use of Miskito by people from different ethnic background would mean
that the number of Miskito population is important enough for other people to learn their
language. The other languages qualified as first, second, third or fourth language were
Italian, German, Portuguese, French and Cantonese.
3. 13.Summarized, Spanish is the prevailing first and second language on the
North Coast and apparently has become the first language of some speakers of ethnic
languages. The use of Standard English as second, third and even fourth language indicates
that both mestizo, islanders and Garifunas are interested in learnin, it and that learning
English is considered to be of more use than learning one of the ethnic languages as second
or third language. The six people that learned Miskito as a second, third and fourth
language indicates the presence of Miskitos in the influence area of the project. Of those six
people, five live in Roatan (2 women, 3 men) and Guanaja and one in Iriona (man), they
are between 25-35 years of age. Three of these six (2 women, one man) have more than 12
years of schooling, and the other three (men) have 7-9 years of schooling. Although the
following statement would need corroboration, it could mean that learning Miskito by
people from different ethnic backgrounds on the North Coast is a relatively recent
phenomenon and that the interest in learning the language is apparent in people with basic
education or more.
3.14.Regarding the usage of Spanish, it is the first language of men (67.82%), and of
slightly more women (69.88%), in the case of Spanish as a second language, there is a
slight dominance by men. Garifuna is the first language of men (20.31 %) more than of
women (17.47%). The usage of Garifuna as second, third or fourth language by men
(19.92%) is also slightly higher than women (14.46%). The percentage of Standard English
as a second language by men (9.96%) is higher than women (7.23%), related to the fact that
the use of Standard English as third language by men (12.26%) is much higher than for
women (3.61%), which makes there is a significant difference.



38
3.15.The most likely interpretation is that a larger number of men on the North Coast learn
Standard English: for the mestizo men it is mostly their second language, for the Garifuna
and island population mostly their third language, while as was already pointed out the
second language of these ethnic groups is Spanish. The more generalized usage of Standard
English by men might be related to their work in contexts where Standard English is
necessary. The use of island English by men (9.20%) and women (10.24%) is similar, while
the usage of island English as second or third language is slightly higher among women
(9.04% compared to men 6.13%). Finally, the use of Miskito as second, third, fourth or
fifth language is slightly higher among men (1.53%) than among women (1.20%).
C.5. Community Language
3. 16.The prevailing language in the communities surveyed is also Spanish, given that
414 (96.95%) of the people use it as their first (60.42%), second (36.07%) or third language
(0.47%). Garifuna is spoken by 226 people (52.93%), as first language (22.48%/o), second
(21.78%) third (4.45%) or fourth language (4.22%). Island English is spoken by 80 people
(18.74%) as their first language (12.41%), second (4.22%), third language (1.64%) or
fourth language (0.47%). Standard English is spoken by 116 people (27.17%), second
(9.3 a7%), third (17.56%) or fourth language (0.23%). Finally, Miskito is spoken by 19
people (4.45 %) as third (0.94%), fourth (1.64%), or fifth language (1.87%).
Community          First %   [ Second %   'Third %        Fourth %     Fifth
languages        l%
Spanish                60.42          36.07         0.47        4.22
Garifuna               22.48         21.78           4.45       0.47
Island English         12.41          4.22           1.64       0.23
Standard English                       9.37         17.56       1.64
Miskito                                              0.94               1.87
3.17.1t seems clear that Spanish is still the prevailing language at community level, not
necessarily all community members use Spanish as their first language, but the
communities in which Spanish is spoken form the majority, and obviously Spanish is the
second language for Garifunas and islanders. Garifuna is the second language of
importance spoken at community level, which raises the question if it is adopted by the
mestizo population and in a lesser degree by the islanders as their second language in the
area of convergence. This does not seem to be the case for island English, as those who
adopt it as second language are in the minority. There is rather a trend to use Standard
English as a second language by the mestizo population (9.37 %) and as third language by
the Garifunas and island population (17.56 %); as the second language of the majority of
Garifunas is Spanish.
The significant percentage and third place of Standard English entails that it is the language
the Garifuna population learns after Spanish. However, it is obvious that at community



39
level English is not general among the mestizo, Garifuna or island population. Miskito.
although only marginally important on the North Coast (4.45%), is spoken due to the
presence of some individuals or families of this indigenous group in certain places of the
influence area of the project, the Bay Islands.
C.6. Regional language
3.1 8.As was to be expected, Spanish is also the prevailing language on regional level as
the first language (64.64%/o) of the mestizo population and the second language (32.55%/o) of
the Garifuna and island population. All together, Garifuna (51.10%) is the second language
of importance at regional level, but as first language (16.63%) it is slightly overruled by
island English (18.50%), without any doubt because of the extreme geographic focus of the
latter on the Bay Islands. The usage of island English as a second language is of little
importance, and even less so as third language. It is not surprising on the other hand, that
Garifuna as a second language is relatively important compared to island English which
could reflects its potential as the language of communication in the region. Standard
English is learned by the mestizo population as their second language (7.96%). and as third
language by the Garifuna and island population. Anyway, the command of Standard
English is not general in the region as language of communication, there are relatively few
mestizos that talk it and they form only a fifth of the sample.
Languages in the    First    Second %    Third %         Fourth %    Fifth%
Region              %
Spanish             64.64          32.55
Garifuna             16.63          25.53        5.15           4.92
Island English       18.50           3.51        0.47           0.70        0.23
Standard English      0.47          7.96        19.44           1.87        0.47
Miskito                                          0.94           1.41         2.81
Conclusions:
*  As was to be expected, the prevailing mother tongue of the interviewed is Spanish,
followed by Garifuna and island English. The occurrence of foreign languages
(Standard English, Italian, French and German) as native language is completely
irrelevant in the survey.
*  Spanish is not only the first language of the mestizo population, but also of around
10 % of those who declared to be not mestizo, meaning that Spanish is the first
language of a certain number of Garifunas, among which more men than women.
*  Spanish is the second language of all Garifunas and islanders interviewed.
*  Garifuna has a significant percentage as the second language in importance, apparently
adopted as such by mestizo people and in a lesser degree by the island population as
their second language in areas of convergence.
*  Island English is little used as second or third language by mestizo and Garifuna people.
There is rather a trend to use Standard English by the mestizo population (9.37 %) and
even by the Garifunas in the areas of convergence.



40
*  Standard English as a second language is slightly more used by men than by women.
Likewise, Standard English as a third language is used by men in a much higher degree
than women.
* The second language of the mestizo population is Standard English, while it is the third
language for the Garifuna and island population. This more generalized usage of
Standard English among men could be related to the fact that they need Standard
English for their work.
*  The use of Miskito is completely marginal as second, third or fourth language.
However, those who learn it are more likely mestizos or Garifunas, and only seldom
islanders.
* None of the people of the sample has Miskito as their first language. Those who speak
it are mainly mestizos and they live, with one exception, on the Bay Islands. Given that
the ages of the Miskito speakers is between 25-31 years and that they have at least basic
education (9 years), it is an indication that learning Miskito by people from different
ethnic backgrounds on the North Coast is a relatively recent phenomenon and that the
interest in learning the language is apparent in people with basic education or more.
* The significant percentage and third place of Standard English entails that it is the
language the mestizo population learns after Garifuna and the one the Garifunas learn
after Spanish. However, it is obvious that at community level English is not general
among the mestizo, Garifuna or island population.
* The command of Standard English is not generalized in the region, there are relatively
few mestizos, Garifunas or even islanders who speak it.
* Summarized, the typical mestizo person on the North Coast of Honduras is more likely
to speak Garifuna as second language, standard English as third language and if he/she
is between 21 -30 years of age this person and has a schooling level of nine years or
more, will speak Miskito as fourth language.
* The typical Garifuna person on the North Coast of Honduras is more likely to speak
Spanish as a second language, Standard English as a third language and if he/she is
between 21 -30 years of age and has a schooling level of 9 years or more he/she will
most likely speak Miskito as fourth language.
* The typical island person on the North Coast of Honduras, is more likely to speak
Spanish as a second language, standard English as a third language. Garifuna as a fourth
language and if he/she is between 21 -30 years of age and has nine years or more of
schooling, it is possible that he/she speaks Miskito as the fifth language.
C.7. Level of Organization
3. 19.A large majority of the people surveyed (67.5 1%) belong to some organization, mostly
community organizations (neighborhood organizations, parent's associations, fishermen's
associations, associations of retired teachers, savings and loan cooperatives, community
banks, rural banks) and regional organizations (association of transporters, association of
sport divers, association of tour guides, association of agricultural producers, association of
traditional and non-traditional exporters); in second place (33.45%) religious organizations
(catholic and evangelical organizations) third place (15.49%) ethnic organizations
(OFRANEH and NABILPA) and in fourth place (11.21%) environmental organizations
(reforestation, control of forest fires, no pollution of water sources, rational use of forest,



41
production of trees for fire wood, control of pesticides and herbicides, traditional fishing
methods, protection of the reef, counting turtles, training materials). The non-governmental
organizations with different social missions form 4.90 % of the sample; 3.50% are
members of the chambers of commerce (in Tela, Tocoa and La Masica); 3.50 % are
members of cooperatives or professional associations (fishermen, craftsmen, tourism,
agriculture and savings and loans); 1.75 % belong to sports or cultural associations.
Figure 5. Organizations
 200      175
150      .                                       |aCommunity    I
95 ss3 Religious
100                                              D o Other
61.60         65                       0 Ethnic       I
50 -345 28929                                   . 0 Environmentalist
15.49 102
TOTAL
3.20.The relative high percentage of organized participation of the interviewed in different
kinds of initiatives reflects a large potential for concerted efforts and a certain experience in
management and execution for the common good; however, 33.26% said currently not to
belong to any organization and although this percentage most likely consists largely of
those under 20 or above 61 years of age, it is still a significant percentage. On the other
hand, when specifying the type of organization to which they belong or cooperate with, it
becomes clear that a fair amount of active people belong to more than one organization.
3.21.It is also interesting that of the 66.51 % (284) of the people that belong to some
organization, 71.83% (204) has some official post, which means a strong involvement of
many at one moment or another, in the planning and execution of the activities of the
organization. The average age of men that have had posts is 49 years, of women 51 years,
the schooling level in both cases is more than 12 years. The rest of the sample has not had
some official post and has a schooling level of 4-6 years. This situation is exactly the same
for the mestizo population while for the Garifuna population the average age of men is 42
years and of women 45; the average schooling is for men 7-9 years and for women 10-1 1
years. The schooling of men that haven't had any post is the same as for the population in
general, the schooling of women, however, is 0-3 years. In case of the island population,
the average age of men and women is 56 years, the schooling of men is 4-6 years and for
women 7-9 years.



42
Conclusions:
*  A large majority of the people surveyed (67.5 1%) belong to some organization, mostly
local community or regional organizations; in second place religious organizations
(33.45%); in third place (15.49%) ethnic organizations and in fourth place
environmental organizations.
* The community organizations are neighborhood organizations, parent's associations,
fishermen's associations, associations of retired teachers, savings and loan cooperatives,
community banks, rural banks, or the association of tourist guides. The regional
organizations are association of transporters, the association of sport divers, the
association of agricultural producers, the association of traditional and non-traditional
exporters and teacher's or professional associations.
*  In second place are the religious organizations (33.45 %): the catholic and evangelical
churches. It is noted that there is still a trend for the catholic church to be the biggest
one, but the evangelical church is only slightly below the catholic church regarding
participation.
*  Third place (15.49%) is taken by the ethnic organizations: OFRANEH and NABILPA.
However, they are not equally important in the whole region. OFRANEH has its main
centers in Tela, Santa Fe, Trujillo, La Ceiba, Limon and Iriona, of minor importance are
El Porvenir, La Masica, Jutiapa, Balfate and Bonito Oriental, Saba, Sonaguera, Tocoa,
Puerto Corte and very marginally Omoa. NABILPA has its center in Roatan, no
presence is registered in Guanaja and Utila.
*  The fourth place (10.21 %) is taken by environmental organizations (close season,
production of fire wood trees, control of pesticides and herbicides, traditional fishing
methods, protection of the reef, counting turtles, training materials). These
environmental organizations make up all or at least part of the non-governmental
organizations.
* Finally, a small percentage (3.5%) are members of the chambers of commerce of Tela,
Tocoa and La Masica) and the chambers of tourism Tela and Omoa.
* The relatively high percentage of organized participation of the people surveyed reflects
a great potential for concerted efforts, and some kind of experience in management and
execution for the common good; however, a third part of the sample said not to belong
to any organization.
* Generally, the active organized people are members of two to three different
organizations, and sometimes even three or four.
* The vast majority (71.83%) of those that belong to some organization have had some
official post, which indicates a strong involvement of many people at one time or
another regarding the planning and execution of the organization's activities.
* The average of men that have had posts is 49 years of age, for women 51 years of age,
The schooling level in both cases is more than 12 years, meaning that the higher the
schooling level the more likely to have a post.
* The rest of the sample that has not had some official post has a schooling level of 4-6
years, which means that the less schooling, the less chance to have a post.
* This situation is exactly the same for the mestizo population while for the Garifuna
population the average age of men is 42 years and of women 45. In case of the islanders
the average age of men and women is 56 years, meaning that the Garifuna leaders tend
to be the youngest compared to the rest of the sample and the islanders the oldest.



43
*  The averaue schooling for mestizo men and women that have a post is more than 12
years. The average schooling of the Garifunas is 7-9 years for men and for women 1 0-
11 years. The schooling of island men is 4-6 years and women 7-9 years. This means
that the schooling level of the mestizo population is the highest of the sample, followed
by the Garifunas and the islanders.
*  The age of mestizo and Garifuna women that have a post tends to be three years more
than men, or is similar in the case of the islanders. The schooling level also tends to be
the same in case of the mestizo men or significantly higher (3 years or >) in case of the
Garifuna and island population. This means that women are likely to have posts when
they are older and they need to have more schooling than men.
C.8. Community Organization
See Appendix, description per municipality
C.9. Information Supply and Decision making
See Appendix, description per municipality
C.10. Health Situation
3.22.The 427 people surveyed had an opinion on this matter, although a small minority said
not to have a problem, or not to know anything about it. It is interesting that the majority of
thing that the main health problems are respiratory infections (60.89%), parasitic infections
(581/31%) and HIV/AIDS (40.28%), followed at a long distance by mental disorders (8.67
%/O), work related accidents (7.26%), malaria (5.85%) and dengue (4.68%). Malnutrition is
considered to be a minor problem on the North Coast (2.11 %) and even less so alcoholism
(0.94%/O) or drug addiction (0.94%). Venereal diseases are practically absent according to
the people surveyed (0.23%).
3.23.1n the chart on the origin of knowledge on HIV/AIDS it is shown that the people
surveyed have received information from at least four sources, being the most important
one the Ministry of Health (66.28%), followed by television (45.20%), radio (44.03%), and
newspapers (3 3.26%). It is remarkable that the 427 people interviewed all have an equal or
sometimes even better access to television than radio. The knowledge as a result of
personal experiences is of little importance (12.18%), some have participated in research on
the matter (6.79%), while experiences told through other people only registered 2.58%.
3.24.The chart on participation in HIV/AIDS information campaigns shows that the
majority (50.28%) of the 427 people have participated in these campaigns. However, it is
remarkable that the other half of the sample would not have participated in one of the most
covered health problems on the North Coast. The chart 'types of HIV/AIDS information
campaigns' was answered by at least half of the sample and the surveyed mentioned in
average at least two types of campaigns. The primary and secondary schools come first
(50.72%), followed by health centers (46.89%), talks to parents (27.755) and information
leaflets (27.75%). The churches are next (17.22 %) with at a distance the NGOs (9.57%).
The radio campaigns (7.18%), newspapers (5.36 %) and television (4.32%) are of



44
secondary importance here, which is in contrast with the chart on the source of information.
The donation of condoms is associated here with a campaign against HIV/AIDS by a
minority (2.87%) and even smaller is the percentage of those who consider that the
requirement of HIV/AIDS tests by businesses is some kind of prevention (0.96%). It is
remarkable the little impact NGOs have regarding the prevention of HIV/AIDS on the
North Coast.
3.25.Regarding the sources of financing for the Campaigns on HIV/AIDS, the majority
(62.68%) are funds from the central government and municipalities (I 7.70%). The finds
from the central government come mainly from the Ministry of Health (94.66%) with some
contribution from the Ministry of Education (9.16%). The participation of NGOs is little
(9.57%), according to the interviewed. The churches however seem to be making an effort
in this sense, and more so the evangelical church (6.70%) than the catholic church (2.87%).
The ethnic organizations also contribute little (6.70%). The presence of international
organisms is hardly noticeable (1.91%). The chart 'accidents at work' indicates that wounds
with work implements are most common (48.39%), possibly cutting instruments such as
machetes, followed by fractures (45.16%), paralysis as a result of diving without the
appropriate gear (35.48%), while the loss of limbs (19.53%), poisoning with herbicides
(16.13%) and burns (12.90%) are less frequent. These results however, are not very reliable
as very few people answered this question.
Conclusions:
*  The main health problems are in order of importance: respiratory infections, parasitic
infections and HIV/AIDS.
3  Less common are mental disorders, occupational accidents, malaria and dengue.
Malnutrition is considered to be a minor problem and even less so alcoholism (0.94 %)
or drug addiction (0.94%). Venereal diseases are practically absent according to the
people surveyed.
*  The main source of information is the Ministry of Health, followed at some distance by
the television, the radio and newspapers. It is observed that the people surveyed seem to
have broad access to television and radio.
*  The knowledge resulting from personal experiences and from person to person, are less
important (together 14.76 %).
*  In the campaigns on HIV/AIDS only half of the people participated. As a consequence
the other half has remained at the margin of one of the most critical health problems on
the North Coast.
*  The massive campaigns consist of talks in primary and secondary schools and health
centers. The talks with the parents and informative leaflets are second, third the
churches and fourth the NGO's.
*  The influence of radio, television and newspaper campaign (4.31%) is completely
secondary. Separately or jointly, they do they not have the impact that is attributed to
them as main sources of information on HIV/AIDS in the perception of the people.
*  The donation of condoms is associated with a HIV/AIDS campaign by a minority.
*  The ethnic organizations are not registered as participants in the campaigns against
HIV/AIDS.



45
*  The majority of the finds to finance the HIV/AIDS prevention campaigns come from
the Central Government, more specifically the Ministry of Health with a small
participation from the Ministrv of Education.
*  The municipalities' input is minimal, but even less is the contribution from NGOs.
*  The contribution from the church is also marginal, but it should be mentioned that the
evangelical churches contribute more than the catholic church.
*  The ethnic organizations contribute in the same degree as the churches.
*  Accidents at work are not well represented in the sample, but among them wounds from
work tools are the most common, possibly cutting instruments such as machetes.
Paralysis as a consequence of diving without the proper equipment is becoming more
important, while the loss of limbs, or intoxication because of herbicides and burns are
less frequent.
*  According to Garifuna men and women HIV/AIDS is the main health problem.
*  According to mestizo men and women it is not only the third health problem in
importance, but also women attribute less importance to HIV/AIDS than men.
*  According to island men and women, HIV/AIDS is the third health problem.
* In the Department of Cortes (Puerto Cortes and Omoa), the sample is almost entirely
among the mestizo population and according to the men HIV/AIDS is the main health
problem, while the women think it has increased in absolute terms, but still comes in
third place. The average person who recognizes HIV/AIDS as the main health problem
has more than 12 years of schooling.
*  In the Department of Colon (Limon, Iriona, Trujillo, Balfate, Bonito Oriental, Saba,
Sonaguera and Tocoa) the sample has a fair Garifuna representation. In the sample, the
mestizo men think HIV/AIDS is the second most important health problem, while the
women think it comes third and that its relative importance also has not increased.
However, for Gafifuna men and women equally, it is problem number I . The average
schooling of all the people surveyed is 4-6 years.
*  In the Department of Atlantida (La Ceiba, Tela. El Porvenir, La Masica and Jutiapa) the
sample has a fair Garifuna representation. In the sample the mestizo men are the ones
who consider HIV/AIDS to be the first health problem, while according to the women it
not only comes third, but is also decreasing in relative importance. On the other hand,
the Garifuna men consider the problem to be third, opposite to the Garifuna women
who not only consider it to be health problem no. 1, but also attribute a higher absolute
importance than any of the other groups mentioned. Also in this department the average
schooling level of the people surveyed is a minimum of 10-1 1 and more likely more
than 12 vears.
*  In the Department of the Bay Islands (Roatan, Jose Santos Guardiola, Guanaja and
Utila). mestizo men and women as well as Garifuna men and women put HIV/AIDS in
first place as health problem. On the other hand, for the island men and women it
doesn't only come third, but also its absolute importance is much less. In this
department the schooling level of the people surveyed is a minimum of 7-9 years and
more likely more than 12 years of schooling.
*  Apparently, more schooling helps to recognize the rate of the disease, at least among
mestizo men and women but it is not the key factor for raising awareness that will have
impact on the problem, as Garifuna men and women in Colon have the lowest
schooling level of the sample. It rather seems that there are other mechanisms involved.



46
*  Also the origin of information on HI V/AIDS is differentiated: the mestizo men consider
the Ministry of Health equally important as the television, mestizo women give more
importance to the newspaper, and secondly the radio. The Garifuna men as well as
women regard the Ministry of Health as first source of information, followed by
television in the case of men and radio in the case of women. The island men regard the
television as the most important source followed by newspapers, while women consider
television first, followed by radio.
C.1 1. Landownership and related matters
3.26.Of the sample, 70.12% think the neighbors have land of which the majority think
they have full land titles (72.05%), while 26.64% have titles for the usufruct of the land.
Regarding the location of the lands, the vast majority of owners have land on the beach
(60.06%), or in the mountains (58.70%) combined with any of the following locations:
valley (15.36%), hillside (15.02%), urban plots (3.60%). Small landowners are the norm
and make up 75.35% of the sample, followed by medium sized lands (18.40%), while the
representation of big landowners is minimal (2.43%No).
Conclusions:
*  Around half of the sample thought that the neighbors have land, although also a third
without land was registered.
*  The majority of the landowners have full land titles and around a third has the usufruct
of the land.
* Regarding the location of the lands, the large majority of the owners have land on the
beach (or mountain) in combination with any of the following locations: valley, hillside
or urban plots.
*  Small landowners are the norm, so there are few medium owners, and the presence of
large owners is minimum (2.43 %). However, this could be misleading given that the
few big landowners together could have more than the others. Therefore it is necessary
to have an approximation of the size of each of these categories.
*  The vast majority of the land on beaches, forest, riverbanks and urban plots are private;
in the forest for example, the municipalities have not more than 2.25 %. The buffer
zones are the only category of which half is still owned by the municipalities.
*  A minimal part of the lands is found in the core of the protected areas, above all in
Atlantida and Colon; this figure practically doesn't exist in Cortes and the Bay Islands.
*  The male owners are the majority both regarding full ownership as usufruct of the land
*  Among women full ownership is a little better represented.
*  Among the mestizo owners, as well as among the Garifunas, usufruct is slightly higher.
The Garifunas have more usufruct than the mestizo population. Among the island
population full ownership is more common.



47
C.12. Land use
3.27.Of those with land 17.71%/o is not using it, the rest is using it mainly for agriculture
(66.67%/o), combined with some other kind of activityv business (9.72%). rent for business
(7.99%). own house (7.29%), used for fishing (sic!) (0.69%), and cattle-farming (0.69%). It
is remarkable that 15.27% said to have land in protected areas or natural reserves, and 2.43
% said to have land that is invaded by others. Those who use land for agriculture said
69.03% are cultivated by the owner and his/her family, of those around a third hires
salaried workers (39.13%), while 13.04% cultivates with extended family members.
3.28.0f the people who mentioned the kind of crop, 68.73% said to cultivate throughout
the year and 28.06 %only cultivates part of the year. Based on the sub-sample it can be
concluded that the average producer cultivates mainly two, sometimes more crops and
although basic grains such as corn (58.16%), beans (27.04%), and rice (1.480%) are well
represented as a whole, the cultivation of yam (73.47%) is very important. Among the
vegetables, paprika (18.37%, tomatoes (13.27%NO) are the most common together with some
cabbage (3.06%), carrots (1.530%), squash (0.5 1%), and cucumber (1.020%). The majority
also cultivates banana (53.06%), plantain (33.16%), mango (28.57%), and citric fruits
(24.49%). Pineapple (11.22 %), lichees (7.65%), coconut (5.10%), cacao (4.59%). and
watermelon (4.08%) are less important. Avocado (3.57%), nance (1.02%), mamones (1.02
%), sugarcane (1.02%), banana (1.02 %), apples (0.51%), soursop (0.51%), cashew
(0.5 1%), zapote (0.5 1%), passion fruit (0,51%) and rambutan (0.5 1%), indicate a wide
diversification but are short season crops and therefore their impact is little. Also is
cultivated African palm (3.06%), and coffee (2.55%).
Conclusions:
- The vast majority of the land is used for agriculture, combined with some other activity
that could be a small business, rent, houses, fishing and cattle farming.
-  A minority declared to have land in protected areas or natural reserves, also a smaller
percentage registered to have land invaded by illegal residents.
*  More than half of the land is cultivated by the owner and their families; around a third
hires salaried workers and a minority involves extended familv members.
* More than half of the producers cultivates year-round and less than a third cultivates in
certain seasons.
* Two thirds of the agricultural producers cultivate mainly yam, followed in importance
by basic grains (corn, beans and rice).
* All producers combine the cultivation of yam and basic grains with some
paprika/pepper and tomatoes and less with carrots, cucumber and squash.
* The majority of the producers cultivate bananas, plantain, mangos, citrus fruits and
pineapple, combined with lichees, coconut, cacao and watermelon. Additionally they
plant avocados, nances, papaya, sugarcane, apples, soursot, cashew, zapote, passion
fruit and rambutan.
* At a small scale are cultivated cacao, African palm and coffee.
* The variety of crops is large and covers almost every spectrum of agricultural products
mostly consumed in the country.



48
*  More than half of the producers plant for own consumption and sale. while the rest says
to only plant for own consumption. Those who do market their products supply the
local markets (80,5 1/%). and less the regional market (22.88 %).
*  Only a few export a portion of their production, and a very small percentage (0.85%)
exports their whole production.
*  Among those who sell to regional and local markets, a minority (3.39 %) supplies to
hotels and restaurants. This means that a large part of the agricultural products the
hotels and restaurants use do not come directly from the producers, but possibly through
intermediaries in the local and regional markets.
*  The agricultural producers of the North coast mainly satisfy their own need of
agricultural products, but produce sufficient surplus to supply local and regional
markets.
C.13. Labor trends
3 .29.Among the landowners that use land for agriculture 69.03% cultivate with his/her
family; of them around a third hires salaried workers (39.13%0), while 13.04 %O works with
extended family members. The information on salaries, frequency of payments, equity
regarding the employment of men and women and contract periods are the result of the
participation of 52.69% of the total sample (427) and needs to be worked out more in detail,
but certain trends are observed. One of these trends is that the salaries are higher (4 1.33%)
than or equal to (36.00%) the minimum wage. However, still 20 % of the informants said
the salary is less than minimum. Weekly payments are the most common (32.89%),
followed by the two-weekly payments (25.33 %) and monthly payments (25.33%).
Regarding the salary of men and women, the percentage that think they receive the same
salary (51 .20%) while 40.36% thinks men are better paid. Also a majority thinks the
contract period for men and women is equal (46.39%). while 40.98% thinks the contracts
for men are for a longer period (40.96%).
Conclusions:
*  More than the majority of the landowners cultivates with family members, a third hires
salaried workers, while a very small part cultivates with extended family.
*  In the region the payment is generally higher than or equal to the minimum wage.
However, it is still significant that a fifth of the informants said the pay is less than
minimum wage.
*  The most common payment is weekly payment, the rest receives two-weekly payments
or monthly payments (25.33). Daily wage is used very little.
*  Regarding the equity of the salary the opinions are divided. more than half of the
sample thinks payment is equal for men and women, the other half thinks men are paid
better.
*  Also the opinions regarding the duration of contracts are divided, around half thinks
they are the same for men and women, while the other half thinks the contracts for men
are longer.
*  The last two observations reflect that regarding payment and contracts the traditional
gender differences still prevail in the region.



49
C.14. Existence and use of forest
3 .3O.Regarding the existence of forest in the municipality/community/land the majority
(57.38%) responds negatively. Among the 40.98% that responded positively, again half
(47.43%) thinks there is 'little' forest while 30.29% thinks there is a moderate amount of
forest, in other words 'enough' and only 20.00% thinks there is still a 'lot of forest. These
subjective categories can not be translated into absolute measures (km or ha) by the
interviewed. It is interesting that from the group that answered positively to the existence of
forest, 74.86 % said to use it and although its usage is more than one activity, the main
activity (78.28%) is the exploitation of the forest for wood. Firewood is also well
represented (45.25%), but the most important activity is the production of wood for local
consumption and external sale (54.74%). Moreover, external sale is not important, only
12.00 % of the wood, which means that the rest (88%/'D) is used locally. This means that the
exploitation and preliminary processing is probably done in a traditional manner and used
for the construction of houses, small boats and furniture.
3.31 It is also interesting that the group that said to use the forest, 35. ]1 1/% also mentioned
the forest as a place for recreation; even more interesting is the group that said to use the
forest for hunting (12.21%) as independent from recreation. This could mean that in the
influence area hunting is not so much a sport as well as contribution to the family diet. The
forest as a water source was not mentioned by more than 6.1 1 % of the group. The
breakdown of the use of the forest by ethnic group shows that the forest is used for
firewood above all by the Garifunas (55.56%), and only for 12.5 % by the mestizo
population. Also for recreation, the forest is mainly used by Garifunas (33.33%) compared
to 25.00% by mestizos. As wood for local consumption both mestizos (25%) and Garifunas
(22.22 %) use it ir  equal proportion. 25 % of the mestizo use it as a water source, while
this use was not mentioned at all by Garifunas. For hunting the forest is used by I  .1 1%z of
the Garifunas and not at all by the mestizos, while on the other hand only mestizos exploit
the forest for wood for exportation.
Conclusions:
*  Less than half of the sample said to have forest in the community or on their land and
the opinion prevails that there is 'little' forest. This subjective category could not be
translated in absolute terms (km or ha) by the surveyors.
*  The majority of the group that answered positively regarding the existence of forest
actually uses the forest, and although this exploitation involves more than one activity,
the most important activity is related to the exploitation of wood.
*  The extraction of firewood is important (45.25%) but most important is the production
of wood for local consumption (54.740%o). External sale is not important, not more than
12.00 % of the wood, in other words the other 88 % is used locally. This means that the
cutting and processing is most likely traditional and is used for building houses, small
boats and furniture.
*  The group that said to use the forest, mentioned the forest as a place for recreation and
small-scale hunting, which was independent from recreational activities. This could
indicate that in the influence area, 'hunting' at best is not considered a sport but a



contribution to the family diet. However, there is a slight tendency to use 'hunting' and
'recreation' as svnonyms.
*  The characterization of the forest as a water source seems to be little understood and
was only mentioned by the mestizo population.
* The forest is used to extract wood above all by Garifunas, and only very little by
mestizo population. Both use the forest equally for recreation and wood for local
consumption. Only the Garifunas use it for small-scale hunting. Only the mestizo
population uses the forest for export wood, also on a small scale.
C.15. Natural and Cultural Resources
See Appendix with description per municipality
C.16. Available Tourist Infrastructure
3.32.The tourist infrastructure consists of mainly eateries and hostels, which represent
69.87% and 65.50% respectively, followed by restaurants (51.97%), and hotels (50.66 %).
The importance attributed to boats (23.58%) and a bus terminal (23.14%) is much less.
Green areas (19.21%), parking zones (17.47%), and the tourist information centers are next
in importance. Onlv 11.79 % of the communities registered bathrooms and public showers
on the beaches, and not more than 2.62% on the main square of plaza. The camping
facilities (10.045) are as important as visitor's centers in the protected areas (9.61%).
Horseback riding and stables (3.93%) and the service the decompression chamber offers to
divers (3 .49%) are of little importance as part of the tourist service. Surprisingly, the airport
(0.44%) is not considered to be of importance. Of the opinions registered, 57.76% of the
infrastructure is beach infrastructure, 54.31%/o regular, and 8.62% mountain infrastructure,
of course these categories overlap each other slightly.
Conclusions:
* The main services in the regions are eateries and hostels, as well as hotels and
restaurants.
* There is a clear differentiation between an eatery and a restaurant and between a hostel
and hotel, which without any doubt has to do with the kind of facilities and prices.
*  The little availability of piers and bus terminals makes clear that there are not enough.
* The position of the airports in the sample reveals that the air transportation does not
have impact on tourism. However, there are three international airports in the region, as
well as three regional or local airports. This also indicates that they are not considered
to be decisive for the influx of tourists, maybe because of the type of tourist that
generally uses land transportation.
* The tourist information centers also seem to be concentrated in very few places and
probably without coverage outside of the more urbanized areas. The other services that
make up the quality of the tourist product are scarcely represented or are not mentioned.
This all reflects a low impact tourist development on the North Coast and little
investment in this sector.



51
*  The green areas, the parking areas and tourist information centers seem to be packages
according to the people for which as a whole they do have some importance.
*  The sanitary services and public showers on the beach are preferred above those of the
central square or park, but its usefulness for tourists is still not acknowledged
sufficiently.
*  Camping facilities are associated with the visitor's center in protected areas, but this
tourist service is very little developed.
*  Stables for horseback riding are rare and the service that is offered by the
decompression room is not considered to be instrumental for tourism.
*  Summarized, the tourist offer comes down to basic services (eateries and hostels and
restaurants and hotels). On the beaches, the main resource of the region, there are
generally no basic installations for tourists. The tourist information centers are scarce
and the prevailing means of transportation is over land. The visitor's centers in the
protected areas are or non-existent or are not considered to be instrumental for
attracting tourists. In other words, the tourist development of the region is of very low
impact and doesn't offer alternatives, nor is it prepared to satisfy a visitor with certain
demands.
C. 17. Tourist Activities or Related Activities
3.33.Of the 427 people interviewed, 49.41% consider that the inhabitants of the community
work directly in a tourist activity or tourist-related activity. Of them 78.20% works in the
tourist business year round, the rest only part of the year. The main activities are hotels
(65.88%) and restaurants (65.40%), followed by transportation over water (31.28%), and
urban and inter-urban transportation services (30.33%). The guide services are relatively
well represented in the sample (30.33%) coming fourth in the order of importance. Sport
diving is considered to be slightly less important (26.54%). The travel agencies come seven
(20.38%), followed by the handicraft production (19.43%). Bicycle renting places are more
common (17.54%) than horse renting places (13.74%). The supply of different services as
reparation, food and material to hotels and restaurants is more or less equal (12.32%,
1].85% and 10.90% respectively). The participation of food stands is minimal (3.79%). but
is still higher than social centers or discotheques (0.47%).



52
Figure 9. Tourist activities: Income generating activities in influence area
Asec de la Ciudad S
Glorietas       :
A   Proveedor de matemales a hoteleslrestaurantes  23
C   Proveedor de alimentos a hoteleslrestaurantes  25
T  Servicios de reparaci6n en hoteles/restaurtantes  26
1             Alquiler de caballos en establo  29
v                   Alquiler de bicicletas    37
1               Producci6n de Artesanlas    41
T                     Agencia de viajes        43
1                      Buceo Deportivo            56
E                     Servicios de Gula _I           64
S             Transporte urbanol interurbano   _     64
Alquiler de lanchas/cayucos conlsin motor      66
Restaurante/ Bar  i138
Hotel =                             _       139
3.34.Of the 64 people that said to offer guide services, some combine different kinds of
guide services. City visits offer the best possibilities (33.33%), followed by visits to
archaeological sites and museums (34.37%), while the ecological or adventure tours take up
11.46%, bird watching s 9.38%, marine life 1.56 %, and rafting 8.33 %. However, taken as
a whole, the activities that qualify as ecotourism or adventure tourism represent 30.73% of
the possibilities. Last comes the use of internet (1.04%). Regarding the production of crafts,
41 people said to be in crafts of which more than 2/3 combines the use of two different kind
of materials. The most common raw material is wood and bamboo (60.98%), followed by
palm (31.71%) corral and turtle-shell (26.83%), and the products derived from shells and
conch (19.51%). The processing of clay is much less important (9.76%), as is metal
production (7.32%). Embroidery and an indefinite category registered as 'manual work'
(maybe paper flowers, fabric objects, decorations with leaves, fibers, seeds or coconut
shells) contribute 4.88%. Rattan is even less represented (2.44%).
Conclusions:
*   The majority of the region's inhabitants works directly in a tourist activity or tourist
related activity.
*   The vast majority of these people work in this sector year-round and the rest only part
of the year.
*  The main activity is hotels and restaurants followed by maritime transportation and
urban and interurban transportation
*  A third of those that work in the industry provide guide services.
*  Around a third of the activities are related to sport diving.
*  Non-traditional services as bicycle rental and horse rental, seem to be expanding.



*  The participation of entrepreneurs as suppliers of repairs, food and materials to hotels
and restaurants is of little impact. Apparently the hotels and restaurants are being
supplied by other resources. not necessarily local.
* The social centers or discotheques practically have no impact in the sector. This
indicates that the potential offered by nighttime entertainment is being little exploited
for tourist purposes, or the tourists that visit the area have other interests.
* The guides mainly divide their activities between visits to the city followed by visits to
archaeological sites and museums. However, there is not one archaeological site in the
region prepared for visits, for which these activities probably have a devastating effect
on the sites. There are three museums: San Pedro, Omoa and Roatan, which apparently
receive quite some visitors.
* The tours that we would call ecological or adventure tours (bird watching, marine flora
and fauna and rafting) absorb together a third part of these activities.
*  Summarized the guide activities reflect three already traditional directions in tourism:
the city as tourist business center, archaeological sites and museums under cultural
tourism and activities related with nature or ecological tourism.
* It is important to analyze more in detail the potential cultural tourism seems to have, at
this moment even more than ecological tourism in the region.
*  Interesting is that there is no demand for guide services regarding cultural tourism
focussed on living cultures (artistic shows, culinary art, musical instruments and
traditional uses) in the region.
* The norm regarding the production of crafts is to combine two or more different kinds
of raw materials.
* The most common materials are wood and bamboo, palm, corral, and turtle-shell
followed by materials derived from other shells and conch. The processing of clay is
much less important, as well as the products made of rattan.
*  It should be pointed out that a representative percentage (26.83%) of the crafts
production uses raw materials that mean a deterioration of marine life (corral and turtle-
shells), turtles being in danger of extinction.
C.18. Antiquity of Tourist Enterprises
3.35.The prevailing form of enterprises is the small enterprise (71.03%). The existence of
medium size of big enterprises was registered at 13.35%, and 3.51% respectively. Below a
table of the antiquity of the tourist enterprises:
More than 10 years          66            26.19%
5-10 years                  55            21.57%
2-5 years                   68            26.66 %
Last two years              66            26.19%
3.36.The investment in tourist enterprises comes from more than one source, most
common is local individual capital (99.53%), while foreign individual capital is used in
only a little bit more than a third of these enterprises (37.44%). The third important source
of capital is bank loans to local people (20.34%). Enterprises with several local partners
(8.53%), or local and foreign partners (7.58%) or.local and regional partners (6.64%) make



'4
up for 22.755. The contribution of seed capital by NGOs is minimumi (2.84%o) as well as
the government (1.90%).
Conclusions:
* Almost two thirds of the enterprises are small, for which it is believed they are family
businesses with a reduced employment capacity.
*  The expansion of these businesses is gradual and there is not much variation observed
over the last decade. In other words, there are no drastic changes which reveals the
limited growth of the sector.
* The origin of the investment for these enterprises is basically completely local
individual capital with a third foreign individual capital.
*  Only a fifth of the enterprises use bank loans. This indicates that the banks do not form
a feasible alternative as investment source.
* The contribution of seed capital for these enterprises by the local or central government
or NGOs is not important. This reflects the lack of funds for investment of the local
governments, given that they recognize the tourist potential. The NGOs on the other
hand have a certain fear to become part of the sector.
* Summarized, it is very interesting to see the prevalence of small enterprises together
with an almost absolute local private participation in financing, which could be one of
the reasons for the slow growth of the sector.
- That despite these conditions one fourth of the enterprises are more than 10 years in
business and that another fourth is in business for 5-10 years indicates the sector is
profitable, but the conservative growth also reflects that there is little space for taking
risks. Also, these small entrepreneurs seem to have alternative income sources,
probably agriculture is one of the most important ones.
C.19. Investment Needs for Sustainable Tourism
3.37.The interviewed mentioned sewage treatment as most important (47.54%), followed
by training of staff (41.69%), and promotion (36.53%). A more or less similar important is
attributed to the installation of latrines (3 5.60%), construction of a new water installation
(33 .72%), improvement of access roads (32.79%), construction of road/bridge (32.08%), a
new electrical plant (30.91%), construction of septic wells (29.5 1%). Also a third part of
the sample (31.38%) recognized the importance of investing in craft production. The
installation of bathrooms and showers on the beach was also recognized partially (22.01%),
by the interviewed, in fact it is considered to be more important than the construction of
new hotels, bars/restaurants, including the improving of the existing facilities (19.67%).



5 5
Figure 11. Investment needs for sustainable development
7I24%  6.30%  4.04%  0.71%                         0 Basic services
724%  6.30%l46.87%    0 Road infrastructure
17.33%   ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~Iand related
0 Training of staff
O Promotion
O Tourist facilities
a CGrafts production
i ACity/community
8.37%                                                   facilities
19.09%                                03 Not established
3.38.However, taken as a whole the basic services, including the treatment
of sewage, the installation of bathrooms and showers on the beach, improvement to water
systems and to the electric plant, make up 46.73% of the basic needs. The improvement of
roads, construction of roads/bridges, construction of piers, airports, the availability of
transportation at irregular times and the construction of containing walls can be put into one
group, which forms 19.09 % of the needs. The training of staff and promotion speak for
themselves. The tourist facilities, including the construction of hotels and restaurants,
visitor's centers, improvement of already existing hotels and restaurants, maintenance of
beaches and construction of museums, makes up 7.24 % of the needs.
The production of crafts now only represents 6.30% of the needs. In the investment
category related to the facilities of the city/community are included the installation and/or
improvement of green areas, telephone service and the construction or improvement of the
central plaza, making up for 4.04 % of the needs. Finally, a very small number of
interviewed did not answer or thought there was no need for investment.
Basic services (supply and disposal of water and electricity)           46.87%
Road infrastructure and similar                                          19.09%
Training of staff                                                        8 .37%
Promotion                                                                7.33%
Tourist facilities                                                      7.24%
Crafts production                                                       6.30%
City/community facilities                                               4.04%
Not defined                                                              0.71%
Total                                                                   99.95%



56
Conclusions
*  The urgent need for a basic infrastructure is shown here over-helmingly. In the
perception of the people it is a prerequisite to get into business.
* Despite the emphasis on basic services, there is also a rather precise notion that training
of staff and promotion are key to the success of tourism.
* At the same time there is more and more recognition of the importance of crafts,
however no relation has been made between the raw material and the sustainability and
protection of the environment.
*  It is significant that there is little notion of the importance of cultural ~tourism, despite
the fact that museum are instrumental for tourist guides. Only very marginally the
importance of museums for the tourist potential is recognized. Indeed, the preparation
of archaeological sites for visitors is not mentioned.
* Training as such is in absolute terms the most felt need. This underlines the little
professionalism regarding tourism in a large part of the North Coast and reveals the still
existent need in regions where there is already an advanced tourist development such as
the Bay Islands.
C.20    Training with Environmental Approach
3,.39.Here is illustrated the potential of knowledge and practices already available in the
influence area that can directly or indirectly contribute to a sustainable management of the
resources, and therefore to tourism. Of the total amount of people (368) that answered,
51.36%, or half have not received any kind of training with environmental approach. The
other half (179) however had received two or three training sessions. The majority of the
training (40.22%) was related to the no pollution of waters, followed by fishing with
traditional methods with environmental approach (26.82%), planting trees for firewood
(22.34%), management of protected area (20.67%), agriculture on hillsides (18.99%), care
of forest or mangrove (17.31%), preparation and use of biological fertilizer (14.53%); first
aid for divers (11.73%), tourist guides (10.61%), season for turtle and lobster fishing
(9.50%), cultivation on terraces (9.50%), sport diving (6.70%), breeding of poultry
(6.15%), and pigs (4.47%), obtaining resin from forest (1.68%), management of national
monuments (2.23%), management of an archaeological site/zone (1.68%). management of
museum (0. 56%). Of the 18 categories (17.3 1% did not specify the type of training), more
than half (61. 11 %) is related to the sustainable use of resources for agricultural, fish and
forest production. The other 7 categories are directly relevant for tourism.



57
Demand for training in sustainable tourism and production
No pollution of water (40.22%)
Traditional fishing methods with environmental approach (26.82%/0)
Planting trees for firewood (22.34%)
Management of protected area (20.67%)
Agriculture on hillsides (18.99%)
Care of forest or mangrove ( 17.3 1%)
Preparation and use of biological fertilizer (14.53%)
First aid for divers (11.73%)
Tourist guide (10.61%/o)
Turtle and lobster season (9.50%)
Terracing (9.50%);
Sport diving (6.70%)
Breeding of poultry (6.15%)
Breeding pigs (4.47%).
Obtaining resin from forest (2.79%)
Management national monuments (2.23%)
Management archaeological site/zone (1.68%)
Museum management (0.56%).
Conclusions
*  There is lack of training with environmental approach which means that to find a
balance between the use of the natural resources for tourism and its conservation. a lot
of work is to be done.
*  The majority of the training activities are related to the conservation of the natural
resources and sustainable small-scale production, but it is clear that the management
and conservation of water sources comes first.
*  The training activities directed at tourism are few (tourist guide, sport diver,
management national monuments, archaeological site/area, museum) and has low
coverage. Thus it is to be expected that there is a widespread lack of knowledge
regarding conservation and the management of the cultural patrimony for tourist use.
*  The management of a protected area does not necessarily have to be for tourist
purposes, which also applies to the first aid training for divers. Therefore these two are
intermediate categories, with a certain relevance for tourism.
*  Clean water (not pollution) is important for the general health of the population, but
also for wild life in general with subsequent purposes of exploitation. However, clean
water is a contribution to a better quality of life, and is therefore important for tourism.



5X
C.21. Training Needed for Sustainable Tourism
3.40.Below a breakdown of the training needed per category is given, so that the main
weaknesses and vacuums become clear:
Tourism in general (29.73%)
Contacts with tourists                 Client service (19.10%,O)
Human relations (10. 11 %)
Languages (Standard English) (8.43%)
Tourist guides (2.82%/o)
Awareness (1. 12 %)
Mlanagement of Hotels                  Culinary arts (7.78%)
And Bars/Restaurants                   Hotel trade and tourism (6. 18%)
Hotel management (3.93%)
Management of restaurants/bars (0.56%)
Tourism and Nature                     Ecotourism and environment (3.37%)
Diving (1. 12%)
Cultural Tourism                       Dance and entertainment (0.56%)
Infrastructure                         Management of solid waste (0.56%)
Salubrity (1.69%)
Hygiene (0.56%)
Conclusions:
*  When asked about training the majority of people responded 'tourism in general',
which is very ambiguous. It reveals a general lack of knowledge about the sector that
makes it hard to exactly define the need.
*  The most felt need regarding training is related to the relation with the tourist (client
service, human relations, learning a foreign language, guide services and awareness).
*  The management of hotels and restaurants seem to be more important in this context,
and without any doubt it is the area where most experience is concentrated as these
services prevail in the sector.
*  Little thought is given to the diversification of the tourist offer related to nature
(ecotourism, adventure, diving), In the case of diving, the question arises if the little
importance given to diving means that the need is more or less covered or that on the
main land no importance is given to this activity.
*  Likewise, little thought is given to the diversification of the tourist offer regarding
cultural tourism. This means that although there is an assumption that cultural, material
and other expressions have tourist potential, it is not clear how to prepare it and market
it.



'9
C.22. Infrastructure Necessarn for a Tourist business
3.41.Next is established the relationship between the already existing tourist structure
and the needs expressed in the sample. In the column on the left the needs are enlisted in
order of importance (I being the most important), while in the column on the right the
availability of the services is indicated ( 18 being the less present).
Infrastructure necessary according                Existing Tourist Infrastructure
to small tourist entrepreneurs                    in Communities
Priority                                                 Availability
I     Hotels                                             40
2      Public bathrooms and showers on the beach         10
3      Tourist information center                        90.
4      Hostels                                           2.
5      Restaurants                                       30
6      Eateries                                          10.
7      Parking area                                      80.
8      Bus terminals                                     60.
9      Green areas                                       70.
10    visitor's center in protected areas                130.
11     Pier                                              50.
12    Camping facilities                                 120.
13    Public bathrooms on central plaza                  160.
14    Maintenance diving equipment                       110.
15     Stable for horse riding                           140.
1 6   Decompression chamber                              150.
9      Electricity
I 0    Drinking water
I I    Sewerage
12    Roads and streets
1'3    Latrines
14     Marketing
1 5    Central park
16    Amusement park                              17. (food stands)
180. (airport)



6()
Conclusions:
*  The comparison between the priority that small entrepreneurs give to the tourist
infrastructure and the availability of services reveals a gap in certain categories.
*  Despite the fact that there is a certain offer of hotels available, the small entrepreneurs
still consider the existence of hotels to be a first necessity. This could indicate that they
assume that with more hotels they could attract more tourists.
*  On the other hand, the second priority (public bathrooms and showers on the beaches)
of the entrepreneurs means their discontent with the reality. In a lesser degree, the same
could be said of the third priority (tourist information centers).
*  Regarding hostels (fourth priority), there is quite some offer, as also is the case with the
restaurants.
*  There is a large offer of eateries, although mentioned as the sixth priority by the
entrepreneurs.
*  The priority and availability of parking areas, bus terminals and green areas is pretty
much balanced.
D  The availability of visitor's centers in protected areas is not equivalent to the priority
given, but is not very much below it.
*  The availability of piers is practically twice as much as the priority given. Thus,
according to the entrepreneurs, there are more than enough available.
*  It is remarkable that the priority given to camp sites equals the priority given to this
activity which seem to indicate that the entrepreneurs still do not consider camp sites to
have a lot of potential.
*  The availability of public bathrooms in the central plaza is only a little bit less than the
demand the entrepreneurs indicate, for which it can be concluded that there are not
more of these facilities because there has been no request for them.
*  On the contrary, the availability of facilities for maintenance of diving equipment seems
higher than the demand, but maybe it is because these services are in certain areas.
*  Regardi'ng stables for horse riding there is a balanced relation between the demand and
the offer; another resource that is not considered to have big potential.
*  Another balanced relation between the availability and the demand is those of
decompression chambers. Here one would think that the majority of the small
entrepreneurs on the North Coast are not offering diving services and given that this
activity is focussed on the Bay Islands it seems that the availability of decompression
chambers at the moment is sufficient.
*  As priority 17 to 21 are mentioned basic infrastructure services (electricity, drinking
water, sewerage, roads and streets and latrines) that although it is true that the
availability provides a comparative advantage for the communities, they can not be
considered tourist infrastructure.
*  The mentioning of basic infrastructure in the opinion of a few is an indication that in
certain communities of the sample the main difficulty is the lack of more basic services
for the local inhabitants.
Finally, as priority 17 and 18 are mentioned the availability of airports and squares
respectively, but none of them was mentioned by the small entrepreneurs. It is
interesting to see that airports are not considered to be instrumental for tourism, maybe
due to that the majority of the destinations on the North Coast can be reached by land,



61
and in the case of the Bay Islands transportation by boat is an alternative. This would
indicate on its turn, that tourism on the North Coast is above all national, or
international with little economic impact.



62
BIBLIOGRAPHY
"Decimonovena Encuesta Permanente de Hogares". March 1498. Direccion General de Estadisticas
y Censos (DGEC) (General Office of Statistics and Census) Diciembre de 1998. Tegucigalpa,
Honduras.
"Censo Escolar 1995, Tomos I y 11. Resultados por departamento". Secretaria de Educaci6n y
SECPLAN. (Ministry of Education and SECPLAN)Tegucigalpa, MDC. Abril de 1996.
Directory. Honduran Apparel Industry. 1998.
"Estudio de la Pequefia y Microempresa". Fundaci6n Jose Maria Covelo. Junio 1996. Tegucigalpa.
Human Development Report Honduras 1998. UNDP, 1998.
"Informe de resultados del rendimniento academico en espafiol y matematica. Tercero y sexto grados."
Unidad Extema de Medicion de la Calidad de la Educacion (UMCE). Abril, 1998.
"Factores asociados al rendimiento academico. Espafiol y Matematicas. Tercero y sexto grados."
Unidad Extema de Medicion de la Calidad de la Educaci6n (UMCE). Abril, 1998.
"Midiendo la Seguridad de la Supervivencia Familiar: Una Postura para Reducir la Pobreza
Absoluta (Borrador)". Timothy R. Frankenberger. CARE, USA. 1996
"El Agro Hondurefio y su Futuro". Eduardo Baumeister et. al. Edit. Guaimuras.1996.
"Los Pueblos Indigenas y Negros de Honduras: Perfil general, efectos del huracan Mitch, escenanro
institucional, plan de reconstruccion y plan de incidencia". Confederacion de Pueblos Autoctonos
de Honduras -CONPAH- Tegucigalpa, abril de 1999.
"Conocimientos, actitudes y practicas de la poblacion relacionadas con el VIH-SIDA," encuesta
CAP-SIDA, UNFPA, Proyecto HON/96/P0l. San Pedro Sula, Honduras, 1997.
"Los Censos de Talla en Honduras, una revision de la experiencia". Programa de Asignacion
Familiar (PRAF). 1998.
"HONDURAS: Estrategia para el Desarrollo del Sector Agroexportador no Tradicional al anio
2020." Unidad de Asistencia Tecnica RUTA, Octubre de 1998.
"La Compra-venta de tierras de la Reforma Agraria". Raul Ruben/Francisco Funez. Edit.
Guaymuras, 1,993.
"Medicion Intema e Intemacional, Distribuci6n Espacial y el Proceso de Urbanizacion en
Honduras. Tendencias Recientes". Febrero de 1992. Unidad de Docencia e Investigacion en
Poblaci6n, UNAH.
Leyenda de figuras



ANEXOS



Annex 1
Participation Plan
1. Background
The present participation plan is one of the expected results of the socio-ethnographic
survey, prepared in the context of the Sustainable Coastal Development Project. It is based
on an intensive consultation process through three mechanisms: a) on-site consultation
with local leaders, municipal officials, directors of NGOs and local entrepreneurs; b)
validation of the information, through the organization of 12 focal groups and c) follow-up
meetings for the presentation of the project, the results of the socio-ethnographic survey,
validation of these results, and preparation of the Participation Plan with representatives of
ethnic organizations, local non-governmental organizations and municipal authorities
Other specific objectives of the socio-ethnographic survey related with this Plan are the
identification and mitigation of possible negative impacts of the proposed activities such as
the unequal participation of men and women and the social exclusion of vulnerable groups.
As well as the identification of more appropriate opportunities to strengthen the technical
and institutional capacity to start sustainable tourist management activities at community
and municipal level. including the creation of better conditions to reach a balance in the
participation of men and women
2. Summary of the Project
The objective of the project is to develop and manage more effectively the sustainable
tourist destination along the North Coast and the Bay Islands of Honduras. Concretely, the
Project proposes to address a variety of problems, among which are highlighted:
-  Little capacity to manage natural resources in general, including the management of the
marine and coastal resources
* Insufficient budgets of the Public Sector and the financing programs to support their
improvement
*  Insufficient infrastructure to support the tourist investment.
*  Fragmented management of the sectors influenced by tourism
*  Little application of planning tools.
Among the mechanisms proposed by the Project to address the aforementioned problems
are:
*  The introduction of better tourist practices with criteria of sustainability
*  The identification of the necessary reforms of policies and regulations.
*  The introduction of incentives for private investment and the collection of taxes at the
local level.
*  Training in management of the tourist destinations and related services and
* The promotion of innovating experiences through associations between different
sectors, especially the public sector and the civil society.



Especially relevant for the Project is the application of participation mechanisms through
the promotion of associations between the public and the private sector, which bv involvin,
a wide rang:e of participants. can stimulate the investment and the economic growth in this
sector, with significant potential benefits for the coastal communities.
However, it is recog:nized that obtaining these benefits will require the integration of values
regarding sustainable economic development (economic, environmental and social), in a
tourist development strategy for the North Coast. to guarantee that the investments in the
sector are financially and environmentally sound and generate benefits for a wide range of
target groups.
The successful sustainable tourist initiatives require the active and concerted participation
from the public sector as well as from the private sector. This participation can and will
have to occur at several levels. The strategy will include the participation of the indigenous
populations that live on the coast, as is described in the Participation Plan.
To attain the aforementioned objectives the Project has the following components:
Budget                                                           US$              %
1. National Strategy and Institutional Support,              904,000              18
Administration of project
2. Institutional Strengthening at Municipal Level           2,124,000             42
3. Pilot Programs for Sustainable Tourist Businesses        1,712,000             33
4. Implementation Unit of the Project                        366,000               7
Total Project Cost                                    5,105.000            100
The Implementation Unit of the Project will coordinate the execution, monitoring and
evaluation of the Project. As a result of the association between the public and the private
sector that will be tested and improved through the Loan for Learning and Innovation, it is
expected that the subsequent emulation of the Project will help the coastal municipalities to
develop and manage more effectively the susiainable tourism, while benefiting the local
communities. The Project will also serve as a model for the development of sustainable
tourism in other coastal communities that will participate in the MesoAmerican Barrier
Reef System Project.
3. The Participating Population
The population that lives in the influence area of the Project is estimated at 634,743
inhabitants, representing 11 % of the total population of the country, estimated in 1996 at
5.642,208 inhabitants.



3
Chart 1. Population of the influence area, per department
lndicador            j Atlantida               Colon                 Cortes                      Bay Islands
Population 1999       L Urbani: I5S.767        Urhan 5 .10-          U rban: 578.510
Rural: 171-019          Rural: 159.082        Rural: 307.570
T'otal: 329.786         Total: 215.189         Total: 886.080             T ltal 1997: 26.700
(Omoa and Pueno Corts =
105.360)                                      X
Income. 1999           L'rban: 0.355           U'rban: 0.302         Lrban: 0.396
Rural: 0.303            Rural: 0.255          Rural 0.358
Difference: 14.70o      Differaece: 15.60o    Difference: 9.70o
Global fertility per area  L'rban: 3.53        Urban: 4.60          LUrban: 2.79
otfresidence. 1999     Rural: 5.96             Rural: 6.27           Rural: 5.17
Average age 1998       More than 18            Leassthan 17          Morethan 20
Life ExpeeancN 1999     oiomen. 71.19          Women: 68.25          Womrn: 71.94                Global 1997: 65.0
Men: 62.53              Men: 59.82            Men: 63.95
Schooling(ears).      3.95                     2.70                  4. 5
1997
Expenditure in         S 64.0                  S69.1                 S 68.4
education in S per
capita 1998
Malnutrition rate     34.2                     33.5                  29.8                      I
Expendiure in healh    S 20.5                  S 7.9                 S 15.2__ _
in Spercapita. 98        2                                             1
Human Development   LUrban 1999: 0.597         trbani 1999: 0.580    Urbani 1999: 0.617
Index                  Rural 1999: 0.519       Rural 1999: 0.440    Rural 1999: 0.568                                l
Human Development    0.718                    | 0.683                0.778                                           l
Index per Gender. 1999                        l                     l
Total afficted         131                     336                   246                         3
population per 1.000
(Mfitnd)              I                                             lIl_l
Source: Report on Human Development. Honduras 1999:19.21.24.47and 50(no similar data axailable tbr the Ba! Islands. those
mentioned arc taken trom page 69)
Within the area there is migration of the population. The departments Colon and Cortes
attract population groups from other departments, probably the western departments which
are the poorest of the country, while in Atlantida there is a flow of population towards
Colon, the Bay Islands, and other countries.
The North Coast is the traditional living area of several ethnic populations of the country.
Chart 2 shows the distribution of these people. According to the available documentation,
there are more than 50 communities formed mainly by ethnic groups which in general live
in deficient social conditions. The Garifunas are found all along the coast and have
important settlements in the Bay Islands. The island population lives in the Bay Islands
with a small proportion located in the main coastal urban centers. The Miskitos, outside
their traditional living area, have moved to small nucleus in some of the main urban centers
(La Ceiba and Roatan). A very small enclave of Pech population that had lived until
recently close to Trujillo, has moved to other areas for which they could not be included in
the survey. Although it is true that these people have had reciprocal contact in ancient and
recent history, their cultural characteristics are different, and their internal organization is
independent. All of them have modem organizational structures that organizes and
represents them with the rest of the Honduran population. However, their self-management
capacity is not consolidated, and differs from one group to the next, for which it is
necessary to promote different support mechanisms to respond to the interests of each of
them. The population numbers are estimates and sometimes there is disagreement on their



4
exactness. Also, in the case of the Miskitos there are no data on their migration to
Atlantida, the Bay Islands, and possibly Colon.
Chart 2. Po pulation, G  ographic Location, Language and Ethnic Organization
Population  Inhabitant Communitie            Traditional         Own    Organization and Year of
s            s              Location        Langua            Establishment
(Departments)    ge used
I'ech           2,000-3.00()0   14       Gracias a Dios. Olancho.  Yes   Federatloon of hndigenous Pech Tribes
Colon                           Honduras. FETRIPH. 1985
(jarifunas         100.0((      46       Cortes. Atlantida. Colon  Yes   Organization of Black People
Bav Islands and Gracias a       Honduras. OFRANEH 1977
D ios__                  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Islefios            25.000      n.d.     Bav Islands              Yes   Organization of Workers on the Bay
Islands. BICA
Miskitos            30.000      84       Gracias a Dios           Yes   Moskitia Asia Takanka1
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   ______ M A SQTA
Sources: Rivas 1993, Herranz, 1996, Lara Pinto 1997 and CONPAHI, 1999.
The ethnic organizations consider their main problem to be the insecurity of landownership,
despite the agreements signed with the government for land titling. Their difficult situation
is also characterized by the lack of concerted development plans. There are several
initiatives of national and international organizations, private and public that execute
without the appropriate coordination. Most projects are conceived from the institutional
perspective not taking into account the wishes and capacity of the beneficiaries and their
organizations.
In view of this situation, the Participation Plan proposes interventions directed specifically
at improving the incorporation of the local inhabitants in the sustainable tourist activities,
especially those related directly to the management of the protected areas and the
traditional habitat.
3.2. The Relative Poverty Level in the Project Area.
The data in Chart 3 show that the Colon department has the lowest Human Development
Index rate, while the Bay Islands have the highest Human Development Index rate of the
North Coast. The data suggests that the mechanisms for the participation of the population
are adapted to the specific characteristics of each department or municipality within the
project area. However, in the case of the Bay Islands, certain marginal sectors of the
population can be hidden in these data.
Chart 3. Human Development Index by Department
Departament                                                                    Index
1. Atlantida                                                                   0.635
2. Colon                                                                       0. 598
3. Cortes                                                                      0.658
4. Bay Islands                                                                 0.787
Source: Human Development Report. Honduras 1998



5
The situation related to VIH-AIDS deserves special attention, as the North Coast has the
highest rate of positive cases of the country and one of the highest of Central-America. In
absolute terms, the number of AIDS cases in the country, registered per health region in
May 1999 totals 10,547, of which 5,043 are in the health region 3. which includes San
Pedro Sula as well as the municipalities Omoa and Puerto Cortes. followed by the
Metropolitan Region with 2,013 cases and health region 6 with 1,349 cases which includes
Atlantida. Colon and the Bay Islands, the latter representing 13 %/O of all the cases registered
in the country.
Some of the more affected communities by sexually transmitted diseases, and by the
consumption and increasing trafficking of drugs, are located on the coast of the departments
Cortes, Atlantida, Colon, the Bay Islands and part of Gracias a Dios. This suggests the need
for incorporating actions directed at addressing the problems in an appropriate manner
which in essence are not limited to the health area and are becoming a serious human and
economic problem as they negatively affect the economically active population, target
population for participation in this Project.
4. Participation Strategy
Next are presented the strategies result of the discussions organized with different
representative groups of the population that will participate in the Sustainable Coastal
Tourist Development Project.
4.1. Early Identification of Risks and Resistance
The Executive Unit in the first place, followed by other organisms promoted by the Project,
should possess the relevant information regarding the demands, perceptions and believes of
the population about the actions undertaken. This includes the management of expectations,
improving the communication channels, a constant feedback between the different actors
involved, especially with the disadvantaged groups such as the ethnic populations. In short,
it wil be necessary to develop the skills of what could be called "institutional intelligence",
for which formal participation channels should be created, as will be explained later.
4.2. The Processes of Sharing Information and Decision Making
It is proposed to create an entity within the Flowchart of the Project (see page 14 of the
Concept Project document) that enables the participation of the representative organizations
of the beneficiary population. This entity will take on the form of a Stakeholders Group,
similar to a Consultative Group where the policies and norms will be discussed, reaching
consensus on the instruments of strategic and operational planning to be executed by the
Project Implementation Unit. In the flowchart the relationship between this entity with the
municipal governments and the other actors is outlined.



6
4.3. Creative Approach of the Diversit) of the Participation
Of crucial importance in the relationship with and participation of the target population is
the capacity to establish different forms and mechanisms according to their representativity,
both in the local sphere (for example at the level of a rural community), and at the level of
professional or ethnic organizations, concentrated in the capital and other big cities.
Another effort should be undertaken with regard to the so-called cultural frontiers between
the different ethnic populations. Each population deserves that their priorities, that respond
to particular unsatisfied demands, are taking into consideration. When this heterogeneity is
evident, workshops and seminars will be organized to address specific topics of each
stakeholder, without ignoring the general events or mechanisms for all actors involved in
the sustainable tourist development.
4.4.   Participation and Organizational Development
An important lesson learned in the last few years in Honduras is related to the need to
accompany the participation discourse with the substantial improvement of the local
organization. In that sense the organizational development of local and regional
organization is part of the operational plans of the Project. Eventually, attention should also
be given to the demands from the organizations at national level with a strong influence in
the matters of the project.
However, the model proposed for institutional strengthening does not mean the simple
supply with financial or material goods, but rather explicit agreements of strategic alliance,
where both parties offer mutual support and share responsibilities for a previous agreed
cause. Thus, it is recommended that the components 'National Strategy and Institutional
Support for the SCT" and "Institutional Strengthening at Municipal Level" fulfil the
following criteria:
3  To strengthen the role of key organizations such as NGOs and environmentalist
foundations, associations of small and micro tourist enterprises.
*  To balance the support to partners that deliver services to vulnerable populations with
the support to partners that strive to fight the causes of poverty on the long term and in a
sustainable manner.
*  To support processes of training and development of local organizations, especially the
municipal ones (according to the goals of component 2. Institutional strengthening at
Municipal Level).
*  To strengthen networks of complementary organizations.



7
4.5. A General Model for Association
Next is presented a Genieral Model of Association, the institutional vehicle for a broad
participation from a perspective of sustainable tourist development planning and decision
making in the following three intervention spheres of the project:
*  National level: lobby, promote a dialogue on policies, laws and practices that are the
basis for a shared strategy on sustainable tourist development in the project area. One
example is the opinion expressed by the focal group of the mayors, who all agree that
the new Zolt law is detrimental to the municipal revenue collection.
*  Municipal level: the Project establishes the strengthening of municipal institutions to
increase the government capacity in tourist development matters. For example the
municipalities will have the technical and administrative capacity to apply the principle
established in the law 'the contaminator pays". The so-called Union of Garifuna
Municipalities could be instrumental in this aspect.
*  Local level: through pilot experiences to innovate practices and businesses, apply the
reform of policies and regulations, through dialogue and consultation with the
stakeholders and offer incentives for private participation, with special attention for the
micro and small enterprise.



8
General Participation Model
NIt NICIPALITIES
Stakeiolders (Group: Mlunicipalties. Honduran  Institute of 'Iourism.
*    Form   Stakeholders Group                                     N,s. Communit  (irassroot Otrganizations * Chambers of tourisns
Universities. Foreip  Aid Agencies. Private Sector. Ethnic Organizations.
and provide command for                                       Professional Associations * Groups with littie Representation (\%omen
formal planning                                               groups. migrants. etc)
*    Establishes dialogue on policies and management oftourist
*    Form  an internal                                                   development process
interdepartamental                                            .    Establishes and sUpervises topical W\ork Groups
Committee
*    Develops Vision of Tourist lndustrs
*    Help to  establish inter-                                     .    Consults wnh rest of public and lobhvs
institutional coordination                                    *    Prov ides legitimation. public profile alid public accessibilitN
. Have    convening    capacity  -r        *    Negotiates positions to  readc     conseisus, and  recommendations  tbr
*    Have convening capacity                                             action
. A pply  m unicipal   legislation            *    Reviesis  actions  pians  and  integrates  plans  of differait actors
.    Apply municipal legislationo
and ensure that laws are
observed in territory                               X 
Project Implementation Unit
*    Aorks as liason biz%een municipalities and Stakeholders
Group
*    Provides miformation. works as tedimical secrtarv
*    Provides Stakeholders Group with suppont staff
*    Administers the participators planning activities
* Provides tedchical and researdc support
*    Monitors and evaluates results
4.6.Lobbying and Public Influence
In line with what has been stated, this Participation Plan will be a key element to achieve
the Project's objectives, as well as the lobbying, defined as dissemination of persuasive
information, the influence on those with an position of influence. action or decision making
for the public good, in name of the participating population or in association with
representative organizations. Lobbying can be a powerful tool that will facilitate the direcct



9
task of the Project. given that sustainable tourism requires integration with all elements of
the 'tourism cluster" and intersectorial coordination
4.6. The Gender Approach for a more Appropriate Participation
The concept document of the Project on a Proposed Loan for Learning and Innovation
recognizes as a key element of a sustainable tourist strategy for the North Coast of
Honduras, the identification of means to increase the participation of disadvantaged groups
in the benefits that result from tourism. In that sense, the Participation Plan proposes the
explicit inclusion of the gender approach in the three operational components of the Project,
but especially in the "Pilot Project of Sustainable Tourist Businesses". The promotion of the
participation of women, especially women with more economic disadvantages in the new
micro and small tourist enterprises and related services, is a clearly justified objective.
However, the gender focus should transcend from the mere count of men and women
involved and go beyond that, considering the social and cultural values of the ethnic
populations and existing socioeconomic strata, according to the results of the
socioethnographic survey. One of the elements is to consider the family as the basic social
and economical unit to take into account in the design of training, the innovating pilot
projects that strive to stimulate the productive capacity and create business opportunities
that are adapted to the social, economic and environmental context of the participants,
either at family level (working for themselves), or a entrepreneurial levels where
employment of other people is involved.
4.7.The Participation through Management Learning
The entrepreneurial spirit implies the capacity of the beneficiary to contribute with
counterpart resources in the business project. Thus the participation is more responsible.
given that the participants in the businesses will be part of the risk management process and
a medium to long term future of positive financial returns. The development of best
practices, during the execution of the Project will be directed at facing the challenge of
conciliating the short term needs with the almost inescapable long maturity of sound
environmental projects.
Another challenge for the development of innovations is found in the design of community
business forms, mainly linked to the strong cultural values of the population on the North
Coast of Honduras. Also, these community businesses are adding attraction to the offer of
the growing market of trends specializing in ecotourism and adventure tourism, require a
broader diversification and authenticity of the activities for public use in the natural and
cultural areas.
Concept of competitive strategy used by INCAE. which involves the group of related services and industries
that. by strengthening through improving the quality standards. can become competitive world-wide.



10
4.10. Participation through Employment Generation
Employment generation is expected at local level through the family businesses financed by
the Pilot Program for Sustainable Tourist Businesses on the Coast. however a prepared
effort is needed to increase the competence of the economically active population, and
therefore their absorption by the bigger businesses or in better qualified jobs. Also, actions
are needed in the policy sphere to avoid the replacement of the local labor force by massive
spontaneous migration movements from the interior, which would have a negative social
and environmental impact such as youth delinquency, a pattern observed in the industrial
parks in the Sula Valley.
4.11. Gradual Participation
As a process it would be expected that the learning curve would have an increasing rate of
innovations and efficiency. The Project's logic should be based on the gradual increase of
social participation. On the one hand the Stakeholders Group should reach consensus on the
execution speed of the Project, especially the pilot experiences where the uncertainty of the
results is higher and rests on the people; on the other hand the three parts mentioned in the
general participation model will have to negotiate or integrate other governmental or
private learning efforts, for example literacy programs that should be a prerequisite for the
development of different phases of the Project.
5. Monitoring and Evaluation of the Participation Process
It is necessary to design a monitoring and evaluation system adapted to the concept of
participation as a process, where the actors partners of the Project have influence and share
control of the tourist development initiatives, decisions and resources that affect them. As
monitoring mechanisms, indicators will be used that can measure the maturity of the project
through the decision making, administration and implementation levels of the Project, and
the level of satisfaction of the stakeholders or local partners.
Regarding the decision making level, it will be analyzed what type of direction has been
established in the local governments, who has influence in the main decisions or what is the
most operational type of authority for the Project.
The implementation of the Project will lead to the monitoring of the participation, and
analyzes whether it is linked to participation in the decision making process and/or in
management, which are the main motivational basis of the local organizations and all actors
(the dynamics of leadership, the acceptation of the Project, the level of financial and other
support).
The satisfaction of the local partners can be monitored relating the degree of response given
by the Project to the needs and perspectives, what services or tourist production initiatives
are taking place, what indicators measure the satisfaction of the actors (high level of
participation in the organizations, apart from the project, high level of repayment in micro-
entrepreneurial activities, others).



1]
The evaluation of the participation of the local partners and the responsibility of
institutional leadership of the Project is an important criterion to take into consideration.
The evaluation will have to include the participation as a process, an input and at the same
time a result. As a process regarding the mobilization of the resources, organizational
decisions, implementation of initiatives, assumption of responsibilities. As a result
regarding the measurement of improvement of the local capacities to exercise influence on
the decision making level in a systematic and regular manner.
When executing the following complementary components: the formulation of a national
sustainable coastal tourism strategy, institutional strengthening and technical assistance for
the municipalities, and a pilot program for micro-enterprises, the evaluation manual will set
forth guidelines that measure the level of operational support to the beneficiaries, how
active and broad is the participation of local groups in the decision making that affect their
wellbeing, is the local participation maintained in a sustained manner especially when
contributing as a counterpart, has the Project achieved the strengthening of the organization
and management capacity of the grass-root organizations or has it helped them to create
new representative groups for collective actions.
6. Participation in the Training and Technical Assistance process
The participatory mechanisms will be used throughout training and technical assistance in
the sub-components of municipal strengthening, technical assistance in planning,
strengthening of the environmental units and training for micro-entrepreneurs. It is relevant
to point out that the purpose of promoting participation in the whole training is not that the
local organizations or beneficiaries learn to do everything, but for them to obtain the
management capacity and confidence in their own skills to select and execute feasible
initiatives that respond to their needs.
The base for participation in training will be defined by an efficient process of identifying
the demand both in the sphere of municipal strengthening as micro-entrepreneurial
strengthening, using mechanisms for promotion at institutional level and grass-root
organization at all levels, leadership and convening power of the municipality, inter-
institutional collaboration, among others.
7. Activities and Estimated Costs
Based on what is stated before, next are identified the activities to develop in the context of
the participation of the target population of the Project. To secure its satisfactory execution
the costs of the Participation Plan are estimated.
In chart 6, the budget per line of activities is based on assistance to approximately 64,000
participants, representing 10 % of the total population of the four departments involved in
the project.



12
Chart 6. Budget of Participation Plan
Strategies / activities                    Total      year I      year2      year 3
Creaion of Participation Structures                               59.188       19 73       19.73      19 73
Organizational Strengthening                                      114.954     38 298     38.298      38.298
Secure Access to Project Planning                                 154.738     51.580     51.580       51.58
Secure Access to Project Execution                               276.596      92.198     92.198      92.198
Partcipation in Monitoring, Evaluation and Reports                38.684      12.894      12.894     12.89
TOTAL GENERAL                               644.10     214.70      214.70     214.70



13
Action Program per Strategic component
Strategic     Activities 20001                        Activities 2002                            Activities 2003
Component
Strengthening *  Selection of techniical staff in     *  1'raining of techniical staff (trainers of   *  Dissemination of knowledge
of                cooperation with community             trainers)                                  on community level
Organization      organization                        *  Formulation, management and                (multiplying effect)
al Capacities  *  Traiiiing of technical staff (train the  administration of tourist projects    *  Taking measures, agreed by
trainers)                           *  Development of tourist products            all, for conservation of natural
*  Building of capacities according to     compatible with culture of people         environment that provides the
cultures of people involved            involved                                   raw material for production of
*  Exchange of experiences between    *  Incorporating quality control for craft     crafts
groups of producers, promoters and     production                             *  Pilot programs for
service suppliers with tourist      *  Land use proposal for tourism on           diversification of tourist offer
purposes                               North Coast                            *  Incorporation of a
*  Inter-institutional coordination    *  Consultation and agreement with            certification 'guarantee' of
(National Agricultural Itistitute,     NGOs for follow-up on a) sanitation        crafts made by Garifunas,
Registration of property,              and b) land use (external audit)           islanders and Miskitos.
Municipalities and Ministry of                                                *  Regional Forum for
Tourism) with the object of                                                       presentation of initiatives, and
sanitation in areas with tourist                                                  goals reached
Potential
Promotion of *  T raining in sustainable use of       *  Assessment of patterns of use of        *  Rescue and diversification of
conservation      natural resources                       traditional raw materials arid            traditional craft production
and adoption  *  Establishing mechanisms of               extractions of these with criteria of  *  Organization of regional craft
of sustainable    coordination with regional              sustainability                            and gastronomy fairs, by
tourist           representatives from SINAP          *  Exchange of experiences in                 technical staff
activities        (among others), local                   management of reservations in          *  Production of informative and
environmental NGOs and                 general, through sponsorship of short      formative leaflets as didactic
municipalities, to use their installed  time assistantships for technical staff   material for projection in
capacity for instruction purposes.     in training                                training centers of



14
*  Training in the sustainable use of    *  Program to rescue cultural values      communities with pilot
cultural resources                    (archaeological, history, oral tradition,  projects.
.  Establishing mechanisms for            music and dance, gastronomy, natural  *  Campaign to disseminate
coordination with regional            medicine                                  pilots in process to spread
representatives from IHAH (among  *  Formulation of initiatives to improve      first-hand knowledge, and
others), local environmental NGOs     the urban image by technical staff in    reproduction of experiences.
and municipalities, to use their      training with advice from private and
installed capacity for instruction    institutional experts
purposes.                          *  Follow-up on environmental and
cultural coordination
.  Feasibility studies of adding value to
selected cultural and natural resources  _-



15
T o secure a   *  To guarantee the incorporation of   *  Preparation of work plans with  *  Execution of work plans
better access    community organizationis in the     participation of actors in all stages of   *  Proposal for systemization of
to programs      technical advice team for tourist   process                                environmental and cultural
development and environmental    *  Monitoring of the first phase of       management on North Coast
management of municipalities       training in tourist development and  *  Development of a network for
*  To generate appropriate spaces for  environmental management and           commercialization of
equal participation of men and     incorporating necessary adjustments     sustainable tourist products of
women and also of young people    *  Feasibility studies of adding value to  the Nortlh Coast.
*  Training of technical advice team   selected natural and cultural resources
in tourist development and      *  Formulation of financing plans of
environmental management            micro and small enterprise
*  To identify proposals from
individuals and collectives that
could contribute to sustainable
tourism
*  Management training for micro and
small enterprise                       __                        ___
To secure    *  Dissemination of components of    *  Workshops for local and regional   *  Monitoring and evaluation
participation   project among target population      inductioni                             workshops
in monitoring  *  Technical training of advisor's team   *  Monitoring and evaluation workshops  *  Obtain new resources to
and             of project taking into account the                                          extend pilot.
evaluation      specific characteristics of Garifuna,
island and Miskito cultures
*  Identification of micro and small
enterprises
*  Building capacity among members
of communities to constructively
coach the different stages of the
_________ __   project                                                     __



Annex 2
Indigenous participation plan
1. Poverty level among indigenous people and Development
In Latin-America a relatively high percentage of the indigenous populations live in extreme
poverty and they live mainly in the rural area. However, nowadays large indigenous groups
live in the main urban centers of the subcontinent, for example, in Bolivia, in Mexico, in
Guatemala. In Honduras, the indigenous people still live in the traditional indigenous
regions with some isolated presence in the urban centers. The exception to this pattern are
the Garifunas, whose presence stands out in the two main urban centers of the country.
Poverty is not exclusively limited to the indigenous people, but they do belong to the
poorest of the poorest, As a consequence, the proposals to fight poverty also apply to them.
A recent study (Sirn 1997: v-vi and 1) proposes the following general strategies to fight
poverty specifically in Honduras, Guatemala, El Salvador and Nicaragua (where the total
number of poor is estimated at 18 million people, of whom almost two thirds live in the
rural regions, and more than a fourth are indigenous) (quoted literally):
i)    J1Meaasures to enhance a solid economic growth with more equity: removal of the
distortions that hinder the development of small and micro enterprises, public
investment programs that benefit the small producers and generate employment (for
example rural roads). and consolidation of the agrarian reform processes the
countries are carrying out.
ii)    Regarding social expenditure, to give priority to primary education and basic
health services (emphasizing the need to broaden access of the rural population),
and children s and maternal nutrition. Important are also the projects of vocational
training directed at supplying the specific demand for labor force, drinking water,
sewerage and environmental sanitation projects, and the social investment funds
directed at supporting productive projects.
iii)   Regarding the production, the following fields of action offer opportunities to
generate a significant increase of income and employment of the poor sectors:
- Broadening credil and lechnical advisory to the urban and rural micro
enterprise.
- Development of the small agricultural property
-  U sing the remittancefor productive purposes
-  Tourist programs that generate employment and demandfor handicrafts
-  Development of the apparel industry



2
2. Sustainable Development: Environment and Culture
Of the aforementioned fields of action, the only one that is innovating is the tourist
modality focussed on environment and culture and organized around small and micro
family enterprises.
The cultural and environmental heritage of each country forms the raw material for
sustainable development, and one of the most important expressions can be tourism.
Regarding the participation of the indigenous population in Honduras, it would be
translated in cultural and eco-tourism. All sustainable development should attain the
following objectives:
*  Economic: production of goods and services in an effective -manner
*  Environmental and cultural: the use of the natural and cultural resources, promoting
conservation and an adequate management of those resources, to maintain the
biodiversity and ecological integrity, as well as the authenticity of the tangible and not
tangible cultural expressions,
*  Social: the search for a better quality of life for the local population, tak-ing equity as the
main guideline (compare Moulin, 1993: 218).
The objective that requires more explanation is the set of cultural and environmental
objectives, biodiversity and the different cultural patterns of the populations that consider
the tropical forest as their natural habitat and ancestral land as well as the cloud forest; the
mangrove forest; the wetlands; the salt water lagoons and beaches of the Atlantic coast; the
Caribbean islands with their corral reefs, the north-eastern planes; the semiarid plateaus
covered with pine trees and the valleys between the mountains of the south-west, just to
mention a few of the more common Honduran ecosystems. Nature, in permanent
interaction with the culture of different people have promoted simultaneously the usage,
modification, alteration or degradation of these environments, therefore they are
inseparable.
3. Anthropological and Linguistic Profile of the Honduran North Coast
In anthropological and linguistic terms the Central-American geographic region is
understood as a point of convergence between two cultural areas: Mesoamerica and the
Intermediate Area. It is precisely on Honduran territory where this division between
indigenous people belonging formerly to those Mesoamerican cultures towards the north
and west and those belonging formerly to the cultures of Lower Central-America where the
chibchas traditions dominate (for more information on this dichotomy see Hasemann 1991),
could be made.
The proposed division that separates the aforementioned cultural areas runs along the so-
called Honduran Depression, following the course of the Ullua and Comayagua rivers and
extend beyond the Gulf of Fonseca to the coastal plains of Nicaragua to end in the Nicoya
peninsula of Costa Rica. The extensive region towards the east of Nicaragua and Honduras
is dominated by lower mountains that sometimes more gradually, sometimes more abruptly



give way to the Atlantic coast. The prevailing ethnic languages on the Honduran North
Coast are from east to west Miskito (Gracias a Dios department) and Garifuna (Colon,
Atlantida, Cortes and Bay Islands), with two Pech enclaves (Gracias a Dios and Colon).
The prevailing indigenous language in Gracias a Dios is Miskito, and in the other
departments on the coast Garifuna. All of them, including Pech, are written languages in
some degree. Of the ethnic languages spoken at the North Coast, Pech is without any doubt
the most endangered language due to the division of the original territory in isolated
centers, separated by relatively big distances.
The traditional habitat of the Garifunas extends along the North Coast over five
departments: Colon, Atlantida, Colon, the Bay Islands and in a lesser degree, Gracias a
Dios. The center of this ethnic population however is found in Colon and Atlantida, with
enclaves in the other three departments, as well as in the two main urban centers of the
country, Tegucigalpa and San Pedro Sula. The departments Atlantida and Cortes are
development centers with an urban tendency. The Bay Islands, on the other hand, is the
environment of the Island population with one of the highest socio-economic rates and
strong tourist development. However, regarding the Garifuna communities this could be
deceiving as many of them do not have those benefits, and it can be stated that they live in
pockets of poverty.
4. Notes on Demography
The national census of 1945 was the last one in the first half of the XX century, which
included details on the indigenous populations. In the next fifty years, onlv in the national
census of 1988 - also the last one of the century - a not very successful attempt was made to
include the indigenous population of the country, but the under- registration is significant.
There are estimates that at least seem to agree on that the Miskito and Garifuna populations
form the majority. The studies estimate the Garifuna population at around 100,000
members, the Miskito population at 30,000-35,000 and a maximum of 3,000 Pech. The
island population is estimated at 25,000 inhabitants. Both the Garifunas and the Miskitos
have expanded to the main urban centers outside of their traditional territory, and both cross
national borders, the first towards Guatemala and Belice, and the second to Nicaragua. Also
there are no precise data on the emigration to the U.S.A., more than a decade ago it was
estimated that there were more than 75,000 to 100,000 Garifunas from Honduras, Belice
and Guatemala in the U.S.A. (Gonzalez, 1988: 177 and 180). However, it is clear that the
indigenous population of Honduras is a minority compared to the mestizo population in the
country, including the North Coast.
5. Legal situation of the indigenous population
The Constitution of the Republic of Honduras (1982) adopts the conservation of the
anthropological riches (article 172), the preservation of the native cultures (article 173) and
the protection of the rights and interest of the indigenous population (article 346). The Law
on Education (1982) guarantees explicitly the preparation of special study plans for the
ethnic populations, that allow for the knowledge and usage of their native languages and
bilingual education, as well as the education of bilingual teachers and the production of
textbooks, dictionaries and technical instruments in their original languages (article 25).



4
Decree 84-85, Law for the Protection of the Cultural Heritage of the nation (1985),
establishes as cultural heritage, the toponymic wealth and the traditional culture of the
indigenous communities (article 5e), provides for the need to design and coordinate
programs for the cultural defense of the nation (article 31), and sanctions the traditional
reduction of the indigenous communities (article 38). Although Decree 220-97 overrules
Decree 84-85 and has become the new Law in this field (1997), it maintained the former
guidelines and included two numerals in Chapter IT on living cultures as part of the cultural
heritage, as follows:
9) " the cultural expressions of the living indigenous cultures, their languages, historic
traditions, knowledge and techniques, ways of organization, value systems, religious
practices and places associated with them, and
10) the cultural expressions of vernacular origin of anthropological and historic interest,
organizations and religious celebrations, music and dance, the prototypes of craft
production and culinary art, oral tradition"
Another law that contributes indirectly to the cause of the ethnic people is the General
Environmental Law, that in Title IV, Chapter III refers to the special support by the state to
the ethnic population to enjoy "in relation with their traditional systems of integral usage of
renewable natural resources, which should be studied in order to establish the feasibility as
a model of sustainable development " (Article 71).
Without any doubt the international norm with most impact and national validity is the
Covenant 169 on Indigenous People and Tribes in Independent Countries, issued by the
International Labor Organization (ILO) in 1989 and ratified by Honduras in 1995.
The following sections of Covenant 169 are relevant in this context:
* Part II: Land
* Part IV: vocational training, crafts and rural industries
* Education and media
* Part VII: contacts and cooperation across the borders (relevant in the case of the
bipartite or tripartite management of the biological corridors)
Article 23 is also relevant in this context:
1. Craftsmanship, rural and communal industries and traditional activities related with
the subsistence economy of the populations concerned, as hunting, fishing, hunting with
traps and gathering, should be recogni-ed as important factors to maintain the cultures
and their self-sufficiency and economic development. With the participation of these
populations, and when appropriate, the governments should ensure the strengthening
and enhancement of these activities.
2. At request of the populations concerned, appropriate financial and technical assistance
should be facilitated whenever possible taking into consideration the traditional



5
techniques and cultural characteristics of these people, and the importance ofsustained
and equal development.
Article 32 recognizes the fact that certain people were divided by the borders of modem
states, as is the case with the Miskitos and Tawahkas (Honduras-Nicaraga), the Chortis
(Honduras-Guatemala), and the Lencas (Honduras-El Salvador). In other cases, for
example the Garifunas (Honduras-Guatemala) the expansion of the population occurs after
the demarcation of the colonial borders and of the new Republic.
The governments should take measures, including through international agreements, to
fa2cilitate contacts and cooperation between the indigenous and tribal groups across the
borders, including activities in the economic, social, cultural, spiritual and environmental
sphere.
The efforts from ethnic organizations, associated in the National Confederation of
Autochthonous People of Honduras (CONPAH) culminated in 1993 with the signing of a
cooperation covenant with the Ministry of Education for the development of the bilingual
intercultural education. This lead little later, in August 1994, to the approval of the
Executive Agreement No. 0719-EP-94 that created the National Education Program for the
Autochthonous Ethnic People of Honduras (PRONEEAH), which later was ratified by
Decree 93-1997. This decree introduces an official change in the designation of this entity
as the National Education Program for the Autochthonous Ethnic and Afro-Caribbean
People of Honduras (PRONEEAAAH).
In the juridical rules aforementioned the cultural and linguistic diversity of the Honduran
societv is recognized. The challenge, therefore, lies in overcoming the ambivalence shown
by the dominating mestizo population and Spanish speakers regarding the ethnic
population.
6. Educational situation
The isolation of Gracias a Dios was not lifted until the arrival of the first official school
with Spanish-speaking teachers in 1950, the so-called "Cultural Mission for Honduran
Mosquitia". Information about the following decades is scarce, and what is known since
1980 to the middle of the 90s is that there was a high desertion and repetition rate and the
highest failing rate of the country. Practically all Miskito communities have a school and
the majority of the teachers are Miskitos (Lara Pinto: 79-80).
As of 1993 the Committee of Intercultural Bilingual Education of the Honduran Mosquitia
is established (CEBIMH) and a pilot program was started. This program has had permanent
linguistic advisory, has introduced textbooks in Miskito for First and Second Grade and has
trained Miskito teachers in using materials, with external financing and support from the
Ministry of Education through the Project of Quality Improvement of Basic Education
(PROMEB)(1996-2000). This support has made possible the approval of a widely
consulted proposal for the standardization of the Miskito writing, the training of a selected
group of teachers, the organization of a Bi-National Symposium (Honduras-Nicaragua), to



6
establish unified criteria and the preparation a Miskito grammar and dictionary, already
finished.
In their traditional area of residence, the Garifuna communities have extensively enjoyed
the benefits of the educational development of the North Coast, even though Spanish has
been the norm at school by Garifuna teachers. The process of incorporation into the
bilingual intercultural education has been slower than in the case of the Miskitos, but at
present, with technical and financial support from the PROMEB-Ministry of Education, a
consensus is reached on the standardization of the writing of this language, a selected group
of teachers has been trained, and a textbook for first Grade is finished in Garifuna, and
efforts have been undertaken to start the preparation of a dictionary.
The socio-ethnographic survey carried out for the purpose of this project made clear that
the critical moment of schooling for Garifuna men is at the end of the third cycle, or basic
plan. For women the critical moment is towards the end of primary school, in other words,
primary school is the end station for many Garifuna women. For the minority that manages
to stay in the system, secondary school tends to be the end station.
In 1994 there were fourteen school in traditional Pech territory, with seven trained Pech
teachers. The reigning rule, however, is still teachings in Spanish. Also the Pech population
has received support from the Ministry of Education through PROMEB to standardize the
writing of their language, prepare and print a first textbook for First Grade in Pech and to
start the process of preparing a dictionary.
The island population has received education in schools wvith Spanish speaking teachers
from the main land. In the context of PROMEB, the Ministry of Education carried out a
sociolinguistic diagnosis in 1997-1998, training of island teachers on the topic, the writing
of the vernacular was documented, and the culinary tradition was rescued.
In the socio-ethnographic survey, both island men and women proved to have a limited
access to the first two levels of basic education. The critical point for both was towards the
end of the first cycle (1-3 grades), and those than managed to continue face another critical
point towards the end of the third cycle (7-9 grades) which becomes the end station for
women.
7. Health Situation
Apart from the hospitals in the main urban centers of the North Coast, there are health
centers in Corozal, Sambo Creek, Nueva Armenia, Santa Fe, Rio Esteban. Castilla, Santa
Rosa de Aguon, and Limon and Sangrelaya.
According to the socio-ethnographic survey, the population in general, including the
mestizo population and island populations, consider the main health problems to be
respiratory infections and parasitic infections, followed immediately by HIV/AIDS. On the
other hand, both Garifuna men and women consider HIV/AIDS to be the main health
problem, without regard of their schooling level. In fact the Garifuna population has a high
rate of infection due to their migration patterns and sexual practices. Some information is



7
extremely alarming such as what is known of the village of Corozal, close to La Ceiba,
where it is said that 25 % of the population is affected (Sanchez 1995:20). Malnutrition is
considered to be a minor problem on the North Coast.
The socio-ethnographic evaluation shows that the population has received information from
at least four sources, the main information source being the Ministry of Health through
talks in schools and health centers; followed at some distance by television, radio and
newspapers. However, only half of the sample said to have participated in these caunpaigns.
The participation of churches, ethnic organizations, NGOs and municipalities regarding the
prevention of the disease is not significant. The municipalities contribute little, but the
contributions of the NGOs is even less.
Apparently, a higher or lower schooling level is not the key factor for Garifuna men and
women regarding the awareness, as in the Colon department they have the lowest schooling
level of the sample. It seems there are other mechanisms involved.
8. Operational use of the Cultural and Natural Diversity: the Sustainable Use of the
Biodiversity for the Production of Crafts.
The Garifuna, island, Miskito and Pech populations have diverse potential opportunities
that can be used:
* marketable performances (song, dance, theatre, legends and myths)
  guided tours of local fauna and flora, using observatories with groups; the better trained
guides could for example produce manuals, guidebooks, culinary books and books on
the use of medicinal plants)
* production of crafts using articles of daily life: kitchen utensils, canoes, traps for
fishing, pottery, weaving, etc.
- production of articles for daily usage (belts, wallets, leather bags, dishes of clay and
wood, bags of natural fibers)
* artistic expressions in clay, fibers, wood, cloth, metal.
9. The Authenticity and Quality of Crafts Production
Without quality it is not possible to develop a permanent competition and sale of the
product to national visitors, much less international visitors. The authenticity is a critical
factor of crafts' production, therefore it is necessary to establish a balance between the
innovations and the cultural tradition, and not search and find inspiration in other cultures.
A trial and error process is necessary, of course, for which the authenticity should be
declared the criterion for all crafts' production.
The crafts' production for consumption and marketing, as well as the artistic production in
traditional materials, can contribute to the conservation of autochthonous flora that in the
modern context has no use cultivating, or protecting its spontaneous growth, as they are
being substituted by plastic or metal, or synthetic pharmaceuticals or mass production (all
plants to make tea for example).



8
The production chain can also diversify between those that a) produce or gather traditional
raw material and market them and b) those that produce them and market them too.
Marketing is a problem because if it is not the producers, craftsmen or artists that market
the products or participate equally in marketing, then they are not the main beneficiaries,
and a vicious circle of intermediaries is started. In the worst case the final prices for the
consumer are set by local chiefs or national or foreign sellers with economic power, in
other words the producers, craftsmen or artists do not participate in the benefits generated
by their efforts, time and creativity. Of course, some artists and craftsmen will build the
capacity to represent themselves on a large scale, or include intermediaries for the benefit
of both parties.
The diversity of the production by local craftsmen is critical, as otherwise there is the
danger of mass production to the detriment of the quality and individual creativity. The
result is that the national tourist or foreigner only buys one object from the hands of the
craftsman with the lowest price, as there are no differences in production, presentation or
quality of the product.
10. Tourism and its Implications for Culturally Different Populations
Two decades ago it was internationally proclaimed (Manila Declaration of the ILO in 1980)
that tourism has social and cultural consequences, apart from the economic consequences
and its educational and spiritual role (Moulin, 1993: 214), in other words tourism is a
complex, global phenomenon that involves people and their cultures. The statement made
by the ILO in 1985 already established the spirit of the more recent definitions: cultural
tourism, in its strict sense includes movement of people for educational reasons, attending
festivals, observing dances and other folkloric expressions, pilgrimages, visits to
archaeological sites, monuments and historic centers, in its broadest sense tourism includes
all types of mobilization with the purpose of broadening the education of people, allowing
them new knowledge, experiences and meetings.
The cultures represented by the autochthonous people of Honduras are fragile. This
fragility is due to the fact that they are a minority compared to the rest of the population of
the country, the diminished usage of their languages, the fast reduction of their traditional
habitats and the gap between their traditional techniques and the new economic structures.
Adding the high growth rate of the majority population and their extreme mobility towards
the production centers and the areas commonly considered 'empty' and which are precisely
the last bastions of the indigenous territories. The lack of knowledge of the majority
population regarding the traditional autochthonous cultural patterns and the simplification
of these patterns as childish folklore, hinder the recognition of the value of different ways
of thinking and of living.
It is not unknown that the local policies and control mechanisms, administration and
management in countries in development still present problems. The concept that the
development of tourism will resolve all or part of the problems, ignores the fact that tourist
development also means profound changes above all in biologically and culturally fragile
spheres, as we already explained. Some of the more immediate and concrete modifications



9
are the increase of prices for the local population, and the establishment (semi-permanent
during the season, or permanent) of many people with new and sometimes incompatible
lifestyles in terms of the local population. Depending on the case, a deficient management
and timid participation by the local population could lead to one of the most discouraging
panoramas: the majority of the investmnent escapes the places with the cultural and natural
attractions; over-exploitation of the area or region; multiplication of the deficiencies in
infrastructure; pollution and degradation of the environment, and the distortion,
simplification or parody of the cultural practices to satisfy the mass market.
In the specific case of the Garifunas, however there are at least two initiatives that are
worthwhile analyzing during the search for appropriate models: the artistic performances of
theatre, dance and music of the group organized by a professional in drama (Louvabagu or
the Other Far End and Dancing with the Souls) and the INCORPORE proposal (1998) for
the rescue and transmission of the ancients knowledge to the young generation.
On the contrary, tourism can fulfil its already accepted role as an instrument for education,
creating environmental awareness and as an instrument that can support the financing of
conservation and promotion of sustainable local development (Celecia 1993: 158). But
without loosing out of sight that sustainable development will have to be tied to the specific
characteristics of the ecosystems and the cultural identity of the people, as well as the equal
distribution of the benefits (Arenas Bianchi 1993: 203).
It is well known that badly planned environmental impacts have caused the shortage of
basic services, the destruction of natural habitats (beaches, lagoons and mangrove areas, the
extinction of species, the pollution of sees and rivers, the loss of the image and
characteristics of the place (Bacci 1993: 207). As a consequence the respect for the
diversity should apply not only to the biological surroundings but also to the culture of the
inhabitants of these surroundings.
11. Criteria for a Link between Tourism and Sustainable Development
There is a general agreement that in an equal relationship between tourism and sustainable
development the following criteria should apply: involvement of all actors, especially the
local population; to provide basic services on a regular basis, the lack of those affects more
heavily the small and medium sized hotels and the complementary services where the
majority of the investment possibilities for the local population are found; to establish a
normative framework to avoid and counterattack the real estate activities and land
speculation, the economic benefits should contribute to improve the basic services such as
water, electricity, health, education, building of roads and airports - if necessary - the
disposal of solid waste and sewage; to know and recognize the mistakes made in the past
regarding the traditional normative planning of tourism; establishing the maximum
potential and effective management of the target areas of the projects (Bacci 1993: 207-
208).
Cultural tourism can work when the culture belongs genuinely to the receiving community,
the latter should not offer their culture as a tourist product at the expense of their dignity
and authenticity. On the other hand, it should be taken into account that investment in local



10
human capital is good business, and instead of generating more traditional employment it is
necessary to create others based on the craft and artistic potential, for example of the local
population. Therefore incentives should be created for the local population as an alternative
for the indiscriminate use of the resources (Bacci 1993: 209).
12. Co-participation and Management by the Indigenous People in the Context of the
North Coast and the Bay Islands.
In the socio-ethnographic survey it is clear that the local population, as well as the
indigenous population with whom they share the environment, are well informed on the
existing natural and cultural resources. The co-participation of the Garifunas, island
population, Miskitos and Pech in the management and administration of cultural and
natural tourism, seems above all appropriate for the wild life refuge Cuero y Salado, the
National Park Punta Sal, the National Marine Park of the Bay Islands, the National Park
Capiro y Calentura and the Wild Life Refuge of the Guaymoretto Lagoon.
In chart 2 are shown the categories used by the informants in the socio-ethnographic
survey, separating natural riches from constructed heritage. The latter refers to
archaeological sites, historic monuments and centers, that form the vestiges of cultures that
have disappeared, or that have preserved a connection with the present.
13. From Theory to Practice: the Garifunas
There is a series of studies on the living conditions of the different indigenous population,
but none of them addresses the topic as systematically as the one on the poverty conditions
and marginalization of the Garifuna communities (Sanchez 1995). This study will be used
as a point of reference for the problems related to any future tourist development. The
indicators used in this study measure the percentage of families with unsatisfied basic
needs. These needs are related to available rooms (crowded housing with 3 or more people
per room, excluding the bathroom and the kitchen), water sources and the access to them
(without pipes and distance to source); sewerage system; access to education and
subsistence capacity (Sanchez 1995: 33).
The departments with the highest number of rural Garifuna communities are Colon and
Atlantida, which are also the departments that are home to the majority of the Garifuna
population. The more serious cases of crowded housing conditions are found in the rural
communities of Atlantida and the access to drinking water is critical in Atlantida, Colon
and Gracias a Dios; the most severe situation regarding drinking water has been reported in
Iriona and Balfate, in the Colon department, as well as in Brus Laguna, in the Gracias a
Dios department. The disposal of sewage is deficient in Gracias a Dios and Colon, with the
Bay Islands not far behind. The most urgent need for a sewerage system was detected in
Iriona, Santa Rosa de Aguan and Brus Laguna. In general, all rural Garifuna communities
need sewerage systems, above all in Colon, and Gracias a Dios, and in the municipality
Jose Santos Guardiola in RoatAn. The access to education is a big problem in the rural
communities, especially in Colon and Atlantida. Finally, the subsistence capacity refers to
households with unsatisfied basic needs, based on an economic responsibility for three
people per person employed, and a head of family with 0-3 years of schooling; or based on



11
0-1 person employed with more than 3 people at home, and a head of famly without
employment or unable to work. In general, the Bay Islands have the lowest UBN in the
country, in relative terms, however the community Jose Santos Guardiola where the
Garifuna communities live, are in the worst position compared to the rest of the Roatan
island.
The evaluation of the situation by the municipality of Iriona, Colon, confirmed the fact that
the families in each home are large; that the water comes from wells, except for those
communities where the AID/SANAA project has already arrived; that there is no sewerage,
and that there are only a few latrines. Regarding the subsistence capacity, the rural Garifuna
communities use fishing, planting and migrant work for payment in cash. Education is
considered to be important, and the majoritv of the children in these communities attend
school.
The Garifuna population, especially the rural population, live in poverty conditions that are
getting worse due to the loss of land and the lack of services. What has prevented them
from falling back to a level of destitution is their subsistence capacity such as fishing, and
planting yam, rice, corn and beans, as well as their tradition of loyalty to the family that is
translated in the financial transfer by migrant workers to the local population. The financial
transfer consists of remittance send periodically for subsistence, improvement and
construction of housing, educational expenses. Also, Gracias a Dios and Colon are among
the three departments with the lowest investment levels of the country (Sanchez 1995).
The situation of the Garifunas makes clear that to create tourist programs that generate
employment and demand for craftsmanship, the communities should be provided with
drink-ing water and sewerage systems on the short terrn. The Honduran Social Investment
Fund (FHIS) has established programs for the benefit of indigenous populations through the
execution of small projects of social infrastructure in health and education. These projects
could be expanded to environmental sanitation, among others, to address the problematic of
inefficient or non-existence of infrastructure.
On the other hand, it is necessary to establish programs for credit and technical assistance
to the tourist enterprise. Simultaneously and at the medium term the legalization of
indigenous land should continue as wvell as land use planning, while for the medium and
long term health and education should improve to guarantee the sustainability for the next
generation.
In Central-America around half of the forest that existed in 1950 has been destroyed (Sin'
1997: 25). Although the farmers have not been the main cause of destruction, they do use
firewood as their main source of fuel and slashes ecologically fragile lands for short term
cultivation (Siri 1997: 24). Paradoxically, the farmer contributes to the environmental
deterioration and is at the same time the main victim. The deforestation, over-exploitation
and inadequate cultivation techniques on the hillsides with as a result the erosion of the soil,
changes in the water cycle, and water pollution which are a serious constraint for the
development in general, and the tourist development in particular. In the context of the
North Coast, the most important use of the forest according to the socio-ethnographic
survey is the production of wood for local consumption. However, the extraction of
firewood comes second, mainly by the Garifuna population.



12
14. Sustainable Development with Gender Approach
In first place it is necessary to point out " the fact that women are the indispensable vehicle
for the transmission of development to other generations because of the fundamental role
they play in the education of the human capital (as mothers, in education and health of their
children) and of course also regarding the process of accumulating physical capital (given
her tendency for saving and her capacity to organize and run small businesses)"
(Siri 1997: v).
Also women have proven to have more capacity to handle loans (and take advantage of
income received through family remittance), organize and run small businesses, which is
the reason that many micro-credit programs are focussed on women. However, the increase
of credit to the micro-entrepreneur should be accompanied with technical assistance and
training in aspects related to the production and management of the enterprise
(bookkeeping, marketing, among others). In this area, the contribution of non-governmental
organizations has been decisive (Sin' 1997: 31).
Women form the majority in the Garifuna communities for a large part of the year, due to
seasonal fishing, salaried migrant work, or more recently, the semi-permanent emigration to
the U.S.A. Historically, because of this migrant pattern of adult men, women have been
responsible for the household and they have had the responsibility for making decisions.
This state of affairs has also generated the cooperation between women in works for the
common good.
15. Project for Cultural Rescue UNDP/IAIAH/COHDEFOR (1994-1996)
In the last decade new and well intentioned initiatives arose that were not able to attain the
objectives, but can serve as an example regarding the difficulties met. One of these
initiatives is the Project of Cultural Rescue, that because of its size deserves a separate
chapter.
The main goal of this project that lasted for three years and with a total cost of US $ 1.5
million, was to protect ecologically fragile zones through the establishment of new reserves
in the regions inhabited by indigenous populations (Miskitos, Tawahkas and Pech) and
Garifunas in the departments Gracias a Dios, Olancho and Colon. Therefore feasible
economic altematives were identified that involved the appropriate management and
rational use of the natural resources based on their own culture. The project was divided in
three modules:
I.    Consolidation of Traditional Settlements in Ecologically Fragile Zones
II.   Strengthening of the Self-Management Capacity of the Community
III.   Generation of Social-Productive Projects
In the II Module, a training plan was included according to the needs of the participating
communities, among others, in management of eco-tourism and principles of commercial



13
bargaining. Also, in Module IIII the preparation of a diagnosis wvas foreseen as well as
proposals for the promotion of ecotourism that included feasibility studies and ecotourist
pre-investment studies, taking into consideration the natural, cultural, handicrafts and
archaeological attractions. In that context it was hoped that the successful experiences with
ecotourism and cultural tourism managed by indigenous groups in other countries of the
area could be shared, and to create an exchange. It was also planned to excavate
archaeological sites selected for restoration and possible tourist exploitation. Of course, in
the plan was included the production of crafts, dance, music, gastronomy and oral tradition;
identification of craftsmen and documentation of the crafts production processes and
cultural expression. Finally, it was proposed to carry out a marketing study in the national
and international tourist centers (UNDP/lH.AHI Work Plan. Project Document. (Without
date).
The goals and expected results of ecotourism and cultural tourism were really ambitious, as
they combined research, documentation, rescue, installation, preparation of sites for
visitors, promotion and marketing of products in three years. The obstacles were big and
the results were small. One of the most important lessons was, without any doubt, to deal
with the multiple and diverse interests of each population in a shared territory, but with a
different approach from different perspectives of subsistence and different aspirations.
Therefore it is vital for the success of future programs and projects to take into account the
need to find a common denominator that allows for certain joint actions, at the same time
recognizing the specific characteristics of each population and diversifying their
participation in the cultural and ecological tourist enterprise, according to their
idiosyncrasies and potential. Another important lesson was that the research, documentation
and rescue should have been done with certain established scientific parameters whose
objectives are justified and not in termns of whether or not they can become tourist products.
The possible selective preparation of finds as a product of cultural or ecological tourism
whose development is complementary and feasible or even desirable in cooperation with
local population and entities specialized in the field, but can not become the main goal of
the research.
16. Education of the Public and Raising Awareness.
Finally, it is necessary to mention that the search for solutions implies a collective
awareness raising regarding the real existence of indigenous people as differentiated groups
with specific rights sanctioned by the national and international law ratified by Honduras.
This awareness requires the education of the citizens regarding their origin, the need to
protect the constructed heritage of all ages, the right of the living indigenous populations
and the recognition of the richness and potential of the cultural diversity for sustainable
development, as well as the biological diversity. Next are presented the actions proposed by
Moulin ( 1993 :221) in that sense:
* Educational programs at different levels (community, region, nation) stressing the ties
between the natural and cultural environment.
* Communication strategy with the tourist industry to promote the knowledge on the
constructed and cultural heritage.



14
*  A more precise comprehension of the tourist phenomenon, which includes tourist
experience, cultural integrity and authenticity, the preservation of resources, and the
relationship nature-culture.
*  An ethical code and practices that include social and ethical responsibilities for the local
population, the tourists and the tourist industry.
The result will be the creation of an image of a multicultural country with a vast
biodiversity and a tourist product based on sustainability and co-participation.



15
Chart 1. Population of the influence area, per department
Indicador      I Atiintida      Colon           Cortes              Bay Islands
Population     lUrban: 158,767  lUrban: 56,107 lUrban: 578,510    I
1999            Rural: 171,019  Rural:           Rural: 307,570   |
Total: 329,786  159,082          Total: 886,080      Total 1997:
Total: 215,189 (Omoa and Puerto  26,700
Cortes = 105,360)
Income, 1999   Urban: 0.355      Urban: 0.302   Urban: 0.396
Rural:  0.303    Rural: 0.255    Rural: 0.358
I Difference:     Difference:     Difference: 9.7%
n14.7%                   4 15.6%  
Global fertility  Urban: 3.53      Urban: 4.60    Urban: 2.79
per area of     Rural: 5.96      Rural:  6.27   Rural:  5.17
residence, 1999
jAverage age    More than 18    Less than 17   More than 20
1998
Life            Women: 71.19  Women:              Women: 71.94       Global  1997:
Expectancy      Men: 62.53       168.25           Men: 63.95        165.0
[1999            _                Men: 59.82   _.
Schooling       3..95            2.70            4. 55
(years), 1997   L                                                                   l
Expenditure in  $ 64.0            $69.1           $ 68.4
|education in $
lper capita 1998 I _               _
Malnutrition   1 34.2             33.5           129.8
Irate           l                 l               l                  i    _l
Expenditure in  $ 20.5           1 $ 7.9          $ 15.2
health in $ per
|capita, 1998    1                1               l       _                          l
I Human         I Urban 1999:    1 Urban 1999:   1 Urban 1999: 0.617 1
Development  1 0.597              0.580           Rural 1999:
Index          IRural 1999:       Rural 1999:    0.568
10.519           10.440           _                   _    _     _
Human          10.718             0.683           0.778
Development
I1ndex per
Gender, 1999                                      _______
l Total affected  1131             336             246                3
population per
1,000 (Mitch) | _                                ! _                                I
Source: Report on Human Development. Honduras 1999:19.21.24,47and 50no similar data available for the Bay Islands. those
mentioned are taken from page 69)



16
Cuadro 2. Natural and Cultural Reso rces per Municipality (Socio-ethnog aphic evalu tion)
Colon         Micro- watersheds        Mountain/Forest    i Protected         Beaches    Cultural
Departme  /rivers                                              Areas                       Resources
nt                                                             National
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ P ark_ _     _  _ _   _ _  _  _ _  _
Balfate,      Las Golondrinas (MC)     Cauca                   Quinsina       Rio Esteban
Bonito        Las Barrancas (MC)                               Los Mangos    Quebrada
Oriental,     Palos de Agua (MC)                                              Grande
Saba,         Tocoa
Sonaguera     AguanI
and Tocoa
Iriona and    Inguy                    Limon                                  Cusuna       National
Lim6n         Sangrelava               Zacatal                                Ciribova    I Monument:
Negro                    Guay                                   Iriona      ISan Fernando de
Sico                                                            Nacional del Omoa
Creek del Frijol                                                Caribe
Trujillo                                                       Capiro y       Trujillo     National
Calentura      Castilla     Monuments:
Guavmoreto                  Santa Barbara
Lagoon                      Fortress
Discovery Cross
(Cruz del
Descubrimiento)
Archaeological
site:
Rivera del
4       ~~~Pedregal
jAtlantida   T                                                                             I
Department|                                    
LaCeiba      | Cangrejal               I El Peru               Pico Bonito    Sambo        Archaeological
Juana Leandra            Mountain range         Cuero v Salado  Creek        sites:
Vera Danto's House       Nombre de Dios                         Corozal      La Colorada
Trail El Zacate                        El PeTui    Toncontin Tombs
| La Cciba    Cruz dcl Pcrd6n
Tela          Negro                                            Punta Izopo    Ensenada    Archaeological
Quebrada Grande                                 Jeannette       Tela         sites
Platano                                         Kawas           Tornabe      El Diamante
Los Micos                                       Punta Sal      | San Juan    | Lagoon
Lancetilla                                      Laguna de Los  El Triunfo
Micos          El Diamante
Lancetilla     Lagoon                        j
Laguna Negra
I _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   | P unta  _  __ _
El Porvenir,   Papaloteca               Tierra Amarilla        Pico Bonito     Porvenir     Archaeological
La Masica     Cuero                                            Cuero y Salado  Nueva        site:
and Jutiapa    Barra Salado                                                    Armenia      French Cemetery,
Bonito                                                          Boca         1800-1825
Perla                                          I                cerrada
San Juan                                                        Thompson
| _________ _  IZacate                  _                     |                _            _     _i
| Santa Fe   |Aguan                                                           Nacional    - Archaeological
Buey                                                            Santa Fe     site:
Guadalupe   El Diamante
I_________  I________________   I_______________  _San   Antonio    ILagoon



17
ICortes         Rivers          [Mountain/Forest |Protected    I Beaches               Cultural
Department                                            I Areas                         Resources
National
Park                          _
Omoa           Chamelec6n                                              Rio Coto       Archaeological
Chachaguala                                            Tulian          site:
Omoa           San Fernando de
Chivana        Omoa
Masca
Pueblo Nuevo  Archaeologicial
Muchilena     site:
I               Piedra de la
Concha
Puerto Cortes  Chamelec6n       Bella Vista                            Cortes         National
Encinal                               Saraguayna    Monument:
Sierra de Omoa                        Coca Cola      San Fernando de
Bajamar        Omoa
Travesia      I
Archaeological
Site:
______________   ___________________                                   M onticulos
[ Bay Islands
Roatan y                        El Bight               Cayos           Shalow Bay   National
J.S.Guardiola                   Ensenada               Cochinos        Flowers Bay   Monument:
Janes Ville           French Harbor  Watering        Punta Gorta
I  Coral Ref    Place
Satuye         Half Moon       Archaeological
Bay            sites:.
Oak Ridge      Jerico
West End       Paya cemetery
Sprint
French Harbor
Roatan
Cayos
Pandy Town
Sandy Bay
I _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   I _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   I _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _    I _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   |C oxen    H ole
Guanaja                                                Arrecife       j Mangrove       Archaeological
Coralino        Bight         I sites:
Playa Soldado  Guanaja         Marble Hill
Banaca         Caves
Savannah       West Treake
Bight          ( sic) Point
East End      I Piedra Colon
|  j  l         |              | Paya Cemetery
_____________   _______________   j ___________________    j _____________  _____________   P lan    G ran de
Utila                                                  Key's Coral    Cayos            Archaeological
Reef            Utila          sites:
Bamb6~
Caves
I _________    ___________ I ______________    __________    __________                  Camino  de
i   i      I                     I  .            |               | Je~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1ricoj



18
HONDURAS
SUSTAINABLE TOURISM PROJECT
Indigenous Development Plan
People       | Basic         Land ownership  Education           Health
information on
population
Garifuna      Including      Inter-institutional Continuing the    1 Coordination of
culturally     commission for  institutionalization Ministry of
appropriate    cleaning property process of        Health with
questions on the titles and     I intercultural    ethnic
ethnic origin in  controlling land   bilingual     organizations,
the National    speculation in    education. Follow- NGOs, and
2001 Census.   tourist          up on provision    municipalities for
Agreed         development      with technical and  HIVJAIDS
participation of areas (INA,    financial support   prevention
trained garifuna Property       by the Secretary of campaigns.
surveyors      Register,        Education to       Investigation on
Municipalities    prepare and      migration
l  and            validate the basic  patterns and
I Neighborhood    didactic materials l sexual behavior
organizations).   in Garifuna      according to own
Organization of  language, training  cultural
independent      teachers and      parameters.
I corps of advisors  raising awareness  Design of agreed
lon land         among parents.    upon and
ownership and                      culturally
I cleaning land                     different
titles providing                   I campaign by
I services to                      i Ministry of
individuals and                    Health with
collectives                       I ethnic
(through NGO)                      organizations,
NGOs and
,____________  I_____  .municipalities.
Island population  Including  Inter-institutional Continuing the  Coordination of
i  culturally   commission for  institutionalization Ministry of
appropriate    cleaning property process of        Health with
questions on the titles and     intercultural      ethnic
I ethnic origin in  controlling land   bilingual    organizations,
the National    speculation in    education. Follow- NGOs, and
12001 Census.   tourist          up on provision    municipalities for
I Agreed        development      with technical and  HIV/AIDS
participation of areas (INA,     financial support   prevention
trained        Property          by the Secretary of campaigns.
____________ ^islanders       Register,        Education to      research on



19
People         Basic            Land ownership { Education             Health
information on
population        |
surveyors        Municipalities    rescue traditional   migration
I and              uses as part of the  patterns and
Neighborhood      instruction         sexual behavior
organizations).    material.          according to own
Organization of                       cultural
independent                           parameters.
corps of advisors                     Design of agreed
on land                               upon and
ownership and                         culturally
cleaning land                         different
titles providing                      campaign with
services to                           gender approach  I
individuals and                       by Ministry of
collectives                           Health with
(through NGO)                         ethnic
organizations,
NGOs and
_____________   _______________   _________________  __________________   m unicipalities.  I~~~~~I  m u iciD a ities



20
HONDURAS
SUSTAINABLE TOU-RISM PROJECT
Indigenous Devlopment Plan
People      I Basic         Land ownership  Education          Health
information on
population
Miskitos     Including      Outline of the    Motivation and    Coordination of
(Population   culturally    housing situation  support to      Ministry of
groups in    appropriate    in urban contexts community        Health with NGO
urban centers) questions on the to solve possible  initiatives for  for HTV/AIDS
ethnic origin in  inmigrant    maintaining       prevention
the National   I situation.    Miskito in contexts campaigns.
12001 Census    Organization of  outside school.    Investigation on
Iindependent    I Training of young  migration
corps of advisors promoters by adult patterns in urban
on land        I speakers for    I centers and
ownership and   teaching and      sexual behavior
cleaning land    I maintaining    according to own
titles providing   Miskito language.  cultural
I  services to                     parameters.
individuals and
collectives               a
L                    6 ~~~~~(through NGO)|l
Pech (villageMth  Including  Outline of land   Motivation and    Coordination of
enclave
eharactenstics in  tculturally  ownership    support to        Ministry of
proximity of    appropriate    situation to  community         Health with NGO
I Trujillo)  I questions on the propose solutions initiatives for  for HIV/ATDS
ethnic origin in  to possible  maintaining Pech   prevention
the National    conflicts.     in contexts outside campaigns.
2001 Census    Organization of  school. Training of Investigatioon on
independent     young promoters  sexual behavior  I
corps of advisors by adult speakers  according to own
on land         for teaching and   I cultural
ownership and    maintaining Pech   parameters.
cleaning land    language.
titles providing
services to
individuals and
collectives
l___________ l_____________ (through NGO)  |        _l_l



21
Bibliographic References
Bacci, Maria Eugenia
Turismo: Estrategia de Desarrollo Sostenible o Catalizador de la Nostalgia. En Planes y
Perpectivas de Desarrollo Sostenible en la Region del Mundo Maya. Seminario Taller
Internacional. Chichicastenango, 28 de marzo-2 de abril de 1993.Proyecto Regional para el
patrimonio Cultural, Urbano y Natural-Ambiental. PNUDIUNESCO. Lima. 1993. Pp. 205-
210.
Bianchi, Cynthia
La Enfermedad "Gubida" y los Estados de Tensi6n en una Comunidad Garifuna de
Honduras: Algunas Consideraciones Psicol6gicas, Socioculturales y Medicas. Yaxkin
Vol.X, No. 1. 1986. Pp. 1-15.
BID
Estrategia para la Reducci6n de la Pobreza Rural. Division de Medioambiente.
Departamento de Desarrollo Sostenible. Banco Interamericano de Desarrollo. Washington,
D.C. 1998.
BID
La Mujer en las Americas. C6omo cerrar la Brecha entre los Generos. Banco
Interamericano de Desarrollo. Washington, D.C. 1996.
BM
Proyectos del Banco Mundial en Honduras. Informacion para la Prensa. Banco Mundial.
Washington. D.C. 1998.
Clark, J.R., A. H. Smith, P.K. Dederich, K. Koch, L. Sarmiento, J. Short, J. S. Short
Coastal Resources Management Program for the Bay Islands, Honduras. French Harbour.
1988.
CATN/CSDP/ACAOSH
Desarrollo Sostenible y Altemativas Econ6micas. Taller Indigena Centoramericano. Centro
para el Apoyo a Tierras Nativas/Centro Skoki para los Derechos de los Pueblos/Asociacion
de Consejeros para una Agricultura Organica, Sostenible y Humana. Valle de Angeles. 25-
29 de agosto de 1997. San Jose. 1998.
Convenio No. 169
Sobre Pueblos Indigenas y Tribales en Paises Independientes. Departamento de Normas
Intemacionales del Trabajo. Organizacion Intemacional del Trabajo (OIT). 1989. Editorial
Guaymuras. Tegucigalpa, M.D.C. 1994.
Cruz. Gustavo
Guia de los Parques Nacionales, Refugios de Vida Silvestre, Reservas Biologicas y
Monumentos Naturales de Honduras. Asaociaci6n Hondurefia de Ecologia. Tegucigalpa,
D.C. 1986.



22
CSUCA
Cultura Tradicional Hoy y las Expresiones Artisticas Profesionales en Centroamerica. I
Encuentro. Tela, Atlantida, octubre de 1996. Confederaci6n Universitaria Centroamericana.
San Jose. 1997.
Chiriboga, Manuel, Rebeca Grynspan y Laura Perez
Mujeres de Maiz. Programa de Analisis de la Politica del Sector Agropecuario frente a la
Mujer Productora de Alimentos en Centroamerica y Panama. Banco Interamericano de
Desarrollo y Instituto Interamericano de Cooperacion para la Agricultura. San Jose. 1995.
Davidson. William
Etnohistoria Hondurefia: La llegada de los Garifunas a Honduras, 1797. Yaxkin Vol. VI .
1983. Pp. 88-105.
Decreto Numero 99-87
Creaci6n del Refugio Fundaci6n Cuero y Salado y Personeria Juridica. Tegucigalpa, D.C.,
1989.
Edwards, Mike (con fotografias de David Alan Harvey)
Honduras: Eye of the Storm. National Geographic, Novemver 1983. Pp. 605-636.
FerrAn, F.I.
Los Restos de la Opulencia: Estudio Socioambiental del Refugio de Vida Silvestre, Barras
de Cuero y Salado. Programa de Manejo Integrado de Recursos Naturales. CATIE.
Turrialba. 1991.
FHIS
Propuesta y Presupuesto para la Sistematizaci6n de los Resultados del Programa "Nuestras
Raices". Fondo Hondurefio de Inversi6n Social. Tegucigalpa, M.D.C. 1998. (Documento
fotocopiado.)
G6mez-Pompa, Arturo
La Conservaci6n de la Biodiversidad Tropical: Obligaciones y Responsabilidades. En
Planes y Perpectivas de Desarrollo Sostenible en la Region del Mundo Maya. Seminario
Taller Internacional. Chichicastenango, 28 de marzo-2 de abril de 1993.Proyecto Regional
para el patrimonio Cultural, Urbano y Natural-Ambiental. PNUD/iJNESCO. Lima. 1993.
Pp 145-150.
Gonzalez, Nancie L.
Sojourners of the Caribbean. Ethnogenesis and Ethnohistory of the Garifuna. University of
Illinois Press. Urbana y Chicago. 1988.
Gonzalez, Nancie L. y Charles Cheek
Patr6n de Asentamiento de los Caribes negros a principios del Siglo XIX en Honduras: La
Busqueda un Modo de Vida. Yaxkin Vol. XI, No. 2.1988. pp. 90-108.



23
Holdridge, L.R.
Ecologia basada en Zonas de Vida. IICA. San Jose. 1978.
IHAH
Ley para la protecci6n del Patrimonio Cultural de la Naci6n (Decreto 220-97). Instituto
Hondureiio de Antropologia e Historia. La Gaceta, Repuiblica de Honduras. 21 de febrero
de 1998. Tegucigalpa, M.D.C. pp. 5-9.
UIAH
Mapa de Artesanias. Instituto Hondurefio de Antropologia e Historia. Tegucigalpa, M.D.C.
1999.
IHT
Mapa Areas Protegidas. Instituto Hondurefno de Turismo. Tegucigalpa, M.D.C. 1997.
INA
Resumnen Ejectuvo sobre el Curnplimiento de los Acuerdos con las Etnias. Instituto
Nacional Agrario (INA). Tegucigalpa, M.D.C. 1998. (Documento fotocopiado.)
INCORPORE
Taller para el Fortalecimiento de la Producci6n Cultural Garifuna. Triunfo de la Cruz,
Atlantida. 20 de julio-30 de agosto de 1998. Asociaci6n Cultural INCORPORE/Instituto de
Investigaci6n de las Artes Performativas/Instituto Hondurefio de Turismo/HIVOS.
(Documento fotocopiado).
UICN
Programa de Ordenamiento Ambiental de las Islas de la Bahia (HO-0028). Oficina
Regional para Mesoamerica. Programa Costero Marino: Programa de Manejo de Recursos
Manrnos y Costeros. IUCN. Tegucigalpa, M.D.C., San Jose. 1994.
Jenkins Acosta, Alma y Gilberto Toro Lozano, Editores
Encuentro Regional sobre Juvetnud Rural y retos y Desafios para una Agenda Rural en el
Nuevo Milenio. IIACA/OEA/GTZ. Digital Graphic. Panama. 2000.
Jimenez, Gregoria
La Situaci6n Socio-Econ6mica de las Mujeres Negras de La Ceiba. Organizaci6n de
Desarrollo Etnico Comunitario. La Ceiba. [sin fecha]. (Documento fotocopiado.)
Jimenez, Gregoria
La Situaci6n Socio-Econ6mica de los Nifios Negros de La Ceiba y de los Municipios de
Iriona y Brus Laguna. Organizaci6n de Desarrollo Etnico Comunitario. La Ceiba,
diciembre 1994-febrero 1995. (Documento fotocopiado.)
Lara Pinto, Gloria
Las Poblaciones Indigenas de Honduras: Panorama Hist6rico y Tendencias Modernas.
Paradigma Afno 8, No. 9. 1999. Pp. 11-42.



24
Lara Pinto, Gloria
Turismo Cultural. Propuesta para un Marco Conceptual. Comision de Patrimonio Artistico-
Cultural. Cluster de Turismo de Honduras. Ministerio de Tunrsmo. Tegucigalpa, M.D.C.
Agosto de 1998. (Documento fotocopiado).
Lara Pinto, Gloria
Educaci6n de Adultos en Contextos Indigenas: Hacia una Educacion Culturalmente
Diferenciada en Honduras. Secretaria de Educaci6n?Deutsche Gesellschaft fUir Technische
Zusammenarbeit (GTZ)/Universidad  Pedagegica  Nacional ""Francisco  Morazan".
Tegucigalpa, M.D.C. 1997.
Lara Pinto, Gloria
Conservacion de Areas Protegidas (Turismo en Areas Protegidas). Diagn6stico Honduras.
Proyecto Regional de los Gobiernos de Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras,
Nicaragua y Panama. PNUD (CAM/90/01 1). Tegucigalpa, D.C. 1993.
Ley de Municipalidades y su Reglamento. Decreto 134-90. Editorial Guaymuras.
Tegucigalpa, M.D.C. 1998.
Martinez, Juan Ram6n
Manual Educativo y Organizacional para Pescadores Artesanales. PRADEPESCA.
Editorial Universitaria. Tegucigalpa, M.D.C. 1997.
Montenegro, Maria Elena, Cita Vissers y Roxana Volio
,Una Cuenta Pendiente? Genero y Cooperaci6n Internacional en Centroamerica. San Jose.
1997.
Murphy, Vincent, Editor
Herencia de Nuestro Pasado. La Reserva de la Bi6sfera del Rio Platano. Wild Life
Conservation International/Caribbean Conservation Corporation/ROCAP,Fondo Mundial
para la Naturaleza (WWF)/COHDEFOR/AID. Tegucigalpa, M.D.C. 1992.
Navajas, Hugo
Desarrollo Humano, Etnias y el Ciclo del Proyecto: Mitos y Perspectivas. En Planes y
Perpectivas de Desarrollo Sostenible en la Regi6n del Mundo Maya. Seminario Taller
Internacional. Chichicastenango, 28 de marzo-2 de abril de 1993.Proyecto Regional para el
patrimonio Cultural, Urbano y Natural-Ambiental. PNUD/UNESCO. Lima. 1993. Pp.133-
141.
OFRANEH
Jornada de Protesta de las Comunidades Garifunas en contra de la Refornma del Articulo
107 de la Constitucion de la Repuiblica de Honduras. Tegucigalpa, M.D.C. 5-8 de julio de
1998. (Documento fotocopiado.)



25
PCG/OFRkNEFHODECO,MAAG/CNGNY/CNONHPGH
Planteamiento del Pueblo Garifuna ante el presidente del Congreso Nacional sobre la
Reforma al Articulo 107 Constitucional de la Repuiblica. Patronatos de las Comunidades
Garifunas/Organizaci6n Fraternal Negra de Honduras/Organizaci6n de Desarrollo
Comunitario/Miembros de la Asociaci6n de Alcaldes Garifunas/Coalici6n de la Naci6n
Garifuna en Nueva York/Coordinadora Nacional de Organizaciones Negras de Honduras!
Pastoral Garifuna de Honduras. Corozal, Atlantida, 15 de julio de 1998, (Documento
fotocopiado.)
Plant, Roger
Issues in Indigenous Poverty and Development (Draft). Indigenous Peoples and
Community Development Unit. Social Program and Sustainable Development Department.
Banco Interamericano de Desarrollo. Washinton, D.C. 1998.
PNUD
Informe sobre Desarrollo Humano. Honduras. Tegucigalpa, M.D.C. 1998.
PNUD
Informe sobre Desarrollo Humano. Honduras 1999. El Impacto Humano de un Huracan.
Tegucigalpa, M.D.C. 1999.
PNUD/IHAH
Programa Integral de Protecci6n Ecol6gica y Rescate de la Herencia Cultural. Documento
de Proyecto. Comite de Gesti6n. Instituto Hondurenio de Antropologia e Historia/Programa
de  las Naciones Unidas para el Desarrollo. HON/92/024,'A112/99-HONI93/G81.
Tegucigalpa, M.D.C. [sin fecha].
Posas, Carlos v Dilia lrasema Montoya
Asistencia Tecnica y Entrenamiento a Nivel Municipal. Proyecto Planificaci6n y Manejo
del Tun'smo Sostenible en la Costa Norte de Honduras. Tegucigalpa, M.D.C. 2000.
Rivas, Ramon
Pueblos Indigenas y Garifuna de Honduras (Una Caracterizaci6n). Servicio Holandes de
Cooperaci6n al Desarrollo (SNV). Editorial Guaymuras. Tegucigalpa, M.D.C. 1993.
Sanchez, Margarita y Michael Franklin
Poverty Alleviation Programs for Minority Communities in Latin America. Honduras
Country Report. Banco Interamericano de Desarrollo. Washington, D.C. 1995.
SECPLAN/COHDEFOR/SRN
Plan de Accion Forestal: PLANFOR 1996-2015. Agenda Forestal de Honduras. Secretaria
de Planificaci6n, Coordinaci6n y Presupuesto/Corporaci6n Hondurefna de Desarrollo
Forestal/Secretaria de Recursos Naturales. Graficentro Editores. Tegucigalpa, M.D.C.
1996.



26
SEDA
Ley General del Ambiente (Decreto 104-93) y su Reglamento General (Decreto 109-93).
Secretaria del Ambiente. Editorial Guaymuras. Tegucigalpa, M.D.C. 1995.
Siri, Gabriel
Combate a la Pobreza en Centroamerica. Divisi6n de Programas Sociales. Departamento de
Programas Sociales y Desarrollo Sostenible. Banco Interamericano de Desarrollo.
Washington, D.C. 1997.
Thorpe, Andy, Hugo Noe Pino, Pedro Jimenez, Ana Lucia Restrepo, Dagoberto Suazo y
Ram6n Salgado
Impacto del Ajuste en el Agro Hondurefio. Postgrado Centroamericano en Economia y
Planificaci6n del Desarrollo (POSCAE). Editorial Guaymuras. Tegucigalpa, M.D.C. 1995.
USAID
Strategic Plan (FY 1998-2003). Honduras. (Sin lugar de publicaci6n). Mayo de
1997/Actualizado en mayo de 1998
Warantz, Elissa
The Bay Islands English of Honduras. En Holm, John, Editor, Central American English.
Julius Groos Verlag. Heidelberg. 1983. Pp. 71-94.
La Creaci6n de una Imagen de Pais Multicultural y de Gran Biodiversidad
Comentar Articulo National Geographic



Anexo 3
Prapedad de-
Socio-Etnographic Study on the North Coast of Honduras
Simbol
8sica- dea la Bahia
~CaI6n
-Santg Rosm de AG(udn            I]Alaa
___Otross Deparftomentcs
[I     ar Caribe
Are_  de _oyor interes
Departament-l Counriy
Seat
MuLnrCrjxrr C'OUntry Seat
Study Area___



Proplecdad de:
Socio-Etnographic Study on the North Coast of HondurasdeTrsn
.V.S. MaongI o
N ~4 ~A$ R VS.8c13a~ettSimbols
4IP4~~~~~ N ~~ri~~~esdeGuandja~~~
0
ro y~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
Protected Areas of the Noh Coast



PropLedad de:
Socio-Etnographic Study on the North Coast of Honduras                                    4dI;t         1
Comunidades C-orifunas
ICoqa No~ede Hondufas)
~e--Js~ScnO~ GUad~
0.e,             *
Garifunas' Comunities on the N h Coast



Proplecod de:
Socio-Etnographic Study on the North Coast of Honduras                                                                  N
R, V.SMnta  nr
e~~~it~~~ ~~            Z'ono de Maor Potenciol 
I~~~8~~ght ~~~Influen~Irt Tsica
RV~~~~8~~~~~b~~~i'  ~ICol-oNorf e Hendufas I
Ri B. Jo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-lIj~ ~1 I~1
.111 II it M-
:1131. 14 1
Toudstics Zones on the Noh Coast



