Report No. PID9537
Project Name                     Honduras-Sustainable Coastal Tourism Project (LIL)(@)
Region                           Latin America and Caribbean Region
Sector                           Natural Resources Management
Project ID                       HNPE57859
Borrower(s)                      GOVERNMENT OF HONDURAS
Implementing Agency
Address MINISTRY OF TOURISM
Honduras Institute of Tourism
Address: Apartado Postal No. 3261
Contact Person: Ana Abarca
Tel: 504-222-4002
Fax: 504-238-2102
Email: ihturism@hondutel.hn
Environment Category             B
Date PID Prepared                May 11, 2001
Projected Appraisal Date         May 13- 19, 2001
Projected Board Date             June 25, 2001
1. Country and Sector Background
Tourism has the potential to generate significant near- to medium-term
economic benefits for Honduras. However, it is in the long-term interest
of the country to expand tourism in an environmentally and socially
sustainable manner. Ensuring repeat visits should be the key to tourism
development and ultimately will depend on the long-term environmental
quality of the North Coast and Bay Islands. This, in turn, depends
largely on the goals and objectives that the GoH and people of Honduras
want to establish for their resource base. In spite of high quality
natural and cultural assets that represent potential competitive
advantages for Honduras and its coastal areas, a variety of institutional
problems limit the development of these assets. These include: Weak
natural resources management capacity in general, including coastal and
marine resources management. There is limited experience in the
establishment and effective management of marine protected areas. Although
Honduras has quite a bit of experience in the establishment of terrestrial
protected areas, it has not had much success in their effective management
from government and NGOs;Inadequate public sector budgets and financing
schemes to support improvements in the sectorInsufficient infrastructure
to support physical demands and investment in the tourism sector
(particularly nature and culture-based tourism); Fragmented management of
those sectors which directly affect or impact tourism (such as water and
sanitation, transport, communications, energy, agriculture, and
fisheries); Limited application of planning tools (for example, strategic
EA, land use planning and mapping, integrated coastal zone management) due
to inadequate capacity at municipal and local levels;Insecure land tenure
and conflicts over land use rights, particularly among indigenous groups,
in and adjacent to coastal protected areas; and Inadequate enforcement of
existing legislation to protect the natural and cultural assets and
amenities that underlie Honduras' potential competitive advantage in this



growing segment of the tourism industry.Governmental institutions and
mechanisms are not currently capable of realizing the greatest value from
development decisions and investments in sustainable tourism. Development
decision-making could be improved by more systematic application of land
use plans and environmental impact assessment tools (e.g., regional EA,
sectoral EA), more transparent use of permitting, zoning, user fees and
application of the polluter-pays principle, and more stable institutional
arrangements for protected area management. With the decentralization of
development planning and public works to municipalities, where capacity
(financial and technical) are still weak, environmental planning and
management has not kept pace with demand. Also, overlapping jurisdiction
in land administration at the municipal level has led to inappropriate
titling of lands and conflicts in ownership or use rights. In Honduras as
well as other Central American nations, the problem is further exacerbated
by weak enforcement of existing land use plans, environmental laws and
regulations, and an inefficient land administration. The project will seek
to address these weaknesses through:Strengthening the environmental
planning unit in the Honduran Institute of Tourism and their outreach
capacity to municipal government;Establishing tourism technical assistance
units in 6 coastal municipalities; Training in tourism destination
management, enterprise development and related tourism
services;Introduction of exemplary practices in coastal tourism and
related development planning;Introduction of economic instruments as
incentives to private sector investment in sustainable tourism and the
capture of resource rents locally;Testing of innovative partnerships to
encourage greater participation by the private sector and civil society in
the management and benefits of sustainable nature- and culture-based
tourism.Identification of needed policy reforms and regulatory frameworks
in tourism and related sectors, based on outcome of national dialogue on
sustainable tourism, results of land titling studies, experience in the
introduction of environmental certification schemes, codes of conduct and
local revenue generation and benefit sharing from tourism.The project will
seek to build on existing programs, including: USAID supported programs
for municipal strengthening in environmental management, INCAEs Central
American Center for Competitiveness and Sustainable Development (CLADES),
and projects such as the IDB-financed Bay Islands Natural Resources
Management Project, the World Bank/UNDP/GEF Parks and Protected Areas
Project, the Bank-financed PAAR and PACTA projects, and other related
activities.
2. Objectives
The North Coast of Honduras, extending along the mainland from Omoa to
Trujillo and offshore to the Bay Islands, includes the southernmost part
of the Mesoamerican Barrier Reef System (MBRS), the world's second longest
coral barrier reef. The MBRS comprises coastal and marine ecosystems of
outstanding natural beauty and global biodiversity value. Associated with
these natural assets are cultural resources which refelct a rich history
of indigenous and colonial heritage. Together these resources endow
Honduras' Caribbean Coast with a tourism potential that is unique in the
region.Tourism is widely perceived by the Government of Honduras (GoH) to
offer the greatest opportunity for near-term economic growth based on
sustainable use of Honduras' outstanding natural and cultural resources
along the North Coast and Bay Islands. Tourism isa key part of the
Government's strategy for National Reconstruction and Transformation in
the wake of Hurricane Mitch. In line with this priority, 2001 has been
-2 -



declared the National Year of Tourism byt the Office of the Presidency.
Public-private partnerships involving a wide range of stakeholders can
stimulate investment and economic growth in this sector, with significant
potential benefits to coastal communities. However, without a policy
framework for the strategic development and sustainable management of
these assets, the economic development potential of North coast tourism
may remain unrealized, or its trajectory follow a course of
environmentally unsustainable and socially inequitable growth, which has
spread to other tourism locations in the region. This unmanaged growth
constitutes a severe threat to the very assests on which Caribbean tourism
is based. Realizing continuous benefits from tourism will require
integration of sustainable development values (e.g., economic,
environmental and social) into a tourism development strategy for the
North Coast to ensure that investments in the sector are financially and
environmentally sound, and generate benefits for a broad spectrum of
target groups. The Project Development Objective for this Learning and
Innovation Loan (LIL) is to create an enabling environment for the
development and management of sustainable coastal tourism along the North
Coast mainland and offshore Bay Islands of Honduras. Closely related to
this objective is the goal of enhancing livelihoods and through
environmental planning, improved land security and human resource
development as elements of a sustainable coastal tourism strategy. The
Project Development Objective will be pursued through a learning and
participatory process that: (a) promotes dialogue on the objectives and
nature of sustainable coastal tourism (SCT); (b) encourages introduction
of best practice in sustainable coastal tourism (SCT); (c) strengthens
capacity at municipal and local levels to manage and benefit from SCT; and
(d) rewards innovation in pursuit of these objectives. The project will
support interventions at three levels by:National level: Initiating a
dialogue on prelevant sectoral olicies and practices that should lay the
foundation for a strategy for sustainable tourism on the North Coast and
Bay Islands of Honduras;Municipal level: Strengthening capacity of public
institutions and civil society to plan for and manage the development of
coastal tourism that is environmentally and culturally sustainable and
allows for the capture of benefits locally by communities, and; Local
level: Introducing best practice and environmental certification of
selected market segments, and enhancing etrepreneuship through
pulic-private partnerships in tourism at the small and medium scale,
through skills training and financial support for innovative pilot
activities.A regional project, Conservation and Sustainable Use of the
Mesoamerican Barrier Reef System,has been developed in parallel with this
project, and has recently been approved by the Global Environment Facility
(GEF) for financing of $11.0 million. The Project has been submitted for
Bank Baord approval. This regional project, involving Mexico, Belize,
Guatemala and Honduras as riparian stakeholders, aims to preserve the
integrity and ecological values of the barrier reef system while promoting
opportunities and approaches for sustainable use.     This includes marine
tourism and introduction of user fees for ecosystem goods and services
asociated with improved Marine Protected Area management.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
4. Description
Project Component 1: National Strategy and Institutional Support for
- 3 -



Sustainable Coastal Tourism - US$1.19 millionThis component will focus on
the development of a national strategy for coastal tourism , comprised of
tourism plans and development scenarios for priority areas along the North
(Caribbean) Coast. A dialogue will be supported through a series of
workshops in these locations. Expertise will be required in the following
areas: regional planning; tourism development and financing; environmental
management; economic impact analysis; sustainable development; coastal
zone management; land administration and land use planning; and community
participation, including involvement of indigenous peoples.     The
component includes the following major activities: Formulate and promote a
participatory approach to policy dialogue with public and private sector
stakeholders at the national, regional and local levelsDevelop and
implement a national tourism strategy for the North Coast which includes
integrated, sustainable tourism action plans over the short, medium and
long term Provide technical assistance to promote reform of policy, legal
and regulatory instruments and improve institutional arrangements in
support of plan implementation, Project Component 2: Institutional
Strengthening Training and Technical Assistance at the Municipal Level
US$1.86millionThe objective of this component is to develop the capacity
of coastal municipalities (including local government, the private sector
and community based organizations) to engage in sustainable tourism
development planning, through skills training in such areas as
environmental management, tourism destination management, and
environmental certification for tourism related enterprise. A
complementary subcomponent will support the creation of a cultural tourism
destination demonstration site through the restoration of the historic
center of one of Central America's oldest coastal town, Trujillo, gateway
to the Mosquitia and Honduras' adventure tourism. The major activities
under this component include:Creation of tourism and environment technical
assistance units at the municiapal level to provide resources for local
tourism development and environmental management Provide training for
municipalities in identified areas of need Conduct heritage site
restoration activities for Trujillo's historic city center Project
Component 3: Pilot Entrepreneurship Programs for Sustainable Coastal
Tourism - US$2.24 million This component will foster entrepreneurship in
different parts of civil society and support the development of innovative
public/private partnerships for tourism enterprise development. An
entrepreneuship center will be created to provide T.A. and serve as an
incubator for development of small and medium enterprise through public
private partnerships. This will include assistance in business plan
development, identification of financing and markets for tourism related
enterprises. The Center will provide support for proposal development and
matching grants awarded to individuals, communities and indigenous groups
on a competitive basis, for grants of up to $30K. This component will
contribute signficantly to the learning and innovation aspects of the LIL
in terms of stimulating ideas and investments in the sector at the local
level.The LIL will support the following major activities under this
component:Design and delivery of micro and small business enterprise
training to stimulate productive capacity and create business
opportunitiesPiloting innovation projects in local communities focused on
sustainable tourism (e.g. ecolodges, handicrafts, tour guides and
operators, and adventure travel outfitters) and involving entrepreneurs in
partnership with NGOs or government, to assess their feasibility and
replicability
National Strategy and Institutional Support for SCT
-4 -



Institutional Strengthening for Municipalities
Pilot Entrepreneurship Programs for SCT
Project Management
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
Total Project Cost 5.81
6. Implementation
7. Sustainability
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues        Stakeholders within the GoH (the IHT project
counterpart offcials, including Environmental Unit within IHT) were
consulted and their comments incorporated into the preparation of the
Environmental Assesment Report (EAR) as well as the Environmental
Management Plan (EMP). One of the main findings of the EAR was the nearly
non-existent capacity of municipalities to carry out environmental
planning in general, but particularly in relation to tourism development.
To address this, signficant project resources will be directed toward
capacity building of national and local government entities to improve
their enviromental review and management capabilities. (See Annex 11 for a
discussion of this).
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Marea Eleni Hatziolos
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending May 18, 2001.
- 5 -



