Documenet of
The World Bank
Report No: 22604-HO
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 4.0 MILLION (US$5.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS
FOR A
SUSTAINABLE COASTAL TOURISM PROJECT
JULY 19, 2001
Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development Sector Management Unit
Central America Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchauge Rate Effective May 18, 2001)
Currency Unit = Lempira
I Lempira = US$0.065
US$I = 15.35 Lempira
FISCAL YEAR
January I -- December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AECI                          Agencia Espanola de Cooperaci6n Internacional
AMHON                         Asociaci6n de Municipios de Honduras
CAS                           Countiy Assistance Strategy
CBO                           Commnunity Based Organization
CI                            Intersectoral Comm-iittee
CLADES                        Centro Latinamericano para la Competitivedad y el Desarrollo
COHDEFOR                      Coporacion Hondureana de dessarrollo Forestal
COLAP                         Comite Local de Areas Protegidas
CORAP                         Comite Rural de Areas Protegidas
CQ                            Selection Based on Consultants' Qualification
EAR                           Environment Assessmlent Report
EIA                           Environmental lmpact Assessment
EMP                           Environmiental Management Plan
EMS                           Environmuental Management Systems
EOP                           End of Project
FHIS                          Fondo Hondurefio de ]nversi6n Social
FMS                           Financial Management System
GDP                           Gross Domestic Product
GEF                           Global Envirormnent Facility
GoH                           Govenmuent of Honduras
GTZ                           Genman Agency for Teclnical Cooperation
HIV/AIDS                      Human Imunodeficiency Virus/Acquired Immunodeficiency Syndrome
IBRD                          International Bank for Reconstruction and Developmnent
IDA                           International Development Agency
1DB                           Inter-American Development Bank
IFC                           International Finance Corporation
IHAH                          Institute of Anthropology and Histoiy
lHT/HIT                       Instituto Hondulreio de TLirismo/Hoonduras Institute of Tourism
ILO                           International Labor Organization
1NA                           Instituto Nacional Agraria
INCAE                         Instituo Centroamiiericano para la Administraci6n de Empresas
INFOP                         National Institute for Professional Training
IPDP                          Indigenous People's Development Plan
LACI                          Loan Administration Change Initiative
LCS                           Least Cost Selection
LCSES                         Latin America and the Caribbean Enviromnent and Socially Sustainable
Development Unit
LIL                           Leamning and Innovation Loan
M&E                           Monitoring and Evaluatioin



ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS (continued..)
MBRS                          Mesoamerican Barrier Reef System
NABILPA                       Associacion de Trabajadores y Profesionales Islefios
NBF                           Not Bank Financed
NCB                           National Competitive Bidding
NGO                           Nongovernmental Organizations
ODECO                         Organizacion de Desarrollo Comuntario Etnico
OFRANEH                       Organizaci6n Fraternal Negra de Honduras
OP/BP                         Operational Policy/Banlc Procedures
PAAR                          Proyecto Agricola en Areas Rurales
PACTA                         Proyecto para Acceso a lia Tierra
PAD                           Project Appraisal Document
PAHO                          Pan American Health Organization
PAS                           Procuremnent Accredited Staff
PCU                           Project Coordination Unit
PIU                           Project lmplementation Unit
PMR                           Project Managemenit Report
PPI                           Private Participation InfrastuLctLre
PROBAP                        Biodiversity in Priority Areas Project
PS                            Procurement Specialist
QCBS                          Quality and Cost Based Selection
RUTA                          Regional Unit for Techniical Assistance
SA                            Social Assessment
SCT                           Sustainable Coastal Tourism
SCTP                          Sustainable Coastal Tourism Project
SERNA                         Secretariat of NatuLral Resources and Environinent
SFB                           Selection under a Fixed Btudget
SIDA                          Sindromue de Iimunodeficiencia Adquirida
SINAPH                        Sistema Nacional de Areas Protegidas de Honiduras
SME                           Small and Meditm Enterprise
SOE                           Statemient of Expenditures
TA                            Technical Assistance
TEU                           Tourism Envirominent Unit
UNDP                          United Nations Development Prograimme
UNESCO                        UN Education, Scientific and Cultural Organization
UNFPA                         UN Family Planning Agency
UNICEF                        UN Children's Fund
USAID                         United States Agency for International Development
UTAS                          Unidad Tecnica de Ambiente
WHO                           World Health Organization
WTO                           World Tourism Organization
Vice Presidenlt:    David de Ferranti
Country Director:    Donna Dowsett-Coirolo
Sector Director:    John Redwood
Task Team Leader:    Marea Hatziolos






HONDURAS
SUSTAINABLE COASTAL TOURISM PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                         Page
1. Project development objective                                                         2
2. Key perfonrance indicators                                                             3
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project        3
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                             3
3. Learning and development issues to be addressed by the project                         5
4. Learning and innovation expectations                                                   6
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                     7
2. lnstitutional and implementation aiTangements                                          9
3. Monitoring and evaluation arranoements                                                l l
D. Project Rationale
(This section is not to be completed in a LIL PAD)
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                              12
2. Financial                                                                             14
3. Technical                                                                             14
4. lnstitutional                                                                         14
5. Environmental                                                                         17
6. Social                                                                                18
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                    2 1
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                       22
2. Critical risks                                                                        22
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                        24
G. Main Credit Conditions
I. Effectiveness Conditioni                                                             24
2. Other                                                                                 25



H. Readiness for lImplementation                                                            25
1. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                            26
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summaiy                                                             27
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                       33
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                            42
Annex 4: Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary                                                43
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Earniilng Project Entities, or Financial Summary     49
Annex 6: Procurement and DisbuLrsemenit Arrangements                                        50
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                        61
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                      62
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                     67
Annex 10: Countiy at a Glance                                                               68
Alnex 11: Environmental Assessment (Executive Summary)                                      70
Annex 12: Social Assessment (Execultive Summaty)                                            75
Ainex 13: Indigenous Peoples' Developmnent Plan                                             86
MAP(S)
I



HONDURAS
SUSTAINABLE COASTAL TOURISM PROJECT
Project Appraisal Document
Latin America and Caribbean Region
ENV
Date: July 19, 2001                                 Team Leader: Marea Eleni Hatziolos
Country Manager/Director: D-M Dowsett-Coirolo       Sector Director: John Redwood
Project ID: P057859                                 Sector(s): VM - Natural Resources Management
Lending Instrument: Learning and Lnnovation Loan (LIL) Theme(s): Envirotnment
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
1'Program Financing Data
[I  Loan     [XI Credit    [ ] Grant     [1 Guarantee      [1 Other:
For Loans/CreditslOthers:
Amount (US$m): SDR4.0 million equivalent (US$5.0 million equivalent)
Proposed Terms (IDA): Standard Credit
Grace period (years): 10                           Years to maturity: 40
Commitment fee: 0.75%
Financing Plan (US$m):     Source                              Local         Foreign         Total
BORROWER                                                         0.56            0.00           0.56
IDA                                                              3.69             1.31          5.00
BORROWING AGENCY                                                 0.00            0.00           0.00
LOCAL COMMUNITIES                                                0.48            0.00           0.48
Total:                                                           4.73            1.31           6.04
Borrower: REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS
Responsible agency: MINISTRY OF TOURISM
Honduras Institute of Tourism
Address: Apartado Postal No. 3261
Contact Person: Ana Abarca
Tel: 504-222-4002            Fax: 504-238-2102              Email: ihturism@hondutel.hn
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FYlUS$m):
- -FY -    -2002       :-2003     :20-     005.....-.....
Annual    0.78         1.66       1.72       0.84
Cumulative    0.78        2.44        4.16       5.00
Project implementation period: January 1, 2002 - December 31, 2004
Expected effectiveness date: 12/15/2001  Expected closing date:  06/30/2005
XCS PAD FC-m RMI. Mxat 2r.D



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The North Coast of Honduras, extending along the mainland from Omoa to Trujillo and offshore to the Bay
Islands, includes the southemmost part of the Mesoameiican Banier Reef System (MBRS), the world's
second longest coral barrier reef. The MBRS comprises coastal and marine ecosystems of outstanding
natural beauty and global biodiversity value. Associated with these natural assets are cultural resources
which reflect a rich history of indigenous and colonial heritage. Together these resources endow Honduras'
Caribbean Coast with a tourism potential that is unique in the region.
Tourism is widely perceived by the Government of Honduras (GoH) to offer the greatest opportunity for
near-term economic growth based on sustainable use of Hoonduras' outstanding natural and cultural
resources along the North Coast and Bay Islands. Tourism is a key part of the Government's strategy for
National Reconstruction and Transformation in the wake of Hurricane Mitch. In line with this priority,
2001 has been declared the National Year of Toulism by the Office of the Presidency. However, without a
policy framewofk for the strategic development and sustainable management of these assets, the economic
development potential of North coast tourism may remain unrealized, or its trajectory follow a course of
environmentally unsustainable and socially inequitable growth. Tapping into this source of economic
growth and avoiding the pitfalls that have characterized tourism development in other parts of the region,
will require integration of sustainable development values, e.g., economic, environmental and social, into a
tourism development strategy for the North Coast, and new models for participation and active benefit
sharing by a broad array of stakeholders. The LIL is designed to identify the elements of such a strategy
and innovative ways to engage local communities in the capture of tourism benefits to ensure ownership
and sustainability.
The Project Development Objective for this Leaming and Innovation Loan (LIL), therefore, is to create an
enabling environment for the development and management of sustainable coastal tourism along the North
Coast mainland and offshore Bay Islands of Honduras, through a learning and participatory process that:
(a) promotes dialogue on the objectives and elements of sustainable coastal touiism (SCT); (b) identifies
best practice ways to  promotes its adoption; (c) strengtlhens capacity at municipal and local levels to
manage and benefit fiom SCT; and (d) rewards innovation in pursuit of these objectives. The Project will
support interventions at three levels by:
*   National level: Initiating a dialogue on prevalent sectoral policies and practices that should lay the
foundation for a strategy for sustainable tourism on the North Coast and Bay Islands of Honduras;
*   Municipal level: Strengthening capacity of public institutions and civil society to plan for and manage
the development of coastal tourism that is environmentally and culturally sustainable and allows for the
capture of benefits locally by communities; and
*  Local level: Introducing best practice and environmental certification of selected market segments, and
enhancing entrepreneurship through public-private pattnerships in tourism at the small and medium
scale, through skills training and financial support for innovative pilot activities.
A regional Project, Conservation and Sustainable Use of the Mesoamerican Barrier Reef System,
developed in parallel with this Project, has recently been approved by the Global Environment Facility
(GEF) and the Bank's Board, for financing of $11.0 million. This regional Project, involving Mexico,
Belize, Guatemala and Hlonduras as riparian stakeholders, aims to preserve the integrity and ecological
values of the barrier reef system while promoting opportunities and approaches for sustainable use. This
includes marine tourism and introduction of user fees for ecosystem goods and services associated with
- 2 -



improved Marine Protected Area management.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
Output indicators have been developed during consultations with Project stakeholders. These include:
*   A 5 to 10 percent increase in revenues from municipal taxes, user fees or resource rents realized from
economically, environmentally and socially sustainable tourism at the local community level in at least
5 destinations by EOP;
*   Perceived economic, environmental and social benefits to local communities derived from tourism (in
the pilot destinations) increased by 35 percent from baseline measure of attitudes of key stakeholders
from Project initiation to EOP; and
*   Improved policy environment for the resolution of land security/land tenure issues in communities on
the North Coast that may be affected by tourism development.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 20072             Date of latest CAS discussion: 12/14/1999
The CAS for Honduras identifies sustainable tourism development as a national development priority in the
post-Hurricane Mitch recoveiy strategy presented to the donor community. The anticipated outcome from
this Project consistent with the CAS is economic growth that benefits coastal communities. The Project
design emphasizes: (a) strengthening local capacity to manage outstanding natural resources and cultural
heritage amenities of the coastal zone; (b) fostering innovation in public-private partlerships involving a
wide range of stakeholders; atnd (c) promoting ptivate sector led growth and greater participation of civil
society.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Tourism has the potential to generate significant near- to medium-term economic benefits for Honduras.
However, it is in the long-term interest of the country to expand toutism in an environmentally and socially
sustainable manner. Ensuring repeat visits should be the key to tourism development and ultimately will
depend on the long-term environmental quality of the North Coast and Bay Islands. This, in turn, depends
largely on the goals and objectives that the GoH and people of Hoonduras want to establish for their
resource base.
In spite of high quality natural and cultural assets that represent potential competitive advantages for
Honduras and its coastal areas, a variety of institutional problems limit the development of these assets.
These include:
*   Weak natural resources management capacity in general, including coastal and marine resources
management. There is limited experience in the establishment and effective management of marine
protected areas. Although Hlonduras has quite a bit of experience in the establishment of terrestrial
protected areas, it has not had much success in their effective management from government and
NGOs;
*   Inadequate public sector budgets and financing schemes to suppolt improvements in the sector;
*   Insufficient infrastructure to support physical demands and investment in the tourism  sector
(particularly nature and culture-based tourism);
- 3 -



*   Fragmented management of those sectors which directly affect or impact tourism (such as water and
sanitation, transport, communications, energy, agriculture, and fisheries);
*   Limited application of planning tools (for example, strategic EA, land use planning and mapping,
integrated coastal zone management) due to inadequate capacity at municipal and local levels;
*   Insecure land tenure and conflicts over land use rights, particularly among indigenous groups, in and
adjacent to coastal protected areas; and
*   Inadequate enforcement of existing legislation to protect the natural and cultural assets and amenities
that underlie Honduras' potential competitive advantage in this growing segment of the tourism
industry.
Govemmental institutions and mechanisms are not currently capable of realizing the greatest value from
development decisions and investments in sustainable tourism. Development decision-making could be
improved by more systematic application of land use plans and environmental impact assessment tools
(e.g., regional EA, sectoral EA), more transparent use of permitting, zoning, user fees and application of
the polluter-pays principle, and more stable institutional arrangements for protected area management.
With the decentralization of development planning and public works to municipalities, where capacity
(financial and technical) are still weak, environmental planning and management has not kept pace with
demand. Also, overlapping jurisdiction in land administration at the municipal level has led to inappropriate
titling of lands and conflicts in ownership or use rights. In Honduras, the problem is further exacerbated by
weak enforcement of existing land use plans, environmental laws and regulations, and an inefficient land
administration.
The Project will seek to address these weaknesses through:
*   Strengthening the environmental planning unit in the Honduran Institute of Tourism and their outreach
capacity to municipal govemtiment;
*   Establishing tourism technical assistance units in six coastal municipalities;
*   Training in tourism destination management, enterprise development and related tourism services;
*   Introduction of exemplary practices in coastal tourism and related development planning;
*   Introduction of economic instruments as incentives to private sector investment in sustainable tourism
and the capture of resource rents locally;
*   Testing of innovative partnerships to encourage greater participation by the private sector and civil
society in the management and benefits of sustainable nature- and culture-based tourism; and
-   Identification of needed policy reforms and regulatoty frameworks in tourism and related sectors, based
on outcome of national dialogue on sustainable tourism, results of land titling studies, experience in the
introduction of environmental certification schemes, codes of conduct and local revenue generation and
benefit sharing from tourism.
The Project will seek to build on existing programs, including: USAID-supported programs for municipal
strengthening in environmental management, INCAE's Central American Center for Competitiveness and
Sustainable Development (CLADES), and projects such as the IDB-financed Bay Islands Natural
Resources Management Project, the World Bank/UNDP/GEF Parks and Protected Areas Project, the
Bank-financed PAAR and PACTA Projects, and other related activities.
-4 -



3. Learning and Development issues to be addressed by the project:
It is increasingly important, in Honduras and worldwide to encourage the private sector to work in
collaboration with governments, nongovernmental organizations (NGOs) and other stakeholders involved in
sustainable approaches to tourism development and management. The essential learning issue for this LIL
is to determine whether tourism is a viable sector for significant future investments on Honduras' North
Coast, and which conditions (e.g, sectoral policies, multi-stakeholder participation, training, and
public-private partnerships) can catalyze sustainable development and management of Honduras' unique
coastal resources with benefits to local communities.
Successful sustainable tourism initiatives require the active and concerted involvement of the public and
private sectors. This involvement can and must occur at a variety of levels. The core resources that attract
tourists to Honduras' North Coast are national patrimony -- the cultural and natural resources that make a
country, region or people distinctive or even unique. As national patrimony, these resources tend to be
owned and managed (or at least directed) by the governtment. Tourism also requires the active participation
of private sector entrepreneurs to develop services that make enjoyment of those assets possible (e.g.,
hotels, restaurants, tour companies, interpretation, and transportation providers). However, these services
are largely meaningless if there is no physical or social infrastructure to permit tourists to enter an area.
Airports, roads, potable water and other basic services are generally provided or promoted by the public
sector. Often, provision of these services can be accelerated if there is the prospect of significant private
investment to stimulate economic growtlh in an area.
At a more operational level, public-private partnerships can take many forms: concessions or outsourcing
contracts to manage public assets; joint ventures to develop tourism attractions; agreements to develop and
operate paid infrastructure such as roads, ports and water systems; user fee systems to support common
objectives such as resource protection; and simple forms of cooperation such as agreements between
governments and the private sector to support shared objectives with human and financial resources. The
principal objective of these mechanisms is to leverage investment capital from the private sector. The
governments provide the private sector witlh the core assets, necessary investment conditions and the
"license" to invest in activities that have a much greater impact than the government alone is capable of
achieving; in turn, the private sector provides employment opportunities, training and generates tax
revenues.
All of these mechanisms, and many others, are used to help advance tourism development in developing
countries. The most visible form of public-private partnership in Honduras is the outsourcing of national
park management to private NGOs. Declining public sector budgets and other financial difficulties have
led to weak governmental mechanisms to manage national parks. The GoH has called upon the private
sector and NGOs to assume management responsibility for most of these parks.  This form  of
public-private partnership allows for greater management agility, lowers government budget obligations
and provides the parks with more flexibility to enter directly into agreements with donors, tour operators
and the local hospitality sectors. However, it assumes that NGOs and private entrepreneurs have the
necessary resources to effectively manage protected areas in agreed co-management arrangements. In
many Latin American countries, Honduras including, government rules greatly restrict the options for
generating park revenue and retaining resource rents locally. These need to be revised to create appropriate
incentives for private sector participation and the accrual of benefits to local communities and the
environment.
Additional public-private cooperation is needed to protect the natural and cultural assets that attract
visitors to Honduras' North Coast. Municipal and national governments need to work with the private
- 5 -



sector and local communities to identify common objectives and opportunities for producing revenue to
protect the parks, archeological sites and protected areas of the region, ensuring the sustainability of these
core attractions into the future. User fees, room taxes, environmental perfonnance bonds for new tourism
development, enforcement of the polluter-pays principle, and a variety of other mechanisms, including trust
funds, need to be considered. In addition to producing revenue, these types of mechanisms provide
assurances to tourists that the destinatiotn is serious about maintaining the quality of its attractions.
Effective public-private partnerships can accomplish other desirable development goals, such as providing
greater opportunities for smaller enterprises to participate in tourism development, and ensuring that a
higher percentage of tourism revenues are generated by locally-owned enterprises. Well-managed public
assets, such as a high quality national park, allow many small businesses to operate successfully in its
buffer zone or surrounding area. In the absence of such a high quality asset, only firms large enough to
develop their own natural or cultural attraction would consider entering the local tourism business. Small
businesses can use the park as their attraction and focus their investmenit on services to tourists (e.g.,
hotels, restaurants, tours, transportation and other related activities).
Positive examples of small-scale tourism based on high quality assets are found in Costa Rica, Thailand,
Bhutan and other successful cultural and nature-based tourism destinationis. Thanks largely to its extensive
and fairly well developed national park system, the Costa Rican tourism sector is comprised primarily of
small- and medium-sized hotels (usually locally-owned), locally-owned restaurants and extensive networks
of other local people involved in jobs or entrepreneurial activities that provide services to visitors. In
addition to creating greater opportunities for the local community, smaller scale tourism helps ensure that
tourism revenues. are spent and invested withinl the community, or at least withlin the country.  With
large-scale, usually foreigni-owned, development Projects, most (if not all) profit is repatriated to the
investors' country and is not reinvested, or even spent, in the community, hostinig the tourism.
A special report by the World Tourism  Organization (Towards New Fonns of Public-Private Sector
Partnership: The Changing Role, Structure and Activities of National Tourism Administrations, WTO:
Madrid, January 1997) emphasized the importance of the changing govemment role in tourism and the need
to reexamine traditional activities undertaken by the public sector. These changes have been particularly
evident in Europe and North America where govemnment-owned assets have been divested and privatized.
Governments have also created public-private paLtnerslhips to market their countries as international travel
destinations. The trend toward public-private partnerships in tourism management and marketing is not
only at the national level, but is increasingly spreading to regional and municipal levels, which is the
specific focus of this LIL.
4. Learning and innovation expectations:
1 Economic      D Technical    1 Social          [X1 Participation
Z Financial     El Institutional  1 Environmental O Other
A key objective of the LIL will be to assess the potential for tourism on Honduras's North Coast to trigger
sustained and broad-based economic growth and to determine the feasibility and desirability of future
investments in this sector by the GOH and the World Bank Group in a follow-on operation. The LIL is
intended to shed light on the following factors which will provide a basis for future investment decisions:
(a)    Economic: The Project will provide Honduras withi assistance to develop a tourism sector more in
line with evolving market expectations and higher value product niches. Nature- and culture-based tourism
is the fastest growing tourism market segment worldwide. While representing only about 5 to 10 percent of
current tourism demtand, this segment is growing at rates of over 25 percent per year (compared to 4
percent for traditional sun-and-sand tourism). Thzis trend is expected to continue. In addition, recent
- 6 -



research has shown that in Central America, visitors with environmental and cultural expectations spend on
average 25 percent more than their sun-and-sand counterparts. Honduras must build a competitive position
consistent with commercial opportunities. Failure to do so will relegate the countly to low-cost tourism
that places little value on its unique assets and greatly limits the development potential for its coastal
communities. With a sustainable development oriented position, it is reasonable to expect growth rates that
are slightly higher than with a sun-and-sand strategy, higher per-visitor expenditures, and greater potential
for involving local communities and protected areas in value-creation for tourists and the communities
themselves. This will result in a higher retum on economic investments with lower environmental and
social costs.
(b)    Financial: Financial analysis for follow-on activities at this time would be highly speculative. The
Project will seek to create a climate for follow-on investment that will lead to greater financial returns for
tourism businesses and the local communities, while reducing the negative impacts of these business
opportunities. lnvestments in infrastructure related to improving access and maintaining or improving the
environmental quality or cultural value of target destinationis to ensure their inicome generating potential
may be among the follow-on Project considered.
(c)    Environment: The objective of the Project is to identify ways to integrate sustainable development
values into a tourism development strategy. As such, environmental impacts would be reduced when
compared to other development scenarios. The LIL will pilot innovative approaches to enhance capacity for
environmental assessment of tourism  related  impacts through establishment of Technical and
Environmental Units in 6 Municipal Govenmments, and promote identification and adoption of best practice
through a system of enviromental certification of tourism related enterprise.
(d)    Social: A key element of a sustainable coastal tourism strategy for the North Coast will be the
identification of means to enhanice participation in the benefits of tourism by as broad a group of
stakeholders as possible, but particularly by economically and socially disadvantaged groups whose
traditions and lifestyles are intimately linked with the cultural and natural assets being developed for
tourism. This will be encouraged through opportunities to participate in public-private partnerships, micro-
and small-scale toulism enterprise development and employment in the labor market generated by a
growing tourism industry. Social and cultural values will be defined and efforts made to mainstream these
into local tourism development plans. Policy failures and other threats to land security will be identified and
incorporated into the national dialogue. These will form part of the innovation and leaming aspects of the
Project, and will be evaluated for possible scale up in a follow-on investment Project.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Atnex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
Project Componienit 1: National Strateg and Inistituttioital Support for Sustaintable Coastal Tourism -
US$1.32 million
This component will focus on the development of a national strategy for coastal tourism, comprised of
tourism plans and development scenarios for priority areas along the North (Caribbean) Coast. A national
dialogue will be supported through a series of workshops to be held in various locations. Among the topics
to be discussed will be: regional tourism and environmental planning; tourism development and financing;
environmental management; economic impact analysis; criteria for sustainable tourism development;
coastal zone management; land administration and land use planning; and community participation,
including involvement of indigenous peoples. The component includes the following major activities:
- 7 -



*   Formulate and promote a participatory approach to policy dialogue with public and private sector
stakeholders at the national, regional and local levels. This will include support for the work of the
lntersectoral Committee for Indigenous Land Rights in consulting with key stakeholder groups
regarding the interpretation/implementation of policies related to land regularization and land use
rights, and mechanisms for the resolution of conflicts in land administration;
*   Develop and implement a national tourism strategy for the North Coast which includes integrated,
sustainable tourism action plans over the short, medium and long term. This will include the
identification of strategic actions needed to address HIV/AlDS and security issues on the North Coast;
and
*   Provide technical assistance to support implementation of the national strategy and sustainable coastal
tourism action plans along the North Coast. This will include promotion of the necessary legal and
policy reforms to address successfully issues identified above in the national dialogue and tourism
action plans, along with the institutional arTangements required to lay the foundation for sustainable
coastal tourism  on the North Coast.   Among the activities to be promoted will be baseline
surveys/tourism audits to facilitate assessment of changes in economic, environmental and social
conditions associated with sustainable tourism, legal and technical preparation of communal titles to
land in nine Garifuna communities in the Project area whose claims are still pending before the
Government, and infonnation campaigns for HlV/AIDS prevention and treatment.
Project Component 2: Institutional Strentgtlhening Trainintg and Teclhnical Assistance at the Municipal
Level US$2.01 million
The objective of this component is to develop the capacity of coastal municipalities (including local
government, the private sector and community based organizations) to engage in sustainable tourism
development planning, through skills training in such areas as environmental management, tourism
destination management, and environmental certification for tourism related enterprise. A complementary
subcomponent will support the creation of a cultural tourism destination demonstration site through the
restoration of the historic center of one of Central America's oldest coastal town, Trujillo, gateway to the
Mosquitia and Honduras' adventure tourism. The major activities under this component include:
3   Creation of tourism and environment teclhical assistance units at the municipal level to provide
resources for local tourism development and environmental management;
* Provide training for municipalities in identified areas of need; and
v Conduct heritage site restoration activities for Trujillo's historic city center.
Project Component 3: Pilot Entrepreneurship Programs for Sustainiable Coastal Tourism - US$2.14
million
This component will foster entrepreneurship in different parts of civil society and support the development
of innovative public/private partnerships for tourism enterprise development. An entrepreneurslhip center
will be created to provide technical assistance and serve as an incubator for development of small and
medium enterprise through public private partnerships. This will include assistance in business plan
development, identification of finanlcing and markets for tourism related enterplises. The Center will
provide support for proposal development and matching grants awarded to individuals, communities and
indigenous groups on a competitive basis, for grants of up to $30K. This component will contribute
significatldy to the learning and innovation aspects of the LIL  in tenns of stimulating ideas and
investments in the sector at the local level.
The LIL will support the following major activities under this component:
-8 -



*   Design and delivery of an Enterprise Center for the development of tourism-related enterprise,
including training in the preparation of market studies, business plans and development of skills
necessary to stimulate productive capacity and opportunlities for public private partnership in
sustainable tourism enterprise; and
*   Pilot innovative public/private partnerships among entrepreneurs, NGOs and community-based
organizations which demonstrate the viability and replicability of small- and medium-scale sustainable
tourism enterprises (e.g. ecolodges, handicrafts, tour guide operations, protected area management,
adventure travel outfitters, cultural heritage, etc.) Matching grant subprojects, including technical
assistance, will be administered for the benefit of both ladino/mestizo communities and indigenous
communities in the Project area to support pilot activities.
National Strategy and Institutional                       1.32      21.9        1.27 ..   25.4
Support for SCT
Institutional Strengthe ning  for                              2.01  33.3      1.52       30.4
Municipalities
Pilot Entrepreneurship Programs for                       2.15      35.6       1.67       33.4
SCT
Project Management                                        0.56       9.3       0.54   .  10.8
Total Project Costs                    6.04      100.0       5.00      100.0
Interest during construction                   0.00       0.0       0.00        0.0
Front-end fee                                 0.0                   0.0
Total Financing Required                      6.04      100.0       5.00      100.0
2. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
This Project will be implemented over a 3-year period, from January 1, 2002 to December 31, 2004.
Overall Project implementation will be the responsibility of the Ministry of Tourism, through the Honduras
Institute of Tourism (IHT). The IHT is a decentralized, autonomous agency reporting to the Ministry of
Tourism, that is developing the technical capacity and administrative flexibility to manage international
Projects. IHT is currently overseeing implementatioin of a $25 million Natural Resources Management
Project for the Bay Islands. To strengtlhen IHT's capacity to manage this LIL in more direct, hands on way,
it will receive Project assistance for the establishment of a Project Implementation Unit (PIU), and
strengthening of a newly designed environmental unit to oversee EIA requiremrents of proposed tourism
investment Projects. The PIU staff will be headed by a Project Coordinator reporting directly to the
Executive President of the lIHT, who also functions as the Minister of Tourism (see Figure 1). In-kind
office support and operating budget assistance will be provided to the PIU by the IHT.
The PIU will be responsible for maintaining close links with Project stakeholders. A tourism planning and
environmental management specialist will form part of the PIU. His/her principal responsibility will be to
oversee technical aspects of Project implementation. Related to this will be an assessment of training needs
and capacity building of IHT and municipal based Project staff. Each beneficiary entity will designate a
liaison official to monitor and coordinate Project implementation. These individuals will form part of the
Project Advisory Coommittee, that will meet regularly with the PIU to ensure communication between the
-9-



Project and beneficiaries on Project related issues. The Project is committed to establishing and maintaining
this advisory group as a means of promoting ownership among the many different stakeholders involved. It
will provide autonomy, decentralized decision making, and experience in the process of Project design and
implementation within the following institutions: Secretariat of Natural Resources and Environment
(SERNA); Ministry of Finance; the Instituto Nacional Agraria (INA), the National Institute for
Professional Training (INFOP); municipal governments; as well as NGOs and private sector groups.
The PIU will be responsible for overall Project management, monitoring and evaluation of Project
activities as well as drafting amnual work plans to ensure consistency with the Projects overall objectives.
The PIU will also    be responsible for maintaining a financial management system in accordance with
World Bank guidelines under the Loan Administration Change Initiative (LACI). A financial management
plan for the Project including Project implementation benchmarks, was developed during Project
preparation to respond to these guidelines. The PIU will prepare requests for disbursements following
procedures and provisions outlined in the financial management plan.
The organizational chart for the Project follows:
SECRETARY OF STATE
FOR TOURISM
HONDURAN INSTITUTE OF
TOURISM
(IHT)
INTERNATIONAL             PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION                         dVIs
COOPERATION                        UNIT (PlU)               . ..
UNIT                                                               J )4e)
Donor Coordination
Admin Team       Technical
Team
m:Ur~X~At...... ,...           
A  Project financial management system will be established prior to effectiveness of the credit to serve as
the principle Project monitoring tool.
- 10-



The PIU will present to the World Bank, on a quarterly basis, beginning with the first quarter of Project
effectiveness, a Project Implementation Repott covering activities during the previous quarter. This Report
will include an assessment of: (a) the Project Implemnentation Plan for the year under review; progress
achieved against: (b) the Project Monitoring and Impact Evaluation lIdicators for the year under review.
The Project Implementation Report will be discussed during Bank supervision missions. At the end of the
LIL, an independent evaluation of the Project will be undertaken to assess Project impact and evaluate
lessons learned. Innovation and risk will be assessed in terms of outcomes generated, and a decision
whether or not to scale-up in follow-on activities in Honduras and elsewhere in the region will be made.
The appropriateness of a follow-on investment Project to apply lessons learned from Sustainable Coastal
Tourism throughout Honduras will be assessed. Background studies conducted during Project preparation
will serve as baseline indicators to be monitored over the course of the Project. Increased economic activity
generated by tourism enterprises will be monitored, including the following perfonrance measures:
*   Increased employment, individual wages and family income;
*   Increased and diversified funditng for protected areas;
*   Expanded municipal and coimnunity participation in sustainable toulism development; and
*   Implementation of legislation or regulations providing direct revenue flows to municipalities affected
by tourism development operations.
3. Monitoring and evaluation arrangements:
Project Monitoring and Evaluation:
In light of the development objective of the LIL, an anticipated outcome is a series of lessons learned
regarding participatory and innovative approaches to enhance the sustainability of coastal tourism,
including broad benefit sharing at the local level. Signiificant social issues related to land administration and
the threat of HI V/AIDS, lack of business and organization skills, and the absence of technical capacity in
environmental planning and tourism  destination management, are being addressed in the LIL as
preconditions for successful tourism development. These are reflected in the monitoring indicators in
Annex 1. An IPDP has been developed to ensure participation and benefit sharing by Indigenous Groups
whose livelihoods are likely to be directly affected by the nature and course of tourism development on the
North Coast. A sociologist will be hired as part of tle Project Team to belp oversee the implementation of
the IPDP and to monitor the social indicators in Annex 1. An environmental/tourism specialist will take the
lead in monitoring output and perfonnance indicators related to capacity building in tourism enterprise and
environmental management. The PIU will also be guided  by input from the Advisory Committee and
regular stakeholder consultations. A land titling diagnostic study and tourism audits to be conducted
during the first year of Project lmplemenation, will provide an impoltant baseline of information against
which progress in the resolution of land security issues and the promotion of tourism-related enterprise can
be assessed in the course of the LIL. A mid-tenn review is scheduled late in year two of the LIL. Based
on the outcome of this evaluation, and the degree to which GOH commitments under the IPDP have been
carried out, recommendations regarding a follow-on strategy in the sector and the scope of any follow-on
investment Project would be made.
D. Project Rationale
[This section is not to be completed in a LIL PAD. Rationale should be implicit in paragraph B: 3.]
- 11 -



E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
[For LIL, to the extent applicable]
(D Cost benefit    NPV=US$ million; ERR = %  (see Annex 4)
* Cost effectiveness
o Other (specify)
The economic analysis canied out during Project preparation establishes an estimate of likely benefits from
sustainable tourism in Honduras' North Coast and Bay Islands during the Project implementation period
and an assumed five-year follow-on Project (see Annex 4). Because of the nature of the Learning and
innovation Loan, this analysis focuses on the overall benefits of the approach the Project is seeking to
promote, rather than on a cost-benefit analysis seeking to derive net benefits.
The principal benefits from the Project will be derived from creating conditions in the target area that lead
to a "healthy" tourism  industry capable of attracting additional tourists and appropriate levels of
investment, and significant community participation. These benefits are expressed in terms of the difference
between "without Project" and "with Project" scenarios. The former is based upon tourism visitation and
revenue growth consistent with historic averages (i.e., roughly four-percenit growth for the country with
variability at different locations and in different years). The latter is based on expert assessments of likely
growth scenarios given a comprehensive program designed to establish the Norit Coast as an attractive
natural and cultural resource destination, which is conservatively estimated at 8 percent. This higher
growth scenario is made possible by a number of parallel and mutually supporting activities conducted at
the municipal and national levels by public sector, private sector, and nongovernmental actors. While many
of these activities are beyond the scope of the Project itself, the LIL-financed activities are seen as a
necessary condition for this higlher growth scenario.
Three categories of benefits addressed quantitatively in the suppolting analysis include:
*   increased revenue capture for marine and coastal terresttial parks.  This will be derived from
increased visitation, implementation of user and entrance fees, and likely natural resource protection
fees charged at the municipal level;
*   Revenue captures to improve municipal tourisin-related services and national-level promotional
programs. This revenue is expected to come from additional national tourism tax revenues (from the
existing lHT tax) and new municipal fees charged of visitors (presumably from a small municipal fee
collected through hotels); and
*   Increased tourism  revenues from  increased visitation and spending. Thlis analysis will quantify
differences in likely tourism expenditures between the two growth scenarios.
There are significant differences between tourism conditions in the Bay Islands, and the rest of the North
Coast. Problems associated with promoting sustainable tourism in the Bay Islands relate more to the
Islands' "success" as a tourism destination. The Islands' natural resource base is threatened from increased
construction of roads, hotels and building sites, and from the direct and indirect effects of increasing
population and tourism visitation. The challenge in the Islands will be to protect the quality of the natural
resources that attract tourists -- principally reefs, mangroves, and beaches, as well as the forests and intact
coastline that protect dtem. The mainland North Coast bas ample natural and cultural assets with great
tourism potential. In contrast to the Islands, however, the tourism infrastructure of hotels, guides, tour
packages restaurants and a natural and cultural destination is quite underdeveloped. At the same time, the
natural resources that make up the fundamental attraction of the area are under threat from expansion of
agriculture, cattle ranching, poorly planned and occasionally unauthorized logging operations, and
- 12 -



contamination from municipal and industtial waste. The goal in both areas will be to find a more mutually
self-supporting relationship between touiism development and protection of the natural resource base.
The Islands and remainder of the Coast do share common weaknesses in municipal capacity to promote and
regulate sustainable tourism. All of the municipalities lack financial resources and personnel with the
appropriate skills and training to develop strategies, promote tourism development and ensure development
is consistent with the economic, environmental and social goals of sustainable tourism.
LIL activities are expected to promote noticeable and measurable improvements in tourism-related
variables such as:
*   Tourism-related job creation in the municipalities and park buffer areas;
*   Skill levels of tourism-related workers with potential impact on wages;
*   The rate of start-ups of new tourism-related businesses; and
*   Diminished environmental impacts of toulism operations.
In formal cost benefit analysis, tax revenue is corTect]y categorized as a transfer rather than a benefit.
However, th-is Project aims to generate a flow of revenues for activities that are considered essential to
providing the base for successful sustainable tourism.  The North Coast will require substantial
investments in parks and in municipal and national capacity to support and promote sustainable tourism
development. Absent these investments, the higher tourism growtll scenario is unlikely.
Improved protected area maniagement will provide additional market and non-market economic benefits.
Marine park and reserve benefits will include:
*   Reputation effects that increase the attractiveness and raise the international image of the North Coast
and the Bay Islands region;
o   Higher willingness-to-pay for a scarce resource. High quality coral reefs are becoming increasingly
scarce. Successful protection and management of the reefs will lead to increasing financial returns to
the tourism sector and the municipalities; and
-   Improved healtlh of fisheries -- this will help increase the value of future commercial fish catches, and
add stability to subsistence and traditional fishermeni.
Improving the terrestrial parks will provide additional benefits, such as:
*   Higher willingness-to-pay for scarce resources. Wildlife viewing, scenic beauty, living culture and
historic sites are "premium products" for foreign and local tourism markets. As competing locations
become rarer and less accessible, the future value of well-protected resources should increase;
* Improved quality of coastal resources. The terTestrial parks directly and indirectly protect mangroves,
wetlands, reefs, freshwater resources and a host of other valuable resources. Without well-functioning
parks, these coastal resources would be even more seriously threatened, reducing the economic
viability of traditional communities, and futther depleting coastal fisheries;
*   Quality of driniking water supplies. The coastal terrestrial parks provide drinking water capture for La
Ceiba, Trujillo, Tela, Omnoa and other coastal conmnunities. The economic value of this natural
service is likely in the millions of dollars, based on relevant studies of drinking water supply value in
Honduras and other developing countries; and
*   Reduction of vulnerability. Intact upland watersheds reduce downstream damage from excessive rain
and flooding. The value of this vulnerability reduclion could be in the millions of dollars considering
the valuable coastal resources located downstream and around thie parks.
- 13 -



2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Anunex 4)
[For LIL, to the extent applicable]
Not Applicable.
Fiscal Impact:
The fiscal impact of the Project on the Government of Hoonduras is expected to be minimal. The counterpart
contribution is at approximately 10% of Project costs, including taxes, for a total of US$0.56 million. The
first year's trench has been reserved by the Ministry of Finance for inclusion in IHT's FYOI budget.
3. Technical:
[For LIL, enter data if applicable or 'Not Applicable']
Best practice within the sustainable touiism sector - as indicated by the Certification for Sustainable
Tourism program in Costa Rica and the Green Globe International Program - have demonstrated the
importance of public-private partner-ships in promoting improved envirolnmental perfonnance together with
economic efficiency and cost savings. Waste minimization and energy and water conservation measures
save money for hotel and resort owners and operators, and often pay for themselves in a relatively short
period of time. Furthernore, hotel operators have found that the ability to market their properties as
"green" hotels provides a competitive advantage in the marketplace.
However, access to innovative environmental technologies and management practices that can be applied in
new and existing tourism developments in Honduras is limited. This is due in large part to a lack of
awareness of available technologies and management practices; import restrictions; insufficiency of
financing; lack of appropriate skills; and unavailability of pailts for effective operation and maintenance.
Current, state-of-the-art technologies include equipment for efficient power generation, water conservation;
desalinization; wastewater treatmnent, solid waste minimizationi/recycling; etc. Best practices in tourism
management include enviroimnental audits, periodic preventive maintenance, and training programs, among
other needs.
For satisfactory development of the tourism industry, steps must be taken simultaneously to preserve and
protect the natural environmenit and expand efforts to market Honduras as a "green" destination. Recent
reviews of environmental labeling and certification prograns indicated that the Green Globe lnternational
Program is evolving into an effective enviroomental maniagement strategy with upside marketing and
positioning benefits for tourism  destinations anid business operations. Green Globe is a worldwide
environmental management and marketing program for the tourism industry. The program has more than
500 members in 90 countries, and has established environmental improvement initiatives for destinations in
Asia, Europe, Middle East, Latin America and the Caribbean. Its global certification process is in
partnership with SGS, a leading intemnational verification bureau. Green Globe's principal mandate is to
provide low-cost, practical ways for all tourism businesses to undertake improvements in environmental
responsibility.
4. Institujtional:
4.1 Executing agencies:
The Institute for Honduras Tourism is a decentralized agency reporting to the Ministry of Tourism. The
Director of the IHT also functions as the Minister of Tourism. The IHT has the legal power and
independence to manage the Project. The duration of the Project implementation period is 3 years.
- 14 -



4.2 Project management:
Project management: Project management will be carried out by a team of consultanits to the IHT, financed
by the Project. Project Management responsibilities will be divided between an administrative team, based
in IHT headquarters in Tegucigalpa, and a technical team based in La Ceiba, on the North Coast. The
former will consist of a Project Director, an Accountant in charge of financial management and
disbursement, a Procurement Specialist to oversee acquisition of goods, provision of services, civil works
and training, and an administrative assistant to support the financial management and procurement
functions. The administrative team will be in place prior to Project Effectiveness. The technical team,
consisting of a tourism and environmetntal planning specialist, a sociologist and a program assistant, will be
based in La Ceiba to create an IHT presence on the North Coast, in conjunction with the Enterprise Center,
to be established under the Project. The Tourism and Enivironmental Planning Specialist will also oversee
functioning of the Tourism and Environmental Units to be established within local govermnent in the six
target municipalities The sociologist will facilitate linkages between the Project and local communities and
indigenous groups on the North Coast, and will be in responsible for overseeing the implementation of the
lPDP. The Program assistant will provide overall support and liaison with the PCU in Tegucigalpa for
Project Implementation. The Technical team will be hired no later thani 6 montlhs following Project
Effectiveness.
4.3 Procurement issues:
See Annex 6 for a discussion of these issues. Procuremenit capacity withini the IHT is limited, due to lack of
extensive experience with implementation of intemational Projects.  The Project will finance the
establishment of a PIU within IHT, to build capacity in IHT for Project management. A procurement
specialist will be hired, who will be trained in Bank procurement procedures and will, in tumn, work with
lIlT staff during Project implementation to introduce international best practice and institutionalize
procurement capacity within the IHT.
4.4 Financial management issues:
A. Financial Management System:
As result of the financial management assessment conducted during Project preparation, it was identified
that the IHT has an adequate financial management structure, keeps adequate, automated accounting
financial and budget records and controls on fixed assets, and has internial controls in place. However, the
financial management staff does not have the capacity to manage the additional workload that the Project
activities will require and the accounting system does not lhave thie Project Management Report PMR
capabilities, nor is it s ufficiently flexible to introdtuce changes to meet Project needs. As a result of the
assessment and given that the Project design contemplates the establishmenit of a PIU within the lHT, an
action plan was agreed upon which  includes key actions to: (a) design and  implement a financial
management system that meets PMR  requirements; (b) hire the staff needed to establish the PIU; (c)
draft a Project operations manual and develop administrative procedures; and (d) hire external auditors.
It was agreed that a Financial Management System  (FMS), which would be PMR-compatible, would
be installed and substantially operational prior to Project effectiveness. The action plan is included
in Annex 6, Table D.
- 15 -



The financial management system will include internal control systems, reliable records and report of
Project assets, accounting, financial reporting, physical and financial monitoring of Project indicators,
procurement management, reconciliation of the PIU's Project records with the Special Account statements,
and auditing systems to ensure the provision of accurate and timely information to the World Bank
regarding Project resources and expenditures, in accordance with: (i) the Financial Accounting, Reporting,
and Auditing Handbook (World Bank, 1995); (ii) the Bank's Operational Policy (OP) and Bank Procedure
(BP) 10.02 dated July 1996; and (iii) the revised Bank finanicial management standards to comply with OP
and BP 10.02, dated August 1997.
The PlU within the IHT would maintain separate Project accounts, retain strict financial controls, exercise
contractual authority over all Project components, conducting annual Project reviews, including contracting
of a firm for the audit of Project financial statements, as well as preparing periodic reports on performance
against agreed performance monitoring indicators. The PIU will consolidate and transmit to the Bank
quarterly PMRs which summarize Project progress in tenns of financial activity, key performance
indicators, and procurement. The PIU will also be responsible for continuous Project work plan updates to
ensure consistency with the Project's overall objectives. Finally, the PIU will be responsible for Project
management according to best administration practices and the Bank's financial management and reporting
requirements.
B. Project Management Reports:
Under the Loan Administration Cbang,e Initiative (LACI) introduced by the Bank in July 1998, the PIU
should maintain a financial management system  that integrates financial, physical and procurement
activities of the Project, to be reported through the PMR. The PMRs will also serve as an application for
disbursement from the credit account, if so requested by the Borrower. The first PMR would present a
forecast for disbursements during the first six (6) months of the Project; subsequent disbursements to the
Special Account would be based upon receipt and approval of quarterly PMRs. The PIU will produce
PMRs on a quatterly basis. These reports will be prepared 45 days after the end of each quarter. In
addition, annual financial statements (to be included in the audit report) will be required. The fiscal year of
the Project will match IHT's fiscal year. The PIU will be responsible for conducting annual Project
reviews, including audited financial statements of the Project, as well as preparing periodic reports on
physical and financial, agreed Project indicators. The PIU will consolidate and transmit to the Bank
quarterly PMRs which summarize Project progress in tetms of financial activity, key perfonnance
indicators, and procurement.
C. Annual Audits:
In addition to submission of quarterly PMRs, IHT will contract an independent public accounting firm,
prior to the beginning of the fiscal year to be audited. The auditors should be hired, preferably under a
multi-year contract (two years), according to terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, for the
performance of annual Project audits. The auditors will conduct interim audits through each year of
Project implementation. Cost of the External audit will be provided with credit funds. The Project audited
financial statements will be submitted to the Association within 120 days after the close of the Project's
financial year. The Guidelines and Terms of Reference for Audit of Projects with Bank Financing by the
World Bank in Latin America and the Caribbean Region should be followed when preparing the terms of
reference for the extemal audit. The terms of reference and proposed short list of public accounting firms
for the audit of the first Project implementation year should be submitted to the Bank for its no-objection
and a review of the short listed proposals completed, prior to Project effectiveness. The selected firm should
be hired within 30 days following Project effectiveness.
D. Special Account:
- 16 -



IDA credit funds will be disbursed into separate a Special Account, in US Dollars, at the Central Bank of
Honduras. Disbursement of Project transactions will be channeled directly dhough tle Special Account.
5. Environmental:                  Enviroinmental Category: B (Partial Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
Stakeholders within the GoH (the lHT Project counterpart officials, including the Environmental Unit
within lIlT) were consulted and their comments incorporated into the preparation of the Environmental
Assessment Report (EAR) as well as the Environmental Management Plan (EMP). One of the main
findings of the EAR was the nearly nonexistent capacity of municipalities to carry out environmental
planning in general, but particularly in relation to tourism development. To address tlhis, significant Project
resources will be directed toward capacity building of national and local government entities to improve
their environmental review and management capabilities. (See Annex 11 for a discussion of this).
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
The main features of the EMP include:
*   streamlining and upgrading environmental review and management procedures in relation to tourism
development at both national and municipal government levels througlh legal consultation, training
and infonnation dissemination;
*   provision of guidelines for environimental review of pilot activities to be financed under the
innovation matching grants component; and
*   environmental hot spot analysis/profile of six priority municipalities prepared as part of a regional
strategy for sustainable touiism on the North Coast.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: Final EA in Spanish received August
20, 2000 and presented to borrower and
IHTr on August 3 1. English draft
versioni received September 21, 2000.
5.4 Hlow have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) enviroiunmenital screening and (b) draft EA
report onl the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and wlhich groups were conisulted?
Stakeholders within the GoHl (the IHT and Environmental Unit within SERNA) were consulted and their
comments incorporated into the preparation of the Envir-onmental Management Plan. The EMP has been
vetted publicly through distribution to the municipal govemments in each of the six municipalities where
the Project will be supporting the establishment of Environment and Tourism Technical Units, and will be
disseminated to other stakeholder groups, includinig NGOs representing indigenous groups, along  the
North Coast.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environmienit? Do the indicalors reflect the objectives anid resltlls of the EMP?
Environmental Management System audit reports will be prepared and disseminated for those enterprises
that will participate in the environmental certification pilot process. These will measure any change in
environmental performance of these enterprises. Criteria for matching grant awards will include neutral or
positive environmental outcomes, and final reports will be submitted documenting pilot activities. A final
evaluation of the LIL will include analysis of environmental indicators measured against baseline
- 17 -



information collected at Project outset under Componenit 1.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
A social assessment (SA) was carried out in various phases over the course of Project preparation. The SA
included extensive consultation with stakeholders at various levels and in different fora, from regional
workshops involving a large cross section of interest groups in North Coast Tourism, to small focus groups
at the community level in the four coastal Departments in wlhich the Project is worling (Cortes, Colon,
Atlantida and Islas de Bahia). The SA and additional detailed background studies are available in the
Project Files. An executive summaiy of the SA is appended as Ainex 12.
The main objectives of the SA were to:
*   identify and characterize beneficiary groups within the Project area, and evaluate their attitudes and
socio/economic  activities in relation to the development and management of sustainable coastal
tourism on the North Coast;
* assess their reaction to the proposed Project and interest in participating;
* identify possible negative impacts from the Project or a follow on investment (e.g., in relation to land
security and access to benefits from tourism, foreign investment, increased pressure on natural
resources, cultural erosion) and ways to mitigate these impacts;
* identify needs and means to ensure substantive participation by beneficiary groups, and in particular
the needs of indigenous and economically disenfranchised groups, with regard to capacity building,
access to Project resources and infonnation, and decision-makers during Project design and
implementation;
-   identify institutional barriers to broad benefit sharing by local communities in tourism development;
and
*   identify the major links between natural and cultural patrimony in the region, in terms of subsistence,
traditional and religious use, and opportunities for integrating these into sustainable development
options, including cultural tourism, with greater income generating potential.
The metlhodology included:
*   fielding a multi-disciplinary team  including tourism, rural development and indigenous peoples'
specialists, and local community leaders;
*   consultations in advance with stakeholder groups regarding the composition of the team, methodology
and instruments to be used for data collection (e.g., survey instruments, focus groups, semi-structured
interviews, and geographic area covered); and
*   stakeholder consultations at various intervals to apprise groups on progress and outcomes of the SA
and Participation  Plan, and to ensure a continuing dialogue during the course of Project
implementation to further refine the Indigenous People's Participation  Action Plan and specific
activities to be supported under the Project components.
The main social issues identified were:
* lack of basic infrastructure (sanitation/public toilets, access to clean water, and beach facilities) to
support coastal tourism;
* lack of investment financing to capitalize start up of small businesses or expand existing
- 18 -



micro-enterpn'se;
*   urgent need for training and Humani Resources Development  in the area of tourism  (e.g., in
diversification of services, enterprise development and financing, information access, marketing, etc.);
*   land tenure: need to regularize titles held informally, including to communal and ancestral lands of
indigenous groups, resolve conflicting claims on these and other lands, rationalize jurisdiction over
land titling by INA and the municipalities, speed up the land titling and adjudication process and make
it more transparent; and
*   the spread of HIV/AIDS (this was identified as among the top three health issues by respondents; it
ranked in importance from number I to number 3, depending on ethnic group and gender, but was
acknowledged as being an issue of critical importance to sustainable tourism development).
Basic infrastructure will not be financed under the LIL. However, the need for suclh infrastructure to
attract future investment in tourism will be considered in the design of a possible follow-on Project. The
need for investment financing for SME and training and human resources development in support of
tourism are being addressed under the LIL. Otlher issues, such as land tenure and the proliferation of
HlV/AIDS on the North Coast, were viewed as critical issues which lay beyond the scope of the LIL, but
which would have to be addressed in parallel, to lay the foundation for sustainable coastal tourism on the
North Coast. The land tenure situation along the North Atlantic Coast is very dynamic, and has been the
focus of conflicts particularly between Indigenous Communities and the Govemment, in areas of overlap
between Ancestral Lands and Protected Areas and in pedi-urban settlements of indigenous communities
located adjacent to expanding municipalities of primarily ladino populations. In the process of expansion,
these municipalities have laid claim to lands within the "functional habitat" or ancestral territories of
adjacent Indigenous communities, thereby interfering with traditional livelihoods which are natural
resource-based, and the regularization of communal claims to these lands by Indigenous groups, as
provided for under the Indigenous and Tribal Peoples' Convention, Convention No. 169 of the International
Labor Organization, ratified by Honduras in 1995.
HitV/AIDS: The results of the SA indicated that among indigenous groups, Garifuina men and women
consider HI V/AIDS to be the number one health problem in their communities, with infection rates as high
as 25% of the population, recorded in some communities. The high rate of infection is attributed to the
migration patterns and sexual practices of this group. Further analysis of these issues was carried out by
the Project Team and specialists in LCSES, to identify the scope of the problem, the Government of
Honduras' commitment to address these issues, and an appropriate suite of interventions that could be
supported by the LIL and other IDA-financed Projects in parallel with the LIL. These became the basis for
the Indigenous Peoples' Development Plan, which is appended as Annex 13, and which the Borrower and
lIlT are committed to implementing, through, inter alia, institutional arrangements with INA and the
Ministry of Health, under the tenns of the Credit Agreement.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project'?
Key stakeholders are participating in the Project in every component. The LIL will support a national
dialogue to define the elements of a Strategy for Sustainable Coastal Tourism for the North Coast that will
engage public sector institutions, like the Instituto de Turismo Hondureno, the Instituto Nacional Agraria,
the Ministry of Health, the Association of Mayors of Honduras, the Private Sector and civil society through
a broad representation of interest groups in a series of stakeholder workshops at different locations on the
Nortl Coast. At the Municipal level, the Project will work with local governiments to strengthen their
capacity to plan for and promote tourism in an environmentally and socially sustainable way through
technical assistance  units in each of six municipalities. Restoration of tle colonial/historic section of
Trujillo, as an example of public-private partnerships with local govemment and entrepreneurs will be
supported under the Project. Training in the preparation of business plans for small scale entrepreneurs and
- 19 -



the promotion of small and medium ecotounism enterprises for provision of tourism related goods and
services will be supported through the establishmenit of an Enterprise Center and Business Incubator, and
matching grants programs for pilot Project development and implementation. These will be available to
individuals, community-based organizations and NGOs in the Project Area, with special programs designed
to facilitate access to those with little or no prior experience. To comply with the Bank's safeguard policies
on Indigenous Peoples, an IPDP was developed to provide benefits specifically to indigenous communities
in the Project Area and to mitigate any impacts which might arise in the future from the development of
tourism, i.e., through increased investments in infrastructure, migration, land markets and increased
externial influence.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
The Project Team canied out extensive social and legal analyses related to the SA, the IPDP, and the
Environmental Assessment, in consultation with various segments of civil society.  Indigenous and
Garifui.na leaders from the main ethlnic groups in the Project area were consulted, along with NGOs
representing these groups to identify key concems and expectations regarding tourism in the region. Public
institutions e.g., IHT Secretaria de Gobemaci6n y Justicia, Secretaria de Salud, AMHON, Instituto
Nacional Agraria, etc. were also consulted regarding their role in and commitment to addressing land
regularization and land security issues, HIV/AIDS, capacity building for tourism development, and
environmental management issues. Their participation was ensured by hiring local leaders and NGOs to
conduct the workshops. During Project implementation, there will be ample opportunity for consultation
and collaboration with NGOs and civil society througlh the following:
-   support for the work of the Intersectoral Committee to Address Indigenous Land Rights, through
consultations, conflict resolution and regularizationi of communal land claims in the case of nine
Garifuna communities whose titles are still outstanding;
* contracting of an NGO or community-based organization to administer the Innovation Matching
Grants sub-components;
* eligibility of civil society, including NGOs and CBOs to take part in the Matching Grants sub-Project
(Component 3 of the Project); and
*   participation of relevant representatives of these groups in the Steering Committee for the Project,
which will be convened on an ad hoc basis in the context of specific issues (e.g., coordination with
local government, training and outreach for development of small scale tourism operations, .lIV/AIDS
awareness and prevention campaigns).
6.4 What institutional anrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
Establishment of technical assistance units to promote sustainable tourism and coastal land use planning
will be established in six municipalities, a tourism enteiprise center and business incubator serving the
north coast will be established in La Ceiba, and financing of feasibility studies and innovative
public/private partnerships for small and medium scale enterprise tailored to meet the expressed needs of
target beneficiary groups in tourism development will be supported by the Project. This will help ensure
the kind of capacity building and resource allocationi required to launch micro-and small-scale pilots in
sustainable tourism, and improve potential for longer term social and economic development in the Project
area. These pilots, if successful, can be replicated oni a larger scale, thus contributing to Project impact and
sustainability. A sociologist will be part of the Project management team assigned to La Ceiba. S/he will be
overseeing social aspects of the Project, and helping to monitor performnance against social indicators as
outlined in the IPDP, with assistance from INA and the MOH.
- 20 -



6.5 How will the project monitor perfonrance in terms of social development outcomes?
The Logframe and the IPDP provide monitorable indicators for desired social development outcomes.
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
.-.... . --.-. .  ........... ........  .                                                   .-.-. ...........................  . . .
- : -Policy                       :--:AppHlcablity-
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)               0 Yes (C) No
Natural habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                       () Yes 0 No
Forcstry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                        ( ) Yes* No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                          ( ) Yes 0 No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                      0 Yes ( ) No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                       * Yes (:) No
Involuntary Resettleinent (OD 4.30)                                ( ) Yes 0 No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                                  C ) Yes * No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)       ( ) Yes 0 No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)            (C) Yes * No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
The Project is designied to lay the groundwork for the development of environmentally and socially
sustainable coastal tourism along the Noi-tlihern Caribbean mainland and offshore Bay Islands of Honduras.
It complements a regional GEF Project for the Conservation and Sustainable Use of the Mesoamerican
Barrier Reef System (MBRS), involving Honiduras and its three neighbors to the north, by promoting
opportunities for significant benefit flows fri-om coastal and marine touiism to municipalities and local
communities along the southenimost reaches of the MBRS. Preparation has involved significant
consultation with all stakeholder groups and includes an Indigenous Peoples' Development Plan (Annex 13
of the PAD). The IPDP is consistent with the results of these workshops and will not only ensure
substantial benefits to the most marginalized groups in the target area, but includes measures to mitigate
the potential future impacts of tourism development on the North Coast related to land security and
HIV/AIDS. With regard to cultural property, the Project includes funds to help rehabilitate the historic
ceniter of Trujillo, the oldest city on the North Coast of Hoonduras, as a cultural tourism destination.
Extensive consultations with the Ministly of Anthiropology and Culture were carried out in the design of
this component.
- 21 -



F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
This section is not to be completed in LIL PAD.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assulmptions foun(d in. the fourtlh column of Ainex 1):
il}00iQE;S0itilQ:l   RiskXa X   iRisk Rating      Risk'Mitigation Measurei
From Outputs to Objective
Government provides weak leadership on         S         The Project calls for establishment of joint
environmental and social sustainability                  teclmical assistance units for environment and
issues related to tourism development on                 tourism within each municipal govemment
the North Coast.                                         targeted under the Project (6). SERNA has a
Memo of Understanding with IHT to help
strengthen the environmental review capacity
within IlT; the LIL will provide training and
T.A. to this unit as well as field an expert on
environmental planning in tourism destination
development in La Ceiba, and a sociologist, to
extenld support to all 6 municipalities. An
Intersectoral Committee has been formed,
headed by INA, to coordinate and accelerate
land titling efforts on the Nolth Coast. The
Committee will also serve as a forum for policy
dialogue on issues related to land security and
conflict resolution.
Communities reject tourism as a viable        N          In many of the coastal municipalities (e.g.,
economic development altemnative.                        Trujillo, Roatan, Utila and Tela), tourism is the
only alternative. All 6 mayors enthusiastically
endorsed Project plans for establishing the
Technical Assistance Units and providing T.A.
on tourism destination development and
marketing. Results of social assessment
indicated overwhelming support among
beneficiaiy groups for development of
sustainable tourism opportunities in their
coimmunities.
Government fails to invest in necessary        H         The LIL can pave the way to follow-on
physical infrastructure to support                       investment Projects, but government
development of tourism destinations and                  commitment to providing basic infrastructure
maintain natural and cultural assets,                    will be key to attracting private sector
essential to tourism taking off in the                   investment. Public-private partnerships will be
region.                                                  essential to successfully launching the sector.
lnitial links with IFC in Project design and
review will be strengthened during Project
implementation and supervision.
- 22 -



From Components to Outputs
Indigenous communities are not willing to     M          Indigenous communities are wary of govetnment
participate in sustainable tourism                       initiatives in the tourism sector, in light of
initiatives.                                             unresolved land tenure issues and earlier efforts
to promote direct foreign investment widely
perceived as jeopardizing traditional land
holdings and use rights. However, the Project
has consulted widely with indigenous
communities in the preparation of the Social
Assessment and development of an Indigenous
People's Development Plan, resulting in a very
positive dialogue. There now appears to be clear
and sustained interest in pursuing ecotourism
and cultural tourism options among Indigenous
groups as alternative fonns of income
generation. The Project Team has been
approached with several intetim requests for
assistance in this regard, prior to initiation of the
Project.
Municipal government fails to provide          N         All the mayors expressed strong support for this
necessary counterpart support to                         component, and the GoH is co-financing the
initiatives under Municipal Strengthening                staffing of the tourism/environmental T.A. units
for Tourism and Environmental                            within municipal government.
Management component of the Project.
GoH fails to provide counterpart funds in     N          Government counterpart is small and GoH has
a timely manner, thus delaying                           earmarked funds in FYOI budget to IHT for
implementation and undenniing Project                    Project start up. These are to be deposited
completion within three year time frame.                 quarterly, in a separate account, to cover
anticipated expenses for the quarter, with an
initial minimum deposit of $50,000 as a
condition of Project Effectiveness. The Ministry
of Finance has confirmed the high priority
accorded this Project in the context of their
National Plan for Reconstruction and
Transfonnation, following Hurricane Mitch.
The Project is also seen as directly relevant to
the poverty reduction focus and assistance to
Indigenous peoples, which are also part of this
Plan. The Project's geographic focus is in line
with new initiatives to invest in economically
depressed communities like Trujillo on the
Noithi Coast.
Innovation grants fail to stimulate            S         Project will set up an entrepreneurship center to
sufficient level of interest or volume of                provide training in tourism management, Project
bankable pilot Projects.                                 development, feasibility studies and access to
co-financing (to meet match requirements.)
- 23 -



Three years is not enough time to achieve   H         Project will recruit qualified consultant staff to
Project objectives given limited absorptive           assist IlHT in Project management (PIU
capacity and Project management                       established withlin IHT), and in the field (in La
experience of implementing agency.                    Ceiba) and will invest in training and T.A. for
IHT staff and local level stakeholders to
facilitate their achievement of Project
implementation benchmarks,
Security situation in the North Coast due   H         The GoH has declared 2001 as National
to increasing crime, and the high rate of             Tourism Year in recognition of the growing
AIDS infection will discourage tourism                importance of Tourism to the economy. This is
from taking off.                                      likely to increase investments in police training,
deployment and enforcement, designed to
heighten security in tourist destinations. More
investments in AIDS prevention from donors
such as IDB, UNDP and USAID are planned to
help stem the rise in AIDS.
Overall Risk Rating                         H         This risk is high but manageable, given that this
is a LIL and that the Bank's safeguard policies
are being rigorously enforced.
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
The most controversial aspects of the Project are the perceived relation between tourism development and
unresolved land tenure issues affecting indigenous and other ethlnic communities along the north coast,
particularly where these related to communally held lands. Although the prospect of a constitutional
amendment that would allow foreign ownership of coastal lands for tourism development has been tabled
indefinitely in light of political opposition from both parts of the political spectrum, there is still the
perception that a push toward tourism development will catalyze land speculation on the coast and that
insecure land titles will be vulnerable to purchase by the highest bidders. Agrarian reform and resolution of
land tenure issues is a huge challenge in Honduras, and far beyond the scope of this Leaming and
Innovation Loan. However, the Project will link up with a new land titling study to identify the legal and
technical obstacles to more efficient land administration on the North Coast coupled with a pilot activity to
accelerate titling and "ampliacion" (or expansion of titles to include functional habitat) of communal lands
among Indigenous groups on the Nortl Coast. This will be a participatory effort involving communities in
boundary demarcation and mapping, in close collaboration with a new Iintersectoral Committee, headed by
the Instituto National Agraria, to coordinate land titling and adjudication of claims on the North Coast.
This buy in from local communities and their active participation in the Project as outlined in the IPDP
should go a long way to defusing the controversy surrotunding tourism development on the North Coast, at
least in the context of this Project.
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
*   The Implementation Agreement has been executed oni behalf of the Borrower and 1HT;
* IHT has adopted the Implementation Manual;
-24 -



*   IHT has established the PCU and contracted for the PCU the services of: (i) a Project coordinator; (ii)
a finance director; and (iii) a procurement specialist/accountant, all with qualifications and experience
satisfactory to the Association;
*   IHT has strengthened the financial management system  referTed to in Section 4.01 (a) of the
Development Credit Agreement in a manner satisfactoiy to the Association, including the selection of
auditors from a short list of firms satisfactoiy to the Association, as described in Annex 6 of the PAD,
Table D, the Financial Management System Action Plan; and
*   IHT shall have opened the account referred to in Section 3.01 (e) (iii) of the Development Credit
Agreement and the Boirower shall have made a deposit of $50,000 equivalent therein.
2. Other [classify according to covenanlt types used in the Legal Agreements.]
Condition of disbursement for the Matching Grants subprojects:
*   That an agreement be entered into by IHT with the agent(s) for administration of the Innovation
Matching Grants Subproject activities; and
*   That a Grant Agreement be signed with the beneficiary.
Dated covenants:
*   That the IPDP be carried out, and the Land Titling Diagnostic Study refetTed to in the IPDP be
submitted to the Bank for review by September 30, 2002;
*   That a Sociologist and an Environmental/Tourism Coordinator be hired within 6 months after Project
effectiveness to staff the Technical Team of the PIU based in La Ceiba; and
*   That the revolving fund for counterpart contributions be maintained by the Bon-ower, witlh a three
month advance of funds required for the following quarter, deposited each quarter.
H. Readiness for Implementation
D: 1. a) Thne engineering designi documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
1 1. b) Not applicable.
LIi 2. The procurement documents for the first six months' activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation; and a framework has been established for agreement on standard bidding
documents that will be used for ongoing procurement throughout the life of LIL
Z 3. The LIL's lmplementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
D 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
L.a    The engineering design documents will be prepared during the period prior to effectiveness.
3.    The LIL's Financial Management Action Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of
satisfactory quality. The LIL's Project Implementation Plan is available in Draft and will be appraised
during Project appraisal.
- 25 -



1. Compliance with Bank Policies
Z  1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
C 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recomnmended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
Marea Eleni Hatziolos              John Redwood                        D-M Dowsett-Coirolo
Team Leader                        Sector Director                     Country Manager/Director
- 26 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
HONDURAS: SUSTAINABLE COASTAL TOURISM PROJECT
.......                                              .. - b-e..iv. ......o..      ..   .. t.   ....... .. .it.  .. . i . .. ..
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:        Sectorl country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Environmentally sustainable   More rational use of coastal   Annual CAS m~onitoring and   Other externalities do not
development of Honduras'   and marine resources to   review,                      undermine social and
rich tourism potential in  balance economic                                       economic benefits from
coastal areas.             development and conservation                           integrated management of
needs along the North Coast.                          the coastal zone. Natural
phenomena like Hurricanes
generate unanticipated social
response.
Follow-on Development
Objective:
1. To take successful    IM. Numerous tourism                                   Other destinations and local
public-private partnership    enterprises involving private                     municipalities are willing to
approaches promoting       sector and govereunent (local                        replicate the programs.
sustainable tourism        or national) established in
destinations to scale      different locations along the
throughout the Caribbean   coast.
corridor of Honduras.
2. Social and economic     2.(a) Policy, legal and                              The Intersectoral Committee
benefits to local communities  institutional framework to                       on Indigenous Land Rights
increased or sustained,   title and protect indigenous                          implements its mandate.
land rights and those of
marginalized groups in the
North Atlantic Coast
established through a
participatoly process
2.(b) median income, health  Surveys based on human
and welfare of such groups    development indicators, at
increased over base line levels beginning and end of Project.
by end of Project.
-27-



. .. ...  ~Ky Prfrmance
i- ar bhy ofO'bjectivs             Indicators          MoitE  I  t ft. Conitoringr&E  Eauat' Ct     Assumption
Project Development         Outcome I Impact            Project reports:            (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                  Indicators:
1. To create an enabling    1.1 A strategy for Sustainable  Supervision mission and  GoH continues to politically
environment for the         Coastal Tourism on the North Project reports; IHT Reports.  support the importance of
development and management Coast, developed and under                               sustainable tourism and
of sustainable coastal tourism  implementation with                                 encourages private sector
along the North Coast of    stakeholder participation and                           involvement.
Honduras, while generating   support of national and local
increased economic and social government by beginning of
benefits for local          2003.
communities.
1.2. Perceived economic,   Pilot area prelimninary and  GoH supports necessary
ecological and social benefits  subsequent impact analysis   policies and infrastructure for
of tourism by key stakeholders report (PIU).           tourism development.
in the pilot destinations
increases 35% from baseline
measure of attitLdes, between
Project initiation and EOP.
1.3. Tourism revenue       Amnual reports on municipal  Policies governing income
capturing mechanisms        finance.                    generation and local retention
identified and adopted at                               of user fees for protected
municipal level by EOP in at                            areas.
least 4 municipalities.
1.4. Institutionalized     Reports from group
mechanisms for the equitable  admninistering matching
distribution of tourism    x grants and Project supervision
benefits from the Project,    reports.
including eligibility criteria
for iniovation grants to
private sector and
communities, established and
functioning by middle of
2003.
1.5. Strengthening and     Reports of Intersectoral    Land Tenure Diagnostic
regularization of a legal,  C ommittee on Indigenous    Study has been carried out
institutional and procedural   Land Rights.             successfully and, based on its
fiamework for the titling of                           results, actions of
communal lands, the                                     regularization and titling have
expansion of titles to inclcle                          been taken.
ancestral lands, and conflict
resolution mechanisms, in the
Project area by end of 2004.
- 28 -



1.6 A participatory strategy    Reports of Intersectoral
for resolving conflicts and  Committee, INA Policy
securing land tenure in    statemeents, Bank Supervision
indigenous communities in    Repolts.
the Project area established by
begimning of 2003, and
incorporated into strategy for
Sustainable Tourism on the
North Coast.
1.7 H1V/AlDS issues        NGO reports, Banlk
identified and resources   Supervision Reports, National
mobilized to support       Commission on AIDS reports.
awareness and prevention in
most vulnerable communities
of North Coast by early 2002.
- 29 -



y   Ob- t'Ke  PCfranceoiior
Output from each             Output Indicators:           Project reports:             (from Outputs to ObJectlve)
Component:
1. Sustainable coastal tourism  1. A Sustainable Tourism  Review of national strategy    Government commitment to
development strategy         Action Plan for the Nolth    and action plan audit, through sustainable development
designed and implemented at  Coast drafted in year 1; plan   ongoing Project monitoring    principles and practices
the national and local levels.  under implementation at the   activities.              remains strong.
local level in years 2 and 3.   Bank supervision repolts.
2.1. Municipal officials have   2.1 (a). Six municipalities  Municipalities Training   Inter-institutional agreements
the knowledge, skill and tools provided with incremental    Impact Report. Bank        between Municipalities and
needed to develop and       technical staff and equipment supervision reports.        IHT exist.
coordinate sustainable      in tourism and environmental Annual Operating Plans
tourism.                    management by EOP.            within municipalities.
2.1 b). At least one revenue
capture mechanism
introduced by each
municipality participating in
training and tecluhical
assistance activities by EOP.
2.2. A voluntary             2.2.(a). Environmenital      EMS audit reports and PIU
environrnental rating and    Management Systems (EMS)  report.
certification program is     audits are conducted at 5 pilot
successfully piloted.        sites by EOP.
2.2.( b). Criteria for
environm1ental and social
sustainability of coastal
tourism operationis established
and agreed with IHT and local
communities.
2.3. Honduran North Coast is  2.3. At least 5 new tourism    l1 IT annual report and  Willingness of local
emerging as a sustainable    destination packages based on commercial ads in travel   community to accept tourism
tourism destination with     a sustainable tourism model   magazines/literature.      as an economic alternative for
distinctive natural and      and incorporating                                        sustainable development.
cultural attractions.       sustainability criteria,
promoted by Honduran
Institute of Tourism by EOP.
2.4. Heritage restoration    2.4. At least 5 heritage sites   SME Training Impact Report,
activities established for   or buildinig facades restored   M&E reports from matching
Trujillo as a basis for      and supported witlh signaled,  grants subproject.
attracting tourists.        interpretation and walkways.
2.5. Micro and SME           2.5. Small Business         IHT annual reports;
entrepreneurs are trained.   Enterprise Center           M&E reports from nmatching
established and operational   grants subprojects
by end of year 2.           Bank supervision reports.
- 30 -



3.1. Pilot small and medium   3. .(a). At least 10 additional Project supervision repoits
enterprises are developed.    public-private sector          and reports of entity
ilnovation Projects (in       administering matching
addition to Trujillo) are     grants.
initiated by EOP.
3.1 .(b). At least 7 innovation Project supervision reports
Projects targeting indigenous  and reports of entity
populationis are initiated by    administering matching
EOP.                          grants.
- 31 -



Key Performhan.ce:
C.ie I hy of Mborw Indicator                    :    Monitoring :W&Evaluation.   Critical A
Project Components I       Inputs: (budget for each   Project reports:           (from Components to
Sub-components:            component)                                            Outputs)
1. National Strategy       US$1.32 million           (a) Anuual and quarterly    GoH counterpart funds are
Formulation and Institutional                         reports;                   available in a timely manner
Support for Sustainable                              (b) Procurement records;   to support plan development
Coastal Tourism.                                      (c) Evaluation reports;    and implementation.
(d) Copies of contracts;   - Fora for policy dialogue,
1. I Policy dialogue with  1.1 US$0.33 million       (e) Bank supervision reports;  such as the Intersectoral
public and private sector                             (f) Field management reports. Committee to coordinate land
stakeholders.                                                                   titling on the North Coast,
1.2 National Sustainable   1.2 US$0.47 million                                  continue to function
Coastal Tourism Plan.                                                           effectively.
1.3 Tourism Plan           1.3 US$0.52 million                                  - Meaningful participation by
implementation.                                                                  all stakeholder groups is
achieved.
2. Municipal Strengthening,  USS2.01 million                                    Municipal government staff
Training, and Technical                                                         internalizes training and
Assistance                                                                      change process to promote
2.1 Establishment of Tourism                                                    adoption of good practice.
and Environment Units.     2.1 US$0.97 million
2.2 Municipal Training
Program.
2.3 Trujillo: Heritage Site    2.2 US$0.34 million  
Restoration.
2.3 US$0.70 million
3. Pilot Entrepreneurship  US$2.15 million                                      Governnent agencies
Programs for Sustainable                                                        effectively support
Coastal Tourism.                                                                decentralized municipal
3.1 Small & Medium         3.1 US$0.25 million                                  capacity and decision-making.
Business Enterprise
Development.
3.2 Sustainable Tourism    3.2 US$ 1.14 million
Innovative Projects.
3.3 Sustainable Tourism with  3.3 US$0.76 million
Indigenous Communities.
4. Project Implementation  US$0.56 million                                      SMEs apply introduced
4.1 Project Implementation   4.1 US$0.56 million                                business skills in managing
Unit.                                                                           private enterprises.
lndigenous communities are
willing to participate in
sustainable tourism initiatives.
IHT provides policy and
technlical leadership.
-32 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
HONDURAS: SUSTAINABLE COASTAL TOURISM PROJECT
This LIL includes finance for three operational components and a Project Implementation Unit, which
covers monitoring arid evaluation activities. As a result of the public-private partnership approaches to be
tested and refined through the LIL, it is anticipated that follow-on replication actions will help coastal
municipalities throughout Honduras to develop and manage more effectively sustainable tourism while
benefiting local communities. The Project may also serve as a model for sustainable tourism development
in other coastal communities participating in the Mesoametican Banier Reef System (MBRS) Project.
By Component:
Project Component I - US$1.32 million
This component will focus on the development of a regional strategy for sustainable coastal tourism on the
North Coast of Honduras. The strategy will include tourism development plans for priority coastal areas in
four Coastal Departments of Honduras. A dialogue will be supported througlh a series of workishops in key
locations on the coast. Expertise will be required in the following areas: regional planning; tourism
development and financing; environmental management; economic impact analysis; sustainable
development; coastal zone management; land administration and land use plannling; and community
participation, including involvement of indigenous peoples.
Sub-component 1.1: Formutulate and promote a participatory approach to policy dialogue with public
and private sector stakeholders at the national, regional anld local levels - US$0.33 million.
Tourism is a classic example of thle need for public-private pattnership development, which requires
extensive consultation and dialogue. The public sector's primary role is to create the proper environment for
private investment by creating stable economic conditions; facilitating and attracting foreign and domestic
investment, including regulation; supporting destinationi marketing and promotion; dealing with security
and health concemns of toulists; and ensuring a just and transparent process of land administration, zoning
and land use planning to minimize negative environmenital and social impacts from tourism. The priyate
sector's primary role is to provide investment funding, development coordination, maticeting direction, and
operational management.
Workshops in six destinations will involve key stakeholders in formulating a sustainable tourism strategy
for the North Coast over short, medium and long-term horizons, including mission, action priorities,
community development and institutional arrangemenets for the North Coast as a region and for priority
destinations within it. Ptior to the workshops, ongoing efforts directed toward developmnent of national
tourism strategy and background studies will be synthesized into a working paper for the workshop
participants to review and augment. Strategy fomnulationl will include the work of the recently established
Intersectoral Committee on Indigenous Rights in relation to land tenure for the North Coast. This will
include a major Land Titling Diagnostic in Indigenous communities of the North Coast and recommended
actions onl ways and means to fonnalize the Governiment of Honduras' recognition of indigenous land
rights, including mechanisms for satisfactomy resolution of conflicts where adjudication of existing or
pending land titles may be required, as provided for in thle Constitution of Honduras, in the Agrarian
Reform Law, the Agricultural Modemization and Development Law, and in ILO Convention 169, ratified
by the Honduran Congress in 1995. A report incorporating these finding and other major workshop
outcomes will be drafted and widely disseminated tlhrough print and Inteniet distribution chainels.
- 33 -



Following the workshop, baseline studies will also be conducted in priority areas identified through Project
appraisal or through the workshop process. For example, studies will be undertaken to assess: (a) attitudes
and perceptions of key government, business and citizen stakeholders on issues related to environment and
tourism in target municipalities, and  (b) economic, environmental and social assessment of tourism
impacts.
Background studies prepared during Project preparation may .be used to validate some of the baseline
measures and to assist in establishing a policy dialogue with key stakeholders in coastal tourism These
include the following analyses: (a) Hionduras' sustainable coastal tourism potential; (b) municipal
environmental and tourism management capacity assessment, (c) legal anid regulatory issues, including
those related to land tenure and regularization of land titles and land use rights in areas of high priority for
tourism development and regulatory issues related to use of economic instruments to increase revenues
from tourism; (d) revenue resource needs of coastal park and protected areas, (e) environmental and
tourism education needs; and (f) social assessment and indigenous peoples participation plan.
Sub-component 1.2: Develop an1d implement a nationial tourism strategy for thle Norlh Coast which
includes integrated, sustainable tourism action plans over the short, mediunt anid long term - US$0.47
million.
With the prospect of new foreign investment along Hionduras' North Coast and the Bay Islands expected in
the near future (e.g. Tela Bay), and increased economic activity, there is a risk of incurring significant
environmental and social costs associated with unplanned development and the aggravation of ongoing
social and environmental issues. Illustrative examples of these costs resulting from recent coastal tourist
development activities in neighboring countries include: large-scale conversion and loss of critical habitat
for wildlife which forms the basis for Honduras' nature-based tourism; increased incidence of illegal fishing
and over-harvesting of high quality fishing and shellfish; and dumping of untreated wastes in coastal
waters. Added to this is the ongoing problem of insecure land tenure due to outdated and inefficient land
administration in the region, and failure to resolve conflicts related to indigenous land rights, particularly in
areas overlapping with protected areas and forestry reserves. A new threat is the increasing incidence of
HIV/AIDS on the North Coast, which poses a risk not only to vulnerable local communities, but to tourists
as well. In light of experience from elsewhere in the region, it is clear that an essential step in the
development of sustainable tourism will be the preparation of an integrated planning framework which
regulates the development of tourism in a fonn that is not only compatible with the underlying natural and
cultural environment, but sensitive to the complex social, economic and public health related environment
in which tourism will be promoted at the local level.
A Sustainable Nortb Coast Tourism Strategy Working Group, representing key stakeholders, would guide
planning activities, focusing on criteria such as canying capacity of coastal ecosystems, basic
infrastructure and transportation access, destination trip circuits, revenue generation and management, and
land security and public health. The strategy will include involvement of indigenous peoples as described in
the LIL's Indigenous Peoples Development Strategy. The Working Group will review the results of
consultations with stakeholders through workshop and focus groups over the course of Project preparation
and early on during implementation. The latter will include community consultations on HIV/AIDS
awareness, prevention and treatment; institutional antangements related to co-management of coastal and
marine resources in adjacent or overlapping protected areas and forest reserve areas.  Based on these
results, the Working Group will formulate a participatory planning framework. This framework will
include (a) an analysis of existing national and regional tourism and environmental management plans and
technical studies carried out during Project preparation; (b) the results of the Land Titling Diagnostic to be
carried out under the guidance of tlhe Intersectoral Committee on Indigenous Land Rights;  (c) an
- 34 -



environmental scan (including externial factors, benchimarks and market opportuniities or threats, including
HIV/AIDS, internal assets, funding resources, environmenital conditions, institutional arrangements and
product strengths or weaknesses); (d) the evaluation of strategic options, comparative and competitive
options, desired market position, and development approach; and (e) a shared vision for North Coast
sustainable tourism development over the near term (3 to 8 years).
A North Coast Sustainable Tourism Strategy and Plan of Action will be drafted by the Working Group and
presented at a national conference of stakeholders designed to encourage public-private partnerships and
collaborative activities. At the conference, specific action plans will be prepared in areas such as
competitive network development, environmental management systems, enterprise development, public
awareness, and municipal capacity building. A "Conference Outcomes and Recommendations Report" will
be produced and disseminated. These outcomes and recommenidations shall be incorporated into a final
North Coast Sustainable Tourism Strategy and Plan of Action document, which in turn will be submitted
for review and endorsement by the Ministry of Tourism, and key Honduran govenmment agencies, private
sector, and Nortlh Coast departnents and municipalities, and commtnity groups, including indigenous
groups. This document will also be shared with oth-er countries participating in regional planning and
cooperation activities conducted under the MBRS Project.
Sub-contponent 1.3 Provide techinical assistance to prontote reformr of policy, legal and regulatory
instruments and intprove instituJtional arrangements in support of planz implementation - US$0.52
million.
This component will focus on the technical assistance required to implement of the national strategy for
sustainable coastal tourisn along the North Coast. This will include promotion of the necessary legal and
policy reforms to address successfully issues identified above in the national dialogue and tourism action
plans, along witlh the institutional arrangemenits required to lay the foundation for sustainable coastal
tourism on the North Coast.  Among the activities to be promoted will be: tourism audits; conflict
resolution and legal and technical work related to the futLure titlling of communal land claims in 9 Garifuna
communities, whose tertitories overlap witlh protected areas on the North Coast; and information
campaigns for HIV/AIDS prevention and treatment. The PIU will be responsible for hiring tourism
planning specialists with regional and technical expertise to facilitate participatory actions planning and
public-private sector collaboration for the environment and toutism sectors. Conisultants engaged will be
responsible for development and adoption of planning, monitoring, and evaluation methodologies to assist
the PIU and IHT staff responsible for Project implementation.  These specialists will also provide
appropriate training to upgrade the skills of IHT staff involved in the new environment/EIA unit within
IHT headquarters and PIU staff coordinating the new tourism/environment technical units to be established
in municipal governments on the North Coast (see Project Component 2 below). A North Coast Sustainable
Tourism Audit will be carried out in the second and third years of the Project in order to monitor plan
implementation and economic, environmental, and social impacts of tourism development to the extent
measurable over the Project period. Using the audit as a scorecard, teclhical assistance activities will be
directed  toward reducing barriers to sustainable tourism  development and facilitating positive
environmental and social actions at the regional and local levels. This will also be used to evaluate
performance against key policy objectives whiclh will form palt of the conditionality for a possible follow
on investment Project.
- 35 -



Project Component 2 - US$2.01 million
The objective of this component is to develop the capacity of coastal municipalities (including local
government, the private sector and community based organizationis) to engage in sustainable tourism
development plaining, through skills trainiing in such areas as environmental management, tourism
destination management, entreprenieurship, environmenltal certification for tourism related enterprise. A
complementary subcomponent will support the creation of a cultural tourism destination demonstration site
through the restoration of the historic center of one of Central America's oldest coastal town, Trujillo,
gateway to the Mosquitia and Honduras' adventure tourism.
Sub-component 2.1: Create a techinical assistance uniit to provide resources for municipal tourism
developnment and environmentfal mianagemenit - US$0.9 7 million.
Honduras can benefit from  relevant expeiiences in comparable countries in planning its relatively
undeveloped coastline. However, one major constraint that needs to be addressed is the weak planning and
management capacity in the countly's coastal municipalities.  The time to address this constraint is
particularly opportune because the recently enacted Municipal Law  has given siginificantly greater
autonomy to local govemments to manage their own affairs. Moreover, there are a number of ongoing
institution building Projects and activities that are providing local govemments the means to take full
advantage of the opportunities provided by the new law. For example, USAID's Proyecto de Desarrollo
Municipal is promoting the development of increased institutional capacity in municipal governments
needed to manage existing resources and develop new sources of revenue.
Most Hoonduran municipal govemrments participate in a variety of inter-institutional commissions and
committees. However, none of these adequately address the unique multi-sectoral planning requirements to
oversee coastal tourism areas. The Project will assist in the development of technical assistance units at
key coastal municipalities, referTed to as a Tourism-Einvironment Unit (TEU). A municipal TEU will
provide a highly visible and needed resource, whiclh canl be used by public officials and the private sector.
The TEU will support increased efficiency in municipal operations througb provision of a computer,
monitor, software, Internet connectioni and resource materials (particularly available through distance
learning) and technical assistance focused on tourism development and environmental management in
coastal areas.
Needs analysis conducted during the Project preparation identified a particular need for TEUs where
environmental units do not exist or are weak (Utila in the Bay Islands). A TEU could strengthen the
environmental units of Omoa, Tela, Trujillo, La Ceiba, and Roatan. During Project preparation, it was
determined that all six municipalities studied lacked capability in sustainable tourism plaining,
development, finance, and marketing.
An advisory committee will be foimed to assist eachi TEU in (a) establishing a work plan and performance
outcomes, (b) encouraging public-private sector collaboration and, as necessaly, conflict resolution
assistance, and (c) maintaining active relationislhips with EIA units in SERNA and IHT. The TEU will also
liase actively with indigenous groups and other coastal communities to help them articulate plans for
community-based management of cultural and natural resources within their sphere of influence. A
sociologist will be hired as part of tlhe Project Implementation Team to assist TEUs witlh community
outreach and encourage stakeholder participation.  S/hle will be based in La Ceiba along with the
Coordinator of tlle Tourism/Environmental Units onl the North Coast (see 4. Management Component,
below) to provide technical assistance atId oversight of field activities. Tbe TEU will provide the following
- 36-



services: (a) organization of a unit in La Ceiba to coordinate TEU activities; (b) technical assistance to (i)
establish criteria and procedures for improving the environmental impact assessment and inspection system
(as described in the Environmental Management Plan), (ii) formulate a municipal tourism development and
marketing strategy; (iii) conduct cost/benefit analyses of tourism development altemnatives, using economic,
environmental and social assessments, (iv) identify revenue capture and financing mechaniisms; (v) assist in
the mediation of land titling and resources access tights issues, (vi) establish liaison with NGOs managing
park and protected areas in the destination area and (vii) stimulate small business development and job
creation, particularly benefiting poor population segments including indigenious ethnic groups.
The TEUs will also pilot test environlmenital certification programs, including (a) agreement on a strategy
and  road  map  for  certification,  including  performance-based  standards  for  environmental
certification/eco-labeling using tested programs such as Green Globe, Certification for Sustainable
Tourism and Blue Flag, (b) formulation and adoption of an independent certification system, (c) provision
of resources for establishment of the program on a pilot basis, and (d) development and introduction of a
plan for expanding and financing the certification system (e.g., fee for service, cooperative marketing to the
green market).
This sub-component will also entail the establislhment of a regional information network linking TEUs in
participating municipalities. This network will provide an interactive Intemet capability in order to
facilitate exchange of relevant information and experiences that will serve as valuable guides in planning
and managing future development activities. The network could also coordinate the delivery of training
programs, which will be provided through the Project.
Sub-compontentt 2.2: Provide training for municipalities in identified areas of need - US$0.34 million.
Emphasis will be placed on using existing training programs which can be adapted, and translated if
necessary, to meet the needs of local municipalities. Programs will include on site training supported, if
available, with resources accessed through distance education and mediated leatting. Local regional and
national training resources will be used wherever possible, including government, university and private
sector training capabilities.
The review of municipal training and technical assistance needs related to coastal tourism and
environmental management resulted in the identification of the following priority areas: (a) Environmental
Management: land use planning, zoning and pennitting; coastal zone management, environmental
protection, pollution  abatement systems, control and  monitoring  mechanisms  (including  EIA
responsibilities of municipalities and SERNA EIA compliance,); (b) Municipal Tourism Planning: tourism
and environmental legislation and regulations (including nonns that allow  municipalities to take
environmental control actions); planning and control systems; (c) Tourism  Destination Management:
assessment of toulism  potential and product developmeot; (d) Revenue Capture and Investment
Mechanisms: collection/retentioni of fees (e.g. paticing, fishinlg licenses, dive fees, airport fees, and
sailing/mooring charges); private participation in infrastructure (PPI) options. With the exception of (b),
which will only be offered in year 2, each of these priority-training programs will be offered annually at
four training locations over the Project period.
Sub-conmponent 2.3: Conduct heritage site restoration activitiesfor Trujillo 's historic city center - US$
0. 70 million.
IHT and municipal leaders have recogniized the vital need to establish Trujillo as a gateway destination to
access Honduras "last frontier" of wilderntess areas. It is essential to take steps now to restore and preserve
sites and building that have historical interest and which can attract tourists to stay in Trujillo. With
- 37 -



funding from the Agencia Espanola de Cooperation Inteniational (AECI), IHT has contracted with a
Barcelona firn, THR, to develop a heritage restoration and tourism concept plan. Aid from the Fondo de
Inversiones de Venezuela is in place to develop a Master Plan whicb could guide site and building
restoration, the development of walkways and promenades, public use areas, and signage. This Project
would provide funds to support public works needed for site and building restoration. The Fondo
Hondureno de Inversion Social (FHIS) provide fundinig for labor and some materials. The Ministry of
Culture and the Institute of Anthropology and Histoiy (11 IAH) will also provide on-site technical assistance
and oversight of civil works related to restoration.
Project Component 3 - US$ 2.15 million
Sub-component 3.1: Designs and deliver micro and small business enterprise trainintg to stimulate
productive capacity and create business opportunities - US$0.25 nlillion.
There is a need to identify existing and future SME requirements for training, teclnical assistance, financial
facilities, and capacity building.  Toulism  offers the potential for creating micro/SMEs, including
transport, food service, handicrafts and light manufacturing as well as the industries that supply hotels and
offer maintenance services. Focusing on the businesses themselves reveals the challenges faced by the
private sector in maintaining quality standards and remaininig competitive for tourism investment.
A Sustainable Coastal Tourism Enterprise Center will be established, possibly as a collaborative venture
witlh existing training institutions, colleges and universities now offering education and training services.
This Center will focus on technical skills and entrepreneurship tiaining in small- and medium-sized
business operations in water sports, dive operations, inbound tour operations, hotel and eco-lodge
operations, tour guide services and other promisinig opportunities.  Where feasible, fees for services
rendered will be charged to help offset operating costs.
There are many opportunities to develop SMEs. Most small enterprises need assistance in bringing ideas to
market in a fonn that is understandable to potential financiers and to govemnment authorities providing
approvals (e.g., permits, tax incentives, etc.) For example, the cost of most ecotourism facility-oriented
Projects ranges from US$400,000 to US$5 million. They operate on a small scale (from 15 to 120 rooms)
and the number of tourists is strictly regulated to avoid over-exploitation of resources and harmful effects
on wildlife. More modest investments are needed for concession operations in park and protected areas,
Bed and Breakfast inns, tour operators and outfitters. Strategic planning, economic/financial analyses, and
business plan development is needed to create a Project pipeline necessaty to create entrepreneurial-driven
sustainable development designed to improve the quality and viability of tourism on the North Coast.
The Entrepreneurship Center would provide on going technical assistance to assist SMEs in (a) business
development and incubation (from concept to capital finanicinig) witlh a particular emphasis on assisting
small business in bringing ideas to market; (b) use of existing business development tools, including those
available on Internet and by otlher electroniic means; (c) developing, "cultivating" and maintaining direct
contacts with potential Project investors, including: venture capital fimns, foundations, multilateral financial
institutions (e.g., IFC, IDB's Multilateral Investment Fund), bilateral aid agencies and commercial banks;
and (d) developing viable business Projects that can be submitted to pre-qualified investors. The Center
will establish a business-mentoling program  enlisting volunteers recruited through Chambers, retired
businessmen and women, and tlhrough intemational assistance programs, such as USAID Senior Executive
Corps.
- 38 -



Sub-component 3.2: Test and prepare for replicationi pilot innovation Projects in local communities
focused on sustainable tourisnm (e.g. ecolodges, hanidicrafts, tour guides and operators, and adventure
travel outfitters) involvinig entrepreneurs in partnership witht NGOs or governiment - US$1.14 million.
Developing countries, as in the case of Honduras, are increasingly targeting tourism as an international
development strategy. Tourism holds potential for producing substantial economic benefits, which can be
eroded by negative social, cultural and environmental impacts. This Project provides an opportunity to
foster public-private sector partnerships as a means of facilitating investnent in tourism and encouraging
sustainability from a social, environmental and financial perspective. The private sector has been actively
engaged in tourism development and investment; however, the tourism industry is performing below its
potential in Honduras and suffers from a lack of a coordinated and strategic approach. Critical to its future
growtb is public sector involvement in developing sustainability strategies for the industry. The main
challenge today is to engage the public and private sectors in fostering tourism investment that provides
economic gain while preserving the social, cultural, and environmental assets, which constitute a country's
comparative advantage.
The component will take into account the urgent need in Honduras to: (a) create new tourism products and
support the development of established and emerging destinations; (b) encourage community control instead
of development control, with the participation of communities, including indigenous people, in the process
of approval and benefit allocation; (c) encourage tourism development as a way of conserving and
protecting the environment; (d) target specialty markets versus mass markets, involving environmentally
sensitive consumers in a process of learning and interaction with communities; and (e) embrace new
information technologies to improve marketing communications.
Innovative pilot Projects will be encouraged througlhout the Project period, taking into account the need to
involve the public and private sector in collaborative activities. Procedures for a two-phase tourism
innovation marketplace could be adapted for use in Honduras. A similar program -- The Canadian Product
Club, developed by the Canadian Tourism Commission and Barcelona Province in Spain -- could be used
as a potential model.
This sub-component will require expertise and experience in tourism product development and the initiation
of innovative public and private sector collaborative approaches. Grants will be awarded to stimulate
innovative proposals for public/private partnerships in some fomn of tourism enterprise.  Under the
innovation marketplace program, (i) private sector businesses and (ii) individuals (including historic
property owners wishing to rehabilitate their facades for tourism) will be eligible to compete for funds. The
first step will entail the solicitation and evaluation of Project concepts, presented in one-page summaries
with a display poster. An expert panel will assess these concepts and approximately 20 Projects will be
selected for a small award (US$1,000), which will be used to prepare a full proposal seeking matching
funds. The second phase will focus on the evaluation and funding of the most promising proposals. Up to
29 grants totaling up to $30,000 each will be awarded on a 2:1 matching basis (whereby the credit will
finance up to 66% of the award and the beneficiary $33%). The administration of these innovation
matching grants will be contracted out to an eligible fitl/NGO, who will be responsible for developing
eligibility criteria in line with the principles of financial, environmental and social sustainability in
consultation with the PIU and Project Steering Committee, and for ensuring compliance with Bank
procurement guidelines in the disbursement of grant. In this regard, the PIU will supervise the development
of: (a) a manual describing the tourism innovation pilot program with guidance on the tourism product
development process, (b) a pilot Project application process in two stages - (i) selection of promising
Project ideas and (ii) selection of matching grants for Project implementation. This could be developed
through an "Innovation Marketplace" event in which (i) Project concepts are presented in a poster format
- 39 -



for public review and (ii) an independent pilot Project review panel is constituted with representatives of the
public and private sector, to select Project concept awards and pilot Project grants.
The organization or individuals responsible for this sub-component will need to provide support to the
review panel, assist potential grantees through the application review process, arrange for publicity
coverage, disperse grants and audit matching grant requirements, monitor and evaluate the program and
develop a strategy for continuation program through support by IHT and other funding partners (such as
technical assistance cooperation Projects with Mexico, Spain and other donors).
Sub-Component 3.3: Build capacity in indigenous com1nmuniities for preparation, financing and
implententation of pilot innovation Projects focused on sustainable tourism  (eg. ecolodges,
handicrafts, tour guides and operators, and adveniture travel outfitters) involving entrepreneurs in
partnership witht NGOs or governmentt) - US$0.76 million.
Prior experience of indigenous cotmmunities around the world with ecotourism has been less than positive.
The lack of understanding of community needs and market realities has contributed to the failure of many
such attempts to promote tourism in the past. These initiatives lacked several key components for success:
(a) adequate social and cultural assessment of community needs; (b) market surveys to determine demand
for the product and willingness to pay; (c) realistic assessments of how the ecotourism product will be
delivered with quality over the long-term and (c) targeted efforts to connect the Project to the international
and local marketplace. Given the rapidly changing nature of the market for small-scale, community-based
ecotourism, a small business program will be designed and tailored to meet the needs of indigenous
communities in developing proposals for an iinovation matcling grants program, described below.
Capacity building activities developed under this sub-component will be guided by the Indigenous Peoples
Development Plan and will include the: (a) design and delivery of a training program for indigenous
community groups or individuals focused on small scale ecotourism  business development; and (b)
provision of on-going teclnical assistance from the Entrepreneurship Center to develop promising business
ideas into business planis and to design a cooperative marketing strategy for indigenous communities
involved in developing ecotourism businesses. Parallel with the activities described in 3.2, above, a
matching grants facility designed to meet the needs of indigenous communities seeking to become involved
in sustainable tourism activities will be developed. Administration of these grants will be carried out under
contract by an appropriate intermediary, according to agreed eligibility criteria. Up to 14 Matching grants
totaling $28,000 each will be awarded under th-is sub-Project to eligible communities or to
NGOs/representatives on their behalf Grants will be awarded on the basis of a 3:1 match (i.e., the credit
will finance 75% of the award and recipients will finance 25%). Basic criteria for this and the matching
grants program in Sub-component 3.2 will be developed in consultation with stakeholder groups early
during Project implementation, and finalized as part of the bidding process in the contracting of an
NGO/firm to administer these matching grants.
Project Component 4 - US$0.56 million
Project Management. A Project Implementation Unit will be established within the Honduran Institute for
Tourism (IHT) to:
* Work with IHT staff to build capacity for Project implementation;
* Develop financial managemenit (accounting, disbursement and repolting systems);
* Introduce international standards in procurement systems and Project oversight;
*   Keep track of implementation schedules witlh appropriate software (e.g., Microsoft Project) based on
the Project Implementation Plan;
- 40 -



*   Hire staff, initiate activities, provide liaison witll the private sector and administer grant funds for pilot
activities;
*   Liaise with national and regional staff of the GEF Mesoamerican Barrier Reef Systems Project, and
other relevant Projects, to ensure complementarity of activities and dissemination of lessons learned;
and
*   Establish a protocol for monitoring and evaluation to assess Project outcomes, distill lessons learned
and evaluate appropriateness for follow-on investments and scale-up.
The PIU will coordinate the implementation process. The PIU will be responsible for coordinating,
monitoring and evaluating implementation of the Project Work Plan; preparing terms of reference for
procurement of services anid goods according to guidelines provided by the association; and providing
quality control. The Operational Manual will include financial management methodology and instruments
(accounting, disbursement and reporting systems), the P'roject Implementation Plan and software, among
others.
The PIU will include the following consultants, based in Tegucigalpa, to work alongside lHT staff in
administering the Project:
3   a Project Coordinator
*   a Financial Management Officer/Accountant
*   a Procurement Officer
*   ani Administrative Assistant
A sub-team of technical specialists will be based at thie Enterprise Center in La Ceiba to oversee field
activities and undertake community outreach along the Nortlh Coast:
*   Enterprise Center Director
*   Sociologist
*   Program Assistant
Project-financed staff will be hired according to IDA and IHT procurement guidelines under terms of
reference detailing teclnical profiles and the professional experience required. PIU staff will consist of at
least two specialists withi ample experience in the aspects to be covered under the LIL as well as a Project
administrator. The PIU will maintain constant communication, including developing and maintaining a web
site, with public and private stakeholders providing technical assistance during Project implementation.
-41 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
HONDURAS: SUSTAINABLE COASTAL TOURISM PROJECT
,,',,..-..,,,,''      -'-.1'j<''gSV;;0XEfS'000i'. -|...  ..........   .........  i';...; . .
...........    ~ ~ ~     ~        ~       ~       o~aIflIrei9nTha
National Strategy and Institutional Support for SCT                       0.70             0.56             1.26
Institutional Strengtheninig for Municipalities                           1.49             0.36             1.85
Pilot Entrepreneurshiip Programs for SCT                                  1.68             0.28             1.96
Project Management                                                        0.49             0.04             0.53
Total Baseline Cost                                                       4.36             1.24             5.60
Physical Contingencies                                                   0.14             0.01             0.15
Price Contingencies                                                      0.23             0.06             0.29
Total Project Costs                       4.73             1.31             6.04
Interest during construction                            0.00             0.00
Front-end fee                             0.00             0.00
Total Financing Required                         4.73             1.31             6.04
Local           orig             Tta
,  -   E ........  .ESiREi  D-Ei    E..diSEiCEEg Ly :  ISSiiE:T Eidgf
Project C-st By C-teoy                  -US minifibn                  S miflir o n  US- $mIli6n
Technical Assistance                                                        1.84              1.07             2.91
Training                                                                    0.36              0.00             0.36
Goods                                                                       0.04              0.17             0.21
Subprojects                                                                 1.50              0.00             1.50
Civil Works                                                                 0.69              0.07             0.76
Recurrent Costs                                                             0.30              0.00             0.30
Total Project Costs            4.73              1.31             6.04
Interest during construction                            0.00             0.00
Front-end fee                             0.00            0.00
Total Financing Required              4.73              1.31             6.04
Identifiable taxes and duties are 0.14 (USSnID and the total project cost, aict oftaxes, is 5.9 (I SSri). Therefore, the project cost sh.aing ratio is 84.770/6 of
total project cost net of taxes.
- 42 -



Annex 4: Cost Effectiveness Analysis Summary
HONDURAS: SUSTAINABLE COASTAL TOURiSM PROJECT
Economic Analysis Summary
The economic analysis carried out during Project preparation establishes an estimate of likely benefits from
sustainable tourism in Honduras' Nortlh Coast and Bay Islands during the Project implementation period
and an assumed five-year follow-on Project. Because of the nature of the Learning and Innovation Loan,
this analysis focuses on the overall benefits of the approach the Project is seeking to promote, rather than
on a cost-benefit analysis seeking to detive net benefits.
The principal benefits from the Project will be derived from creating conditions in the target area that lead
to a "healthy" tourism industry capable of attracting additional tourists and appropriate levels of
investment. This benefit is expressed as the difference between -without Project- and -with Project-
scenarios. The former is based upon tourism visitation and revenue growth consistent with historic
averages (i.e., roughly four percent growth for the country with variability at different locations and in
different years). The latter is based on expert assessments of likely growth scenarios given a comprehensive
program designed to establish the North Coast as an attractive natural and cultural resource destination,
which is conservatively estimated at eight percent. This higher growth scenario is made possible by a
number of parallel and mutually supporting activities conducted at the municipal and national levels by
public sector, private sector, and non-governmental actors. While many of these activities are beyond the
scope of the Project itself, the LIL-financed activities are seen as a necessary condition for this higher
growth scenario.
Additional information and analysis would be needed to accurately assess the financial and economic
benefits of sustainable tourism on the Honduran Nortl Coast. A complete analysis would reflect both
market benefits (i.e., those benefits that can be observed and quantified in the marketplace, such as tourism
related revenues and financial "multiplier" impacts in the communities) and non-market benefits (i.e.,
benefits that have economic value but are not reflected in the market, such as watershed protection,
biodiversity conservation, existence values of natural resources). Sustainable tourism in Honduras' North
Coast region is expected to bring substantial benefits in both market and non-market forms. At this time,
however, the analysis provides general estimates regarding likely market benefits, and qualitative
indications regarding non-market benefits.
The three categories of benefits addressed quantitatively in this discussion include:
*   Revenue capture for marine and coastal terTestrial parks.  This will be derived from increased
visitation, implementation of user and entrance fees, and natural resource protection fees charged at the
municipal level.
*   Revenue capture to improve municipal tourism-related services and national-level promotional
programs. This revenue is expected to come from additional national tourism tax revenues (from the
existing IHT tax) and new municipal fees charged of visitors (presumably from a small municipal fee
collected through hotels).
*   Increased tourism revenues from increased visitation and spending.  This analysis will quantify
differences in likely toulism expenditures between the two growth scenarios.
Only the first two are considered in the specific economic evaluation of the LIL Project and five-year
follow-on period. However, the overall goal of the Project is to put the Nortlh Coast on a higher growth
-43-



scenario, and the goal of the LIL is to create necessary conditions for this growth. Therefore, the third
category of this analysis provides an estimate of likely benefits from a comprehensive effort that will place
the region on an eight percent growth scenario rather than the current four percent.
In formal cost-benefit analysis, the revenue capture items would be identified as transfer payments rather
than as Project benefit. However, this Project aims to generate a flow of revenues to municipalities for
activities that are considered essential to providing the base for successful sustainable tourism. The North
Coast region will require substantial investments in parks and in municipal and national capacity to support
and promote sustainable tourism development. Absent these revenues and the subsequent investments, the
higher tourism growth scenario is unlikely. Finally, the analysis assumes that increased prices faced by
consumers (from the modest user fees to be introduced) will not significantly decrease demand, particularly
from intemational visitors.
Intra-regional differenjces
There are significant differences between tourism conditions in the Bay Islands, and the rest of the North
Coast. Problems associated with promoting sustainable tourism in the Bay lslands relate more to the
Islands' "success" as a tourism destination. The Islands' natural resource base is threatened from increased
construction of roads, hotels and building sites, and from the direct and indirect effects of increasing
population and tourism visitation. The challenge in the Islands will be to protect the quality of the natural
resources that attract tourists-principally reefs, mangroves, and beaches, as well as the forests and intact
coastline that protect them. The North Coast has ample natural and cultural assets with great tourism
potential. In contrast to the Islands, however, the tourism infrastructure of hotels, guides, tour packages
restaurants and natural and cultural destinations is quile underdeveloped. At the same time, the natural
resources that make up the fundamental attraction of the area are under threat from expansion of
agriculture, cattle ranching, poorly planned and occasionally unauthorized logging operations, and
contamination from municipal and industrial waste. The goal in botl areas will be to find a more mutually
self-supporting relationship between tourism development and protection of the natural resource base.
The Bay Islands and remainder of the North Coast do share common weaknesses in municipal capacity to
promote and regulate sustainable tourism. All of the municipalities lack financial resources and personnel
with the appropriate skills and training to develop strategies, promote toulism development and ensure
development is consistent with the economic, environmental and social goals of sustainable tourism. The
analysis breaks down each of the three elements to make more explicit the differences between the two
areas.
Annex 4a provides specific details regarding economic benefits; nonetheless additional economic benefits
are expected although not easily quantified with existing data. These include noticeable and measurable
improvements in tourism-related variables such as:
* Tourism-related job creation in the municipalities and park buffer areas.
* Wage rates of tourism-related workers.
* The rate of start-ups of new tourism-related businesses.
* lnvestment levels in parks, buffer areas and local commnunities.
*   Diminished environmental impacts of tourism operations.
Detailed information on these variables will be collected in the first months of Project implementation and
monitored throughout the Project life given that they are indicative of the type of development the LIL and
sustainable coastal tourism seek to promote.
- 44 -



Park protection will provide additional mnarket and non-mnarket econotnic benefits. Expected benefits from
marine protected areas include:
*   Reputation effects that increase the attractiveness and raise the intemational image of the North Coast
and the Bay Islands region.
*   Higher willingness-to-pay for a scarce resouLrce. High-quality coral reefs are becoming increasingly
scarce. Successful protection and management of the reefs will lead to increasing financial retums to
the tourism sector and the municipalities.
*   Improved health of fisheries this will help increase the value of future comnmercial fish catches, and add
stability to subsistence and traditional fishetmen.
Improving the terrestrial parks will likewise provide a variety of market and non-market benefits, including:
*   Higher willingness-to-pay for scarce resources. Wildlife viewing, scenic beauty, living culture and
historic sites are -premium products-,for foreign and local tourism markets. As competing locations
become rarer and less accessible, the future value of well-protected resources should increase.
*   Improved quality of coastal resources. The terrestrial parks directly and indirectly protect mangroves,
wetlands, reefs, freshwater resources and a host of other valuable resources. Without well-functioning
parks, these coastal resources would be even more seriously threatened, reducing the economic viability
of traditional communities, and further depleting coastal fisheries.
-   Quality of drinking water supply. The coastal terrestrial parks provide drinking water capture for La
Ceiba, Trujillo, Tela, Omoa and othier coastal communities. The economic value of this natural service
is likely in the millions of dollars, based on relevant studies of drinking water supply value in Honduras
and other developing countlies.
   Reduction of vulnerability. Intact upland watersheds reduce downstream damage from excessive rain
and flooding. The value of this vulnerability reduction could be in the millions of dollars considering
the valuable coastal resources located downstream and around the parks.
- 45 -



Inputs and Assumptions                                       Observations
Historic Tourism Growth Rate (% increase in # of     3.6%   WTO Data 1987-1996
tourists)
Estimated Annual Revenue Increase                    5.0%
Average of total tourism expenditures per visitor for
1994-1996
Islands                                           US$1,700 Estimate based on average hotel rate, food and dive
fees (avg. sta 7 days)
North Coast                                        US$600  Based on comparable data for Guatemala (avg. stay
of 3 days)
Cruise ship day visitors                              15    Based upon interviews with Roatan tourist operators
Cruise ship day divers (SCUBA and snorkel)            100   Based upon interviews with Roatan tourist operators
Assumed Touhrism Growt Rate without Project           4%    Expert estiBates based on historic data in Honduras
Assumed Tourism Growth Rate with Project              8%    Expert estimates based on historic data in other CA
countries
Assumed Revenue Growth Scenario (annual revenue       8%
increase)
IHT Tourism Tax (% of hotel, restaurant, tours, transport   3%    CurTent tax
and diving)
Proposed Municipal Assessment (US$/room night)       US$1   Commnon revenue mechanism in discussion in region
Proposed Natural Resource Protection Fee (US$/room   US$1   Common revenue mechanism in discussion in region
night)
Proposed Bay Island Reef Protection Fee (US$/visitor)       Potential revenue mechanism under consideration
Fee for all multiple divers, valid for one year   US$10  Assumes relative inelasticity of demand elasticity
(i.e., will not reduce visitations, particularly by
intemational visitors)
Fee for single day divers from cruise ships        US$5   Assumes relative inelasticity of demand elasticity
(i.e., will not reduce visitations, particularly by
international visitors)
Proposed Bay Island Municipal Fee                    US$1   Proposed under LIL
(charged to day visitors to manage tourism and
environment)
Proposed North Coast Municipal Docking Fee           US$1   Proposed under LIL
(same as above, charged to day visitors of non-Islands
destinations)
Number of Visitors
Bay Islands                                                 .
1998 estimates for overnight visitors               41,000  Estimates from official statistics, adjusted by hotelier
data
% of overnight visitors who dive or snorkel          90%
1999 estimate for day visitors from cruLise ships   72,000  Estimates from Munlicipalidad de Roatan
Annual number of cruise ship divers (estimated at 5% of   3,600   Estiniates from J. Galindo and two dive shops, Roatan
cruise ship)
Average nights per visitor on Islands                  7     1997 IHT survey
Rest of North Coast                                 36,000  Rough estimate based on INCAE-CLADS research
Average nights per visitor                             3    Estimated based on 1997 IHT survey
Future cruise ship visitors- phase-in year 3 (10% of  7,200
lslands')
Park Inputs (Rest of North Coast)                       ___     _
Park visitation (visitors per year)                 22,000  Estimate of total visitation of 6 largest North Coast
_ _ _ _ _ _ __   ~parks
- 46 -



internationial                                                 8,000    Estiinate of total visitation of 6 largest North Coast
parkcs
national                                                       14,000   Estimate of total visitation of 6 largest North Coast
parks
International park entrance fee average                        LJS$5.00  Approximate average of 6 largest parks
National park entrance fee average                             l)S$0.50  Approximate average of 6 largest parks
Assumed ainual park revenue increase                             20%      Estimiiate of effect of increased visitation, better fee
collection and souvenirs
1999       PYI        PY2       PY3        2004        2005        2006        2007        2008
(reference)
(1) Increased Revenue for Marine and
Coastal Parks
A. Bay Islands
Yearlydivefee(forovemightvisitors)                         430,402   464,834      502,020     542,182    585,557     632,401     682,993
Daily Dive fee for cruise ship visitors                     19,469    20,248       21,057      21,900     22,776      23,687      24,634
Total tourism revenue                     449,870   485,0(1g   523,078     564,082     608,332     656,088     707,627
Hlow to Bay Islands marine and coastal
parks                                                       _
B. Rest of North Coast                                                                                   .
Natural Resource protection fee                             150,379   162,410     175,402     189,434    204,589    220,956      238,633
(charged by hotels, transferred to parks)
Increased park revenue
Intemational visitors                  40,000    50,000     62,500    7S,125       97,656     122,070    152,588     190,735    238,419
National visitors                       7,000      8,750    10,938    13,672       17,090     21,362      26,703      33,379      41,723
Total tourism revenue flow to rest or  47,000     58,750    223,g17   254,206     290,148    332,867     383,880    445,070      518,775
North Coast parks
Total Additional Revenue to Parks                  Ss,750   673,687   739,288      813,226     896,949    992,212   1,101,158   1,226,402
Net Present Value of Revenue Stream             4,372,790
(200 1-20081
(2) Municipal and National Tourisl__
Management & Promotion Revenules
- Additional Tourism Revenue (Bay                          2,959,424  6,273,979   9,976,810  14,103,905  18,694,324  23,790,462  29,438,315
Islands)
Additional Tourisn Revenue (rest of             898,560  1,904,947  3,033,545   4,291,480   5,690,659   7,244,006   8,965,546
North Coast)
Total Additional Tour-ismn Reveniue                  - 3,857,984  8,178,926  13,010,356  18,395,384  24,384,983  31,034,469  38,403,860
AdditionalRevenuefromlHTtax                              115,740   245,368     390,311     551,862     731,549     931,034   1,152,116
(3% of Total Additional Tourism
Revenue)
*Bay Island Municipal Docking Fee                            77,760     83,981     90,699      97,955     105,792     114,255     123,395
(with High Growth scenario)
OtherNorth Coast Municipal Docking                                      8,398      9,070       9,796      10,579      11,425      12,340
Fee (with High Cirowth scenasio)
North Coast Municipal Room Fee
(US$ I per room night)
v 30% ofroom nights in pilot phase                           43,124    46,574      50,300      54,324      58,670      63,364      68,433
v 70% of room nights in follow-on period                                     -    121,755     131,495     142,015     153,376     165,646
Additional MunicipalRevenuefron              -              120,884    138,953    271,824     293,570     317,056     342,420     369,814
User Fees
Total AdditionalRevenue to Support                          236,624   384,321    662,135      845,431   1,048,605   1,273,454   1,521,929
Tourism Manageiment and Pronimoion
Net Present Value of Revenue Stream -l 3758,570
(2001-2008)
- 47 -



(3) Revenue Growth
Projections
A. Bay Islands
Overnightguestrevenue "    69,700,000   72,488,000  75,387,520  78,403.021    81,539,142  84,800,707   88,192,736    91,720,445  95,389,263
Slow Growth" scenario
Overnightguestrevenue"    69,700,000   72,488,000  78,287,040  84,550,003   91,314,003  98,619,124   106,508,654    115,029,346   124,23t,694
High Growth" scenario                  .                        __   _        __   __              _
Difference in annual revenue                         2,899,520    6,146.9S2    9,774,S62  13,818,416    18,315,918    23,308,901  28,842,431
strearms
Cruise ship day visitor    1,440,000    1,497,600   1,557,504   1,619,804    1,684,596   1,75 1,980    1,822,059    1,894,942     1,970,739
revenue "Slow Growth"
scenario (includes shorc
visitors and day divers)
(Cruise ship day visitor   1,440,000    1,497,600   1,617,408   1,746,801    1,886,545   2,037,468    2,200,466     2,376,503     2,566,623
revenue "High Growth"
scenario (includes shore
visitors and day divers)
Difference in annual revenue                           59,904      126,996     201,948     285,488      378,406       481,561        595,884
streams
B. Rest of North Coast                                                                                  .
Overnight guest revenue "    21,600,000   22,464,000  23,362,560  24,297,062   25,268,945  26,279,703   27,330,891  28,424,126    29,561,091
Slow Growth" scenario
Ovemight guest revenue "    21,600,000   22,464,000  24,261,120  26,202,010   28,29, 170  30,562,024   33,006,986    35,647,545    38,499,348
High Growth" scenario                                                                                      _   __      _
DiYerence in annual revenue                           898,560   1,904,947    3,029,225   4,282,321     5,676,095     7,223,418     8,938,257
streanms
Cruise ship day visitor                                          108,000      112,320     116,813      121,485        126,345       131,399
revenue "Slow Growth"
scenurio
Cruise ship day visitor            -              -    -         10S,000      116,640     125,971      136,049        146,933       158,687
revenue "High Growth"
scenario
D3ifference in annual revenue       -                        --                  4,320       9,15 8      14,564        20,588        27,289
streams1
Total IncremLental Revenue          I            _   3,S57,984   8,17S.926   13,010,356  1 8,395,384   24,384,983    31,034,469    38,403,860
Stream (High Growth
Scenario mninus LoK
Growth Scenario)
Net Present Value of Revenue            84,972,426
Stream (2001-2008)                                       .
NPV Calculations
Project Costs                            2,018,532   1,961,904   2,221,176
Revenuestreanis(1)                         58,750     910,311    1,123,609    1,475,361   1,742,380    2,040,817    2,374,612     2,748,332
and (2)                                      .       _.
NPV of Project                       |  2,493,S92                       _
Summary of benefits and costs:
Main Assumptions:
Cost-effectiveness indicators:!
- 48 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
HONDURAS: SUSTAINABLE COASTAL TOURISM PROJECT
Years Ending
December 31
|   eYear I   a        Year 3     Year 4     Year 5      Year 6  lYear 7
Total Financing
Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs           l1.6         2.1l       2.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0
Recurrent Costs             0. I        0. l       0. l       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0
Total Project Costs           1.7        2.2         2.1        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0
Interest during    0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0
construction
Front-end fee     0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0
Total Financing               1.7         2.2        2.1        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0
Financing
IBRD/IDA                    1.5        1.8        1.7        0.0        0.0       0.0         0.0
Government                  0.2        0.2        0.1        0.0        0.0       0.0         0.0
Central                 0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Provincial              0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0
Co-financiers               0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0         0.0
User Fees/Beneficiaries     0.0        0.2        0.3        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Others                      0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0         0.0
Total Project Financing       1.7        2.2        2.1        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Main assumptions:
- 49 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
HONDURAS: SUSTAINABLE COASTAL TOURISM PROJECT
Procurement
A) GENERAL
All procurement of goods under the Project would be car-ied out in accordance with the "Guidelines,
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" dated January 1995 and revised in January and
August 1996, September 1997, and January 1999. Consultants would be employed in accordance with
the Guidelines, Selection and Emnployment of Consuiltants by World Bank Borrowers, dated January
1997 and revised in September 1997 and Januaiy 1999, and the provisions stipulated in the Credit
Agreement.
Procurement methods: The methods to be used for procurement are described below and the
estimated amounts for each method are summatized in Table A. The tlhresholds contract values for the
use of each method are establislhed in Table B.
B) PROCUREMENT RESPONSIBILITIES AND CAPACITY
Thle Adminiistrative and Financial Uniit of thie Hlondurani Institute of Tourism (IHT) would carry out
procurement for thle Project. lIHT is a decentralized agency witlin the Ministry of Tourism.
The procurement capacity of the implementinig agency was assessed by Enzo de Laurentiis,
Procurement Specialist, LCSES, and was approved by the Regional Procurement Advisor's Office on
September 1 8, 2000. The "Overall Procurement Risk" was assessed as "higlh".
This unit has adequate capacity to handle the present level and type of procurement, generally enjoys a
good reputation with suppliers, and bas appropriate intemnal controls. However, the present capacity is
not yet satisfactory to plan, implement, and monitor procurement under the proposed Project. As
currently staffed the procurement group would not be able to manage the additional volume of work
generated by the Project. In addition, tlle unit hias no knowledge of IDA procurement policies and
procedures and no experience witlh procurement of works and selection of consulting firms. To
strengthen its capacity, the PIU would recruit a procurement consultant with substantial experience in
IDA-financed  procurement, particularly  procurement of consulting  services, and  contract
administration by no later thian effectiveness. A qualified assistant should support the procurement
group with experience in file management and contract moniitoring. This assistant may be shared
between the procurement group and the Financial Management Specialist which will be retained by
IHT, as recommended in the Financial Management Assessment A procurement manual or a chapter of
the Project Implementation Manual focusing on procurement should be prepared and adopted prior to
effectiveness. The manual should desciibe, as a minimum:
1. Staffing and facilities of the procurement unit.
2. Organization of the procurement function includinig a detailed description of individual
responsibilities and appropriate intemal control procedures.
3. Thresholds for different types of procuremenit of goods and works and for selection of consultants
4. Thresholds for prior review.
5. Procedural details of the vatious procurement metlhods wlhich are going to be used for the Project.
- 50 -



6. Procedures for planning and monitoring/supervising procurement actions.
7. Reporting requirements (internally and to IDA).
8. The Project's filing system and procedures to ensure its control, security and confidentiality.
In addition, IHT would prepare standard fonnats for shopping and contracting with individual
consultants.
C) PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
Procurement of Works
The Project would finance small works for heritage site restoration in Trujillo for an approximate total
amount of US$0.76 million. Contracts estimated to cost less than US$150,000 would be procured
under lump-sum, fixed price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from a minimum of
three qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation shall include a
detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic
form of agreement acceptable to IDA, and relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be
made to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the
experience and resources to complete the contract successfully. No NCB is anticipated.
Standard documents and procedures for piice comparison would be agreed with IDA before the first
invitation to submit quotations is issued.
Procurement of Goods
The Project would finance several small contract packages for the purchase of computers and software,
audio-visual and miscellaneous office equipment estimated to cost a total amount of US$228,000
equivalent.  One contract for miscellaneous office equipment estimated to cost approximately
US$44,000 should be procured on the basis of National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures
acceptable to IDA. Bids for this equipment shall be invited and contracts awarded on a lot-by-lot
basis. All other contracts are estimated to cost less than US$25,000 equivalent and may be procured
following shopping procedures in accordance with paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelinies up to an
aggregate amount of US$60,000 equivalent.
Printing services estimated to cost approximately US$72,000 would also be procured on the basis of
NCB procedures and documents appropriate for the procurement of these services.
Consulting Services
The Project would finance consulting services to prepare studies, conduct public consultations, design
infornation campaigns, design and provide training programs, design and supervise civil works, and
strengthen IHTs capacity to impletnent the Project. The film selected to provide technical assistance
on small business enterprise development (under Component C. of the Project) will also be responsible
for administering the subProjects (i.e. call for and evaluate proposals and award grants, and monitor
subProjects' implementation), as described in the TOR for this assignment.
- 51 -



Firms
Conitracts for firms would be awarded following a Quality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS) process,
in accordance with Section 1 of the Consultant Guidelines. The total anount of these contracts is
estimated to be approximately US$2.632 million.
Individuals
Individual consultants would be retained for specialized advisory services and services for Project
administration and monitoring whichi meet the requir-einemets of Chapter V of the Consultant Guidelines
up to an aggregate amount US$ 408,000 equivalent. The competitive process followed to select
individual consultants would be described in further detail in the Operational Manual.
Pilot Activities
The Project would finance competitive granits awarded to eligible beneficiaries, as defined in the
Lmplementation Manual following agreed procedures outlined thereby.  Beneficiaries would be
individual entrepreneurs, small businesses, and indigenous communities. Communities will have to be
legally constituted entities or organizations or be represented by appropriate organizations, which are
empowered to represent the community.  Community members' shared accountability would be
demonstrated in the grant proposal in accordance with the criteria set forth by the Implementation
Manual. .
Individual grants would not exceed US$30,000 in the case of entrepreneur, and US$28,000 in the case
of communities/NGOs. All grants would require a minimum contribution of one third of the total
subProject's cost in the case of entrepreneur and one fourth in the case of indigenous communities or
NGOs. Beneficiaries' contributioni would be in cash in the case of entrepreneurs, and cash or kind in
the case of the communities. In addition, grants would be awarded to eligible individuals for restoration
of privately owned historical building in Trujillo, in accordance with the procedures specified in the
manual. The maximum amount of these grants would also be US$30,000 with a minimum 33%
beneficiary contribution.
As part of their grant proposal, eligible beneficiaries will have to demonstrate, to the satisfaction of the
grant administrator, that they have adequate capacity to manage procurement in accordance with the
grant conditions, and maintain accurate procuremeint and financial records for purposes of audit. IHT
or the entity contracted to administer the matching grants, would be responsible for carrying out
directly procuremnent on behalf of the beneficiaries who do not demonstrate such capacity as well as all
procurement of goods and works exceeding the thleshold for shopping. A standard grant agreement
acceptable to IDA and included in the operational manual would be used to transfer grant funids to the
beneficiaries under conditions that would ensure adequate implementation.
Procurement of goods under the grants would follow commercial practices which would include price
comparison from three qualified suppliers, whenever- possible. Services of individual consultants may
also be procured under the grants, provided that consultanit have appropriate qualifications for the
assignment. All goods and services shiould be procured at a reasonable price, taking into account also
other relevant factors such as time of delivemy and efficiency and reliability of the goods and
availability of maintenance facilities and spare parts. All such goods and services sbould be used
exclusively for the purpose of implementing the pilot activities.
- 52 -



Small civil works for restoration of historic buildings will be procured following comparison of three
quotations from qualified local contractors, and using lump sum, fixed-pliced contracts.
Granits would be administered by a firmn or NGO selected competitively. This firm will be responsible
for evaluating  proposals, awarding  the grants, monitoring  their implementation, evaluating
performance, and ensuring that grantees comply witlh the grant's tenns and conditions. However, IHT
will be responsible for providing teclmical assistance to the grantors on procurement matters and
exercising quality controls over all procurement actions.
Overatin2 Costs
Sundry items, office rental and utilities would be financed on a declining basis and would be procured
using IHT's administrative procedures, which were reviewed and found acceptable to IDA. IDA would
finance 80 percent of operating costs during the first year, 60 percent duiing the second year, and 40
percent during the third year.
Prior Review
The proposed thresholds for prior review are based on the procurement capacity assessment and are
summarized in Table B. In addition, the plan and budget for IHT Operating Costs under the Project
will be reviewed and approved by IDA annually.
Procurement Sunervision
Procurement supervision missions should be carried ouLt every six montlhs by a Procurement Specialist
(PS) or Procurement Accredited Staff (PAS) and include a review of: (i) IHTs capacity; (ii) the
procurement plan for the Project, including a timetable for procurement actions anticipated during the
next 12 months; (iii) IHT's monitoring system for the purposes of the Project; and (iv) complete
records for one in eveiy five contracts (for goods, works, and consulting services, respectively). The PS
or PAS should perform selected physical inspectionis of the goods received and meet witl selected
suppliers/contractors, whenever possible.
- 53 -



Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Procuremen_ Vethod... . ...   .....
i:... f E  :  i: -  -:   i                                             I  :  I - ith          N  :: :::          ...   ..  :   :- i : , :
-.-..t-.Expeflditur --Categior  g 0-0;0.404400:000ICB N.XB                  Other.           N.a.F      Thta  Ca
1. Works                                   0.00                0.00             0.76            0.00          0.76
(0.00)             (0.00)           (0.66)          (0.00)         (0.66)
2. Goods                                   0.00                0.14             0.07            0.00          0.21
(0.00)             (0.12)           (0.06)          (0.00)        (0.18)
3. Services                                0.00                0.00            2.63             0.28          2.91
(0.00)             (0.00)           (2.60)          (0.00)        (2.60)
4. Training                                0.00                0.00            0.36             0.00          0.36
(0.00)             (0.00)           (0.34)          (0.00)        (0.34)
5. Interest during                         0.00                0.00             0.00            0.00          0.00
construction
(0.00)             (0.00)           (0.00)          (0.00)        (0.00)
Front-end fee                              0.00               0.00             0.05            0.00          0.05
(0.00)             (0.00)           (0.00)          (0.00)        (0.00)
SubProjects                                0.00                0.00             1.50            0.00          1.50
(0.00)             (0.00)           (1.04)          (0.00)        (1.04)
Operating Costs                            0.00                0.00            0.30             0.00          0.30
(0.00)             (0.00)           (0. 1 8)        (0.00)        (0. 1 8)
Total                                   0.00               0.14             5.67            0.28           6.09
(0.00)             (0.12)           (4.88)          (0.00)        (5.00)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounits to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingenicies.
2' Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of
contracted staff of the Project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental
operating costs related to (i) managing the Project, and (ii) re-len(ling Project fun(ds to local government
units.
Note: N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed (includes elements procured under parallel co-finanicinig procedures,
consultancies under trust funds, any reselved procurement, and any other miscellaneous items). The
procurement arrangement for the items listed under "Other" and details of the items listed, as "N.B.F."
need to be explained in footnotes to the table or in the text.
Figures in parenthesis are the amounits to be financed by the Bank loan/IDA credlit.
- 54 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
..... ... ...                              S   ection    Method:
- -Coneultaig Ser ..ces  .   -
- Expedtur Cateory .       S a s -BS       F       LS        C.-Q. O-::ther   N. . ..... ..tl...
A. Firms                 1.60     0.00     0.00    0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00       1.60
(1.60)   (0.00)   (0.00)   (0.00)   (0.00)   (0.00)   (0.00)    (1.60)
B. Individuals          0.00      0.00     0.00    0.00      0.00     1.00     0.00       1.00
(0.00)   (0.00)   (0.00)   (0.00)   (0.00)   (1.00)   (0.00)    (1.00)
Total  1.60      0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     1.00     0.00       2.60
(1.60)   (0.00)   (0.00)   (0.00)   (0.00)   (1.00)   (0.00)    (2.60)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Credit.
- 55 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
~~~~~~~~~~. . . . .. . .. . .. . .    . ,,     ,-'t'.. .thr
.axneritUre Categoryg :u(yUSt'ihousands) E      E-i:Method:. E :i  ;           (US$ mifions).----
1. Works                         < 1,500            NCB Price comuparisonl       First 2 contracts
<0.15                                           First contract
2. Goods                          <0.15                     NCB                   First contract
(0.044)
<0.025                  Shopping                First contract
(0.02 2)
3. Services               liTespective of amount           QCBS              All contract estimated to
(a) Consulting Firms                                                             cost more than
Us$100,000
(b) Individuals           Irrespective of amount   Section V of the Consultant(16
Guidelines         All contracts estimated to
cost more than US$50,000
(0.37)
r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C.                                        toL .  . =
4. Miscellaneous
5. M iscellaneous      | _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _       __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:
)verall Procurement Risk Assessment
High
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: OneC every 6 months (includes special
procuremnent supervision for post-reviewiaudits)
2Threshods generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 'Review of Procurement
Documentation< and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
- 56 -



Disbursement
Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)
Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
-:ExSpenditure Category       Amount in US$million           Financing-Percentage6-. .
Works                                         0.59                           88
Goods                                         0.16                  100 foreign/85 domestic
Consulting Services                          2.34                            100
Training                                      0.31                           100
Pilot Activities:
Pilot Activity: Entrepretneur sub-            0.62          66 in the case of entrepreneurs and in the
Project matching grant                                        case of restoration of privately owned
historical buildings in Trujillo;
Pilot Activity: Indigenous communities        0.32          75 in the case of indigenous communities
sub-Project matching grant
Operating Costs                               0.16           80 the first year; 60 the second and 40
(including audits)                                                        the third
Unallocated                                  0.50
Total Project Costs                           5.00
Interest during construction         0.00
Front-end fee,
.Total                                        5.00            _ _  _ _ _  _ _ _ _  _ _   _ _ _  _
Accounting, Financial Repor-ting, Auditing, and Disbursement Arrangements
As result of the financial management assessment conducted duLing Project preparation, it was
identified that the IHT has an adequate financial managemnent structure, keeps adequate automated
accounting financial and budget records and controls on fixed assets, and has intenial controls in place.
However, the financial managetnent staff does not have the capacity to manage the additional workload
that the Project activities will require and the accounting system does not have the PMR capabilities,
nor is flexible to introduce changes to meet Project needs. As a result of the assessment and the Project
design that contemplate the establishment of a PIU within the IHT, an action plan was agreed upon
which includes key actions to: (a) desigqn and implement a financial management system that meets
PMR requirements; (b) hire the staff needed to establish the PIU; (c) draft a Project operations manual
and develop administrative procedures; and (d) hire external auditors. It was agreed that a Financial
Management System  (FMS), that is PMR-compatible, would be operational prior to the Project
effectiveness. The action plan is included in Table D below.
The IHT will implement an adequate integrated financial management system for the Project, including
intenial control systems that: (i) are in accordance with international accounting standards; (ii) reliably
record and report all assets, liabilities and financial transactions of the Project; (iii) provide sufficient
financial infolmation for managing and monitorinig Project activities; and (iv) integrates financial
infonnation, disbursements, purchasing, procurement, and control of contracts, to allow the generation
of quarterly programmatic financial reports on the finanicial and physical advance of each component,
as well as financial informationi by disbursement category. The detail of these procedures will be
contained in the Operational Manual.
- 57 -



Auditing Arrangements:
An external auditor, acceptable to the Bank, will be contracted by the IHT to carry out an ainual
financial audit of the Project, as required by OP/BP 10.02. The auditor will be selected according to
the Bank's "Guidelines for the Selection and Employment of consultants by the World Bank
Borrowers" dated Januaty 1997, revised in September 1997. The auditors should be hired at Project
inception, and ptior of the commencement of each Project fiscal year thereafter, so that the interim
audits can be perfonned tlhroughout each year oi Project implementation. The Project financial
statements, the Special Accounts, SOEs (if applicable), and the PMRs will be audited at the end of
eacb fiscal year during Project implementation. An audited of the Project financial statements will be
submitted to the Bank within 120 days of the close of the Project's financial year. The "Guidelines and
Terms of Reference for Audits of Projects with Finanicing by the World Bank in the Latin American
and the Caribbean Region" should be followed by tile IHT when preparing the terns of reference for
the audit and these guidelines should be provided to (he selected auditors
Disbursement Procedures:
Traditional disbursement procedures will be used for the first two quarters of Project implementation,
in accordance with the guidelines set in the Disbursement Procedures Handbook. SOEs documentation
will be maintained by IHT for post-review and audit purposes. The authorized allocation(s) to the
Special Account, for Non-PMR disbursements will be set at a level sufficient to cover approximately
four months of estimated expenditures eligible for financing by the Bank, up to a maximum authorized
allocation of US$550,000. Replenishments of funds will be made on evidence of satisfactory utilization
of the previous advance(s) as evidenced by the documentation submitted in support of disbursement
applications.  Deposits into the Special Accounts and its replenishments, up to the Authorized
Allocations will be made initially on the basis of Applications for Withdrawals (Form  1903)
accompanied witb the supporting and other documentationi specified in the Disbursement Handbook.
Withdrawal applications will be fully documented, except for expenditures under contracts costing less
than US$25,000 equivalent for goods, less than $150,000 equivalent for works and US$100,000 and
US$50,000 equivalent for consulting firms and individual consultants, respectively, for which no prior
review is required.  All expenditures for traininig and operating costs will be made on the basis of
SOEs.
Use of Project Management Report (PMRs):
By the end of the second quarter of Project implemenitationi, or earlier if the IHT is compliant and
requests transition to a full Project Management Report (PMR) system, the PMRs would serve as
disbursement requests. Transition to PMR will be subject to the satisfactory results of new financial
management and procurement assessments. Once the borTower becomes PMR compliant, and if
requested by the Borrower, disbursemenits would be in accordance with guidelines set in the Loan
Administration Change lnitiative (LACI) Implementation Handbook. Each application for withdrawal
should separately identify the funds requested from the credit Account, and would be supported by a
Project Management Report (PMR) or such other documents and evidence as the Bank may request.
PMRs should be submitted within 45 days from the preceling quarter.  Upon receipt of each
application for withdrawal, the Bank, on behalf of the Borrower, shall withdraw from the credit
account and deposit into the Special Accounts an amount equal to the lesser: (a) the amount requested;
and (b) the amount the Bank has determined, based on the PMR accompanying the application, is
required to be deposited in order to finance eligible expenditures during the six month period following
the date of the report, but in no case should exceed 20% of the total credit and grant funds, without
- 58 -



prior authorization fromn the Loan department.  The tHT would be responsible for preparing
withdrawal applications anid the related PMRs. All supporting documeintationi authenticating the
expenditures reported in the PMRs would be maintained by the IHT and made available for review by
independent auditors and by the Bank supervision missions.
Retroactive Financing.
Retroactive financing may be made on account of payments made for eligible expenditures from
Project appraisal held May 13-25, 2001 in an aggregate amount not exceeding SDR 0.4 million,
starting May 13, 2001, up to the signing of the Credit Agreement.
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
If, by Project effectiveness, the IllT has not implemented a finanicial management system with PMR
capabilities, but which meets minimum Bank requiremenits, the traditional disbursement mechanisms
(Statement of Expenditures, SOEs) will be used for the first two quarters of the Project
implementation. SOEs may be submitted for (i) goods, works, and services of individual consultants
and consulting firms under contracts for expenditures for whichi prior review is not required, and for
(ii) training and operating costs.
Special account:
A Project Separate Special Accounts in US Dollars will be established at the Central Bank of
Honduras. The li-IT will be responsible for submitting appropriate disbursement applications to request
the transfer of funds to the Special Account. Replenislnmenits of funds under SOEs will be made on
evidence of satisfactory utilization of the previous advance(s) as evidenced by the documentation
submitted in suppolt of disbursement applications.  Deposits into the Special Account and its
replenishments, up to the Authorized Allocations will be made initially oni the basis of Applications for
Withdrawals (Fonn 1903) accompanied with ithe supporting and other documentation specified in the
Disbursement Handbook. Once the lHT is PMR compliant, and is certified as such by the Bank, and at
the Borrower's request disbursements become PMR based, any subsequent disbursement from the
credit account would be to cover estimated eligible expenditures for the next six-months of cash
forecast reported in the PMR, as described hereafter.
Table D: Financial Management Action Plan
(* indicates actions reqtired for effectiveness)
Action                               Estimated Completion
Date
1.    Establishment of the Project lImplementation Ulnit:
(a)   Preparation of tenns of reference for PIU staff:            completed
Project Coordinator
Financial Specialist/Accountatit
Procuremnent Specialist
Administrative Assistant
(b)   Advertising for contracting of Project Coordinator          07/15/01
(c)   Short list for Project Coordinator candidates               08/01/01
(d)   Contracting of Project Coordinator*                         08/20/01
(e)    Contracting of additional PIU's staff: Financial Specialist/
Accountant, Procurement Specialist, and Administrative Assistant*  08/31/01
2.     Design and implementation of financial management system (FMS):
- 59 -



(a)    Preparation of terms of reference and shiort list for consultants  completed
(b)    Bank's No-Objection of shott list and terms of reference          completed
(c)    Evaluation of proposals                                           completed
(d)    Contracting of conssultant                                        07/15/01
(e)    Design of FMS                                                     08/15/01
System itnplemented and substantially operational*                12/15/01
(g)    System fully operationial                                         03/30/02
3.     Contracting of extemnal auditors:
(a)    Preparation of tenns of reference (TORs)                          07/07/01
(b)    Short list and TORs                                               07/15/01
(c)    Bank's No-Objection to slhort list and TORs                       07/30/01
(d)    Evaluation of proposals and appointmnent of auditors*             12/15/01
(e)    Contracting of external auditors                                  30 days after Project
_ _________________________________________________________________________    effectiveness
4.     Document flow of funds from the Special Account                           ongoing
5.     Funds for payment of retroactive expenses are made available by the        08/15/01
Ministry of Finance (Subsequently to be reimbursed from credit funds)
6.     Identification of Project indicators for physical and financial monitoning  completed
7.     Determination of counterpart funds to be provided by the lHT and the
Project beneficialies                                                    completed
8.     Preparation and adoption of operations manual, including administrative and  12/15/01
procurement procedures, and Project repotting requirements*
9.     Evidence of counterpart funds available for the first year of Project     12/15/01
_implementation; deposit of $50,000 equivale_t for first quarter*
- 60 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
HONDURAS: SUSTAINABLE COASTAL TOURISM PROJECT
:Projet-Schedule    :      :.-.-:: f-              P:lanned:       : -                |1
Time taken to prepare the project (months)       5                             24
First Bank mission (identification)              02/01/99                      02/01/99
Appraisal mission departure                       10/04/99                     05/14/2001
Negotiations                                      10/23/99                     06/25/2001
Planned Date of Effectiveness                    01/03/2000                    12/15/2001
Prepared by:
Honduras Institute of Tourism
Preparation assistance:
PHRlD Funds
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~...          ..   .   . ....  ..  ..   .  ......  ......  ..
Name-                                     Speciality:                          .... .....
Marea Hatziolos                    Marine Resources Specialist / Task Team Leader
Steven Maber                       Rural Development Specialist / Co-Task Team Leader
Marta Molares-Halberg              Legal Counsel
Enzo De Laurentiis                 Procuremenit Specialist
Luz Zeron                          Financial Management Specialist
John Kellenberg                    NatLUral Resources Economist (World Bank / RUTA)
Juan Martinez                      Social Scientist (World Bank / RUTA)
Livio Pino                         Financial Management Specialist
Isabel Lavadenz                    Land Specialist
Lourdes Guzzone                    Project Team Assistant
Augusta Molnar                     Peer Reviewer
Mark Eckstein                      Peer Reviewer
Donald Hawkins                     Tourism Specialist / Independent Consultant
Lawrence Pratt                     Competitiveness Expert / INCAE
Rebecca Santos                     Project Preparation Logistics & Coordination / Independent Consultant
Mario Vallejo Larios               Legal Analysis / lndependent Consultant
Carlos Domingo Posas               Social Assessment / Independent Consultant
Martin Ochoa                       Environmental Assessment / Independent consultant
Gloria Lara                        Social Assessment / Independent Consultant
- 61 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
HONDURAS: SUSTAINABLE COASTAL TOURISM PROJECT
A. Project Implementation Plan
Manual de Implementacion del Proyecto - (Primer Borrador)
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Country Assistance Strategy
Letter from Min. Gabriella Nuiiez (Secretaria de Finanzas) requesting the Project
BTO: Identification Mission, October 1998
PHRRD Award Letter with Acceptance by Min. (abriella Nuldez (Secretaria de Finanzas)
Borrower and Consultant Reports:
Report 1: Assessment of Tourism Potential of H-londuras: Observatiolns and Recommendations for
Sustainable Coastal Tourism (1H[awkins and Lamoureux)
lnforme 1: Evaluacion del Potencial del Turismo de Honduras: Observaciones y Recomendaciones
Para Sostenible Turismo en la Region Costera (Hawkins y Lamoureux)
Original Language: English
Report 2: Environmental Education and Tourism Awareness on the North Coast and Bay Islands
of Honduras (Dominiguez)
Informe 2: Educacion Y Conocimiento Ambientale del Turismo en la Costa Norte y en las Islas de
la Bahia de Honduras Dominguez)
Original Language: English
Report 3: An Environmental Economics Strategy for Hlonduras Coastal Tourism and Protected
Areas (Pratt)
Informe # 3 -- Estrategia Econ6mica Ambiental para las Areas Protegidas y el Turismo Costero de
Honduras (Pratt)
Original Language: English
Report 4: Legal and Regulatory Aspects of Coastal Tourism Developmeint in Honduras (Mauri,
Mumford Pratt, and Bogran)
Informe 4: Aspectos Legales Y Reguladores Del Desarrollo Costero Del
Turismo En Honduras (Mauri, Mumford Pratt, and Bogran)
Original Language: English
Report 5: Coastal Municipalities and Sustainable Tourism in Honduras (Posas and Montoya)
Informe 5: Proyecto Planificacion y Manejo Del Turismo Sostenible en la Costa Norte De
Honduras (Posas y Montoya)
Original Language: Spanislh
- 62 -



Social Assessment Report:
*   EVALUACION  SOC:IOETNOGRAFICA DELA COSTA NORTEDEHONDURAS
*   PLAN DE PARTICIPACION
Enviromental Assessment and Management Plan (in Spanislh and English)
Draft Project Implementation Plan
C. Other
Amigos de Sian Ka'an, "Guidelines for Low-Impact Coastal Tourism Development"
Coastal Resources Center/URI & The US Agency for lnternational Development,
Quintana Roo, 1998.
Arizona Council for Enhlancing Recreation and Tourism, "Tours for Tourism: Positioning for
Positive
Impact"
Ashton R. & P. Aslton, "Local Commuinities and Ecologies: Preparation and Planning, The
Keys to Long-
Term Success", Florida, September 1994.
Bailly, H., "Environmental Audits for Suistain1able Toutrismt. Final Report", Assessment of
Voluntary
Environmental Rating and Certification Programs, January 1999.
Banco Interamei-icano de DesalTollo, Situacion lTuristica de Honduras y Lineamientos Esrategicos
para su
Desairollo, Consultoria para el Apoyo a las Autoridades Turistica de Centroamerica,
March 1999.
Bar-on, R., "The Americas", Databank, Tourism Economics, 5 (3), pp. 293 - 307, 1999.
Brylske, A., Doctoral Dissettation Preliminary Research Proposal, Florida Institute of Technology,
January 1999.
Callilian D. & R: Goodldnd, '"Using Tourism as a Means to Sustain Community-Based
Conservation:
Experience from Namibia ", U SAID Workshop on Growth-Environment "Win-Win"
Opportunities Through Natural Resource-Based Industries, Washington, D.C., November 4,
1999.
Canadian Tourism Commission, "On the Path to Success" Results of the CTC Best Practices
Tour, 1999
Certification for Sustainable Tourism, "What CST is all about", Website:
htcp:{//ww.turismo-sostenible.co.cr/EN/sobreCST/about-cst.shtml, September 15, 1999.
Comisioo Centroamericana de Ambiente y DesarTollo (CCAD), Plan de Accion del Sistema
Arrecifal del Caribe Mesoame-ricano, BotTador final, June 1998.
Conlin, M., "Human Resoturce Development: The Foundation for Quality Service", Centre for
Tourism
Research anid Innovation, Bermuda College.
Conservation International, "Conservation International's Ecotourism Program Initiatives 1999",
Washingtoni, D.C., 1999.
Conservation International, "Fact Sheet: Ecotourism Development Program ", Washington, DC,
September 1999.
DeShazo, J., "The Economic Bene/its from Natural and Cultural destinations in Central
America"",
- 63 -



Harvard Institute for International Development, 1999, INCAE The Environment and Central
America's Competitiveness.
Ecotourism Society, "A Ecotoutrism Statistical Fact Sheet", www.ecotourism.org/textfiles/stats.txt,
August 1997.
Egyptian Red Sea Coastal And Marine Resoturce Management Project, Baseline Report, Arab
Republic of
Egypt, Tourism Development Authority, August 1997.
Forest, N., "Assessment of Coastal Regulations and Implementation: Case Study ofRoatan, Bay
Islands,
Honduras" Coastal Management, No. 26, pp. 125 - 155, 1998.
Furlan, L., "How You Can Improve Your Ecotouirisin Operations", CAPAS, August 1995.
Garcia, N., "Postura Oficial del Instituto Hondureno de Turismno", Faces, pp. 13 15, March
1999.
Gartner, W., Tourisn Development. Piinciples, Processes and Policies, Van Nostrand Reinhold,
USA, 1996.
Hawkins, D., "The Relationship of Tourism-Retated Revenule Generation to Coral Reef
Conservation ",
Coral Reefs: Challenges and Oppootunities for Sustainable Management, Proceedings of an
Associated Event of the Fifth Annual World Batik Conference on Environmentally and Socially
Sustainable Development, Washington, D.C., October 1997.
Hawkins, D. & C. Holtz, "Global Environmental Policies and Management Systems in the
Tourist Industry" Washington, DC, 1999.
Holtz, C., Sustainable Tourism Best Practices. Washington, DC: The George Washington
University, 1998.
Honduras Institute of Tourism, "Hondtiras Tourism After Mitch: Assessment and Status of
Resources" Honduras, December 1998.
Honduras Institute of Tourism & FONATUR Interniacionial, Project: Ecoturistico Bahia de Tela,
Honduras,
C.A. Honduras Today Advertisement, p. 12
Hope, C. & A. Muehlemann, "Total Quality, Human Resource Management and Tourism",
Tourism
Economics, 4 (4), pp. 367 - 386, 1998.
INCAE, "Diagnostic: Training Needs Assessment of the Tourism Sector in Central America",
CLACDS,
December 1998.
INCAE, "Turismo en Honduras: El Reto de la Competitividad", CLACDS, July 1998.
INCAE & CLACDS, "Tourism in Honduras: The Competitive Challenge", Tranislation, 1998.
INCAE, "The Environment and Central America's Competitiveness ", Working Paper, May 1999.
Island Resources Foundation, "Tourismii and Coastal Resources Degradation in the Wider
Caribbean", St.
Thomas, December 1996.
Jones, C., "The New Touirism and Leisiure Environment: A Disculssion Paper" Economics
Research
Associates, San Francisco.
Juhasz, F., "An International Comparison of Sustainiable Coastal Zone Management Policies",
Marine
Pollution Bulletin, Vol. 23, pp. 595 - 602, Great Britain, 1991.
Kohl J. & F. Garcia, "Antecedentes y Eventos Actuales Sobre El Turismo En La Costa Norte De
Honduras", RARE Center for Tropical Coniservation.
- 64 -



Lonely Planet Website www.lonelvplanet.coni, "Honduras: Getting Around".
Lundberg, Donald E., The Tourist Business, CBI Publishing Co., Iic., 1990:315.
Madrid, P., Lo Que Habia De Este Lado: A proposito de los 500 anos 1492-1992, 1994.
Management Systems Inteniational, "Joint-Venitures in Ecotourisin ", RAISE Website
htt.p:,7/www.raise.ors/lestplractices,'#nonag, January 6, 2000.
Manning, Edward W., Goveniance for Tourism. Coping with Tourism in Impacted Destinations,
Centre for
Sustainable Future, June 1998.
Manual del Maestro, Prograrna de limpieza y liderazgo ambiental, "Adopte una Calle o un Tramo
de
Camnino", Programa EDUCAR, Hoonduras, May 1997.
Medio, D., R.F.G. Oi-mond & M. Pearson, "Effect of Briefings on Rates of Damage to Corals by
Scuba
Divers", Biological Conservation, 79, pp.91-95, Great Britain, 1997.
Murray, J., Strategies for Small. Coastal Communities: Manual, Community Economic
Development.
Naisbitt, J., Global Paradox, William MoIrow & Co., Inc. New York, 1994.
Organization of Americao States, "Suistaininig Tourism By Managing Its Natuiral and Heritage
Resources ",
XVII Inter-American Travel Congress, Costa Rica, April 1997.
Organization of American States, "Formfor the Presentation of Projects", Inter-American
Council for
Integral Development, July 1997.
Pagiola, S., "Economic Analysis of Investments in Cultural Heritage: Insightsfrom
Environmental
Economics", Environmental Department, World Bank, June 1996.
Parker, S., "Collaboration on Tourismit Policv Making: Envirownental and Commercial
Sustainability on    Bonaire, NA ", The Joumnal of Sustainable Tourism, pp. 240 - 259, Vol.7,
Nos. 3 &4, 1999.
Pendleton, L., "Environmental Qualil'v and Recr-eation Denmanid in a Carribean Coral Reef',
Coastal Manaemernt, Vol. 22, pp. 399 - 404, UK, 1994.
Posas, M., Breve Historia de la Ciudad de Lai Ceiba, Alcaldia Municipal de La Ceiba, Honduras,
1993.
Potter, B., "Tour ism and Coastal Resources Degradation in the Wider Carribbean", Island
Resources
Foundation, St. Thomas, Virgin Islands, December 1996.
Proyecto PAAR, "Anteproyecto de Ley Forestal", Tegucigalpa, Enero, 2000.
Proyecto DesaiTollo Turistico Sostenible de la Costa Notte de Honduras, Componente del
proyecto:
Rescate y Revitalizacion Integral del Centro Historico de Trujillo, August 2000.
Red Ecologista olIondurena de DesaITollo Sosteniible (REHDES) & Centro RARE, Promoviendo la
Conservacion y Desarrollo Comunitario en H-londuras Mediante el Ecoturismo, Programa de Tres
Anos en la Costa Norte de Honduras, componente del Programa de RARE Center por el Corredor
Biologico Mesoamericano (Mexico, Belice, Guatemala y Honduras), October 1999.
Research Alert: the Bi-Weekly source for Research on Americans, June 19,1992.
Salvat, B., "Tourism and Coral Reeft", Tourism Focus, No. II, 1998.
Scriabine, R., "Putting People into Policy: The Role of Environmental Education and
communication?", A
GreenCOM Discussion Paper, June 1996.
- 65 -



Snelson D. & An. Lanjouw, "Final Report on Protected Areas Conservation Strategy (PAR CS)
Project ",
lnstitutionalizing In-Service Training in Protected Area Authorities in Africa, July 1997.
Stoll, A., "Master Plan. North East Sector of Jeannette Kawas National Park and The Town of
Miami,
Honduras", Graduate Research Project Proposal, University of Florida, January 1999.
Sustainable Development, "Touirismn - Towards Sustainability", A Consultation paper on
sustainable
tourism in the UK.
The Bay Islands, Destinatioon Honduras 1999.
The Best of Central America Guide 1999, Sol y Lunia, San Salvador, C.A. 1998.
USAID, "'Best Practices' Guidelines for Tourism Facility Site: Planning, Design, Construction
and
Operation ", Volume 8, Environmentally Sustainiable Tourism (EST) Project, Environmental and
Natural Resources Policy and Training Project, April 1997.
Welcome to Honduras 1997-1998, Editorial frainsainerica S.A., Hlonduras 1997.
Winrock International Environmental Alliance, "Comiiparactive Advantage Review of the Egyptian
and Red
Sea Coast Touirism Industries , USAID.
World Bank, "HOND URAS COUNTR Y ASSIS7 A;NC'E STRA TEG Y EXC Upstream Review
Document".
World Tourism Organization, Tourism 2020 Vision, Madrid 1998.
World Tourism Organization, Tourism Highlights 1999, Madrid 1999.
World Tourism Organization, Tourism Market Trends Americas 1998 Edition, Madrid, 1998.
World Tourism Organization, Tourism to the Year 2000: Qualitative Aspects, 1993:17.
World Tourism Organization, Tourism Market Trends: Americas, 1999 Edition, Madrid 1999.
World Travel and Tourism Council, World Tourism Organization and Earth Council, "Agenda 21
for the
Travel and Tourisnm Industry: Towards Environmentally Suistainable Development
World Travel and Tourism Council, "Best PracJice Suistainable Touirism Approach: GREEN
GLOBE
Destination Strategy and Action Planning", London, United Kingdom, 1998.
*Including electronic files
- 66 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credts
HONDURAS: SUSTAINABLE COASTAL TOURIM PROJECT
May-2001
D lOM nce blween expected
and acual
Orignal Amount in US$ Milhlons                           disbu.rs.ments
Projed ID    FY   Purpose                                    IBRD         IDA                GEF   Cancel.   Undisb.       Ong   Frm Rev'd
P057538      2001 ROAD RECONSTRUCTION AND IMPROVEMENT             0.00     es.50                0.00      0.00     64.03      0.00      0.00
PO6078s      2001 HN ECONOMIC & FIN.MANAGEMENT PROJECT            0.00     19.00                0.00      0.00     1825       3.87      0.00
P007397      200t HN-COMlMUNITY-BASED EDUCATION PROJECT           0.00     41.50                0.00      0.00     40.s7      0.00      0.0
P064096      2001 HN- FIFTH SOCIAL IWVESTMENT FUND PROJECT        0.00     e0.00                0o.       0.00     50.92      0.00      0.00
P054913      2000 EMERG DISASTER MGMT                             0.00     10.82                noe       0.00      9.55     4.63       0.00
P048651      1999 HNIFHIS IV                                      0.00     45.00                     0.00           5.LI    .2524       0.00
P057350      1999 PROFUTURO                                       0.0e      8.30                o.        o.00      4.52      1.59      O.W
P044343      1998 BOIVEnRSITY PROJ                                0.00      0.00                7.00      0.00      4.49      4.90      0.00
P007398      1997 RURAL LAND MGMT                                 0.00     34.00                0.00      0.00      9.66      7.96      7.96
P007387      1996 HN PUS SEC MOD SAC                              0.00     55.00                000       0o.      33.10      1.13     36.83
P007399       1995 HN- BASIC EDUCATION                            0.00     30.00                0.00      0.00      342       601       5.43
Poo73e8      1993 TRNSPRT SCTR RHB                                o.0        .00                0.00      0 .00     325      -14.93     321
P007392      1993 HNMNUTRTIONALTH                                 0.00     2.00                 0.00      0.00      040      A0.41      0.16
Total:      0.00     460.12              7.00        0.00     256.70    417.73     53.58
HONDURAS
STATEMENT OF IFCs
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
May-2001
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                                Disbursed
IFC                                     IFC
FY Approval             Company                                Loan    Equity    Quasi    Panic         Loan    Equity    Quasi    Partic
1998                    Camino Real Plaz                      10.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       8.00      0.00       0.00      0.00
1995/98                 Elcosa                                 0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00
1986/99                 Granjas Marinas                        6.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       6.00      0.00       0.00      0.00
Total Portfolio:              16.00       0.00      0.00       0.00      14.00      0.00       0.00      0,00
Aptwvais Paiding Commtment
FY Approval            Company                                   Loan       EqUity       Quasi        Partic
2000                    Agropatma                                 7.00        0.00         0.00        0.00
1999                   Celtel Honduras                            5.00        5.00         0.00       15.00
Total Pending Commitment:                12.00        5.00         0.00       15.00
- 67 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
HONDURAS: SUSTAINABLE COASTAL TOURISM PROJECT
Latin    Lower-~
POVERT.Y and SO6CIAL~                                             Amnerla   mliddle
Honduras   & Cairib.  Aiancome       Dovelopment diamtond'
P60.tiation,::mid-year (millib s)           ~6.3:                     .509   ~2.,094:    .Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method. iJS$)         ~~~~~        ~~760.  340    :1,200.
:GN1P iAtLssrrmelhod.: S$ bIllrinsj                         4.8.     1,955:    2,513::
Aeage annul girowth. 1993-99
Ropatone 6h(5)                                              2.8    ~ 1.8          1.
Lao .. oc ......   .....                                    3.8  I     2.5        1.2       GNP            .       v             rs
Moe~~~~~~~ recent  ~~~~~~~~~~~~per                                                                     primary
eMitreinlstimiate (laitest year available, 1993-99)caiayu,                                                           erlmn         :
:PoVertvi'%:ot popUlation below. national poverty line)      53
Urb6rl nOpUIatIon:(% Of total poPulation)                   52          75    ~ 43~
:Llf* expectancy: ot birth (years)                          .69.         0        .69
lnfsnttorlaitvlpri,PO  livebirths)                   36          31    ~ 33
01,116~~~M m~nilin(  fildre  une  125                                8         1 5                Access to safe water
:Access to:improved watersource (% of t,opulationl           65         75         86.
Ilfteracv~56f!Nopbtnlaiio  aqe..15+).26                                 12         16,
Grosso~arv~nrolirn~nt1% af schooj-aqevoooulationl    1 11        113        114.:
Male1                                                     11 to.                1.1 4              Lower-middte-lncome group
Female                                     1~~    ~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~12  .. 1:16
KEY: ECO NOM I C RATIO0S: a nd LO N G-TE RM T RE ND S
1979      1989       1998      *1999
G~~P (OS$tiillJdnsl .  . . .  2.3               5.2 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Economic ratios' 
GfossdortiestlcinvestmentlGD3P                  26.8      19.1       30.8       32.9
Eftertsiofgdcidsand services/GDtP                36.6      28.0       47.2       42.9Trd
:G85b,:doniesotic:savinns.IGDP                   22.0      13.7       24.6       18.1
:GfosasrnatI0nA1.savllhgslGDP                    158.0      9.9       25.3   ~22.9 
.Cllrf.aht Acount:balancelGbP                    -8.8i     -7.9       -5.5      -10.0                       ,)
:Itt0roWt paVrttensIGQP                           2.7      .0.9         3.5        3.2     DoeIc'nvestment
Total :debtl$DP:   .      52.6      655        95.3 ~~~~~~~         Savings
.Totatiebt:s.ervicel.expor'p        ~~~~20.5   1.2.6      18.2       134A 
i'resentvalueofdebtlGDp           ..       ..        61.4
PirasientValueof debtlexports                       .         .      116.2
Indebtedness
i  1979-89  1989-99       1998       1999 .1999-03.
(   .vrsg  anwprow,th)
G~~~~P                .    : ~~~~~~~~2.4  3.2:    2.9 ~   -1.9          5~3 . ~       ~     onu
"'.NP.O or caoitv                     . 0:7       0.8 .    0.A        -3.9                     ...8 . ..Lower-middle-income group       i
sorti of g6ods' and services          0.5       1.5       0.3.      -9.4        g  98
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1979     1999        1999       1999      Growth of investment end GOPl%
(% ofGDP)
Agriculture                                      25.6      21.1       19.2       16.2      30
Industry                                         24.4      24.7       30.4       31.9      20.b
Manufacturing                                  15.1      15.0        18.6      19.6      ro
Services                                         50.0      54.2       50.4       51.9       0
Private consumption                              67.0      72.0       65.3       69.4      iv       4                97   so   am
General government consumption                   10.9      14.3       10.1       11.4                   _GD         Q-,GDP
Imports of goods and services                    41.4      34.4       53.3       56.7    -___________________
(average annuat growth)                      1979-89  1989-99         1999      1999       Growth of exports and imports(%
Agriculture                                       2.4       2.4       -2.9       -8.7      15
Industry                                          2.9       3.5        4.2        4.0    iv
Manufacturing                                   3.0       3.8         3.4       2.61,
Services                             ~~~~      ~~~~       ~~~~      ~~~~2.3  3.5  5.6  -.2~
P'rivate consumption                              2.8       3.0        3.4        0.8      5%af 50   56                      i7a
Generat government consumption                    3.9      -0.6       21.7       10.9      .
Gross domestic investment                         0.0       8.0        2.8        4.7    .10
Imports of goods and services                     0.1       3.6        5.9        6.7              --E".'Eports    --*-Imports
Gross national product                            2.5       3.7        3.3       -1.3
Note: 1999 data are preliminaty estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in tihn country (in bold) compared with its income-group average, If data are missing, the diamond wilt
be Incomplete.
- 68 -



Honduras
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1979     1989      1998      1999      Inflation (%)
Domesitic prices                                                                    40
(% change)                                                                            T
Consumer prices                                         9.9       13.7      11.6    30
Implicit GDP deflator                         11.5      7.1       11.0     11.1    20  . 
Govemment finance                                                                   10
(% of GDP, incdudes current grants)                                                  0
Current revenue                                                   18 8     19.4             94   ss   90   97   9g   59
Current budget balance                                             4.1      2.8              -GODP defto
Overall surplusldeficit                                           -1.7     -4.4
TRADE
(US$ millions)                               1979     1989       1998      1999      Export and impcrt levels (USS mill.)
Total exports (fob)                                    903      1,657     1,304     3 ooo
Bananas                                               352        176       38
Coffee                                                191       430       256      2000
Manufactures                                                                                             11
Total Imports (cif).    1,045                                   2,445     2,718
Food                                           ..     172       364       397      1,0
Fuel and energy                                       146       214       256
Capital goods                                 ..      220       615       724
93  94  95   9S  97  sa  99
Export price index (1995=100)                   ..      98         94        90
Import price index (1995=100)                   ..      76         93        91                 Q Exports     * Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                              129        102        99
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(UJS$ millions)                              1979     1989       1998      1999      Current account balance to GDP (%)
Exports of goods and services                 838    1,061      2,476     2,312      0 *    / f
Imports of goods and services                 930    1,273      2,797     3,055                i
RVesource balance                             -92      -213      -322      -743     .4
Net income                                    -120     -240      -209      -160                      '"
Net current transfers                          14       43        241       365     -80       |                          i
Current account balance                       -198     -410      -290      -538            . D
Financing items (net)                         218      364        458       880
Changes in net reserves                       -20       45       -168      -342    -16
Yrmo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)                  28        770     1,209
Conversion rate (DEC, boallUS$)                2.0      2.0      13,4      14.2
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1979     1989      1998      1999                  -
(USS millions)                                                                       Composition of 1999 debt (US$ mill.)
Total debl outstanding and disbursed         1,184    3,386     5,002     5,356
IBRD                                        132      528        235      185                  G:482   A:1S5
IDA                                          47       79        579      841
Total debt service                            179      142        505      367            F: 415
IBRD                                         14        1         68       65
IDA                                           1        0          6        7                                      C  1
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                              21       71        163      210
Official creditors                           86       86         19      158        E. 1,486
Pnvate creditors                             63       43        109      -35
Foreign direct investment                    28       51         84      222
Porifolio equity                              0        0                                                        37
World Bank program
Commitments                                  35        0         59       61     i A - IBRD                   E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                32        2         64      273      B - IDA    D - Oher mullilateral  F - Pnvate
Principal repayments                          4        0         50       49      C- IMF                      G ShorermI
Netflows                                     29        2         14      224
Interest payments                            11        1        24        22
Net transfers                                17        1        -10      202
Development Economics                                                                                                9/9/2000
- 69 -



Additional
Annex I I
HONDURAN INSTITUTE OF TOURISM
HONDURAS
SUSTAINABLE COASTAL TOURISM PROJECT
ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT
Executive Summary*
September 2000
*Full document available in Spanish and English in Project File
- 70 -



Table of Contents
1. Executive Report                                                                      3
1. Introduction                                                                           5
11. Overview of the Project                                                               5
2.1. Description of the Project                                                           6
2.1.1 Objectives of the Project                                                           6
2.1.2 Description of the activities of the Project                                        6
2.2. Socioeconomnic Context of the Project's Area of Influence                            9
2.3.1. Overall Characteristic                                                             10
2.3.2. Particular Characteristics of each Municipality                                    13
2.4. Environmental Problems of the Area of Influence                                      15
2.5 Environmnental Institutional Aspects                                                  17
2.5.1 Overall Description                                                                 17
2.5.2 Specific Description                                                                20
2.6 The Legal Envirornental and Tourist Context of Honduras                               22
2.6.1 Overall Aspects                                                                     22
2.6.2. laws Related with Tourism                                                          27
111 Environmental Implications of the Project                                             29
3.1. Overall Considerations                                                               29
3.2. Potential Socio-environinental Implications                                          29
IV. ENVIRONMENTAL ACTION PLAN AND STKATEGIES FOR COMPLIANCE                              32
4.1. Objectives and Characteristics of the Environmental Management Plan                  32
4.1.1. Objectives of the Environmental Management Program                                 32
4.1.2. Characterivtics of the Proposed Environmental Management Plan                      32
4.1.3. Expected Results                                                                   33
4.2. Description of the Environmental Managemzent Plan                                    33
- 71 -



4.2.1 Technical Assistance Requirements                                                   33
4.2.2. InvestmentandFund-raising Requirerncts                                             34
4.3. Monitoring and Control of the Environimental Management Platn                        37
4.4. Instruments to be Utilized                                                           37
4.5. Overall Costs of the Environmental Management Plan                                   37
Bibliography
Annex 1. The Decrees, Laws, and Regulations applicable to the tourist-environmental sector
Annex 2. International Guidelines for restoration of historical sites for preservation of the Cultural Patrimony of
the City of Trujillo
Annex 3. Environmental Guidelines for approval of financing granted to small and micro entrepreneurs.
TABLES
Table 1. Project Component Description.
Table 2. Main Socioeconomic Indicators of the Project's Area of lnfluence.
Table 3. Growth of the Bay Island's Participation in the Diving Market.
Table 4. High Quality Beaches in the Bay Islands.
Table 5. Main Problems faced by the Coral Reefs.
Table 6. Problems of Mangrove Swamps.
Table 7. Problems faced by the Beaches.
Table 8. Problems faced by Lagoons and Estuaries.
Table 9. Potential Socio-environmental Implications of Comlponent 1: National Strategy and Institutional
Strengthening for Development of Sustainable Coastal Tourism.
Table 10. Potential Socio-environmzental Implications of Comnponent 2: Institutional Strengthening and Technical
Assistance for Municipalities.
Table 11. Potential Socio-enviromnental Implications of Component 3: Pilot Progranm for Entrepreneurial
Development of Sustainable Coastal Tourism.
Table 12. Proposed Environmen-tal Management Plan for the Project.
FIGURES
Figure 1. Area of the Project.
Figure 2. Honduran Institute of Tour ism's Organizational Table
- 72 -



1. Executive Summary
The scenic value of the coastal resources in the Atlantic zone of Hooduras has turned this region into an
important tourism destination for foreigners as well as for locals. Its littoral region amounts to a 670
kilometer coast dominated by tropical rainforest vegetation ending in a line of fine sandy beaches.
Additionally, this region portrays interesting archaeological sites and it is inhabited by different ethnic
groups.
Such variety of attractions in this and other regions of the couintty have turned tourism into one of the most
important economic items of the country. However, efforts to maintain the growing rhythm of this sector
have been curtailed by the impact and aftennath of Hurricane Mitch. Damage to basic infrastructure is
-among others- one of the limitations that the country faces in order to strive for greater development.
In an effort to recover and if possible to surpass gains attained before Hurricane Mitch, the Government of
Honduras seeks to consolidate a Sustainable Coastal Development Strategy in the Atlantic area of the
country. In this context, thie Govemmment of Honduras has begun a negotiation process with the World
Bank for financing the strategy. The Project in mind seeks to integrate a process for the development of
sustainable tourism in the Honduran northern coast -aiming for institutional strengtheniing of governmental
entities, at central and local levels, as well as for private development agencies and small investors of the
sector.
The environmental analysis of the Project for Coastal Sustainable Touristn -based on the socio-economic
and biophysical diagniosis for the area of influence and in the proposed objectives and activities for the
Project- determines that tle potential negative environlmental impacts to be generated with its operation
shall be foreseeable and mitigated.
In most cases the impacts shall be positive since the Projects objective is to contribute to planning for the
usage of municipal resources that have tourist potctiial -- bearing in mind a strong institutional base.
However -for purposes of guaranteeing the permanenice of these positive aspects and facing the needs for
evaluating the impacts of the proposed strategies for the Project- the actions to be incorporated in order to
mitigate the expected negative impacts emphasize the importance of having an efficient environmental
management within the municipality and within -lIlT. The environmental assessment undertaken highlights
the need: (i) to strengthen the institutional profile for HIT's Environmental Unit; (ii) to enforce the
effective legal environmental framework, specially in regards to environmenital health, quality of waters,
quality of municipal effluents, and principles for restoration of historical sites, (iii) to incorporate modules
for environmental municipal management in the municipal training program, including the effective legal
environmental fi-amework applicable to municipal management; and (iv) to incorporate additional studies
that identify unloading sites/municipal contamination (urban) and specially related with the absorption
capacity of Trujillo Bay and Tela Bay for tourist attraction; additionally, the identification of existing
tropical diseases in Trujillo Bay and its impact/mitigation measures in regards to expected tourist. From
the previous, given thie type of activities that they propose to be undertaken in the short-term and its effects
in the long-tenn, the Project has been ranked as B, according to ranking criteria for World Bank Projects.
In order to maximize the positive environmental impacts of the Project and to mitigate any negative
environmental impacts, an Environimental Management Program of the Project will be implemented, the
objective being: (i) To contribute to consolidate initial efforts by HIT in the search for municipal tourist
resource  maximization; and  (ii) Institutionial strengthening  of HIT's  Environmental Unit and
Environment/Tourism Technical Units for the Municipalities of Omoa, La Ceiba, Tela, Trujillo, Roatan
and Utila providing them with adequate resources to reach an adequate environmental management in the
- 73 -



execution of tourist Projects. The proposed Environtnenital Management Program has four strategic
elements: (i) Restructuring and Repositioning of HIT's Environmental Unit; (ii) Definition of Management
Processes and lnstruments; (iii) Training, Coordination and Participation; and (iv) Investment and
Resource Management.
The Environmental Management Plan is viewed as a transversal element in regards to the different
components of the Project; thus, it is an integral part of each one of them. The environmental variable is
incorporated by means of two fundamental guidelines: Technical Assistance and Investment for
institutional strengthening. The multisectoral nature of the Program shall require the participation of all
municipal branches and other local offices for its successful execution; however, the proposed
Environmental Management Program is a direct responsibility of HIT's Environmental Unit and of the
municipalities' environmenltal /tourism uniits (UTA's). As such it shall coordinate with all municipal
branches and entities outside the municipality. Thie Project is congruent with the Bank's Operational
Policies on Environmental Assessment, Social Assessment, Cultural Heritage, Involuntary Resettlement,
and Rights of Indigenous People.
- 74 -



Additional
Annex 12
Sustainable Coastal Tourism Project
on the North Coast of Honduras
Socio-Ethnographic Evaluation
Executive Summary'
Ministry of Tourism
Tegucigalpa M.D.C. Septiembre, 2000
ANED - Consultores
Introduction
1.    The purpose of the Social Assessment of the Notth Coast is to evaluate the different activities
related to the development and management of sustainable tourism at municipal and community level, land
use, land management and land ownership, from a gender perspective; to identify the main direct
beneficiaries of the Project that participate in the preparation and execution of the Project, as well as other
stakeholders; to identify the possible negative impact of the proposed activities and to propose methods for
their mitigation; to identify the most proper opportunities for teclhical and institutional strengthening to
initiate activities of sustainable management of tourism at municipal and communiity level, including the
improvement of the balance between the participalion of men and women in the community organizations
and local authorities in the municipal sphere to achieve a better planning and execution of the Project; to
identify mechanisms preferred by the beneficiaries to patticipate in each of the Project's components; to
identify the main links between the natural and cultural heritage, including the following aspects: (i)
traditional religious rituals, Garifuna dances, etc. (ii) strong ties between the cultural survival, local control
of natural resources, specifically its link witlh the protected areas; and to explore the possibilities of
co-financing and synergy with other programs in the inifluenice area.
I Tk F".N em d ,k S ,I *nbb an ...I bc HIaF
Descripdon of the Area
2.    The study is carried out in the area defined as the North Coast of Honduras, from Omoa to the
municipal boundary of the Iriona Municipality with the Gracias a Dios department and the island group the
Bay Islands. This area includes 4 departments: the municipalities Omoa and Puerto Cort6s in the Cort6s
Department; the Atlantida Department, with emphasis on the municipalities of Tela and La Ceiba and the
Garifuna villages around them, and secondly the municipalities El Porvenir, La Masica and Jutiapa. The
Department Col6n, with emphasis on the municipalities Trujillo and Santa Fe and including the Garifuna
villages around them, and secondly dte municipalities Irionia, Limon Balfate, Saba, Tocoa and Sonaguera.
- 75 -



The Bay Islands, with emphasis on the context of the municipalities Utila and Roatain and secondly the
municipalities Santos Guardiola and Guanaja and their communities.
Results
3.     The four teams of surveyors (one per department, consisting of three techlnical staff per team),
carried out 427  surveys under community  leaders, small entrepreneurs, local authorities and
non-govermnental organizations, as well as 12 focal group exercises with the same actors.
In the sample there is a clear predominance of men, almost 2/3 of the sample. The age range best
represented in the sample of botlh men and women is between 31-50 years of age. In all age categories
mestizo men and women form the majority, with the exception of the people of 61 and older. In that age
group tlhere are twice as much Garifuna men as mestizo men, while the difference among women is not
significant.
Schooling level
4.     The prevailing categories of the sample that are also similar in absolute terms are those with more
than 12 years of schooling and those between 4-6 years of education. This means those with complete
secondary education (a third of the sample) and those with at least 4 years of primary school (another third
of the sample). The odter schooling ranges (1-3, 7-9 and I-I I years of schooling make up the last third of
the sample).
*   The data reveal the trend that men and women have an equal clhance to access first cycle of primary
education (1-3 years). This trend not only continiues for women, but their opportunities to finish the second
cycle, or primary school increase (3-6 years). This trend remains stable and favors women even more in the
third cycle (7-9 years) of basic education, traditionally known as the basic education plan. However, when
entering the diversified cycle that concludes secondaty school (11-12 years), the curve abruptly drops for
women and a propottional inverse growtlh is observed for men, in such a way that only a very small
percentage of women finish secondary school. This mneans that for a large percentage of women primary
school is the end station. However, once womeni have managed to pass the threshold of 11 years of
schooling, finishing secondary school, the likelihood for them  to continue their education improves
remarkably, although the gap with men is not closed
*   The mestizo men and women have a preferential access to primary and secondary school compared to
the Garifuna and island population. The differences between mestizos and Garifunas are significant
towards the end of secondary school and after finislhing secondary school. The differences between
Garifunas and islanders are important in tile first cycle of primaly school, and they increase again after
the third cycle until after secondamy school. For the majority of the male islanders the access to the first
cycle of primary school is limited, and once surpassed that level the third cycle is the end station for the
majority.
*   The differences between mestizo and Garifuna women gain importance after the third educational level
or basic education plan. However, the Garifuna women recover and are at the same level as mestizo
women when finishing secondaiy school. However, after having finished the secondary school, the gap
is extremely big and only a minority continues. The differences between Gaiifuna women and island
women are significant from the first cycle and throughout the second cycle of primary school, but in the
third cycle the participation increases considerably to disappear completely from the registration
towards the end of secondary sclhool. This meanis that as for island men, the third cycle is the end
- 76 -



station. After finishing secondary school, a veiy smnall propottion continues. Summarized, the trend
among mestizo men and women is to finish secondar-y school and they will likely continue their studies,
above all the women that finish secondary school. Among the Garifuna men and wotmen the trend is
weaker, with a critical moment for men at the end of the third cycle, and for women at the end of
primary school. For the island populationi the critical point is during the first cycle, and once this
threshold is passed it is repeated at the end of the (lird cycle, whicb for women is definitely the end
station.
Ethnic representation
5.     Half of the sample (51.76 %) conisists of mestizo men and women; the Garifuna men and women
form around one third of the sample (35.13 %), while the island men and women make up 11 % of the
sample. The foreign residents represent 1.64 % of thie sample. Amnong the women, the mestizo group is
better represented while on the contrary among men the Gaiifuna population is better represented.
Apart from the Garifuna and island population no other indigenous group is represented in the sample. The
Misldto speakers mentioned in the sample are mestizo, (iarifuna, and island people. The sample in general
can be considered representative in terms of the proportion between the majority etlnic group (inestizo) in
the country and the North Coast, especially regardiog the culturally different population (Garifuna and
island populations), the etlnic groups of this region.
Prevailing Languages
6.     As was to be expected, the prevailing maternal language of the people surveyed is Spanish,
followed by Garifuna and Island English. The incidence of foreign languages (standard English, Italian,
French and Germnan) as mother tongue is completely irrelevant in the suivey. Spanish is not only the first
language of the mestizo population, but also of around 10 % of those who declared to be not mestizo,
meaning that Spanisb is the first language of a certain number of GarifuLnlas, among which more men than
women.
*   Gaiifuna has a significant percentage as the second language in importance, apparently adopted as
such by mestizo people and in a lesser degree by the island population as a second language in areas of
convergence. lsland English as a second language is slightly used as second or third language by
mestizo and Garifuna people. There is rather a trend to use standard English as a bridge by the mestizo
population (9.37 %) and even by the Garifunas in the convergence areas. The significant percentage
and third place of standard English entails that it is the language the mestizo population learns after
Garifuna and the one the Garifunas learn after Spanish. However, it is obvious that at community level
English is not general among thie mestizo, gatifuna or island population.
*   Summarized, the typical mestizo person on thie Notrth Coast of Honduras is more likely to speak
Garifuna as second language, standard English as tlhird language and if he/she is between 21-30 years
of age this person has a schooling level of ninle years or more, and will speak Miskito as fourth
language. The typical Garifunla person on the North Coast of Honduras is more likely to speak
Spanish as a second language, standard Englisb as a tlird language and if he/she is between 21-30
years of age and has a schooling level of 9 years or more he/she will most likely speak Miskito as
fourth language. The typical island person on the North Coast of Honduras, is more likely to speak
Spanish as a second language, standard English as a third language, Garifuna as a fourth language and
if he/she is between 21-30 years of age and has nine years or more of schooling, it is possible that
he/she speaks Miskito as the fifth language.
- 77 -



Level of Organization
7.     A large majority of the people surveyed (67.51%) belong to some organization, mostly local
community or regional organizations; in second place religious organizations (33.45%); in third place
ethnic organizations and in fourth place environmenital organizations.
*   The community organizations are neighborhiood organizations, parent's associations, fishermen's
associations, associations of retired teachers, savings and loan cooperatives, community banks, rural
banks, or the association of tourist guides. The regional community organizations are the associations
or transporters, the associations of sport divers, the association of agricultural producers, the
association of traditional and non-traditionial exporters and teacher's or professional associations.
*   In second place are the religious organizationis (33.45 %): the catholic and evangelical churclies. It is
noted that there is still a trend for the catholic church to be the biggest one, but the evangelical church
is only slightly below the catholic church regarding participation. Third place is taken by the ethnic
organizations, OFRANEH and NABILPA. However, they are not equally importanit in the whole
region. OFRANEH has its main centers in Tela, Santa Fe, Trujillo, La Ceiba, Lim6n and lriona; of
minior importance are El Porvenir, La Masica, Jutiapa, Balfate and Bonito Oriental, Saba, Sonaguera,
Tocoa, Puerto Cortes and very marginally Omoa. NABILPA has its center in Roatat, no presence is
registered in Guanaja and Utila.
*   The fourth place (10.21 %) is taken by envirotnmental organizations (close season, production of fire
wood trees, control of pesticides and herbicides, traditionial fishing methods, protection of the reef,
counting turtles, training materials). These environmental organizations consist of all or at least part of
the non-governmenital organizations. Finally, a small percentage (3.5%) are members of the chambers
of commerce of Tela, Tocoa and La Masica) and the chambers of tourism Tela and Omoa.
*   The relatively high percentage of organized participation of the people surveyed in different types of
initiatives reflects a great potential for concerted effotts, and some kind of experience in management
and execution for the common good; bowever, a dtird part of the sample said not to belong to any
organization.  Generally, the active organized people are members of two to three different
organizations, and sometimes even thiree or four. Tlhe vast majority (71.83%) of those that belong to
some organization have bad some official post, whicih indicates a strong involvement of many people at
one time or anotler regarding the planning and execution of the organization's activities.
Health Situation
8.     The main healtlh problems are in order of importance: respiratory infections, parasitic infections
and HIV/AIDS.   Less common are mental disorders, occupational accidents, malaria and dengue.
Malnutrition is considered to be a minor problem and even less so alcoholism (0.94 %) or drug addiction
(0.94%). Venereal diseases are practically absent according to thie people surveyed. The main source of
infornation is the Ministry of Health, followed at some distance by the television, the radio and
newspapers. It is obsetved that the people surveyed seem to have a good access to the mass media by
television and radio.
   The knowledge resulting from personal experiences and from person to person, are less important
(together 14.76 %). In the campaigns on HI V/AIDS only half participated. As a consequence the other
half lhas remained at the margin of one of the most critical health problems on the North Coast. The
massive campaigns consist of talks in primary and secondary schools and the health centers. The talks
with the parents and infonnative leaflets are second, third the churches and fourth the NGO's.
*   The influence of radio, television and newspaper campaign (4.31%) is completely secondary.
Separately or jointly, they do they not have the impact that is attributed to them as main sources of
-78 -



information on HIV/AIDS in the perception of the people. The majority of the funds to finance the
HLVIAIDS prevention campaigns, come from the Central Government, more specifically the Ministry
of Healdt with a small participation from the Ministry of Education. The muniicipalities' input is
minimal, but even lower are the contributions from the NGOs.
*   The contributions from the church are also marginal, but it should be mentioned that the evangelical
churches contribute more than the catlholic church. The ethnic organizations contribute in the same
degree as the churches. The occupational accidenis are not well represented in the sample, but the
wounds from work instruments are the most common, possibly cutting instruments such as machetes.
Paralysis as a consequence of diving without the proper equipment is becoming more important. While
the loss of limbs, or intoxication because of herbicides and bunis are less frequent.
*   In the Department of Cort6s (Puerto Cort6s and Omoa), the sample is almost entirely among the
mestizo population and HIV/AIDS as health problem comes first according to the men, while the
women think it has increased in absolute tenns, but still comes in third place. The average person who
recognizes VlHIAIDS as the main health problem has more than 12 years of schooling.  In the
Department of Col6n (Lim6n, lIiona, TrLujillo, Balfate, Bonito Oriental, Saba, Sonaguera and Tocoa)
the sample has a fair Garifuna representation. In the sample, the mestizo population tlinks HI V/AIDS
comes second as health problem, on the other hand (he women think it comes third and that its relative
importance also has not increased. However, for Garifuna men and women equally, it is problem
number 1. The average schooling of all the people surveyed is 4-6 years.
*   In the Depaltment of Atlantida (La Ceiba, Tela, El lPorvenir, La Masica and Jutiapa) the sample has a
fair Garifuna representation. In the sample the mestizo men are the ones who put HI V/AIDS first as
health problem, while according to the women it not only comes third, but also has decreased in relative
importance. On the other hand, the Garifuna men consider the problem to be third, opposite to the
Garifuna women who not only consider it to be health problem no. 1, but also attribute a higher
absolute importance than any of the other groups mentioned. Also in this departmnent the average
schooling level of the people surveyed is a minimum of 10- 11 and more likely more than 12 years.
*   In the Department of the Bay Islands (Roatan, Jose Santos Guardiola, Guanaja and Utila), mestizo men
and women as well as Garifuna men and women put I-IlV/AIDS in first place as health problem. On the
other hand, for the island men and women it doesn't only come third, but also its absolute importance is
much less. In this department the schooling level of the people surveyed is a minimum of 7-9 years and
more likely more than 12 years of schoolinig. Apparcntly, more schooling helps to recognize the rate of
the disease, at least among the mestizo men and women but it is not the key point, as Garifuna men and
women in Colon have the highest schooling level of the sample. It rather seems that there are other
mechaniisms involved.
Land ownership and related matters
9.     Around half of the sample thought that the neighbors have land, but also a third part without land
was registered. The majority of the landowners have full land titles and around a third own has the
usufruct of the land. Regarding the location of the lands, the large majority of the owners have land on the
beach (or mountain) in combination with any of the following locations: valley, hillside or urban plots.
*   Small landowners are the nonn, so there are few mcdium owners, and the presence of large owners is
minimum (2.43 %). However, this could be misleading given that the few big landowners together
could have more than the others. Therefore it is necessary to have an approximation of the size of each
of these categories. The vast majolity of the land on1 beaches, forest, riverbanks and urban plots are
private, in the forest for example, the muniicipalities have not more than 2.25 %. The buffer zones are
the only category of which half is still owned by the municipalities.
- 79 -



*   A minimal part of the lands is found in the core of the protected areas, above all in Atlantida and
Colon; this figure practically doesn't exist in Cortes and the Bay Islands. The male owners are the
majority both regarding full ownerslhip as usufruct of the land. Amrong women full ownership is a little
better represented. Among the mestizo owners, as well as among the Garifunas, usufruct is slightly
higher. The Garifunas have more usufiuct than the mestizo population. Among the island population
full ownership is more common.
Land use
10.    The vast majority of the land is used for agriculture, combined with some other activity that could
be a small business, rent, houses, fishing and cattle farming. A minority declared to have land in protected
areas or natural reserves, also a smaller percentage registered to have land invaded by illegal residents.
More than half of the land is cultivated by the owner and their families; around a third hires salaried
workers and a minority involves family members. More than half of the producers cultivate year-round and
less than a third cultivate in certain seasons.
*   Tow thirds of the agricultural producers cultivate mainly yam, followed in importance by basic grains
(corn, beans and rice). All producers combine the cultivation of yam and basic grains with some
paprika/pepper and tomatoes and even less with cawrots, cucumber and squash. The majority of the
producers cultivate bananas, plantain, mangos, citius fruits and pineapple, combined with lichees,
coconut, cacao and watermnelon. Additional]y they plant avocados, nances, papaya, sugarcane, apples,
guanabanas, cashew, zapote, pashiotn fruit and rambutan. At a small scale are cultivated cacao,
African palm  and coffee.  The variety of crops is large and covers almost every spectrum  of
agricultural products mostly consumed in the countly.
i   More than half of the producers plant for own consumption and sale, while the rest says to only plant
for ownl consumption. Those who do market their products supply the local markets (80,51%), and less
the regional market (22.88 %). Only a few export a portion of their production, and a very small
percentage (0.85%) exports their wbole production. Among those who sell to regional and local
markets, a minority (3.39 %) supplies to hotels and restaurants. This means that the large part of the
agricultural products the hotels and restaurants use do not come directly from the producers, but
possibly through intermediaries in tlie local and regional markets. The agricultural producers of the
North coast mainly satisfy their owni needs of agricultural products, but produce sufficient suiplus to
supply local and regional markets.
Labor
II.    More than the majority of the landowners cultivates with family members; a third hires salaried
workers, while a very small part cultivates with extended family. In the region the payment is generally
higher than or equal to the minimum wage. However, it is still significant that a fifth of the informants said
the pay is less than minimum wage. The most common payment is weekly payment, the rest receives
two-weekly payments or montlhly paymenits (25.33). Daily wage is used very little. Regarding the equity
of the salary the opinions differ; while more thani half of the sample thinks payment is equal for men and
women, the other half thinks men are paid better. Also ihe opinions regarding the duration of contracts are
divided, around half thinks they are the same for men anid women, while the other half thinks the contracts
for men are longer. The last two observations reflect that regarding payment and contracts thie traditional
gender differences still prevail in the region.
Existence and use of forest
- 80 -



12.    Less than half of the sample said to have forest in the community or on their land and the opinion
prevails that there is 'little' forest. This subjective category could not be translated in absolute terms (km or
ha) by the surveyors. The majority of the group that answered positively regarding the existence of forest,
used the forest and although this exploitation involves more than one activity, the most important activity is
related to the exploitation of wood.
*   The extraction of firewood is high (45.25%) but most important is the production of wood for local
consumption (54.74%). External sale is not important, not more than 12.00 % of the wood, in other
words the other 88 %  is used locally. This means that the cutting and processing is most likely
traditional and is used for building houses, small boats and fumiture. The group that said to use the
forest, uses the forest as a place for recreation and small-scale hunting, which was independent from
recreational activities. This could indicate that in the influence area, 'hunting' at best is not considered a,
sport but a contribution to the family diet. However, a light tendency is noticed in using 'hunting' and
'recreation' as synonyms.
*   The characterization of the forest as the generator of water seems to be little understood and was only
mentioned by the mestizo population. The forest is used to extract wood above all by Garifunas, and
only very little by mestizo population. Both use the forest equally for recreation and for wood for local
consumption. Only the Garifunas use it for small-scale hunting. Only the mestizo population uses the
forest for export wood, also on a small scale.
Available Tourist Infrastructure
13.   The main services in the regions are eateries and hostels, as well as hotels and restaurants. There is
a clear differentiation between an eatery and a restaurant and between a hostel and hotel, which without any
doubt has to do with the kind of facilities and prices. The little availability of boats and bus tenninals make
clear that there are not enough.
*   The position of the airports in the sample reveal that the air transportation does not have impact
regarding tourism. However, there are three interniational aiiports in the region, as well as three
regional or local airports. This also indicates that they are not considered to be decisive for the influx of
tourists, maybe because of the kind of tourists, generally using land transportation.  The tourist
infonmation centers also seem to be concentrated in very few places and probably without coverage
outside of the more urbanized areas. The other services that make up the quality of the tourist product
are scarcely represented or are not mentioned. This all reflects the prevalence of a low impact tourist
development on the North Coast and little investment in this sector.
*   The green areas, the parking areas and tourist information centers seem to be packages according to the
people for which as a whole they do have some impoltance. The sanitary services and public showers
on the beach are preferred above those of the central square or park, but its usefulness for tourists is
still not acknowledged sufficiently.
*   Camping facilities are associated with the visitor's center in protected areas, but this tourist service is
very little developed.  Stables for horse-riding are rare and the service that is offered by the
decompression room is not considered to be instrumental for tourism. Shortly, the tourist offer comes
down to basic services (eateries and hostels and restaurants and hotels). On the beaches, the main
resource of the region, there are generally no basic installations for the tourist to use them. The tourist
information centers are scarce and the prevailing means of transportation is over land. The visitor's
centers in the protected areas are or non-existent or are not considered to be instrumental to attract
tourists. In other words, the tourist development of the region is of vety low impact and doesn't offer
alternatives, nor is it prepared to satisfy a visitor with certain demands.
- 81 -



Tourist Activities or r elated activities
14.    The majority of the region's inhlabitants work directly in a tourist activity or tourist related activity.
The vast majority of these people work in this sector year-round and the rest only part of the year. The
main activity is hotels and restaurants followed by maritime transportation and urban and interurban
transportation. A third of those that work in the industry provide guide services.
*   Around a third of the activities are related to sport diving. Non-traditional services as renting bikes and
renting horses seem to be expanding. The participation of entrepreneurs as service providers of repairs,
food and materials in hotels and restaurants is of little impact. Apparently the hotels and restaurants
are provided by other resources, not necessarily local.
*   The social centers or discotheques practically have no impact in the sector. This indicates that the
potential offered by nighttime entettainment is being little exploited for tourist purposes, or that the
tourists that visit the area have other interests. The guides mainly divide their activities between visits
to the city followed by visits to archaeological sites and museums. However, there is not one
archaeological site in the region prepared for visits, for which these activities should have devastating
effects on the sites. There are three museums: San Pedro, Omoa and Roatan, which apparently receive
quite some visitors.
*   The tours that we would call ecological or adventure tours (bird watching, marine flora and fauna and
rafting) absorb together a third part of these activities. Summaiized the guide activities reflect three
already traditional directions in tourism: the city as tourist business center; archaeological sites and
museums as center of cultural tourism and activities related with nature or ecological tourism.
-   It is important to analyze more in detail the potential cultural tourism proves to have, at this moment
even more than ecological tourism in the region. Interesfing is one element completely absent in the
demand for guide services and that is cultural tourism of living cultures (artistic shows, culinary art,
musical instruments and traditional uses) in the region. The norm regarding the production of crafts is
to combine two or more different kinds of raw material. The most common materials are wood and
bamboo, palm, corral, and turtle-shell followed by materials derived from other shells and conch. The
processing of clay is much less important, as well as the products made of rattan. It should be pointed
out that a representative percentage (26.83%) of the crafts production uses raw materials that mean a
deterioration of marine life (corral and turtle-shells), as turtles are in danger of extinction.
Nature of Tourist Enterprises and Souirce of Financing
15.    Almost two thirds of the enterprises are small, for which it is believed they are family businesses
with a reduced employment capacity. The expansion of these businesses is gradual and there is not much
variation observed over the last decade. In other words, there are no significant changes, revealing the
limited growth of the sector. The origin of the investment for these enterprises is basically completely local
individual capital with a third coming from foreign individual capital. Only a fifth of the enterprises use
bank loans. This indicates that the banks do not form a feasible altemative as an investment source.
*   The contribution of seed capital for these enterprises by the local or central government or NGOs is not
significant. This reflects the lack of funds for investmenit of the local governments, given that they
recognize the potential of tourism. The NGOs on the other hiand have a certain fear to become part of
the sector.
*   Summarized, it is very interesting to see the prevalenice of small enterprises together with an almost
absolute local private participation in financing, whicb could be one of the reasons for the slow growth
of the sector.  That despite these conditions one fourth of the enterprises are more than 10 years in
business and that another fourth is in business for 5-10 years indicates the sector is profitable, but the
- 82 -



conservative growth also reflects that there is little space for taking risks. Also, these small
entrepreneurs seem to have altemnative income sources, probably agticulture is one of the most
important ones.
Needs of Investment in Sustainable Tourism
16.    The urgent need for a basic infrastructure is shown here overwhelmingly. In the perception of the
people it is a prerequisite to get into business. Despite the emphasis on basic services, there is also a rather
precise notion that training of staff and promotion are key to the success of tourism. At the same time
there is more and more recognitioni of the importance ol the production of crafts, however no relation has
been made between the raw material and the sustainability and protection of the environmeint.
*   It is significant that there is little notion of the importance of cultural tourism, despite the fact that
museum  are instrumental for toulist guides. Only vely marginally there is a recognition of the
importance of museums for the tourist potential. Indeed, the preparation of archaeological sites for
visitors is not mentioned. Training as such is in absolute tenns the most felt need. This underlines the
little professionalism regarding tourism in large areas of the North Coast and reveals the still existent
need in regions where there is already an advanced tourist development such as the Bay Islands.
Training with Environmental Approach
17.    There is a big vacuum of traininlg with an environmental approach which means that to find a
balance between the use of the natural resources for tourism and its conservation, a lot of work is to be
done. The majority of the training activities are related to the conservation of the natural resources and
sustainable small-scale production, but it is clear that the management and conservation of water sources
comes first. The training activities directed at tourisn are few (tourist guide, sport diver, management
national monuments, archaeological site/area, museums) and has low coverage. Thus it is to be expected
that there is a widespread lack of knowledge regarding conservation and the management of the cultural
patrimony for tourist use.
The management of a protected area does not necessarily have to be for tourist purposes, which also
applies to the first aid training for divers. Therefore these two categories are intermediate categories, with a
certain relevance for tourism. Clean water (not pollution) is important for the general health of the
population, but also for wild life in general withl subsequent purposes of exploitation. However, the not
pollution of water is a contribution to a better quality of life, and is tlherefore important for tourism.
Training needed for sustainable Tourism
18.    When asked about training the majority of people surveyed responded - touiism in general - which
is very ambiguous. It reveals a general lack of knowledge about the sector that makes it hard to exactly
define the need. Thle most felt need regarding training is related to the relation with the tourist (client
service, human relations, leaming a foreigni language, guide services and awareness).
The management of hotels and restaurants seem to be more important in this context, and without any
doubt it is the area where most experience is concentrated as these services prevail in the sector. Little
thought is given to the diversification of the tourist supply related to nature (ecotourism, adventure, diving).
In the case of diving, the question rises if the little importance given to diving means that the need is more
or less covered or that on the main land no importance is given to this activity. Likewise, little thought is
given to the diversification of the tourist supply regarding cultural tourism. This means that although there
is an assumption that cultural, material and other expressions have tourist potential, it is not clear how to
- 83 -



prepare it and market it.
Infrastructure necessary for a Tourist business
19.    The comparison between the priority that small entreprenleurs give to the tourist infrastructure and
the availability of services reveals a gap in certain categories. Despite the fact that there is a certain offer
of hotels available, the small entrepreneurs still consider the existence of hotels to be a first necessity. This
could indicate that they assume that with more hotels they could attract more tourists. On the other hand,
the second priority (public bathrooms and showers on the beaches) of the entrepreneurs means their
discontent with the reality. In a lesser degree, the same could be said of the third priority (tourist
information centers).
*   Regarding hostels (fourth priority), there is quite somiie offer, as also is the case witlh the restaurants.
There is a large offer of eateries, although mentioned as the sixth priority by the entrepreneurs.  The
priorities and availability of parking areas, bus terminals and green areas is pretty much balanced. The
availability of visitor's centers in protected areas is not equivalent to the priority given, but is not very
much below it. The availability of boats is practically twice as much as the priority given. Thus,
according to the entrepreneurs, there are more than enough boats available.
*   It is remarkable that the priority given to camp sites equals the priority given to this activity which
seem to indicate that the entrepreneurs still do not consider camp sites to have a lot of potential. The
availability of public bathrooms in the central park is only a little bit less than the demand the
entrepreneurs indicate, for which it can be concluded that there are not more of these facilities because
there has been no request for them. On the contrany, the availability of facilities for maintenance of
diving equipment seems higlher than the demand, but maybe it is because these services are in certain
areas.
O   Regarding stables for horse riding there is a balanced relation between the demand and the offer;
another resource that is not considered to have big potential. Another balanced relation between the
availability and the demand is those of decompression chambers. Here one would think that the
majority of the small entrepreneurs on the North Coast are not offering diving services and given that
this activity is focussed on the Bay Islands it seems that the availability of decompression chambers ate
the moment is sufficient.
*   Further priorities include basic infrastructure services (electricity, diuiking water, sewerage, roads and
streets and latrines). Although the availability of these services provides a comparative advantage for
these communities in developing tourism, these cannot be considered tourist infrastructure, but rather
constitute basic public setvices and infrastructure. The mentioninig of basic infrastructure in the
opinion of a few communities sampled is an indicationi that in certain communities of the sample the
main difficulty is the lack of more basic services for the local inhabitants. Finally, priorities 17 and 18
on the list of those recorded, were the availability of ailports and public plazas, respectively. None of
these was mentioned by the small entrepreneurs. It is interesting to see that airports are not considered
to be instrumental for tourism, maybe due to that the majority of the destinations on the North Coast
can be reached by land, and in the case of the Bay Islands, transportation by boat is an altermative. This
would indicate, in tum, that tourism on the North Coast is above all national, or,if international, then
with little economic impact.
Conclusions
*   The majority of inhabitants of the region work directly in activities related in one way or another to
tourism.
*   The great majority of these people work in this capacity all year long, while the rest of the population is
- 84 -



works in the sector only part of the year.
*   The principal activities are concenitrated in hotels and restaurants, followed by services in the marine
transport sector and in urban and interurban transport.
*   The services of tour guide constitute one third of t[le employment in tourism related activities.
*   About one fourth of the activities revolved around recreational diving.
*   Non-traditional services like bicycle rental and horse back riding are on the increase.
*   Participation of service enterptises, in the provision of repairs and maintenance, food and materials to
hotels and restaurants is not significant. Hotels and restaurants in the region appear to be provided by
services that are not local.
*   There are hardly any community social centers or discoteques in the region. This suggests that there is
either a significant, unexploited potential for development of nightlife/discos, eveniing entertainment, or
that the tourism that is prevalent in the region has other interests.
*   Tour guides divide their activities along two principle routes: city tours and visits to archaeological
sites and museums. Nevertheless, these is not one single archaeological site in the region that is
adequately prepared for such visits, so that the potential for significant degradation of the sites exists.
There are three museums in the region, in: (i) San Iledro Sula, (ii) Omoa, and (iii) Roatan, which are
sought out by visitors.
*   Ecological or adventures tours (e.g., bird watching, rafting, underwater viewing) together absorb one
fourth of tour guide activities.
i   In summary, tour guide activities reflect tlhree vety traditional avenues of development in this
subsector: (i) the city as a businiess center, (i) archaeological sites and museums as foci for cultural
tourism revolving around thie built enviroonmnent or patrimony, and (iii) activities related to nature and
adventure tourism.
i   It is important to note the attractioni of the built environiment for culture-based tourism, whose potential
is thought to be higher at present than even that of nature-based tourism.
*   Notable for its complete absence, is the demand for cultural tour guide services focusing on living
cultural resources (e.g., altistic presentationis, cuisines, traditional musical instruments, etc.) in the
region.
Tfhe nonn for production of arts and crafts in the region is the combined use of two or more distinct
raw materials.
*   The most common raw materials are wood and bamboo, palm, coral, tortoise shell, followed by conch
and smaller snail shells. Clay based arts and crafts (pottery) are much less important, as are those
made from fiber or rattan.
*   It is important to note that a significant portion of the arts and crafts (26.83%) involve processing of
raw materials which have a negative impact on marine life (e.g, coral and tortoise shell). In The latter
case, this has a direct impact on1 an endangered species, the loggerhead marine tuLtle.
- 85 -



Additional
Annex 13
Sustainable Coastal Tourism Project
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan (IPDP)
Total US$ 1.163 million
(with US$2.5 million in complementary activities)
Introduction and Background
Linguistic Profile of the Honduran North Coast
1.    The Central-American geographic region, in anthropological and linguistic tetms, is recognized as
the point of convergence between the Mesoamerican and the Intermediate cultural regions. It is precisely in
Honduran territory where the division between the indigenous people formerly belonging to the
Mesoamerican cultures and the Lower Central American cultures occurred.  Geographically, the
Mesoamerican descendants are settled in the nortlhwest of Honduras while the cultures fonnerly belonging to
the Lower Central-America, where the Chibchas traditions dominated, are located in the eastern region
(Hasemann 1991 contains vast infonnation on dichotomy of the region).
2.    The proposed division that separates the above mentionied cultural areas is located along the so-called
Honduran Depression, following the course of the Ullua and Comayagua iivers and extends beyond the Gulf
of Fonseca to the coastal plains of Nicaragua and ending in the Nicoya peninsula of Costa Rica. The eastern
region of Nicaragua and Honduras is extensively dominated by lower mountains that gradually and abruptly
give way to the Atlantic coast. The prevailinig ethniic languages on1 the Northern Coast of Honduras are
Misidto and Pech. The Miskito language is mainly spoken in the Gracias a Dios department and Garifuna
(which includes the cities of Colon, Atlantida, Cortes and Bay Islands). In addition, some areas of the
Gracias a Dios department and Colon also speak the Pech. Both of the languages, to some extent, are
considered written languages. Undoubtedly, Pech is the most endangered language in the Northern Region
which is the result of the division of the original territoiy into isolated settlements separated by relatively
large distances.
3.    The traditional region kInown as the Garifunas extends along the Northern  Coast over the
departments of Colon, Atlantida, Cortes, the Bay Islands and in a small part of Gracias a Dios. The ethnic
population is however concentrated in Colon and Atlantida, with smaller communities in three otlher
departments, as well as in the two main urban centers of the country, Tegucigalpa and San Pedro Sula. The
departments of Atlantida and Cottes are well-developed centers with growing urbanization. The Bay Islands
counts with some of the best socio-economic indicators and a strong  tourist industry. However, this
progress can be deceiving since most of the Garifuna and afro-descendent communities are not benefiting
from this development and are still living in poverty.
Demography
4.    The Project Area, which extends from Omoa in the westerni-most part of tle North Coast to the
community of Iriona in the east, on the border with Gracias a Dios, includes the three Departments of
Cortes, Atlantida and Colon. Attempts to quantify the indigenous and etlhic population of Honduras have
been only partially successful. The national census of 1988 significantly undercounted the indigenous
population of Honduras. Statisticians currently agree, lhowever, that the Miskito and Garifuna populations
- 86 -



constitute the majority of ethniic peoples.
5.    Within the LIL Project area, the main ethlnic/inidigenious group is the Garifuna, with a population
estimated at around 100,000 members. In Gracias a Dios, just to the east of the Project area, the Miskito
population is estimated at around 30,000-35,000. The Bay Islanids Creole population is estimated at 25,000
inhabitants. Both the Garifunas and the Miskitos have expanided their settletments to urban centers outside
of their traditional tenitory. Also, botl have moved across national borders, the Garifunas towards
Guatemala and Belize and the Miskitos to Nicaragua. There is no precise data on the numbers who have
migrated to the U.S. More than a decade ago, it was estimated that there were between 75,000 to 100,000
diaspora Garifunas (from Honiduras, Belize and Guatemala) in the U.S.A. (Gonzalez, 1988: pages 177 and
180). It is clear, however, that the indigenous population of Honduras is a minority compared to the
country's ladino/mestizo population on the North Coast,  estimated at  nearly 1.5 million (Social
Assessment, Aned Consultores, 2000).
Land Tenure Situiation on the Northern, Atlantic Coast
6.    The tenure situation along the Northern, Atlantic Coast is very dynamic. Land regularization in
general is moving forward, however not fast enough to keep pace with demographic movements and demand
by indigenous groups for formal title to lands in areas increasingly subject to encroachmenit by third parties
and with overlapping claims to public lands. Indigenous communities, their organizations and federations,
are extremely concenied that counter claims are being made on their traditional territories, especially in
relation to expansion by urban municipalities on the coast, and the encouragement of individual members of
a community to sell lainds which they occupy but whiclh are traditionally ownled by the community, for
development. Because of the uncertain state of land owniership in areas of high tourism potential on the
North Coast, and the need to address these particularly in the case of indigenous communities whose titles
and land claims are, in many cases still pending, it is essential that the tourism Project include support for
the resolution of land tenure issues, includinig communal titling of lands and allocation of land/resource use
rights.
7.    There are a number of protected areas alonig the Northenl Coast which overlap with the Garifuna
communities and other traditional indigenous territories. Some 28 Garifuna communities distributed along
the Atlantic coast between Cortes, Gracias a Dios, (hle Bay Islands and Cayos Cochinos, overlap with
protected areas in the Protected Areas (SINAPH) system of Honduras. There are 9 communities whose
claims are still pending with INA, due to issues of overlap with the protected areas system. The current
draft of the niew Forestry Law (which includes provisions related to protected areas and wildlife) introduces
the concept of the "Catalogue of Forest Patrimnoniy". This concept prohibits the registration and titling of
national forest lands with forest-quality soils to third parties, including indigenous communities, unless the
lands are utilized for agricultural purposes. T'herefore, it is extremely important to resolve indigenous land
claims in the affected areas prior to registerinig thiem as protected areas or national forests under the
Forestry Catalogue.
8.    The current government in IHlonduras has had an active program to recognize indigenous (including
Garifuna) communal lanid rights as enshrined in the Constitution, the Law on Agricultural Modernization
and Development, the Agrarian Reformn Law and, most recently, in the context of the ILO Convention 169
on Indigenous Rights. In addition to the Garifuna land titling initiative witlh INA, the GOH is implementing
a land administration modernization program within the framework of the Rural Land Management Project
(PAAR). Since 1997, this program has been installing and establishing a property registry system based on
a folio real (physical and legal information database). The govern-ment has also been placing national forest
areas under management through a participatory process of land-use planning, complemented by a program
- 87 -



of technical assistance to upland producers in the forest areas. A related Project to strengthen the SINAPH
under the supervision of COHDEFOR (the GEF-financed Biodiversity in Priority Areas Project or
PROBAP), is establishing the protected areas system in the Mosquitia with the support of local stakeholders
organized in Regional and Local Protected Area Councils (CORAP y COLAP).
9.    PAAR is supporting INA's titling of 11 Tolupatn communities in the Department of Yoro, just South
of the Project area, as part of the natural resource management component. CulTently, the use of a
multi-institutional and participatory methodology has shown positive results. This experience provides a
basis for analyzing and adjudicating indigenous communal lands in other parts of the country, such as the
North Coast, where land administratiol will have to proceed more quickly to keep pace with demographic
trends and indigenous rights issues, particularly in the context of tourism development. Because of the
importance of indigenous land issues to the success of PROBAP in establishing a viable system of Protected
Areas, COHDEFOR has agreed to collaborate with the IHT in the implementation of the Sustainable
Tourism Project, to provide TA and financing to address the issue of indigenous land rights in the Project
area.
10.  In order to prepare an Indigenous People's Development Plan directed at the needs of indigenous and
Garifuna people, and to ensure overall compatibility with other ongoing/fortlhcominig Bank operations, the
Sustainable Coastal Tourism Project (SCTP) carried out extensive social and legal analyses during Project
preparation.  Field work and secondary data analysis as well as consultations with civil society and
indigenous organizations were part of these operations. Indigenous and Garifuna leaders from three etlnic
groups were consulted, as well as relevant public institutionis (Secretaria de Gobernaci6n y Justicia,
Secretaria de Salud, Secretaria de Turismo, Secreta via de Agricutltura y Ganaderia, Secretaria de
Recursos Naturales, among others. The participation of civil society and key stakeholders was ensured
through the involvement of local leaders and NGOs to conduct workshops, lead discussions and focus
group sessions. The IPDP is consistent with the results of these consultations and with the World Bank's
policy on Indigenous Peoples, as mandated in Operational Directive 4.20. In addition to the Plan, detailed
background studies, including tle Social Assessment, are available in the Project Files.
11.   The Social Assessment and related consultations revealed an emerging interest among Garifuna
communities, as well as Miskito, in developing tourism  enterprises.  OFRANEH, a federation that
represents the largest number of Garifuna communities along the Coast, has developed a proposal to develop
a system of nature/culture trails that would be complemented with lodging facilities, restaurants, tour guides,
music, dance, arts and crafts, and otler cultural/recreational activities. In addition, individual communities
are developing smaller proposals that would be eligible for support under the SCTP.   Given the
comparative advantage that tle rich cultural beritage of the Garifuna bestows on Honduras to develop a
unique tourism niche, these proposals have the potential to both ensure employment increase and income
redistribution in the region and a value-added for thie development of more traditional enterprises. Support
for these activities and the necessaiy business skills development to ensure access of local communities to
opportunities in the tourism sector form part of the Indigenous People's Development Plan
HI V/AIDS
12.   Honduras canies a disproportionate burden of the HIlV/AIDS epidemic in Latin America, with
almost 60% of all cases in the Central American region reported among Hondurans. Model projections
based on official data estimate that at least 40,000 people are infected with HIV in Honduras. UNAIDS
precis on HIV/AIDS situation in Honduras, June 2001 Until recently, the epidemic has been concentrated in
the Sula valley and the central development corridor. I lowever, there are indications that rates are also
increasing in other urban centers on the North Coast (Puerto Cortes, Tela and La Ceiba) as well as more
- 88 -



rural areas. ibid According to the social assessment, the general population sampled in the Project area,
including mestizo and island populations, identified the main respiratory infections and parasitic infections
as the main health problems, followed immediately by HIV/AIDS. Among both Garifuna men and women,
however, HIV/AIDS was considered to be the main healtlh problem, regardless of educational level. In fact,
Ministry of Health data indicate that the Garifuna have one of the highest rates of iinfection in the country,
due largely to migration pattems, sexual practices and low perceived risk. Some information is extremely
alarming. In the village of Corozal, close to La Ceiba, an estimated 25 % of the population was reported
affected with HIV (Sancbez 1995:20).
13.   The lead agency in the national response to HI V/AIDS in Hoonduras is the Ministry of Health. The
Honduran Department of STI/HIV/AIDS/TB is one of the largest in Latin America (currently 35 staff
members), with a long history of active involvement in epidemiological surveillance, research, and
prevention activities. Currently approximately 60% of the Department's annual budget is provided through
grants from USAID, witlh other bilateral and multilateral donors providing both financial and technical
assistance. ibid  These include Swedish SIDA, GTZ, the European Union, PAHO/WHO, UNFPA,
UNICEF, UNDP and UNAIDS. The Bank has not becn a player in this arena in Honduras, however a
number of initiatives are planned, including the provision of seed funds under the Sustainable Coastal
Tourism Project, to focus the public's attention on the AIDS problem in general, and to address at risk
populations, such as those on the North Coast. The Bank is an active member of a recently formed
Thematic Group on HIV/AIDS, convened by the Ministry of Health, and is working closely with UNAIDS
to help mobilize support from the donor community through an AIDS Trust Fund. The Fund will help
coordinate assistance to at-tisk communities, such as the Garifuna, through HIV/AIDS awareness
campaigns, social marketing of condoms and otlher prophylaxis, counseling to AIDS victims and their
families, and ultimately, treatment. In light of the growinig AIDS epidemic in Honduras, the Bank is now
actively exploring the development of a separate LIL dedicated to AIDS prevention and treatment in
Honduras, in coordination with UNAIDS and the MinistLy of Hlealth.
Principal Components and Areas of Action.
14.   The goal of this IPDP is to ensure benefits to indigenous communities within the Project area, and to
mitigate any potential negative impacts which may result from the future growth of tourism, by addressing
issues of equity and sustainability of tourism benefits and their associated costs. The activities outlined in
this IPDP are consistent with three main principles of development: (i) land/livelihood security; (ii)
sustainability; and (iii) equity and development in a healtlhy environment. These principles are supported by
activities in four main categories:
(i)  Recognition and protection of indigenous land rights
(ii) Participation and strengthening of indigenous communities through capacity building activities;
(iii) Promotion of sustainable tourism activities through small matching grants; and
(iv) HIV/AIDS Awareness and Prevention Campaign in the Project area.
15.   Given the proposed areas of intervention and tle cross-cutting issues involving indigenous issues, it
is expected that this IPDP would be implemented th1rough more than one operation. Therefore the activities
described below would be supported not onily by the SCTP but through a series of related Bank-financed
Projects (e.g., PROBAP, PAAR I and the proposed PAAR ll), and complementary activities by the
Government of Honduras. The objectives under each component of the IPDP are stated; these are followed
by a description of the activities to be carried out, and the costs associated. A table summarizing thie
activities, the agencies responsible, monitorable indicators and time frame for carrying out these activities
are included in the IPDP matrix at the end of this narrative.
- 89 -



Components of the IPDP
1. Land Tenure Security (US$ 2.72 million)
The specific objectives of this component are to support land tenure security through the recognition and
protection of commnunities and ethnic groups lands.
16.   The following activities will support this objective: (i) Land Titling Diagnostic Study ($500,000) on
the North Coast, to be financed by PROBAP and GOH  (the GEF Biodiversity in Protected Areas Project
implemented by AFE/COHDEFOR); (ii) support to the newly established Intersectoral Committee on
Indigenous Land Rights to, facilitate conflict resolution involving land tenure and land security, and to
integrate this experience into the development of a Sustainable Coastal Tourism Strategy for the Northern
Coast ($124,000 from the SCTP), (iii) regularization and titling of Indigenous communities in the SCT
Project area (support to title 9 Garifuna communities whose claims are presently before the Instituto
Nacional Agraria will be financed by the SCTP ($103,000). All of these activities will be based on the
rights recognized under ILO Convention 169, ratified by the Honduran Congress in 1995, the Honduran
constitution, and on claims made by indigenous and Garifluna communities based on ancestral lands and use
rights. Through the Land Titling Diagnostic and the follow-up action to title outstanding communal land
claims by Garifuna communities in the Project area, significant, but not all, issues of land security may be
addressed in parallel with the development of tourism opportunities  for communities and small scale
entrepreneurs. A consensused plan of action among key stakeholders with respect to the most contentious
issues will be identified and advanced by the Comite Intersectorial. In addition, best practice in the
preparation and documentation of titles through participatoly mapping and demarcation of lands by the
communities/stakeholders involved, and precedents in the resolution of disputes in areas where adjudication
is required to resolve conflicting claims to lands will be documented through case studies involving a
representative sample of land tenure situations on the North Coast. (iv) Under the proposed PAAR 11
Project, $2 million would be allocated for the regulaiization and titling of land claims throughout the
Depaltment of Colon, in the beati of thle Project Area. This will include claims by non-indigenous and
ladino/mestizo populations in the region.
I. Capacity Buildino and Small Scale Tourism Enterprise Development (US$ 0.836 million)
The specific objectives of this component are to build capacity fbr participatory planning and community-
based sustainahle tourism enterprise development through training in social, administrative, technical,
andfinancial aspects.
17.   Tlle following actions are included: (i) technical training in eco-tourism feasibility and business plan
development, marketing and destinationl managemenit, natural and cultural coastal resources management,
and certification of sustainability of tour operationis to preserve cultural and enviromnental values in the
region; (ii) matching-grants to foster innovationi and entrepreneurshfip among indigenous and etlhic
communities in the development of sustainiable tourism enterprise, based on natural and cultural resources
management in the region.
Ill. HlV/AlDS Awareness and Prevention (US$ 76,000 and additional in-kind support)
The objective of this component is to focus attention on t.he growing threat of HI V/AIDS among Garifuna
communities in the Project area and to mobilize support/Jbr awareness, prevention and treatment among
- 90 -



at-risk populations.
18.  The following actions are included: (i) Suppoit to NGOs and local governance institutions working to
promote HIV/AIDS awareness and prevention campaigns among at risk populations ($76,000 under the
LIL); (ii) research on1 the epidemiology of HIV/AIDS among at risk indigenous communities on the Nortl
Coast involving studies of migration patterns and sexual behavior, in a format consistent witlh local cultural
parameters and modes, and desigined jointly with the Ministhy of Health, etlnic organizations, NGOs and
municipalities in target locations (with in-kind support from  key stakeholders); (iii) mobilization and
coordination of investment funds for HIV/AIDS awareness, prevention, counseling and treatment in target
populations, including those at risk communities on the Northl Coast. Among the potential sources of
financing are a commitment from USAID (up to $1,000,000 over three years targeted at Garifuna and other
high risk populations), UNAIDS, UNDP and Bank-finanicing under a LIL. Development of this national
program will require coordination between the Ministry of Health, the Donors Tliematic Group on
HIV/AIDS, the National AIDS Commission and relevant national and local organizations.
- 91 -



INDIGENOUS PEOPLES' DEVELOPMENT PLAN
HONDURAS SUSTAINABLE COASTAL TOURISM PROJECT
COMPONENT ACTIVITY                       INSTITUTION  COST   COMPLETION  INDICATORS
(PROJECT)                      DATE
1. Land Tenure   1.       Maintain      INA,                 None        ongoing             Regular meetings
Security          lntersectoral         COI lDEFOR,                                          of Cl
Conmmittee            Ministry of
(Cl) to promote and gain Interior, Public
consensus on a strategic Prosecutor,
policy framework and   Ministry of
action plan for land   Justice, SERNA,
security,              IHT, OFRANEH,
titling and adjudication  ODECO,
of indigenous lands,    Municipalities)
including communal
holdings in the
Project area.
2. Passing of an      INA                  None          August 2001       Executive  Decree
executive decree                                                           published
formalizing Cl, its
constituency, mandate
and govemance
arrangements
3. Carrying out a land    COI-IDEFOR       $500K         August 2001 -     Contract let and
tenure diagnostic and    (PROBAP)                        September 2002    funds disbursed
preparation of titles  INA
across a representative
sample of indigenous
land holdings (Garifuna
and Miskito) on the
North Coast
4. Present final       INA                 None          September 2002    Report submitted;
diagnostic report to Cl                                                    minutes of Comnite
and IDA                                                                    Intersectorial
5. Develop a           INA/Cl               $124 K     Throughout LT       Strategy available
participatomy strategy  (SCT LIL)                       diagnostic and
for resolving conflicts                                Year I of LIL
and securing land                                       implementation
tenure in indigenous
comimunities in the
Project area;
incorporate into
Sustainable Tourism
Strategy for Nolth
Coast
6. Title 9 Garifuna    INA (SCT LIL)       $104 K      By end of SCT       Titles prepared for
coBmnunities in Project   COHDEFOR                     LIL                 issuance
Area
- 92 -



7. Carry out a legal  INA (PAAR 1)       $1 million  By end of 2003     Cadastres
cadastre and establish a  Municipalities,                               available in
folio real for Colon  Communuities                                      municipal records;
titles documented
in Land Registry
8. Adjudicate and title   INA ( PAAR 2)  $1 million   By end of 2004    Cadastres
indigenous holdings in                                                  available in
Atlantida either                                                        municipal record;
individually or                                                         titles documented
comumunally, as agreed                                                  in Land Registry
by the indigenous
comnuruities
concemed; expanding
existing commnunal
titles if this is
warranted
11. Capacity     1. Design and deliver  lIlT (SCT LIL)     $76.8 K    Throughout LIL    25 % of clients
Building for     micro and small                                                         trained are from
cultural and     business enterprise                                                     indigenous
natural resources training in select                                                     communities in
management and  tourism market                                                           Project area
Small Scale      segments focusing on
Tourism          opportunities in culture
Enterprise       and coastal resource
Development      based tourism on the
North Coast
2. Creation of        lilT (SCT LIL)     $198.4 K    Years 2 and 3 of   Proposals prepared
Indigenous Peoples                                   LIL                for financing
Small Business                                                          and/or submission
Program, and provision                                                  to Innovation
of TA for Eco-tourismn                                                  Matching Grants
development and                                                         Subproject
business plan
preparation; assistance
in securing funding and
business incubation
3. Inlovation        lIlT (LIL)          $561 K      Years 2 and 3 of   At least 30 concept
Matching Grants                                     LIL                development
facility established in a                                              grants and 7
3:1 Match for eligible                                                 Innovation
indigenous                                                             Matching Grants
commiiunities, NGOs                                                    awarded
and small scale
entrepreneurs
- 93 -



111. 11W/AIDS    1. Maintain           Min. of 11ealth    None        ongoing            Regular reports of
Awareness,       institutional         Themnatic Group                                   meetings
Prevention,      arrangements for      on HIV/AIDS
Treatment        donor coordination in
support of national
HIV/AIDS strategy
implementation
2. Mobilization of NGO   lIlT             $76.8 K    January 2002       Awareness/prevent
and other local support   Min. of Healtlh,                              ion campaigns
for campaigns in      AMI-ON, NGOs                                      carried out in at
HIV/Al DS awareness,   (SCT LIL)                                        least 5 Garifuna
social marketing and                                                    communities
prevention in targeted
Garifuna communities
3. AlDS policy        lIlT                $23.6 K     Year 1 of LIL     National Tourism
dialogue in            Min. of Health,                                  Strategy for North
developmenit of       AMHON, NGOs                                       Coast includes
Sustainable Coastal   (SCT LIL)                                         HIV/AIDS
Tourism Strategy and                                                    awareness and
Action Plan                                                             prevention;
municipalities
incorporate HIV
prevention
campaigns in
social services
4. Interventions under   Min. of Health  (potential    ongoing          Publislhed reports
the National AIDS     (with              funding of
Strategy (2001-2005)    miulti-stakeholde  $ million
targeting high risk    r support from     _
populations, including    donors, e.g.,   $
on the North Coast, in    USAID, World    5million)
HIV/AIDS awareness,   Banlk, UNAIDS,
prevention, counseling   IDB, etc.),
and treatment         private sector,
NGOs and other
govermment
agencies
Total SCTP                                                $1.16 m
Total  Associated                                         $2.50 ni
Projects
TOTAL                                                     $3.66 m
- 94 -



MAP SECTION






IBRD 311 10
HONDURAS                                                                  r'
SUSTAINABLE COASTAL TOURISM PROJECT
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE UNITS IN MUNICIPALITIES'                           MAIN ROADS                                     ETHNICITY:                                                      (GUATEMALA
Li-nan                                                                      .  SECONDARY ROADS                                         GARIFUNAS pop 175,000)                                .               HONDURS
r    SECONDARY SUPPORT TO MUNICIPALITIES                               +      RAILROADS                                          *    PECH / PAYAS (pop. 2,700)                                          t -                                  S: 
TRAININGAND MATCHING GRANTS'                                         AIRFILDS                                     Nwe: F.GCi-ns nd Pnhl%yoso y   InWp-nts  --ity.                                           N
SELECTED COASTAL AND MARINE PROTECTED AREAS,                    -       RIVERS  CITIE                                                                                                                            .
DESIGNATED AND PROPOSEDSECTDIIS
,,<   CORAL REEPS                                                 e    DEPARTMENT CAPITALS                                                                                                PACIANIC                    COTA
    NATIONAL CAPITAL (inset)                                                                                            OCEAN                          ,_
:*ccrdvrr'    suF                                            rI c  -ro /19 rI/JaI.be! s.g/anssDEPARTMENT BOUNDARIES                                                                                              5T\
-   -   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
Jose Santos)             86S (  Suanj
j                                                                                                         U~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~WG~~~~~~~~~~~uardicIa,
f   '-<~~~~~~~~~~~~, $,/ jX 0 ; ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~otn -  _os  t et Son...j. toseSGurdioo
iS-anto i   *   S -  t   i?  L   ffi aSata  os
!' j                                                                                                 ,             -         i        p   Bulb      =                  tfoto. &           Po,,o _LAIN                        de Aguan,
CdribbeG1r Sea   h   W0   st5mpv   _  *                                                         tri
w~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ e '  _=RO w.py- W
or                                                 J                                                      San        R~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~bot
u                                                                                             ..,,Itlp.                                  Cootilo &  )  _     .i
Cor2 4                      K                            9into~s ,  A ANTIDA                          "'                                               T guc js
Sj                                                                                                                                                           25           5      ;     iF0 75   50    KjIfEfbo,eO,'  O.g,,  ,
/ ccz  a -5                a f,i  y,;atj BB                                            /~~"                                                                                                                         86    MwE!NCAhAGUA
T so regucigolpa99 -    {     fucigfiiaN,                88 A   0KgUCigLXlpeSb                                                                                                                                                                     LO S   F  JUNE 200



