Project for Coastal Sustainable Tourism     HIT/World Bank
HONDURAN INSTITUTE OF TOURISM
E449
HONDURAS
SUSTAINABLE COASTAL TOURISM
PROJ ECT
PROJECT ENVIRONMENTAL
ASSESSMENT
English DRAFT
September 2000    FILE COPY
Environmental Assessment of the Project  1  August 2000



Protect for Coastal Sustainable Tourism                                                                    HIT/World Bank
Table of Contents
4.1.1. Objetivos del Programa de Manejo Ambiental .............................................                          26
4.1.3. Resultados Esperados .............................................                                                27
4.2. Descripcion del Plan de Manejo Ambiental ....--...........                                     ....... --- .....    27
4.2.1 Requerimientos de Asistencia T&cnica ............................................. 27
4.2.2. Requerimientos de Inversiones y Gesti6n de Recursos .............................................                28
4.3. Monitoreo y Control del Plan de Manejo Ambiental ..............................................1
4.4. Instrumentos a utilizar ..............................................1
Anexo 2 .............................................                                                                  3, 4
TABLES
Table 1.  Project's Components Description.
Table 2.  Main Socioeconomic Indicators of the Project's Area of Influence.
Table 3.  Growth of the Bay Island's Participation in the Diving Market.
Table 4.  High Quality Beaches in the Bay Islands.
Table 5.  Main Problems faced by the Coral Reefs.
Table 6.  Problems of Mangrove Swamps.
Table 7.  Problems faced by the Beaches.
Table 8.  Problems faced by Lagoons and Estuaries.
Table 9.  Potential Socio-environmental Implications of Component 1: National Strategy and Institutional
Strengthening for Development of Sustainable Coastal Tourism.
Table 10. Potential Socio-environmental Implications of Component 2: Institutional Strengthening and
Technical Assistance for Municipalities.
Table 11. Potential Socio-environmental Implications of Component 3: Pilot Program for Entrepreneurial
Development of Sustainable Coastal Tourism.
Table 12. Proposed Environmental Management Plan for the Project.
FIGURES
Figure 1. Area of the Project.
Figure 2. Honduran Institute of Tourism's Organizational Table
Environmental Assessment of the Project                      2                                              August 2000



Project for Coastal Sustainable Tourism                                  HITANorld Bank
1. Executive Summary
The scenic value of the coastal resources in the Atlantic zone of Honduras has turned this
region into an important tourism destination for foreigners as well as for locals. Its littoral region
amounts to a 670 kilometer coast dominated by tropical rainforest vegetation ending in a line of
fine sandy beaches. Additionally, this region portrays interesting archaeological sites and it is
inhabited by different ethnic groups.
Such variety of attactions in this and other regions of the country have turned tourism into one of
the most important economic items of the country. However, efforts to maintain the growing
rythm of this sector have been curtailed by the impact and aftermath of Hurricane Mitch.
Damage to basic infrastructure is -among others- one of the limitations that the country faces in
order to strive for greater development.
In an effort to recover and if possible to surpass gains attained before Hurricane Mitch, the
Govemment of Honduras seeks to consolidate a Sustainable Coastal Development Strategy in
the Atlantic area of the country. In this context, the Government of Honduras has begun a
negotiation process with the World Bank for financing the strategy. The project in mind seeks to
integrate a process for the development of sustainable tourism in the Honduran northem coast -
aiming for institutional strengthening of governmental entities, at central and local levels, as well
as for private development agencies and small investors of the sector.
The environmental analysis of the Project for Coastal Sustainable Tourism -based on the socio-
economical and biophysical diagnosis for the area of influence and in the proposed objectives
and activities for the Project- determines that the potential negative environmental impacts to be
generated with its operation shall be foreseeable and mitigated.
In most cases the impacts shall be positive since the project's objective is to contribute to
planning for the usage of municipal resources that have tourist potential -bearing in mind a
strong institutional base. However -for purposes of guaranteeing the permanence of these
positive aspects and facing the needs for evaluating the impacts of the proposed strategies for
the project- the actions to be incorporated in order to mitigate the expected negative impacts
emphasize the importance of having an efficient environmental management within the
municipality and within HIT. The environmental assessment undertaken highlights the need: (i)
to strengthen the institutional profile for HIT's Environmental Unit; (ii) to enforce the effective
legal environmental framework, specially in regards to environmental health, quality of waters,
quality of municipal effluents, and principles for restoration of historical sites; (iii) to incorporate
modules for environmental municipal management in the municipal training program, including
the effective legal environmental framework applicable to municipal management; and (iv) to
incorporate additional studies that identify unloading sites/municipal contamination (urban) and
specially related with the absorption capacity of Trujillo Bay and Tela Bay for tourist attraction;
additionally, the identification of existing tropical diseases in Trujillo Bay and its
impact/mitigation measures in regards to expected tourist. From the previous, given the type of
activities that they propose to be undertaken in the short-term and its effects in the long-term,
the Project has been ranked as B, according to ranking criteria for World Bank Projects.
In order to maximize the positive environmental impacts of the Project and to mitigate any
negative environmental impacts, an Environmental Management Program of the Project will be
implemented, the objective being: (i) To contribute to consolidate initial efforts by HIT in the
search for municipal tourist resource maximization; and (ii) Institutional strengthening of HIT's
Environmental Unit and Environment/Tourism Technical Units for the Municipalities of Omoa, La
Ceiba, Tela, Trujillo, Roatan and Utila providing them with adequate resources to reach an
adequate environmental management in the execution of tourist projects.  The proposed
Environmental Management Program  has four strategic elements:  (i) Restructuring and
Environmental Assessment of the Project   2                               August 2000



Proiect for Coastal Sustainable Tourism                                    HITNWorld Bank
Repositioning of HIT's Environmental Unit; (ii) Definition of Management Processes and
Instruments; (iii) Training, Coordination and Participation; and (iv) Investment and Resource
Management.
The Environmental Management Plan is viewed as a transversal element in regards to the
different components of the Project; thus, it is an integral part of each one of them. The
environmental variable is incorporated by means of two fundamental guidelines: Technical
Assistance and Investment for institutional strengthening.  The multisectoral nature of the
Program shall require the participation of all municipal branches and other local offices for its
successful execution; however, the proposed Environmental Management Program is a direct
responsibility of HIT's Environmental Unit and of the municipalities' environmental /tourism units
(UTA's).  As such it shall coordinate with all municipal branches and entities outside the
municipality.
The Project is congruent with the Bank's Operational Policies related to Environmental
Assessment, Social Assessment, Cultural Heritage, Involuntary Resettlement, and Rights of
Indigenous People.
1. Introduction
The scenic value of the coastal resources in the atlantic zone of Honduras has turned this
region into an important tourismt destination for foreigners as well as for locals. Its Atlantic
boarder region offers to more than 670 kilometer coast dominated by tropical rainforest
vegetation ending in a line of fine sandy beaches. Additionally, this region portrays interesting
archaeological sites and it is inhabited by different ethnic groups.
Such variety of attactions in this and other regions of the country have turned tourism into one of
the most important economic item of the country. However, efforts to maintain the growing
rythm in this sector have been hindered by the impact and aftermath of Hurricane Mitch.
Damage to basic infrastructure is -among others- one of the limitations that the country faces in
order to achieve a greater development
In an effort to recover and if possible to surpass the achievement attained before Mitch, the
Government of Honduras seeks to consolidate a Sustainable Coastal Development Strategy in
the Atlantic area of the country. In this context, the Government of Honduras has inniated a
negotiation process with the World Bank for financing the strategy. The project seeks to
integrate a process for the development of sustainable tourism in the Honduran northern coast,
aiming for institutional strengthening of governmental entities, at national and local level, as well
as the stregnhtening of private development organizations and small entrepreneurs of the
sector.
With the purpose of satisfying the terms of reference for the Environmental Assessment of the
Project, this document has the following sections: in Chapter 11, a description of the project, a
revision of the biological, physical and socioeconomic state; as well as a characterization of the
environmental issues for the area of influence of the project. In Chapter 111, the country's current
legal framework related to both the envrirmnetal and tourism aspect, such which regulates -in
broad way the use of the resources; in Chapter IV, an identification of the potential Negative and
Positive Impacts that could be generated in the short and medium-term; and in Chapter V,
proposes an Environmental Management Plan -featuring the strategies and prevention and/or
mitigation measures that should be taken into account- This Management Plan sets forth the
cost for implementation of the measures proposed.
I. Overall Aspects of the Project
Environmental Assessment of the Project   3                                August 2000



Project for Coastal Sustainable Tourism                                 HIT/World Bank
Title of the Project:            Coastal Sustainable Tourism Project
Project's Current Status:       Design
Estimated Amount:               US$ 6.2 million
Funding Source:                 World Bank (US$ 4.82 million)
Government of Honduras (US$ 0.63 million)
Beneficiaries (US$ 0.75 million
Executing Agency:               Honduran Institute of Tourism
Duration:                       Three years (01/01/01 to 31/12/03)
According to the Project Appraisal Document (PAD), the Project is part of the Country's
Assistance Strategy for the development of a sustainable tourism subsequently to Hurricane
Mitch's aftermath in the northern coast of Honduras, and as complement to the regional strategy
of the Global Environmental Fund (GEF) for the conservation and sustainable usage of
resources of the Mesoamerican Coral Reef System, the second biggest coral reef system of the
world. The Mesoamerican Coral Reef System encompasses marine and coastal ecosystems of
global importance. Its southern point borders the northern coast of Honduras -from Omoa's
Bay to the Bay of Trujillo stretching itself up to the archipelago integrated by the Bay Islands
(See Figure 1). This Coral Reef System finds itself in constant threat caused by the execution
of neither planned nor regulated activities in the coastal areas and in watersheds that flow
towards the Caribbean Sea.
Differing from current credit operations between the Govemment of Honduras and the World
Bank, the Project has been designed as a Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL) Credit. Such
credit shall foster the private Honduran sector so that it will collaborate with local governments,
Non Governmental Organizations (NGO's), line ministries and others involved in the
development of sustainable approaches for tourist development and management.  Such
teaching and learning approach of the Project shall facilitate public-private liaisons aimed at
strengthening the sustainable development and management for costal tourist destinations
which will simultaneously benefit local communities within the area covered by the Project.
2.1. Project Description
2.1. 1 Project Objectives
Overall
To develop more efficient management mechanisms for sustainable coastal
tourism along the Nortern Coast of Honduras -in the mainland as well as Bay
Islands - in order to improve socioeconomic conditions for the coastal population,
in particular and overall for the different interest groups, public as well as private.
To integrate the values of sustainable development into a tourist development
strategy for the northern area of Honduras, that is environmentally and
economically feasible and that generates benefits for an extensive spectrum of
beneficiaries.
Specific
*     To introduce the use of better practices regarding Sustainable Coastal Tourism.
*     To strengthen the capacities of local municipalities and NGO's in order to manage
and benefit from Sustainable Coastal Tourism.
Environmental Assessment of the Project  4                               August 2000



Project for Coastal Sustainable Tourism                                        HIT/World Bank
To strengthen the participation of the private sector and to foster a greater
participation of the civil society.
2.1.2 Project's activities Description
The project encompasses three operational components and one implementation component
aimed at undertaking monitoring and evaluation activities. By means of joint efforts from the
public and private sector, it is intended that the project strengthens the institutional capacity for
the different groups of interest but most of all it should allow to achieve a greater benefit for the
local communities. Also, the project seeks to be used as a role model for development in other
coastal communities. The following Table 1 summarizes the Project's components.
Environmental Assessment of the Project      5                                  August 2000



Project frCatlSsanbeTuimHITNvorld Bank
A, ~ ~          ~           ~           ~          ~           . N
n   . . .zS0g, .-'.  .'.  "    gg   8    f.'         .     .3;   15          .f    5     S.          t     'S' '  Z L,A ,I,A 
::-.E -f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i il...j.  '  -...:i.;.X. '.,--.-:-. 5: .-
.' :' > . '' " 4X ~~~IA-i: ...................*>"v'  F*5--Cc -
1 .. -  .s..  <.aV9.    .. ;  
,..i W  t,',..  X  l,,,,,,,,,  ,.........
- ~~ii k'  ;  *ES^s^* .................-,  .*<i5*i'..i.U
<~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,~O-~:
Figre  .  reaof hePro Mc
Envirnmenal Asessm     nt ftePoet                                                                                                                                                               uut20



Proyecto de Turismo Costero Sostenible                                        IHT/Banco Mundial
Table 1. Project's Component's Description
Component                 Reach
Component 1:              This component aims to develop planning of the strategy for tourist
National Strategy and     development in the selected coastal areas. It shall be implemented tnrough
Institutional Strengthening  three subcom ponents:
for the Development of
Sustainable Coastal       (i)   Toformulation and usage a participatory meeting in order to promote a
Tourism)                       dialogue policy between the public and private keyplayers at a national,
regional and local level
(ii)  To develop and implement a national tourism strategy for the Northern
Coast. It includes the elaboration of a short, medium and long-term
action plans
(iii)  To provide technical assistance in order to facilitate the action planned;
to facilitate policy reforms and improvement of institutional agreements
Component 2:              (i)  Creation of the Technical Assistance Unit to provide resources for the
Institutional Strengthening    Development of Municipal Tourism and Environmental Management .
and Technical Assistance       This activiity shall be promoted in the five priority municipalities already
to Municipalities              identified (Trujillo, La Ceiba, Tela, Roatan and Utila); these units shall
be referred to as Environmental Tourist Units (UTA's)
(ii)  Training in Municipalities in areas identified as priorities. Municipalities
shall be assisted in different areas in order for these to reach an
adequate environmental management, municipal tourism planning,
income recovery, tourism security, marketing strategies, etc.
(iii)  Restoration of the downtown Historical Patrimony Heritage in the City of
Trujillo . HIT as well as the Municipality of Trujillo shall be supported in
order to develop a restoration stratefy for the historical patrimony of this
municipality considered to be the last natural remaining site of the
northern coast. Currently HIT has a Tourist Development proposal for
Trujillo's Bay area that has been elaborated with support from the
Spanish Government. Support from the Honduran Social Investment
Fund and technical support from the Honduran Institute of Anthropology
and History shall be provided.
Component 3: Pilot       (i)  To stimulate the productive capacity and to create the business
Program for                    opportunity for micro and small enterprise A business centre shall be
Entrepreneurial                established in the project's area of influence attaining as far as possible
Development of                 the service of the educational centres (schools and  universities
Sustainable Coastal            regarding training of services required). This centre shall support the
Tourism                        training for small entrepreneurs who wish to develop businesses in
areas such as water sports, hotel management, ecotourism and others.
(ii)  Design and Selection of Pilot Ecotourism Projects in Local Communities
Associated with NGO's This subcomponent shall be developed in two
stages. In the first, applications shall be received and in the second
stage a selection of 20-30 project ideas will be made.
(iii)  Design and Validation of Ecoturism  Pilot Projects in Indigenous
Communities involving small entrepreneurs in association with NGO's
and/or Government . This subcomponent shall be designed according
to the needs that are to be indicated by the indigenous communities.
Evaluaci6n Ambiental del Proyecto              7                                Agosto del 2000



Provecto de Turismo Costero Sostenible                                  IHT/Banco Mundial
Component 4: Project    This component deals with setting up the Project's Executing Unit which
Management              shall be set up in the Honduran Institute of Tourism (HIT) and it shall have the
following functions:
.   To work jointly with HIT in structuring the starting of operations for the
project.
.   The financial execution and management of the project (administrative
and accounting matters, reports, etc.)
.   To introduce the best international practice in obtaining systems
Source: Project Implementation Plan (PIP, World Bank).
2.2. Socioeconomical Context of the Project's Area of InfluenceError! Bookmark not
defined.
The indirect area of influence of the Project encompasses all the mainland coastal area and
insular in the northern region of Honduras. The Project's direct area of influence are the five
insular Municipalities that lie in the northern region of Honduras.  It has greater tourist
attractions; thus, it offers greater opportunities in order to serve as Pilot Municipalities for the
validation of the Sustainable Tourist Development Strategy in Coastal Zones.   These
municipalities are Utila and Roatan in the Department of the Bay Islands; La Ceiba and Tela in
Atlantida's Department; and Trujillo in Colon's Department.
The total estimated population for the five municipalities, during the year 2000 is 266,440
inhabitants (92,816 inhabitants in Tela; 117,318 inhabitants in La Ceiba; 39,178 inhabitantes in
Trujillo; 2,166 inhabitants in Utila; and 14,962 inhabitants in Roatan) with an average growth
rate of approximately 3.5% during the 1974-1988 period (SECPLAN - FNUAP. Honduras,
Population Forecasts, 1996). The following Table identifies the main socioeconomic indicators
for the Project's area of influence.
Table 2. Main Socioeconomic Indicators for the Project's Area of Influence
Indicators       La Ceiba        Tela       Trujillo   Roatan       Utila     Omoa
H.D Index             0.740         0.617       0.606      0.782       0.828
Life   Expectancy     70.20         69.00      68.780      70.20       70.40
Rate, 1997 (Years)
Malnutrition Rate,    26.76         34.04       31.83      11.52        2.44
1997
Health                 0.81          0.73       0.76        0.98        1.08
Achievement,
1996
Literacy    Rate,     91.00         75.25       71.70      91.25       95.00
1996
Years         of       6.00          3.45       2.95        4.95        4.75
Schooling, 1996
Educational            0.74          0.58       0.54        0.72        0.74
Achievement  in
US$
GDP, real (PPA,      2,609.07      2,097.08    1,994.8    2,404.22    2,404.22
1996)
Poverty    Index      27.08         38.54       41.71       14.96      10.09
(FHIS)
(acceptable < 25)
(regular from 25 to
Evaluaci6n Ambiental del Proyecto          8                               Agosto del 2000



Provecto de Turismo Costero Sostenible                                 IHT/Banco Mundial
35)
(deficient from 35
to 45)
Source: Social Report No. 5 from the Sustainable Tourism Planning and Management Project in the
Northern Coast of Honduras.
As can be seen in Table 2, the selected municipalities have indicators that surpass the average
of the country's municipalities (except Tegucigalpa and San Pedro Sula).  In fact, the
municipalities of Utila and Roatan are considered to be less poor municipalities while Ceiba,
Tela and Trujillo are viewed as poor in comparison to the poverty indicators of the rest of the
municipalities throughout the country (Profile of Security Means of Life, CARE, 1999).
Historically, the region has had an important input in the development of the country grouping
productive activities first in the cattle and farming undertaken mainly by transnational
enterprises which export bananas, pineapples, african palm and others; and lately moving
forward -due to the growing capital accumulation- to the service activities.
Although it has always been an important point of attraction, labor throughout the country has
fallen in the last years as consequence of investments from the Central Government (highways,
airport, sea port). The trend of the regional economy is that of moving towards third type of
activities. It is expected that for the year 2012, the economically active population of the region
will be focused on the service and commerce industries. In spite of the vitality seen in the
regional economy, serious problems regarding underemployment and low income are still
accounted for.
Economic and population growth of the area have had effects in terms of greater pressure over
the land and urban equipment, basic infrastructure and communitary services of the respective
municipalities. Post Mitch data for current coverage of potable water and sewerage services in
the area is unknown; however, the national average indicated a potable water coverage prior
Mitch higher than 75% and a coverage in rural basic health (sanitary services ) higher than 70%
(Environmental Profile of Honduras 1997, SERNA, 2000). Lack of services in communities
reflecting themselves as consequences of urban violence has been one of the first 12 causes
for mortality in Honduras. Lack of water and health services has also been reflected in a rise
concerning diseases like malaria and dengue due to vector proliferation such as Plasmodium
falciparum, transmissor for malaria.
2.3. Biophysical Context of Area of Influence
2.3.1. Overall CharacteristicsError! Bookmark not defined.
Honduras displays 842 Km coastline, 680 kms in the northern coast and 162 in the southern coast,
in Gulf of Fonseca (Environmental Profile 1997). Additionally, there are islands and small rocky
islands in the Caribbean as well as in the Gulf of Fonseca where the coastline is not quantified.
The total area of the coastal strip is not defined; since it is not being legally defined, the specific
distance to consider in the land-sea inter-phase is the coastal strip. It is very important to define
this dimension in order to quantify the series of indicators or characteristics that shall serve for an
effective planning guiding towards a sustainable management of the resources available there. In
this coastal area, particularly the northern area of the country there are five main type of coastal
resources: coral reefs; mangroves; extensive beaches (including broad, white sandy beaches);
estuaries and coastal lagoons, and mainland continental shelf.
A.    Coral Reefs
Honduran coral reefs are associated mainly with the archipelago of islands found along the
Caribbean coast; these islands include the Bay Islands of Utila, Roatan and Guanaja, and
Evaluacion Ambiental del Proyecto         9                              Agosto del 2000



Provecto de Turismo Costero Sostenible                                IHT/Banco Mundial
Cayos Cochinos, just off the coast of La Ceiba. The environmental characteristics of this area
-such as shallow marine waters, oxygenated, clear, warm, free of sediments in suspension,
without sweet water currents and pollutants- constitute an ideal habitat for this type of
ecosystem.
Existence of this resource in the insular area is used mainly for tourism activity. Estimates about
the presence of divers or persons attracted by this resource show the tourism importance of this
resource (Table No. 3). The trend of these numbers indicates that tourst affluence into this sector
increases substantially each year. This is confirmed by the infrastructure developed in 11 hotels
displaying 735 rooms in 1997 according to information provided by the Honduran Institute of
Tourism (HIT).
Table 3. Growth of the Bay Island's Participation in the Diving Market.
Years                 Percentage                     Divers
1987                     5.5 %                      11,000
1989                     5.4 %                      10,800
1991                     8.6 %                      17,200
1993                    10.3 %                      20,600
Source: Technical and Economical Feasibility Study for the Environmental Ordainment of the Bay Island's
Development.
Due to the reduced amount of ecosystems in the world and the diversity of organisms harboring in
them, they constitute an environmental redoubt of high importance for biological research. Many
chemical compounds featuring antimicrobic, antileukemia, anticoagulative, and cardio active
properties for medical usage have been isolated in organisms harboring in the coral reefs, mainly
anemones and sponges. Artisan fishing of the Bay Islands depends on the fish that are developed
and that live in the reefs. There is no current scientific information about the current status of the
Honduran reefs. The Technical and Economic Feasibility Study of Environmental Ordainment for
Development of the Bay Islands (1998) reveals that health and vitality of the corral reef around the
Island of Roatan presents serious deterioration, mainly on its southern coast and further more in
the shallow reefs of West End where to that date only 10 % were alive. The study indicates that if
this trend continues the reefs could eventually disappear bringing negative effects in the social and
economic benefits that they provide to the community.
B.    Mangroves
The mangrove forests grow and flourish along the Honduran Atlantic and Pacific coastlines. They
are formed by several plant species with special biological characteristics and adaptations that
allows them to live in a special and unique environment such as the costal sea strip. It is an
economically and socially significant ecosystem due to the role it performs in the perpetuity of the
fishing activity along the coasts as well as in internal seawaters, in the protection of the coastlines
and its capacity as renewable resource among others.
In the northern coastal strip from the border with the Republic of Guatemala to the Cape of Gracias
a Dios, the border with Nicaragua as well as in the different islands and small rocky islands there
are significant concentrations of mangrove forests which have not been quantified nor evaluated in
their current status.  This indicates that no management plan for this resource has been
implemented. There is some information in the Bay Islands, it is estimated that there are 1716.3
Ha of mangrove forests in the Bay Island area being Phizophora mangle (red mangrove) the
specie with greater distribution. The other species present are: Avicenia germinaus (black
mangrove), Lacuncularia racemosa (white mangrove), y Conocarpus erectus (small bud) (Santos,
J.A and Bunay, R.). The biggest mangrove encompassing 7.7 Km2 is on the eastern end of
Evaluaci6n Ambiental del Proyecto         10                             Agosto del 2000



Provecto de Turismo Costero Sostenible                               IHT/Banco Mundial
Roatan and Santa Elena Islands. The Island of Utila has the second most extensive mangrove
that covers 17% of the island with an area of 7.4 Km2. In Guanaja, the most significant mangrove
area is located next to the boat channel that divides the island. (Technical and Economical
Feasibility Study of Environmental Ordainment for Development of the Bay Islands).
C. White Sand Beaches and Extensive Beaches
Beach ecosystems are distributed along the Atlantic and Pacific coastlines with no distribution
pattern yet attending certain characteristics in regards to profile of coastal area and surge of
marine currents. In the northern coastal strip there are important beaches from the barrier of
Motagua River in the border with Guatemala to the eastern part of the Municipality of Tela
interrupted by different geographical breaks. For tourism purpose, this is one of the most visited
areas due to the presence of this resource. The beaches continue in La Ceiba and reappear in
Trujillo continuing afterwards along La Mosquitia.
Regarding this system of beaches there is also little information available highlighting that the type
of beach which is most common in the Caribbean Coast of Honduras are the barrier and flat
surface beaches. In the westem Caribbean Coast the low dunes with beach terraces dominate in
some sectors. In the eastern Caribbean Coast high dunes dominate and in some places like Santa
Rosa de Aguan where there are dune fields with different degrees of consolidation (Environmental
Profile, 1997).
The system of beaches has been partially researched in the Bay Islands (Technical and
Economical Feasibility Study of Environmental Ordainment for Development of the Bay Islands).
The most common type is the steep beach, up from the line of lower tide made up of rough
fragments of coral colonies with transition to marine pastures below the line of lower tide. This type
of beach is not attractive for swimming. In Table No. 4 the total quantity of coastline for each
island; the high quality recreational beaches; and, the percentage of high quality beaches in
regards to the total coastline are presented.
Table 4. High Quality Beaches in the Bay Islands
ISLANDS                                    Kms
GUANAJA
Coastline                                        45.0
High Quality Recreational Beaches
West End Beach                                    3.25
Michael Rock Beach                                1.5
TOTAL                                            4.75
Percentage of coastline with high quality beaches  10.5 %
ROATAN and SANTA ELENA
Coastline                                        215.0
West Bay Beach                                    0.94
Alligator Nose Beach                              0.50
Camp Bay Beach                                    1.45
TOTAL                                             2.89
Percentage of coastline with high quality beaches  0.013 %
UTILA
Coastline                                         33.0
High Quality Recreational Beaches
Pumpkin Hill Beach                               0.068
Water Cay Beach                                   0.100
TOTAL                                             0.168
Percentage of coastline with high quality beaches  0.005 %
Evaluaci6n Ambiental del Proyecto        11                            Agosto del 2000



Provecto de Turismo Costero Sostenible                                                         IHT/Banco Mundial
Source: (Technical and Economical Feasibility Study of Environmental Ordainment for the Bay
Islands), 1998
Evaluaci6n Ambiental del Proyecto                        12                                       Agosto del 2000



Proyecto de Turismo Costero Sostenible                                 IHT/Banco Mundial
D.    Coastal Estuaries and Lagoons
This coastal natural resource refers to entrances of the sea in the terrestrial coastal area, which
form water bodies of different shapes, and conditions bordered by mangroves that joined with the
biodiversity that they harbor encompass areas of exceptional beauty.  Permanent lagoon
formations are most common in the northern region. Riverbank estuaries are mainly present in
river ouffalls. Some of these areas have been declared reserve zones such as the case of Rio de
Platano biosphere, Cuero y Salado, and Punta Sal, which reaches Micos Lagoon, as well as Punta
Hizopo and Rio Cangrejal
E.    Mainland Platform and Territorial Sea
It encompasses the immediate marine area to the terrestrial coastal zone. Shallow waters
characterize it and the bottom is formed by fine sand, coarse sand, mud and in some areas by
coral reefs and marine weed beddings.
In the Bay Islands this zone is formed by coral lagoon barriers covered with marine pastures whose
dominant species are turtle pasture (Thalassia testudium) and manatee pasture (Syringodium
filiforme). Marine pastures have a high degree of growth and their leaves maintain a great number
of epiphyte vegetation that is consumed by fish, crustaceans and mollusks. The leaves of the
marine pasture produce a great quantity of organic material that due to bacterial action it decays
into detritus. This in turn maintains a complex food chain of the zooplankton animal and many
other organisms. It serves as refuge for numerous young organisms such as the thorny lobster
(Panulirus arqgus) and a great variety of fish and other crustacean.
Some research studies (Dickinson and Col., 1982) done inn Trujillo's eastern region up to the
border with Nicaragua have concluded in the discovery of significant fishing resources -mainly
shrimp and lobster that have been exploited intensively for more than 40 years. Other studies and
research undertaken in this region by the Japanese Mission and B/I LAMATRA reveal the
existence of fishing resources that could be exploited under special management plans (Villegas,
L. and Col. 1986). This coastal region constitutes the traditional draught for the shrimp and lobster
boats of the Honduran fishing fleet. Among the most important ones are: Banco Gorda, Banco
Este, Banco Medio and Banco Rosalinda. An area of 4,900 Km2 is estimated for this area, this
being narrower in the Gulf of Honduras up to Cape Camaron in Colon's Department and it
broadens significantly towards the border with Nicaragua.
2.3.2. Particular Characteristics of Each MunicipalityError! Bookmark not defined.
A.   La Ceiba's Municipality
The Municipality of La Ceiba characterizes itself for being located between the Tropical Cloud
Forest (BH-t) and the Lowland Cloud Forest (BMH-mbs). The latter encompasses the steep areas
and the former the coastal areas. Its main use has been the one established by the Standard Fruit
Company, which currently grows pineapples.
This municipality is organized into rural towns and townships still showing strong deficiencies in
service provision such as garbage collection, sanitary sewerage, and potable water service and
rainwater collection. This situation seriously affects its tourist potential.
It integrates the Mesoamerican Biological Corridor, Honduras section and on it National Park Pico
Bonito is located. It lies a few kilometers from Cuero y Salado Wildlife Refuge which belongs to the
Municipality of La Masica Its proximity to Nombre de Dios mountain range and to the sea turn this
municipality into an important stage beauty center where one finds natural sites such as: The Maria
River, Fall El Bejuco, the Cangrejal River, Los Chorros (The Stream), Cacao's Lagoon, Peru
Beach, Pico Bonito, Cuero y Salado. Additionally, one finds garifuna-populated centers such as
Sambo Creek and Corozal. A series of recreational activities -which have been developed in the
last years -are added to these sites.
Evaluacion Ambiental del Proyecto         13                             Agosto del 2000



Provecto de Turismo Costero Sostenible                                 IHT/Banco Mundial
B.    Tela's Municipality
Tela's Municipality is also located between two types of forests, the Tropical Cloud Forest (BH-t)
located in the coastal area up to the adjacent strips to Nombre de Dios Mountain Range and
Lowland Cloud Forest (BMH-mbs), which extends into the mountainous area higher than 450 masl
(meters above sea level). This situation allows us to identify four types of landscapes: the coastal
prairie, the hill landscape, the medium and high mountain ranges and the valleys.
It is made up by a bay in which an important biodiversity is found as means of a National Park
known as Jeannette Kawas. Also, nearby lies another protected area called Wildlife Refuge
Texiguat and Lancetilla's Botannical Garden similarly as with the municipality, it integrates the
interconnection areas of the Mesoamerican Biological Corridor. Its natural resources range from
sweet water ecosystems to Micos Lagoon, which present a wide variety of aquatic species that
represent the nourishment for many of the municipalities' families. It also has many garifuna
populated centers such as Triunfo de la Cruz where there is a protected area proposed as wildlife
refuge and a wide diversity of reptiles and even mammals exist. Tela's beaches are one of the
main attractions of the northern area of the country.
Also, it is mainly a rural municipality and due to this fact it has a large deficit -in quality and quantity-
of basic services, which constrains its environmental quality.
C.    Trujillo's Municipality
This municipality life zones are the same as Tela's and La Ceiba's, the Tropical Cloud Forest and
the Lowland Cloud Forest. Similar to the previous municipalities, it presents a varied landscape
ranging from its white sand beaches 30 meters wide, a bay whose crystalline waters turn it into one
of the biggest tourist attractions of the Caribbean. Additionally, it is noteworthy that due to its
deepness it is the third one in the world. This coastal flatness is followed by a hill landscape ending
in a solid mountainous one that has been declared a National Park.  It also integrates the
Mesoamerican Biological Corridor and it has other important protected areas, these are:
Guaimoreto Lagoon that in spite of its alteration it still has an important natural attraction and
harbors a high diversity of species specially valuable for fishing.
Trujillo not only constitutes an important natural attraction but it is also an important historical
heritage site for the country. Additionally, the existence of garifuna centers makes this municipality
an important tourist center for the country. However, it is one of the municipalities with lesser urban
development. It's migratory basic agricultural activity constitutes one of the main risks as well as
the lack of basic services such as garbage collection, sanitary and rainwater sewerage turn it into a
municipality facing many environmental problems.
D.   Roatan's Municipality
In this municipality, the dominance of the tropical cloud forest life zone has turned it into one of the
most important coastal-marine conservation areas in the country. Efforts are being undertaken for
the conservation of Port Royal Wildlife Refuge, Sandy Bay Marine Reserve -West End and the
Marine Reserve of Cayos Cochinos.
The municipality is mainly rural, the urban area extends along the coastal zone and it has basic
services; however, the rest lacks adequate coverage of these services. Inadequate management
of solid waste, sewerage, and rainfall water effluences constitutes the main cause of its
environmental problems.
Evaluaci6n Ambiental del Proyecto          14                             Agosto del 2000



Provecto de Turismo Costero Sostenible                                    IHT/Banco Mundial
E.    Utila's Municipalities
The ecosystems of savanna, mangrove, sweet water swamps and intermediate hills make this flat
topography island an important tourist center. It has several keys and a Wildlife Refuge called
"Turtle Harbor". Its water supply source is underground.
It is one of the islands with lesser infrastructure development. Roatan has problems of inadequate
management of its wastes; thus, it tums the island into the one with higher advance regarding its
environmental deterioration.
F. Omoa's Municipality
Omoa's Municipality is located in the northern part of Cortes' Department. In the North it
borders with the Caribbean Sea, the Municipality of San Pedro Sula in the South, the Republic
of Guatemala in the West, and alongside the riverbank of Motagua River and the Municipalities
of Puerto Cortes and Choloma on the East. The population of the municipality for the year 2000
was estimated in 15,841 inhabitants occupying 3,257 houses in 26 towns and 76 townships. It
is located between two types of forests: the Tropical Cloud Forest (BH-t) and the Lowland
Cloud Forest (BMH-mbs). This municipality is mainly rural. The economic activity of the area
lies in the potential of its agricultural land, tourist beaches and the historical fortress of San
Fernando de Omoa's Castle.
2.4. Environmental Problems of the Area of InfluenceError! Bookmark not defined.
The land-sea interfacial area -where the Project is located- has very particular characteristics
heavily influenced by two components. Characteristics that can be drastically altered by activities
undertaken in the area or in adjacent areas, provoking transformations that sometimes are
irreversible that alter its natural equilibrium and the interaction between land and sea. Few or none
sequential information exists about the quantity and quality of the coastal resources described.
Then, it is difficult to define trends of its exploitation as well as the pressure excised over them
derived from population rise, rise in the tourist development of the coastal industry, the
deterioration of the quality of the water and the overall environment. Nonetheless, in a qualitative
manner, the following problems affecting the main resources for the tourism development of these
municipalities have been determined.
A.    Problems of Coral Reefs
The current situation of the coral reefs is that of threat due to some activities or resource uses
which cause negative effects on its biological structure or in the output / performance of the
benefits that it generates. Table 5 identifies the main problems that the coral reefs of the country
are facing.
Table 5. Main Problems that the Coral Reefs are Facing
No        USE OR ACTIVITY         ENVIRONMENTAL CHANGE                  IMPACT
1   Municipal and/ or industrial  - Contamination of reefs.   - Decrease in tourism and stage
effluent discharge without                                 beauty, lesser fishing output /
previous treatment.                                        performance.
- Lesser fishing output!
2   Coral extraction for different  -Destruction of reefs.      performance, decrease in
causes.                                                    tourism y stage beauty, coastal
erosion.
3   Dredging to extract construction  - Contamination by sedimentation -Lesser fishing output /
materials.                    and cloudiness in reefs.     performance, lesser tourism
and recreational attraction.
4   Crops, pastures or forest    - Watershed erosion,
practices not recommended for    contamination by sedimentation - Lesser fishing output!
the Islands and coastal       and cloudiness in reefs.     performance, lesser tourism
watersheds.                                                and recreational attraction.
Evaluaci6n Ambiental del Proyecto            15                             Agosto del 2000



Proyecto de Turismo Costero Sostenible                                      IHT/Banco Mundial
- Sedimentation for erosion and
5   Constructions badly located or  cloudiness.
placed.                                                    - Reef loss.
Source: Environmental Profile, 1997.
B. Environmental Problems of Mangrove Swamps
In general mangrove swamps and mangrove ecosystems are relatively resistant to many kinds of
environmental disruptions and  pressures.   Nonetheless, they are extremely  sensitive to
sedimentation, stoppage of tide flow, and stagnation of shallow water and oil spills. An important
problem affecting mangrove habitats is the conversion of mangrove areas into residential,
commercial, industrial or agricultural development areas and lately aquatic developments.
Table 6 identifies the main problems affecting mangroves in the country.  In general, the
deterioration of mangroves is due to several activities which employ it directly or when it is
eliminated in order to extend exploitation areas in shrimp businesses. Additional to this, the
contamination of coastal waters as result of deforestation in the higher part of the watershed,
inadequate agricultural techniques, agrochemical use, use of balanced nourishments in the shrimp
industry which are contributing to the eutrofication of this ecosystem's environment.
Table 6. Mangrove Problems
No        USE OR ACTIVITY          ENVIRONMENTAL CHANGE                   IMPACT
1   Industrial coastal development   - Dampness / moisture filling.    -Lesser fishing area or for
badly located.                                               aquaculture.
2    Unplanned tourist development.  - Dampness / moisture filling.    - Lesser fishing capture.
3   Agricultural, aquaculture, salt    - Drainage Interruption,  - Reduction or loss of rare or
production development, etc.   mangrove cut down.            endangered species
4    Mangrove cutting for firewood    - Mangrove reduction.     - Lesser fishing captures, lesser
and construction.                                            output of successive tree
cutting. Higher sedimentation
to coral reefs. Destruction of
bird and other specials
habitats.
Source: Environmental Profile, 1997.
C.    Albino System of Beaches and Extensive Beaches
Beaches are a very limited coastal resource yet they are socially and economically significant.
They are the State's resources; thus, their use is of public nature although in many cases they
are being privatized without respecting the regulations about its use that are announced in the
current laws. The characteristics for them are: deficient environmental sewerage, which leads
to its contamination turning it into a source of infection during the summer season. On Table 7,
some common activities in the beaches that cause changes on its environment are listed.
Table 7. Problems that beaches and extensive beaches are facing
No        USE OR ACTIVITY          ENVIRONMENTAL CHANGE                   IMPACT
1   Recreational and/or tourist   - Limitation of areas, interruption  - Migrations, conflicts.
development.                   of regular right of way.
2                                 - Stepping and or over        - Beach erosion, lesser tourist
Cattle pasture.                compacting of stabilizing     attraction.
Evaluaci6n Ambiental del Proyecto            16                               Agosto del 2000



Proyecto de Turismo Costero Sostenible                                       IHT/Banco Mundial
beach vegetation.
3                                  - Removal greater than        - Beach loss.
Sand beach extraction.          accumulation.
4                                  - Contamination, reduction of    - Lesser tourist attraction.
Population placement in beach   recreational area, diseases.
areas.
Source: Environmental Profile, 1997.
D.    Lagoon and Estuary Problems
An important source of degradation of estuaries and lagoons has been its continuous use as
deposit for elimination of pollutants (sewerage and industrial residue) mainly in those areas close to
population centers as can be observed on Table 8.
An important environmental problem worth mentioning -due to its current effective status- is the
yellowing of coconut crops in the northern area of the country. This problem not only has
repercussions from the agricultural point of view and ecological diversity but also regarding the
landscapel; thus, affecting tourism.
Table 8. Problems that Lagoons and Estuaries are facing.
No        USE OR ACTIVITY          ENVIRONMENTAL CHANGE                    IMPACT
1   Domestic or industrial sewerage  -  Estuary and lagoon       - Lesser fishing capture, fish and
(pollutants).                    Contamination particularly  seafood contamination, lesser
adjacent to urban areas.   tourist attraction tourism,
eutrofication.
2    Detour or use of coastal river    - Saline level or rate increase,    - Lesser fishing capture.
waters.                         estuary circulation or
diminished lagoon.
3   Detour or use of coastal river                               - Fish mortality, lesser fishing
waters.                       - Toxic contamination for estuary   captures.
and lagoon waters.
4   Agrochemicals.                                               - Lesser fishing capture.
- Watershed erosion,
sedimentation of estuaries and
5   Crops, pastures or forest        higher cloudiness.          - Species mortality, lesser
Practices.                                                   capture.
- Eutrofication of estuaries and
Agricultural and aquaculture   lagoons, contamination.
I Development.
Source: Environmental Profile 1997.
2.5 Environmental Institutional AspectsError! Bookmark not defined.
2.5.1 Overall Description
As follows, a brief description is made of relevant institutions managing the biophysical
resources required for the tourism strategy. It is important to highlight that a revision has been
undertaken for overall mandates and each entities has at least one relevant issue.
A. Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment (SERNA)
SERNA is responsible for the formulation, coordination, execution and evaluation of policies
related with water resources, energy and the environment. Among their activities, the most
important are highlighted:  actions related to watershed management, national system  of
protected areas, protection and sustainable use of the biodiversity, services for research and
Evaluacion Ambiental del Proyecto             17                               Agosto del 2000



Provecto de Turismo Costero Sostenible                               IHT/Banco Mundial
control of environmental pollution, management of the national system for evaluation of
environmental impact, issuance of technical norms, supervision regarding enforcement of
environmental application. Likewise, it has the responsibility of the coordination of activities
pertaining to centralized or decentralized public entities, with competence in environmental
matters.
SERNA also fosters participation by the general public in environmental activities and the
fulfillment of aspects of the Framework Environmental Law and complementary legal
dispositions. As can be seen, this Secretariat's responsibility regarding formulation of policies
requires agreement with other institutions that answer to their execution, such as COHDEFOR,
SANAA, SAG; contrary to this event, the environmental policies related specially to the
watersheds, protected areas and coastal-marine resources, respectively, will not have the
expected effects. To ease its management the Secretariat for the Environment and Natural
Resources relies on the Vice-Secretariat of Natural Resources and Energy and the Vice-
Secretariat of the Environment.
Even though the second one is the one that relates directly to the environmental sector, the
Vice-Secretariat of Natural Resources and Energy is associated with several resources that are
constituted in environmental components, such as: water, mines and hydrocarbons and energy
with the permanent relationship in its production with the utilization of natural resources. In
environmental matters, SERNA, is the agency with most protagonism; in this sense, the Vice-
Secretariat of the Environment in order to meet the attributions that in accordance to law
correspond, is in charge of: the General Directorate for Environmental Assessment and Control
(DECA), the General Directorate for Environmental Management (DGA), The Center for
Contamination Studies and Control (CESCCO) and the General Directorate for Biodiversity
(DGB).
DECA is responsible for the National System of Environmental Impact Assessment (SINEIA), as
well as the issue and control of environment permits and the environment audit practices; in
order to fulfill this function it is important to have the support of other dependencies and/or
similar institutions, such as CESCCO. This function demands the involvement of specialized
personnel in different theme areas related to the environment, currently it is required to
strengthen human resource in qualitative terms that can function and regulate the National
System of Environmental Impact Assessment (SINEIA); thus SINEIA's effective operation will
be achieved through the strengthening of its links with the public, private and international
sector related to the system. One of the activities that corresponds to DECA and that requires
enough personnel, is the field supervision, in order to ensure that the plans, policies, programs
and projects, industrial installations and any activity susceptible of contaminating or degrading
the environment, are submitted to an Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA).
On the other hand, the DGA must coordinate actions of the private and public entities in
environmental matters and develop training programs in this field. It will have to manage active
participation of members of several institutional tools that aid in the speeding of the
environmental management with the object of strengthening intra-institutional coordination, such
as the Environment National Counsel Council (COCONA) which is an advisory agency to the
Secretary of State in this field, with functions previously indicated in the regulation; where some
state secretaries concur, representative of the association of municipalities, of the higher
education institutions, a representative of the Federation of non Government Environmental
Organizations, of the Council of Honduran Private Enterprise, of labor organizations and a
representative of farmers organizations; besides that the Advisory Technical Committee (CTA)
exists as a specialized being at technical and scientific level, with representatives from the
public and private sector, currently CESCCO's cumulative experience in relation to the
concurrence of specialists, can ease the strengthening of this advisory instance. In the Center
Evaluaci6n Ambiental del Proyecto        18                             Agosto del 2000



Provecto de Turismo Costero Sostenible                               IHT/Banco Mundial
for Contamination Studies and Control (CESCCO), previously appointed to the Ministry of
Health, currently and in the new legal frame it is a dependence of SERNA; in charge of
conducting studies and actions related with the prevention and control of contaminants in their
different forms.
The Directorate for Biodiversity, as new dependency, conducts actions for the protection and
conservation of biological diversity; this task shall be intimately related and coordinated with the
Honduran Corporation for Forestry Development, institution in charge of executing measures
and actions in this matter.
Regarding the Secretaries of State common functions related with the analysis and design of
policies and those of norms and regulations, they are taken up by the Assessment and Planning
Management Unit (UPEG) and the Vice-Secretariat, respectively. The first one as support
agent defines the general framework so the similar state organizations guide and coordinate
their activities and the second, with responsibility to meet and enforce the laws, propose policies
and submit to the Secretary of State the law and regulation proposals.
B.    Secretariat of Health
In view that the environmental quality is directly related to the health of individuals, this
Secretariat is responsible for the formulation, coordination, execution and assessment of
policies related to the protection, promotion, prevention, restitution and rehabilitation of the
population's health; in this sense, it technically coordinates, norms, guides and supervises the
public and private health services. On top of that, its authority is appreciated in the design and
execution of environmental drainage programs; the treatment systems control, conduction and
water supply for human consumption; the sanitary control of sewage systems and excrete
disposition handling as well as rain water, sewage waste water.
This Secretariat of State closely related to the environmental sector has three Vice-Secretariats
in order to exercise its functions: Population Risks, Service Network and Sector Policy. The
Vice-Secretariat most closely related to the environment is Population Risks, which has
appointed: Directorate of Environment Attention, responsible for planning and execution of
environmental drainage programs and activities related in the context of environmental policies.
It can norm and regulate; apply and enforce the legal framework; develop activities of
environmental control and the issuance of environmental permits.
The General Directorate for Population Risks responds for the planning and execution of
epidemical control programs, surveillance and sanitary inspection and related activities.
C.    The Honduran Corporation for Forestry Development (COHDEFOR)
It has as operative function the realization of the optimum exploitation of the country's forest
resources; insure protection, improvement, conservation and the increase of the latter. To fulfill
its functions, it has four technical departments: Forest Handling, Norms and Control, Wild Life
and Protected Areas and Fomentation and Extension.
Within its organizational structure this institution has available twelve forest regions at national
level with an equal number of technical programs as those of the central office, easing access to
all the country's geographical regions. This institution with semi-autonomous character has
created the Environment Management Unit appointed to the Norms and Control Department.
D.    Municipalities
In accordance to the Law of Municipalities (LM, 1990), municipal corporations are established
as a government agency and manager of manipulates, they exist in order to achieve the well
being of the inhabitants, promote their integral development and accomplish the preservation of
Evaluaci6n Ambiental del Proyecto        19                             Agosto del 2000



Provecto de Turismo Costero Sostenible                             IHT/Banco Mundial
the environment. In addition, other corresponding functions are execution of environmental
policies, coordination at municipal level, ecological equilibrium control and the issuance of
permits to exploit the natural resources. In the past, they developed control activities through
police vocals and auxiliary mayors, currently some of which have handled successfully the tasks
of environment handling, through the creation of Environmental Management Units, standing
out in some the execution of environmental projects.
In several municipalities the existence of the Council for Municipal Development, can be an
instance to strengthen help operate and setup before the creation of a new municipal entity; the
advantage of these councils is the social, political and technical representation associated with
them.
In general, most Municipalities do not have the institutional capacity for environment
management, in light of the great number of functions that correspond to them; requiring
technical and financial assistance, and training support on behalf of those agencies with similar
responsibilities.
E.    Role of the Civil Population.
Starting out from the mandate contemplated in the Overall Environment Law in the sense of
promoting citizen participation in activities related to the protection, conservation, restoration and
adequate handling of the natural resources awareness programs aimed at the civil population have
been created and local consulting organizations have been put together.
F     Role of the Private Enterprise.
The Private Enterprise's reply deserves special recognition for the execution of an environment
auditing program, besides it is part of the Environment Institutional Network coordinated by
CESCCO and COCONA through the Honduran Council for the Private Enterprise (COHEP); the
implementation of enterprise training programs has been outstanding as the development of
activities to work as an incentive for environment conservation. SERNA must take advantage of
all these actions as facilitators of instruments in environment management.
On the other hand, turns out relevant what the Overall Environment Law is typical of, regarding
the incorporation of the Honduran Council for the Private Enterprise (COHEP) in the
Environment National Counsel Council (COCONA), with decision power character in
environment management, likewise as advisory agency of the Secretariat for the Environment
and Natural Resources; having the opportunity to ease its strengthening with emphasis on
environment quality control, as long as availability of private enterprise is maintained and
strengthened.
G.    Role of Non Government Organizations.
Under the new approach of economic development, where the state has a tendency to
decentralize its actions, the incorporation of national and international non-government
organizations is playing a leading role in environmental terms. Some are developing activities
that have corresponded traditionally to state agencies, such as agricultural technological
transference, educational campaigns, co-handling of Wild Life and Protected Areas.
2.5.2 Specific Description
A. Environmental Management Unit of IHT
The Honduran Institute of Tourism, same as other state entities is part of the National System of
Environmental Impact Assessment (SINEIA), thus all the activities it performs, promotes or
authorizes, whether it be at planning level as well as execution, must be preceded by an
environment revision (DECA 002) which determines if this activity or project must be preceded
Evaluaci6n Ambiental del Proyecto       20                            Agosto del 2000



Provecto de Turismo Costero Sostenible                                               IHT/Banco Mundial
by an environmental impact assessment study or it only needs to subscribe a mitigation
measure contract.
In this context and starting this year IHT has hired the services of an Environment Engineer
professional to conform the Environmental Management Unit. This unit, appointed to the Vice-
Presidency of Planning and Development, is currently conformed by this person and is
responsible for the environmental normative functions, from the environmental point of view, of
all activities executed by the institute. As a result and given the short time the dependency has
been operating it is recommended to execute institutional strengthening actions to IHT. Figure
2 shows the current organization Table for the IHT.
ORGANIGRAMA DEL INSTITUTO HONDURENO DE TURISMO
......... .........CONTRALORYA.
CONSEJO NACIONAL                 lENERALORIA
DE TURISMO                              REPUBLICA
.............     ,. _ ...  .  . ............  _. . ........ .
AUDITORIA
PRESIDENCIA Y VICE-PRESIDENCIA
EJECUTIVA
........................................................................................................................
............................. ......... ..... ...............
ASESORIA LEGAL
Direccion de Cooperaci6n
Externa
Tatiana Pierson
.......................................................................
Vice Presidencia              Vice presidencia               Vice Presidencia
Mercadeo                  Finanzas y Admon             Planeamiento y Des.
Figure 2. IHT's Organization Table
B. Municipality of La Ceiba.
This municipality has an Environmental Management Unit which is supported by the
Engineering Department, same as the IHT this unit is dedicated almost exclusively to SINEIA's
activities; that is to say it acts only by appointment from SERNA. In this context, it is very
difficult for this unit to perform control and follow up activities of the environmental licenses that
are issued in its municipal term.
The Environmental Management Unit (UMA) personnel has economic and agricultural
background and also have support personnel at technical level. Among the achievements
proactivity of this Unit outstanding are: drainage of estero, cleaning of municipal dump, creation
of sound contamination regulation, reforestation of Cangrejal river bed and Danto river,
Evaluaci6n Ambiental del Proyecto                  21                                   Agosto del 2000



Provecto de Turismo Costero Sostenible                               IHT/Banco Mundial
substitution of damaged coconuts due to lethal yellowing, elaboration of a handling plan for
material extraction of the Cangrejal and Danto Rivers.
C. Municipality of Tela.
There is a Municipal Environmental Management Unit (UMA) with an agricultural technician. It
performs almost in an exclusive manner the participation functions of SINEIA. This is a weak
UMA thus it has no relevant leadership regarding environmental affairs.
D. Municipality of Trujillo
The Environmental Management Unit only has one technician and if they require greater
support they go to the NGO FUCAGUA; this unit is also characterized for being weak and
performing only the activities required by DECA-SERNA.
E. Municipality of Roatan
Even though it has an Environmental Management Unit, it has remained all year round without a
technician in charge; nonetheless they have IHT's support through the Bay Islands Environment
Development Project, through its hired personnel it supplies the normative requirements of
surveillance and control of the UMA.
F. Municipality of Utila
In this location they lack an Environmental Management Unit. It is the weakest municipality, in
terms of structure; only 6 people are employed including the Mayor. SERNA helps them with
the payment of the salary to the Inspector of the Bay Islands Development Commission
dedicated to handle the municipalities environmental problems through the office of the
Municipal Cadaster.
G. Municipality of Omoa
This municipality lacks an Environmental Management Unit; due to SERNA's petition they had
to create certain capacity with the support of the regents of the Municipal Corporation; the
Municipality of Puerto Cortes grants substantial support in logistics and technical assistance in
their environmental problems.
2.6 The Legal Environmental and Tourist Context of Hondura
2.6.1 Overall Aspects
Based on what is established on Article No. 7 of the Country's Administrative Procedure Law,
acts of the public administration are subject to the following hierarchical order, that grants a law
higher hierarchy than other at legal matter decision making moment:
A.    Constitutional Precepts
The constitutional precepts, have the higher hierarchy level of all the normative; among other
aspects these regulate essential natural resources, the exploitation of natural resources based on
the technical and rational regulation in them. On the other hand, points out with special importance
the responsibility of the proprietors of industries to maintain their establishments in favorable
hygiene and health conditions. Likewise, regarding cultural resources are given special emphasis
to their protection and conservation. Finally the tutelage and follow up for the application and
fulfillment of these constitutional mandates is responsibility of the State, who has been gradually
regulating them through competent centralized and decentralized institutions. Annex 1 presents a
worksheet containing the constitutional precepts in environmental matter and its theme area.
B.    International Treaties
Evaluaci6n Ambiental del Proyecto        22                            Agosto del 2000



Proyecto de Turismo Costero Sostenible                               IHT/Banco Mundial
Up to date, Honduras has adopted the rights and obligations contemplated in 23 international
treaties, same that in higher or lesser degree contain dispositions with environmental
characteristics. Annex 1, shows the international treaties mentioned, according to theme area,
they contemplate technical commitment compromise in the short, medium and long term, which
in most cases requires institutional adaptations of political, administrative and especially legal
type.
C.    Overall Laws, Special Laws and Regulations.
Annex 1 presents a variety of norms, the type that regulate different resources environment
components and that are the different resources that potential tourism in the project's area of
influence, managerial or ministerial dispositions have been issued at institutional level that turn
the environment normative even more disperse.  Among others, the following laws are
outstanding as the most important to take into account at the time to develop a tourism project:
Laws Regarding Marine, Coastal and Wetland Resources, Laws Regarding Cultural Heritage,
Laws Regarding Forest Resources, Laws Regarding Hydrology Resources, Laws Regarding
Soil Resource, Laws Regarding Biodiversity and Protected Areas and Laws Regarding Tourism.
IlIl Project's Environmental Implications
The components of the project have been destined to improve the quality of life of settled
population in the tourism zones of the north coast of Honduras. Nonetheless, these programs
that already have a socioeconomic improvement connotation can have environmental
implications, since they act directly on the basis of the utilization of natural resources and if they
are not handled properly they can have negative effects.
In this sense the objective of this chapter is to identify the possible biophysics and social
implications and from there include the necessary considerations for its prevention and
mitigation in each component to guarantee the environmental quality and sustainability of the
decisions of the technical assistance and investment activities intended.
3.1. Overall Considerations
Upon analyzing every one of the proposed activities and components in this project one sees
that the success or the positive impacts expected from it depend on the quality and
maintenance of the natural resources, historic/cultural and populated indigenous existing
centers on the tourist zones, chosen as their area of influence.
These actions will require an increase in the local infrastructure in the short and medium term
(access roads, transportation, marinas, sewer, potable water, etc.) and several public services
that as mentioned in the previous chapter are currently in deficit in the selected municipalities.
This fact demands prevision of an expected coordination and expected planning so the
corresponding entities are able to start managing the corresponding resources. Another matter
to consider is represented by the links between expected tourism with the development of local
strategies and dominant culture.
Moreover, since the objective is to identify elements of the project that can lessen its positive
impact, more than identify the potential impacts associated to the components, this
environmental assessment has taken into account three relevant points:
* essential information elements needed, be it for decision making, elaborate an impact
study or elaborate an environmental program related to the programs;
* implementation of regulation and norms that are fundamental; and,
* communication and technical aspects- awareness.
Evaluaci6n Ambiental del Proyecto        23                            Agosto del 2000



Proyecto de Turismo Costero Sostenible                                     IHT/Banco Mundial
3.2. Potential Socio-environmental Implications
The following Tables 9 to 11 outline the dimensions of the potential social and biophysics
implications of components 1, II and IlIl of the Project and the actions upon which decision
makers and municipal managers will be able to support at execution project time. Component
IV, is not evaluated since it deals with administrative activities of the project, nonetheless, as
was identified in the institutional analysis of IHT, it is recommended to include in the Project's
Coordinating Unit at least one technician with municipal environment management expertise
from UCP to the IHT's Environmental Management Unit in activities related to components I and
11 of the Project.
Table 9. Potential Socio-environmental Implications of Component 1: National Strategy and
Institutional Strengthening for Development of Sustainable Coastal Tourism
Activity                           Socio-Environmental Implication
Formulation and Execution of a    -  Will improve business oportunities
participative meeting to promote a  Will improve public sector capacity in tourism environmental
policy of dialogue between public  normative activities
and private Keyplayers at
national, regional and local levels  -  Will improve the private sector's capacity in the knowledge of
tourism-environmental normative
Development and implementation  -  Potential loss of free tourism and environmental services.
of a tourism national strategy for   -  Potential degradation of coastal-marine resources due to tourism
the North Coast, includes the      oe od
elaboration of action plans for the  over load.
short, medium and long term     -  Increase on basic service demand and roads and transportation,
air, land, marine
- Increase localized soil and water contamination due to increase
on discharge of effluent and solid waste; or
- Potential degradation of the quality of beaches.
- Will increase income of local population
- Will increase income of Municipal Corporation
- Potential damage to the National Parks due to tourism overload,
and damage from non-regulated building of infraestructure.
Provide technical assistance to    -  Will improve business opportunities, and development of public-
ease planned action; ease policy   private links for sustainable coastal tourism.
reforms and improve institutional   -  Will increase public sector capacity at central and local level in
agreements                         normative activities
- Will increase private sector capacity in knowledge of
environmental-tourism normative and application of quality and
environmental certification world standards.
Evaluaci6n Ambiental del Proyecto            24                              Agosto del 2000



Proyecto de Turismo Costero Sostenible                                         IHT/Banco Mundial
Table  10.    Potential  Socio-environmental  Implications  of  Component 2:  Institutional
Strengthening and Technical Assistance for Municipalities
Activity                                Environmental Implication
Creation of Technical Assistance Units   -  Will improve public sector capacity in normative activities
in Tourism and Environment (UTAs), to  -  Will improve municipal fund  raising  capacity through
provide resources for the Development     valuation of sustainable tourism activities.
of Municipal Tourism and Environ-
mental Management
Training of Municipalities in Areas   -  Will improve public sector capacity in normative activities
identified as Priority                -  Will improve private sector capacity in knowledge of
tourism- environment normative
-  Will improve municipal income
Preservation of Downtown Historic     -  Insufficient resources to repair/rescue historic heritage not
Heritage sites in the City of Trujillo  having  previous  reach  evaluations, cost estimates  and
preservation methods to apply.
-  Income increase
Table 11.  Potential Socio-environmental Implications of Component 3: Pilot Program  for
Entrepreneurial Development of Sustainable Coastal Tourism
Activity                                Environment Implication
Foster productive capacity and create    -  Potential loss of free tourism and environment services
business opportunities for micro and
small enterprise                       -  Potential degradation of coastal-marine resources due to
tourism over load
- Increase on basic service demand and roads and
transportation, air, land, marine; or
-  Increase of localized soil and water contamination due to
increase on discharge of effluent and solid waste; or
-  Potential degradation of the quality of beaches.
-  Will increase income of local population
-  Will increase income of Municipal Corporation
Design and selection of Pilot Projects    -  Potential loss of free tourism and environment services
of Ecotourism on Associated Local
Communities with NGO's                -  Potential degradation of coastal-marine resources due to
tourism over load
-  Increase  on  basic  service  demand  and  roads and
transportation, air, land, marine; or
-  Potential localized degradation of the quality of beaches.
-  Potential localized  contamination  of soil and  water,
originated by liquid and solid waste discharge from service
micro enterprises.
-  Will increase income of local population
-  Will increase income of Municipal Corporation
Design and Validation of Pilot Projects   -  Potential loss of free tourism and environment services
of Ecotourism in Indigenous Coin-
-  Potential degradation of coastal-marine resources due to
Evaluaci6n Ambiental del Proyecto              25                                Agosto del 2000



Provecto de Turismo Costero Sostenible                                 IHT/Banco Mundial
munities, involving small businessmen  tourism over load
associated with NGO's andor the   -  Increase on basic service demand and roads and
transportation, air, land, marine; or
- Potential localized contamination of soil and water,
originated by liquid and solid waste discharge from service
micro enterprises.
- Degradation of the quality of beaches.
- Will increase income of local population
- Will increase income of Municipal Corporation
IV. ENVIRONMENTAL ACTION PLAN AND STRATEGIES FOR COMPLIANCE
4.1. Objectives and Characteristics of the Environmental Management PlanError!
Bookmark not defined.
The environmental analysis of the Project for Coastal Sustainable Tourism, based on the
biophysic and socioeconomic diagnostic of the area of influence and on proposed objectives
and activities included, described on the previous chapter, determines the negative
environmental potential impacts to be generated with its setup to be predictable and thus
mitigable.
In most cases the impacts will be positive, since the objective of the project is to contribute to
the planning of the utilization of municipal resources with tourism potential, from a strong
institutional basis. Nonetheless, with the purpose of guaranteing the permanence of these
positive aspects and face the need to evaluate the impacts of the proposed strategies for the
project; this proposal of environmental management arises with emphasis on the importance of
having an effective environmental management within the municipality and within IHT.
4.1.1. Objectives of the Environmental Management Program
- Contribute to the consolidation of efforts initiated by IHT in the search for the
maximization of municipal tourism resources.
- To strengthen the Environmental Management Unit of IHT institutionally as well as the
Environmental Management Units of the Municipalities of La Ceiba, Tela, Trujillo, Roatan
and Utila providing adequate resources to reach adequate environmental management in
the execution of tourism projects.
4.1.2. Characteristics of the Proposed Environmental Management Plan
The Environmental Management Plan is based on four strategic elements:
- Restructuring and repositioning of IHT's Environmental Management Unit. If the
Project's Coordinating Unit (UCP) will rely on operational and logistic capacity of IHT's
Environmental Management Unit to coordinate the activities of components I and 11 of the
Project, it will require restructuring and repositioning. Due to current and potential load (with
the project) the Environmental Management Unit shall have a technical-administrative
reordering that will give more rationality to the structure. At the same time it is intended for
the environmental themes to be included in all phases of the duties of the institution
regarding the legal environmental framework described in the document.
Evaluaci6n Ambiental del Proyecto         26                             Agosto del 2000



Provecto de Turismo Costero Sostenible                              IHT/Banco Mundial
-  Process definition and management instruments. The definition of management
processes is required in order to provide prompt and adequate response to the resolution of
the municipal environmental problem and control requirements for the activities of the
project. Among others it is required to define the process of attention to environmental
audits, application of mechanisms for communitary consultings, diffusion of procedures to
the public in this type of projects, particularly those that imply actions over the cultural
heritage. The terms of reference for the technical assistance contemplated in components I
and 11 must reflect the design of a system and managerial instruments prompt and efficient
but in accordance with the current National System of Environmental Impact Assessment in
the country.
-  Training, Coordination and Participation. Success of operations generated by the
execution of the components requires the establishment of interactions among the different
interest groups of the concerned media. Therefore, the development of responsibilities and
capacities of local Keyplayers must be fostered (enterprises, universities, communitary
sectors, public entities, NGO's, etc.) and provide support to initiatives for cooperation.
-  Investment and Resource Management. In the pursuit of the proposed objectives to
incorporate the environmental variable at project level as well as in daily activities of IHT and
the municipalities, it is required to perform investments such as consulting hiring to support
personnel of the Environmental Management Unit of IHT and municipal UTA's in areas of
elaboration of EIA models for each type of project to be financed, preparation of control and
follow up documentation, environmental audits, etc., for the performance of studies of load
capacity, particularly on the Trujillo Bay; base line recollection in each one of the
municipalities to intervene according to the project to be financed, etc).
4.1.3. Expected Results
Incorporating the environmental variable to the overall process the following is expected:
-  A municipal environmental control system agreed and validated by the different Keyplayers
that conform the National System of Environmental Impact Assessment (SINEIA) of
Tourism.
-  Increase the positive impacts of the project, lessening the potential negative impacts to the
socioeconomic and biophysic media, that could be produced with the execution of financed
activities. This result includes the delivery of a follow up and control plan elaborated by
municipal Environmental Management Units (UTA) for each of the investment activities
financed.
4.2. Description of the Environmental Management Plan
The Environment Management Plan is perceived as a cross cutting element to the different
components of the Project, thus it is an integral part of each one of them. The environmental
variable is incorporated through two fundamental guidelines: (i) Technical Assistance
Requirements and (ii) Investment for Institutional Stregthening.
The multisector nature of the Program requires participation from all municipal dependencies
and other local entities for its successful execution; nonetheless, the environmental
management plan is direct responsibility of the Environmental Management Unit of IHT
and the municipal UTA's, such that it will coordinate with all municipal dependencies and
institutions outside of the municipality.
4.2.1 Technical Assistance Requirements
Evaluaci6n Ambiental del Proyecto       27                            Agosto del 2000



Proyecto de Turismo Costero Sostenible                             IHT/Banco Mundial
This guideline aims to define the modernization of the capacity of Municipal Management
through two areas of action: the Modernization of the Environmental Assessment Management
and Control System, and the generation of management tools for the reduction of potential
negative effects of each one of the activities of the Project.
A. Modemization of the Environmental Assessment Management and Control System
This activity includes the definition of the system of environmental management currently used
by SERNA, among other results proposes the definition of Environmental Assessment, Control
and Management Procedures. Such result is expected with the support of a Consultant, with
expertise on Strategic Environmental Planning, a Consultant on Environmental Legal Sciences,
to analyze legal limitations that obstruct the speed of environmental management, to state short
term actions that foster administrative changes without legal prejudice. Among other aspects
this consultant will have to submit a report containing the Policies, Procedures, Documentation,
Guides, Registry Sheets, etc.
Among the basic management tools that the Environmental Management Unit of IHT should
have are the following: environmental sensibility map (zonification), to allow quick and timely
decision making.  Efforts must be set to continue performing the respective analysis,
strengthening municipal capacity, specially the Environmental Management Unit and the
Development and Planning Management of IHT, to utilize the tools of a Geographical
Information System.
- Elaboration of a Municipal Environmental Inventory. It will be required to establish a registry
of unloading points and their level of contamination, perform a detailed inventory of the
quality of soil, water and air resources, identifying its main sources and contamination points
and/or degradation, that allows at the same time the definition of technical norms for its
handling in each beneficiary municipality of the Project. This inventor must be performed
through a consulting company during the first year of operation of the project.
B. Elaboration of a Dissemination and Training Program.
The consultant must perform, as a function of agreed policies and procedures, a training plan
inside the municipalities as well as with the population and other Keyplayers of SINEIA. It is
important that all Keyplayers involved in SINEIA know the rules of the game, in other words the
procedures, norms and regulations, prohibitions and sanctions, a wide dissemination program
will have to be initiated. In addition, it is very important that potential beneficiaries and people
affected by the process participate in the definition of procedures and norms. The instruments
contemplated in the laws will have to be established (example: Open Lobby), and others
(informative campaigns in the media).
4.2.2. Investment and Fundraising Requirements
A. Human Resources
The development of Human Resources is a key element of the institutional development of the
proposed program and as such its success will depend on the quality of personnel working for
the Municipal UTA's and particularly on the Environmental Manaement Unit of IHT. Currently
there are two restraining aspects in order to respond to the environmental control and
management demand of the municipality: one is lack of specialized personnel in the matter;
and, the other the low level of income of the municipality to invest in environmental
management. In this sense the proposal is framed in the pursuit of answers to this problem.
Hiring of Personnel.  The Environmental Management Unit of IHT will have to be
strengthened budgetarywise in order to achieve incorporation of a multi and plura
disciplinary team that is able to provide answers to the licensing demand, auditing and
environmental accusation, as well as control and follow up that each one of this involves.
Evaluaci6n Ambiental del Proyecto       28                            Agosto del 2000



Provecto de Turismo Costero Sostenible                                  IHT/Banco Mundial
Training. Investment in training, diffusion and environmental education will be focused at
the different dependencies of the municipalities and micro enterprises, nevertheless, it will
emphasize its projection to IHT's personnel.
- Environment Assessment Pilot Studies. With the purpose of contributing to improve
management in the project framework, execution of the pilot study is proposed. These
studies, besides meeting the conditions for project elegibility will become part of the training
program, through service formation for personnel working in IHT's Environmental
Management Unit as well as corresponding sector entities and members of SINEIA in
general. Besides the EIA, consultants of these pilot studies will submit a manual dealing
with categorization by type of activity, research protocols, variable measuring methods and
monitoring and control mechanisms.
Table 12 presents the proposed Environmental Management Plan for the Project.
Evaluacion Ambiental del Proyecto          29                              Agosto del 2000



Proyecto de Turismo Costero Sostenible                                                                                           IHT/Banco Mundial
Table 12. Environmental Management Plan for the Project.
Project/
component/ sub                 Socio-environmental implications                     Measures of attenuation/mitigation             Cost estimate
component                                                                                                                              (US$)
Component 1:
National Strategy and    * Will improve business opportunities                   Modernization of the Environmental, Control and    US$ 48,000,
Support activities for                                                                       Management System                       included in
Coastal Sustainable    * Will improve public sector capacity in tourism environ-                                                  consulting services
Tourism                  mental normative activities.                         Efficiency  of environmental management system,       for the project
* Will improve the private sector's capacity in the   currently  used  by SERNA, among  other results
knowledge of tourism-environmental normative.        proposes the definition of Environmental Assessment,
.Potential loss of free tourismandenvironmentalControl and Management Procedures. Such result is
* Potential loss of free toursm and environmental      expected with support of a Consultant, with expertise
services,                                            on Strategic Environmental Planning, a Consultant in
* Potential localized degradation of coastal-marine    Environmental Legal Sciences, to  analyze  legal
resources due to tourism over load.                 limitations that hinder the speed of environmental
* Increase on basic service demand and roads and       management to state short term  actions that foster
transportation, air, land, marine                    administrative  changes  without  legal  prejudice.
Maximize the use of seals and tourism certification (see
* Potential localized degradation of the quality of    annex 4).
beaches. -
* Will increase income of local population -
* Will increase income of Municipal Corporation
Component 2:
Training for Institutional  * Will improve business opportunities, and development of  To elaborate environmental sensibility map (zonification),  US$ 30,000
Strengthening and        public-private links for sustainable coastal tourism.  that allows quick and timely decision making for IHT / UA    (included on the
Technical Assistance                                                         and Developing and Planning Management on support to   original costs for
at Municipal Level.    * Will increase public sector capacity at central and local    SINEIA and implementation of a simplified Geographical    the Project),
level in normative activities                       Information System.                                  includes hardware
* Will increase private sector capacity in knowledge of                                                      and software.
environmental-tourism normative and application of  Performance of Environmental Assessment Pilot Studies,
quality and environmental certification world standards.   including the elaboration of a Municipal Environmental  US$ 120,000
Inventory identifying its main sources and contamination  For the six
* Will improve public sector capacity in normative activities  points and/or degradation, that allows the definition of    municipalities
technical norms for its handling in each beneficiary   (included in the
municipality of the Project.  This inventory must be   original costs for
performed through a consulting company on the first year  the Project)
of operation of the project.
Evaluaci6n Ambiental del Proyecto                                       30                                                           Agosto del 2000



Provecto de Turismo Costero Sostenible                                                                                               IHT/Banco Mundial
ProjecU
component/ sub                  Socio environmental implications                      Measures of attenuation/mitigation               Cost estimate
component                                                                                                                                  (US$)
* Will improve municipal fund raising capacity through  Elaboration and implementation of a Diffusion and        US$ 25,000
valuation of sustainable tourism activities.         Training Program.                                        included in the
original costs of the
* Will improve public sector capacity in normative                                                                 Project)
activities.
* Will improve private sector capacity in knowledge of  Strengthening of the Environmental Management Unit      US$ 76,000 (1
tourism-environment normative-                        of IHT.                                              expert within UCP),
. Will increase municipal income      The Environmental Management Unit of IHT shall be    plus US$ 30,000
* Will increase municipal Income                        strengthened budget wise to achieve the incorporation    for operative
* Insufficient resources to repair/rescue historic heritage  of a multi and plural disciplinary team  to provide  expenses
not having previous reach evaluations, cost estimates  response to the  licensing  demand, auditing  and       (total US$
and preservation methods to apply.                    environmental accusation, as well as control and follow   106,000)
. Income increase                                       up that each one of this involves.
To  incorporate  international  guidelines  for  the   Costs included
restoration of historic sites for the preservation of the   within reach of the
Cultural Heritage of the city of Trujillo (see annex 2).  Project's
consultancy.
Component 3:
Pilot management       * Potential loss of free tourism and environmental      Incorporate  evaluation  norms and  procedures  and    Costs included
programs for Coastal     services.                                             environmental supervision to the investments that are    within reach of
Sustainable Tourism.                                                           meant to be financed with resources of the World Bank      Project's
* Potential degradation of coastal-marine resources due to  (see annex 3); to maximize the use of seals and tourism  consultancy.
tourism over load.-                                  certification (see annex 4)
* Increase on basic service demand and roads and
transportation, air, land, marine; or-
* Located contamination originated by non-controlled
discharges of liquid and solid waste of micro enterprises
dedicated to guest services.
* Potential Degradation of the quality of beaches.
* Income increase of local population
* Income increase of Municipal Corporation
Total                                                                                                                                   US$ 281,000
Evaluaci6n Ambiental del Proyecto                                         31                                                             Agosto. del 2000



Provecto de Turismo Costero Sostenible                               IHT/Banco Mundial
4.3. Monitoring and Control of the Environmental Management Plan
Since the Environmental Management Plan and environment management is of recent and
limited importance on the priorities of the municipal govemment, this plan will require an
extensive and close supervision, particularly during the first two years of the Project. In order to
ease its beginning, a meeting will be held before or a short time after operations have initiated; it
is the purpose of this meeting to familiarize all the municipalities' UTAs and the Environmental
Management Unit of IHT with the environmental management plan and to guarantee that
personnel of the municipality and of the Coordination Unit will be "synchronized" with the
approach, objectives, goals and role they will perform in its execution. Another approach of
these meeting will be the discussion in detail of the preparation and execution of annual
operation plans of each Directorate or Unit involved and the clear identification of the
coordination critical areas.
The indicator of progress will be the execution of each one of the activities of technical
assistance and investment proposed in the plan.
The impact indicators by component will be defined in function of the number of activities of
each component performed within the framework of this environment management plan.
These indicators will be applied on the evaluation phase, time at which real impact will be
identified, positive as well as negative, accomplished and ones not foreseen, to finally make
the necessary recommendations.
With the purpose to verify the fulfillment of the proposed measures in this plan, the proposed
Environmental Audits on years 2 and 3 of the Project, will incorporate audits of
environmental management to each one of the UTAs in the program (water and sewage,
urban roads and transportation, handling of solid waste and settlements in marginal
suburbs).
4.4. Instruments to be Utilized
The main instruments of the environmental management to be applied during the execution of
the plan will be: the manual of administrative procedures, elaborated in function of the policies
prepared for that end; the Overall Environment Law and its regulations; Regulations of tourims
zoning law, technical norms adopted, and the Law of Municipalities.
4.5. Overall Costs of the Environmental Management Plan
The plan cost is estimated at US$ 281,000.00 including taxes and contingencies. Given the
nature of the proposed Plan, most of the costs, excluding taxes correspond to local expenses
which consist of local salaries, consultants and environmental investments.
Some of the expenses of the Plan are recurrent costs of IHT and of the Municipalities, and
others will become recurrent after the Project is finished.  Such expenses are salaries of
personnel to be hired to perform new tasks or to reinforce the existing teams; b) office materials,
manuals and brochures; and, operation costs for the new units and tasks created. Financing is
proposed in decreasing manner on behalf of the project on some recurrent increasing
expenses. The base line recollection for each one of the projects to be financed is another
activity considered in the investment items.
Evaluacion Ambiental del Proyecto         1                            Agosto del 2000



Proyecto de Turismo Costero Sostenible                              IHT/Banco Mundial
Bibliografia
Documento de Evaluaci6n del Proyecto (Project Appraisal Documento), Banco Mundial, Marzo,
2000.
Entrevistas con Ing. Emilie Wietnauer, Jefe de Gesti6n Ambiental del IHT, Lic. Erasmo Sosa,
Gerente de Ia Unidad de Ecoturismo y Desarrollo de Productos, Tatiana Pierson, Contraparte
del Proyecto por parte del IHT, y e/ Ing.
Estudio de Factibilidad T6cnica y Econ6mica del Ordenamiento Ambiental del Desarrollo de las
Islas de la Bahia, Proyecto de Desarrollo Ambiental de Islas de la Bahia, 1998.
FUNUAP, Secretaria de Planificaci6n (SECPLAN), Proyecciones de Poblaci6n, 1996
Informe Social No. 5 del Proyecto de Planificaci6n y Manejo del Turismo Sostenible en la Costa
Norte de Honduras, Carlos Posas e Irasema Montoya, borrador.
Perfil Ambiental de Honduras 1997, Secretaria de Recursos Naturales y Ambiente, Marco del
2000.
Plan de Implementaci6n del Proyecto (PIP), Banco Mundial, Agosto del 2000.
Perfil de Segundad de Medios de Visa, CARE Honduras, Junio de 1999.
Evaluaci6n Ambiental del Proyecto        2                             Agosto del 2000



Proyecto de Turismo Costero Sostenible                                                           IHT/Banco Mundial
Anexo 1
Marco Legal Institucional de Actividades Turisticas
Evaluacion Ambiental del Proyecto                         3                                         Agosto del 2000



Provecto de Turismo Costero Sostenible                                                        IHT/Banco Mundial
Anexo 2
lineamientos internacionales para restauraci6n de sitios hist6ricos para preservaci6n del
Patrimonio Cultural de la ciudad de Trujillo
Evaluacion Ambiental del Proyecto                       4                                        Agosto del 2000



Provecto de Turismo Costero Sostenible                                                        IHT/Banco Mundial
Anexo 3
Lineamientos ambientales para la aprobaci6n de financiamiento a pequefos y micro empresarios.
Evaluaci6n Ambiental del Proyecto                       5                                        Agosto del 2000



Provecto de Turismo Costero Sostenible                                                           IHT/Banco Mundial
Anexo 4
Certificaci6n y Sellos Turisticos
Evaluacion Ambiental del Proyecto                         6                                         Agosto del 2000



Proyecto de Turismo Costero Sostenible                                                       IHT/Banco Mundial
Evaluaci6n Ambiental del Proyecto                       7                                       Agosto del 2000



