Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3558-HO
Development Credit Agreement
(Sustainable Coastal Tourism Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated November 22, 2001
CREDIT NUMBER 3558-HO
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated November 22, 2001, between REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has 
requested the Association to assist in the financing of the Project; and 
(B)
the Project will be carried out by 
Instituto Hondureño de Turismo, the 
Borrower’s Tourism Institute, with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such 
assistance, the Borrower will make the proceeds of the credit provided for in Article 
II of this Agreement (the Credit) available to said Institute, as set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through October 6, 
1999), with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions), constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement:
Page  2
(a)
A new paragraph (12) is added to Section 2.01 to read as set forth below, 
and the existing paragraphs (12) through (14) of said Section are accordingly 
renumbered as paragraphs (13) through (15):
"12.
‘Participating Country’ means any country that the Association 
determines meets the requirements set forth in Section 11 of Resolution No. 
194 of the Board of Governors of the Association, adopted on April 8, 1999; 
and ‘Participating Countries’ means, collectively, all such countries.";
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not a Participating Country or for goods produced in, 
or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any 
payment to persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or 
import, to the knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a decision of 
the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of 
the 
United Nations."; and
(c)
Paragraph (c) of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions is modified to 
read as follows:
"Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any event not later 
than six months before the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed 
for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, the Borrower shall 
prepare and furnish to the Association a report, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and 
initial operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be 
derived from it, the performance by the Borrower and the Association of their 
respective obligations under the Development Credit Agreement and the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"Advisory Committee" means the committee referred to in Section 3.01 (e) 
(i) (I) of this Agreement;
(b)
"AIDS" means Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome;
(c)
"BCH" means Banco Central de Honduras, the Borrower’s Central Bank;
(d)
"Coastal Municipalities" means the municipalities of Omoa, Tela, 
Trujillo, La Ceiba, Roatan and Utila, all located in the Project Area;
(e)
"Cooperation Agreement" means any of the agreements to be entered into 
between IHT and INA, IHT and the Coastal Municipalities and IHT and MOH pursuant to 
Section 3.01 (c) of the Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time to the 
extent allowed by Section 3.01 (d) (ii) of this Agreement, and such term includes all 
schedules to the Cooperation Agreements;
(f)
"Eligible Categories" means categories (1) through (6) set forth in the 
table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(g)
"Eligible Entrepreneur" means an entrepreneur, a private business, an 
association of private and public businesses, a cooperative or a non-governmental 
organization which meets the criteria set forth in the Implementation Manual as 
beneficiary of a Grant for an Innovation Subproject;
(h)
"Eligible Expenditures" means the expenditures for goods, works and 
services referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(i)
"Eligible Indigenous Community" means a community or group thereof 
legally established in the Project Area and composed of garífuna, miskito, creole or 
Page  3
pech indigenous peoples, or a non-governmental organization acting on behalf of such 
community or communities, which meets the criteria set forth in the Implementation 
Manual as beneficiary of a Grant for an Innovation Subproject;
(j)
"Grant" means a grant made or proposed to be made by IHT out of the 
proceeds of the Credit to an Eligible Indigenous Community or an Eligible Entrepreneur 
for the financing of part of the costs of an Innovation Subproject;
(k)
"Grant Agreement" means each of the agreements to be entered into 
pursuant to the provisions of Section 3.03 (b) of this Agreement in respect of an 
Innovation Subproject;
(l)
"Grants Management Agency" means the agency referred to in Section 3.03 
(a) of this Agreement;
(m)
"HIV" means Human Immune-deficiency Virus;
(n)
"IHT" means Instituto Hondureño de Turismo, the Borrower’s Tourism 
Institute under the Secretariat of Tourism established and operating under Legislative 
Decree No. 103-93 published in La Gaceta (the Borrower’s Official Gazette), on July 
14, 1993, as said Decree may have been amended to the date of this Agreement;
(o)
"Implementation Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into between 
the Borrower and IHT pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may 
be amended from time to time to the extent allowed by Section 3.01 (d) (i) of this 
Agreement, and such term includes all schedules to the Implementation Agreement;
(p)
"Implementation Letter" means the letter of even date herewith, from the 
Borrower to the Association, containing the IPDP, and the indicators to be used in 
monitoring and evaluating the implementation of the Project;
(q)
"Implementation Manual" means the manual for the operation of the Project 
referred to in Section 3.04 of this Agreement;
(r)
"INA" means Instituto Nacional Agrario, the Borrower’s National Agrarian 
Institute;
(s)
"Innovation Subproject" means any of the investments referred to in Part 
C.4 of the Project selected, approved and implemented in accordance with the criteria 
set forth in the Implementation Manual;
(t)
"IPDP" means the Indigenous Peoples Development Plan set forth in the 
Implementation Letter;
(u)
"Land Diagnostic Study" means the diagnostic study of the indigenous land 
tenure situation in the Project Area, referred to in the IPDP, the terms of reference 
of which study were approved by the Association on May 25, 2001;
(v)
"Model Grant Agreement" means the model Grant Agreement set forth in the 
Implementation Manual;
(w)
"MOH" means the Borrower’s Ministry of Health;
(x)
"PCU" means the Project coordination unit referred to in Section 3.01 (e) 
(i) (II) of this Agreement;
(y)
"Project Area" means the northern coast of the Borrower’s territory, 
extending along the mainland from the municipality of Omoa to the municipality of 
Trujillo and offshore to and including the Bay Islands, and also including the 
southernmost part of the Mesoamerican Barrier reef system (a group of coral reefs and 
their ecosystems located off such northern coast);
(z)
"Project Management Report" means each report prepared in accordance with 
Page  4
Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(aa)
"SEFIN" means Secretaría de Estado en el Despacho de Finanzas, the 
Borrower’s Secretariat of Finance; and
(bb)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement.
Section 1.03. Each reference in the General Conditions to the Project 
implementation entity shall be deemed as a reference to IHT.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to four million Special Drawing Rights (SDR4, 000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2005 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on January 15 and July 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each January 15 and July 15, commencing January 15, 2012 and ending July 15, 2041.  
Each installment to and including the installment payable on July 15, 2021, shall be 
one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be 
two percent (2%) of such principal amount.  
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
Page  5
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall cause 
IHT to carry out the Project with the assistance of: 
(i) 
the Coastal Municipalities for the implementation of all parts of 
the Project; and
(ii)
INA and MOH for the implementation of Part C.5 of the Project and 
the IPDP, 
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate environmental, 
economic, financial and administrative practices, and shall provide, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit available to IHT under 
an implementation agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and IHT, under 
terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Association.
(c)
The Borrower shall cause IHT to enter into one or more cooperation 
agreements with each of the Coastal Municipalities, one cooperation agreement with INA 
and one cooperation agreement with MOH, all under terms and conditions satisfactory to 
the Association.
(d)
(i)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights and carry out its 
obligations under the Implementation Agreement in such a manner as 
to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Association and 
to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and, except as the 
Association shall otherwise, agree, the Borrower shall not assign, 
amend, abrogate, suspend, waive, terminate or fail to enforce the 
Page  6
Implementation Agreement or any provision thereof; and
(ii)
the Borrower shall cause IHT to exercise its rights and carry out 
its obligations under the Cooperation Agreements in such manner as 
to protect the interests of the Borrower, IHT and the Association 
and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and the Borrower 
shall cause IHT, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, 
not to assign, amend, abrogate, suspend, waive, terminate or fail 
to 
enforce any Cooperation Agreement or any provision thereof.
(e)
The Borrower shall cause IHT to:
(i)
establish, and thereafter operate and maintain, during the 
implementation of the Project:
(I)
an advisory committee (the Advisory Committee) with 
functions and responsibilities satisfactory to the 
Association; and
(II)
a Project coordination unit, with representation in the 
Project Area to oversee the environmental requirements of 
proposed tourism investments, all with functions and 
responsibilities satisfactory to the Association, at all 
times headed by a Project coordinator and assisted by staff 
in adequate numbers, and with qualifications and experience 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
without limitation to the provisions of subparagraph (e) (i) (II) 
of this Section, and not later than six months after the Effective 
Date, employ in the unit referred to therein a sociologist and a 
coordinator for tourism and environmental matters; and
(iii)
open and thereafter maintain an account in a commercial bank, 
until completion of the Project, under terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association, for purposes of managing the 
counterpart funds referred to in subparagraph (B) below; and
(f)
The Borrower shall by no later than February 1, May 1, August 1 and 
November 1 of each year, deposit in such account the counterpart funds required for 
the implementation of the Project by IHT in the following three months.
Section 3.02.  Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
Section 3.03.  The Borrower shall cause IHT:
(a)
to engage the services of an agent to manage the implementation of Part 
C.4 of the Project (the Grants Management Agency), under terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association including, inter alia, the specific guidelines to be 
followed by such agency in the management of the Grants and the monitoring of the 
Innovation Subprojects.
(b)
to transfer, on a grant basis, the portion of the proceeds of the Credit 
allocated for an Innovation Subproject under an agreement to be entered into between 
IHT and the respective Eligible Entrepreneur or Eligible Indigenous Community, under 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, and  substantially in the terms 
of the Model Grant Agreement including the requirement that the respective Eligible 
Entrepreneur and Eligible Indigenous Community finance the part of the Innovation 
Subproject’s costs not financed by the Grant; and
(c)
to exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under each Grant 
Agreement in such a manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower, IHT and the 
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and, except as the 
Page  7
Association shall otherwise agree, not assign, amend, abrogate, suspend, waive, 
terminate or fail to enforce any Grant Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.04.  (a) The Borrower shall cause IHT to carry out the Project in 
accordance with an implementation manual, satisfactory to the Association, said manual 
to include, inter alia:
(i)
the procedures for the carrying out, monitoring and evaluation of 
the Project (including the procurement and financial requirements 
thereof);
(ii)
the criteria for the selection, environmental screening, approval, 
implementation and monitoring of Innovation Subprojects;
(iii)
the functions and organization of the PCU and the Advisory 
Committee; and
(iv)
the Model Grant Agreement.
(b) 
The Implementation Manual may be amended by IHT from time to time, in a 
manner satisfactory to the Association, to facilitate continued Project 
implementation. In case of any conflict between the terms of the Implementation Manual 
and those of this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall cause IHT:
(a)
to maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in the 
Implementation Letter, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof;
(b)
to prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, not later than twelve months after the Effective Date and 
yearly thereafter during the period of Project implementation, a report integrating 
the results of the evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of such report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure 
the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
to review with the Association shortly after each such report’s 
preparation, said report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of said report and the Association's views on the matter.
Section 3.06.  The Borrower shall: (a) carry out the IPDP in accordance with its 
terms; and (b) not later than September 30, 2002 furnish to the Association for its 
comments the results of the Land Diagnostic Study.
Section 3.07.  For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall cause IHT to:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months before the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, a plan for the future operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan.
Section 3.08. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that the obligations 
set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
Page  8
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by IHT, 
and the Borrower shall cause IHT to carry out said obligations.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause IHT to maintain a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements, 
all in accordance with accounting standards acceptable to the Association, 
consistently applied, adequate to reflect its operations and financial condition and 
to register separately the operations, resources and expenditures related to the 
Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall cause IHT to:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) 
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with auditing 
standards acceptable to the Association, consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year; (A) 
certified copies of the financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for such year as so audited; and (B) 
an opinion on such statements and report of such audit, by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association 
shall have reasonably requested including as part of this 
information, a management letter concerning the Borrower’s 
internal controls; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning such 
records, accounts and financial statements, and the audit thereof, 
and concerning said auditors, as the Association may from time to 
time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure, the Borrower shall cause IHT to:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with sound 
accounting practices, records and separate accounts reflecting 
such expenditures;
(ii)
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures are 
retained until at least one year after the Association has 
received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Credit Account was made; and
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records.
(d)
The Borrower shall cause IHT to:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (c) (i) of 
this Section and those for the Special Account for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested, 
Page  9
including a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
Project Management Reports or statements of expenditure submitted 
during such fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related withdrawals; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Association 
shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.02.  (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of 
this Agreement, the Borrower shall cause IHT to carry out a time-bound action plan 
acceptable to the Association for the strengthening of the financial management system 
referred to in paragraph (a) of said Section 4.01 in order to enable the Borrower, not 
later than six months from the Effective Date, or such later date as the Association 
shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project management reports, acceptable to the 
Association, each of which:
(i) 
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and projected sources and applications of funds for the 
Project for the six-month period following the period covered by 
said report; and (B) shows separately expenditures financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit during the period covered by said 
report and expenditures proposed to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit during the six-month period following the 
period covered by said report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report; and (B) 
explains variances between the actual and previously forecast 
implementation targets; and
(iii) sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit, as at the end of the period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to 
the Association, and furnish to the Association not later than 45 days after the end 
of each calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
the Implementation Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower 
and IHT;
(b)
IHT has adopted the Implementation Manual;
(c)
IHT has established the PCU and contracted for the PCU the services of: 
(i) a Project coordinator; (ii) a finance director; and (iii) a procurement 
specialist/accountant, all with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the 
Association;
(d)
IHT has strengthened the financial management system referred to in 
Section 4.01 (a) of this Agreement in a manner satisfactory to the Association; and
(e)
IHT has opened the account referred to in Section 3.01 (e) (iii) of this 
Page  10
Agreement and the Borrower has made a deposit of $50,000 equivalent therein.
Section 5.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Association, namely, that the Implementation 
Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and IHT and is legally 
binding upon the Borrower and IHT in accordance with its terms.
Section 5.03. The date February 20, 2002, is hereby specified for the purposes 
of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Secretary of SEFIN of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Secretaría de Estado en el Despacho de Finanzas
Tegucigalpa, M.D.C.
Honduras
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
HACIENDA
1308
(504) 237-4142
Tegucigalpa
FINANZAS HO
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Tegucigalpa, Honduras, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS
By /s/ Gabriela Nuñez de Reyes
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Joseph M. Owen
Resident Representative
Page  11
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
A.
General
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Works (other than as 
470,000
88%
covered by Category 
(5) below)
(2)
Goods (other than as 
130,000
100% of foreign
covered by Categories
expenditures, and
(5) and (6) below)
85% of local
expenditures
(3)
Consultants’ services
 )
100%
 )
(a)
for Part A of the 
 )
Project
640,000)
 )
(b)
for Part B of the 
 )
Project
610,000)
 )
(c)
for Part C of the 
 )
Project
350,000)
(other than as 
 )
covered by
 )
Categories (5) and 
 )
(6) below)
 )
 )
(d)
for Part D of the 
 )
Project
270,000)
(including audits)
 )
(4)
Training
250,000
100%
(5)
Goods, works and services
for:
(a)
Innovation Sub-
500,000
66% of expenditures for 
projects for 
goods, works and services incurred under
Eligible Entrepreneurs
the Innovation Subproject
(b)
Innovation Sub-
250,000
75% of expenditures for
projects for 
the goods, works and
Eligible Indigenous
services incurred under
Communities
the Innovation
Subproject
(6)
Operating Costs
130,000
80% of expenditures
made until December
31, 2002, 60% of
expenditures made
until December 31,
2003, and thereafter
40% of expenditures
(7)
Unallocated
400,000
TOTAL
4,000,000
Page  12
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
(c)
the term "Training" means expenditures (other than those for consultants’ 
services) incurred by IHT to finance transportation costs and per-diem of trainees and 
rental of training facilities and equipment; and
(d)
the term "Operating Costs" means recurrent expenditures that would not 
have been incurred by IHT, absent the Project, such as for salaries of new 
administrative staff of the PCU, transportation and per-diem costs of said staff, 
non-durable goods needed for the carrying out of the Project and the supervision 
thereof, and rental of space for the operation of the entrepreneurship center referred 
to in Part C.1 of the Project.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of:
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of 
SDR400,000 may be made on account of payments made within twelve months prior to the 
date of this Agreement, but in no case prior to May 13, 2001; and
(b)
payments made for Innovation Subprojects under Category (5) above unless:
(i)
IHT has engaged the services of the Grants Management Agency in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 3.03 (a) of this 
Agreement; and
(ii)
the respective Grant Agreement has been entered into by the 
parties thereto.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure, all under such terms and conditions as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower:
(a)
for goods costing less than $25,000 equivalent per contract;
(b) 
for works costing less than $150,000 equivalent per contract;
(c) 
for consulting services provided by firms costing less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract; 
(d) 
for consulting services provided by individuals costing less than $50,000 
equivalent; and
(e)
for Training and Operating Costs.
B.
Special Account
1.
The Borrower shall open and maintain in dollars a separate special deposit 
account, in the BCH, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
2.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been opened, withdrawals from the Credit Account of amounts to be 
deposited into the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
until the Association shall have received: (i) the first Project 
Page  13
Management Report referred to in Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement; and (ii) a 
request from the Borrower for withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, 
withdrawals shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this 
Schedule 1; and
(b)
upon receipt by the Association of a Project Management Report pursuant 
to Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement, accompanied by a request from the Borrower for 
withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, all further withdrawals shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.
3.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to 
the Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if the Association determines at any time that any Project Management 
Report does not adequately provide the information required pursuant to Section 4.02 
of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Association determines at any time that all further withdrawals 
should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account; or
(c)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of: (A) the records and accounts for the Special Account; or (B) 
the records and accounts reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals 
were made on the basis of Project Management Reports.
5.
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any 
time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in 
whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account 
pursuant to Section 6.02 of the General Conditions. Upon such notification, the 
Association shall determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the 
Special Account may be made and what procedures should be followed for making such 
deposits, and shall notify the Borrower of its determination.
6.
(a)
If the Association determines at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or 
was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Association, provide such additional evidence as the 
Association may request, or deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association 
shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment.  Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the 
Association into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided 
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Association determines at any time that any amount outstanding in 
the Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures 
during the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to subparagraph (a), (b) or (c) 
of this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal 
or for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Development Credit 
Agreement.
Annex A to SCHEDULE 1
Page  14
Operation of Special Account
When Withdrawals Are Not Made
On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
For the purposes of this Annex the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount 
equivalent to $550,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the 
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex; provided, however, that, unless 
the Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to 
an amount equivalent to $350,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Credit Account, plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered 
into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall equal 
or exceed the equivalent of $1,000,000.
2.
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish 
the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On 
the basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as 
the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Association requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the 
Association shall specify. Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence required pursuant to 
Part B.3 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of 
which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have 
been shown by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be 
withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under one or more of the Eligible 
Categories.
3.
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 
5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the 
Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit shall follow such procedures as the Association shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after 
and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
Annex B to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account
When Withdrawals Are Made
On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
Except as the Association may otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower, all 
withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be deposited by the Association into the 
Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Association from 
the Credit Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories.
2.
Each application for withdrawal from the Credit Account for deposit into the 
Special Account shall be supported by a Project Management Report.
3.
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Credit, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and 
Page  15
deposit into the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so 
requested; and (b) the amount which the Association has determined, based on the 
Project Management Report accompanying said application, is required to be deposited 
in order to finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following the 
date of such report; provided, however, that the amount so deposited, when added to 
the amount indicated by said Project Management Report to be remaining in the Special 
Account, shall not exceed the equivalent of $1,000,000.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to create an enabling environment for the 
development and management of sustainable coastal tourism in the Project Area.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
National Strategy and Institutional Support for Sustainable Coastal 
Tourism
1.
Formulation and implementation of a participatory approach to tourism 
development in the Project Area, including the development and dissemination of 
background materials relevant to such development.
2.
Development of a national strategy, and specific actions plans for integrated 
and sustainable tourism development in the Project Area in the short, medium and long 
terms, including, inter alia:
(a) 
the carrying out of workshops to exchange views on the proposed strategy 
and action plans with public and private sector stakeholders, including indigenous 
peoples, at the national, regional and local levels; and
(b)
the carrying out of: (i) baseline studies in the Coastal Municipalities 
to assess the attitudes and perceptions of key stakeholders on issues related to 
environment and tourism; and (ii) economic, environmental and social assessments of 
tourism impacts in the Project Area.
3. 
Development of policy and legal and regulatory instruments to support the 
implementation of the strategy and actions plans referred to in Part A.2 of the 
Project and provision of the expert advise required therefore.
4.
Carrying out, as part of the IPDP, of:
(a)
garífunas’ land regularization activities;
(b)
information, dissemination and counseling activities to groups at high 
risk of HIV transmission, aimed to raise awareness and understanding about HIV/AIDS, 
to promote behavioral changes, and to reduce the stigmatization of HIV infected 
persons; and
(c)
the Land Diagnostic Study.
Part B:
Institutional Strengthening of  the Coastal Municipalities’ Tourism 
Management Capacity
1.
(a)
Establishment and operation of tourism and environment technical 
assistance units in the Coastal Municipalities to handle municipal tourism development 
and environmental management.
(b)
Development and pilot implementation of an environmental certification 
program for tourism related activities in the Project Area including an assessment of 
Page  16
the financing sources available for said certification program. 
(c)
Establishment of a regional information network linking the technical 
units referred to in Part B.1 (a) of the Project in order to exchange relevant 
information and experiences needed for the planning and managing of tourism 
development activities. 
2.
Training of the Coastal Municipalities’ staff, and staff of private sector and 
community based organizations on environmental management, tourism destination 
management, entrepreneurship and other tourism, environmental and management subjects, 
identified as needed by the Borrower and acceptable to the Association.
3.
Restoration of public sites and buildings in the historic center of the 
Borrower’s city of Trujillo.
Part C: Entrepreneur Program for Sustainable Coastal Tourism
1.
Establishment and operation of an entrepreneurship center for sustainable 
coastal tourism in the Project Area.
2.
Design and delivery of training to micro and small business enterprises 
established and operating in the Project Area to stimulate productive capacity and to 
create business opportunities in fields such as water sports, dive operations and 
hotel and eco-lodge operations.
3.
Design and delivery of training to members of indigenous communities of the 
Project Area in subjects such as the development of ecotourism and cooperative 
marketing strategies and the preparation of business plans for subprojects including 
Innovation Subprojects.
4.
Financing of innovative investments for sustainable tourism such as with respect 
to eco-lodges, handicrafts, tour guides and operators, adventure travel outfitters and 
restoration of privately owned buildings of cultural value in the city of Trujillo 
(Innovation Subprojects).
Part D:
Project Management
1.
Establishment and operation of the PIU and training of its staff.
2.
Development of guidelines for monitoring and evaluation of Project outcomes, and 
for evaluation of the appropriateness of a follow-on project.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2004.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
1.
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the provisions of the following Parts of this 
Section I.
2.
In paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of the Guidelines, the references to "Bank member 
countries" and "member country"  shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
Page  17
"Participating Countries" and "Participating Country".
Part B:
National Competitive Bidding
1.
(a)
Except as otherwise provided in Parts B.2 and B.3 of this Section, goods, 
works and printing services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
(b)
Procurement of goods, works and printing services under this Part shall 
be carried out using standard bidding documents acceptable to the Association and 
including the following requirements:
(i)
Contracts shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated bid in 
accordance with criteria set forth in the bidding documents, and 
without taking into account, in the evaluation, the financial cost 
of foreign exchange components.
(ii)
Foreign bidders shall not, as a condition for submitting bids, be 
required to: 
(A)
be registered in Honduras;
(B)
have a representative in Honduras;
(C)
be associated with Honduran suppliers or contractors; and
(D)
certify that, in their country of origin, Honduran suppliers 
or contractors are allowed to participate in competitive 
bidding procedures under equal conditions with other 
bidders.
(iii)
Contracts shall not be divided for the sole purpose of reducing 
contract amounts.
2.
Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $25,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed, excluding those for Subprojects, $60,000 equivalent, 
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of shopping procedures in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $150,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $760,000 equivalent, excluding those for Subprojects, 
may be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of 
quotations obtained from three (3) qualified domestic contractors in response to a 
written invitation. The invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, 
including basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of 
agreement acceptable to the Association, and relevant drawings, where applicable. The 
award shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the 
required work, and who has the experience and resources to complete the contract 
successfully.
Part C:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review 
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
Page  18
provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to: (i) the first two contracts for works procured pursuant 
to the provisions of Part B.1 hereof; and (ii) the first contract for goods procured 
pursuant to the provisions of Part B.1 hereof, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 
2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to the first contract for goods procured pursuant to the 
provisions of Part B.2 hereof, the following procedures shall apply:
(i)
prior to the selection of any supplier under shopping procedures, 
the Borrower shall provide to the Association a report on the 
comparison and evaluation of quotations received;
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract procured under shopping 
procedures, the Borrower shall provide to the Association a copy 
of the specifications and the draft contract; and
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 (f), 2 (g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with:
(a)
the provisions of the Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines:  
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the 
Association in January 1997 and revised in September 1997 and January 1999, subject to 
the modifications thereto set forth in paragraph 2 of this Part A (the Consultant 
Guidelines);
(b)
the provisions of the following Parts of this Section II; and
(c)
the following principles of procurement:
(i)
Foreign consultants shall be permitted to participate in the 
selection process even if there is availability of Honduran 
consultants for the services being procured.
(ii)
Foreign consultants shall not be required to be registered with 
Honduran associations or to be associated with Honduran consulting 
firms as a condition for participating in any selection process.
2.
In paragraph 1.10 of the Consultant Guidelines, the references to "Bank member 
countries" and "member country" shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
"Participating Countries" and "Participating Country".
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
Page  19
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  
The short list of consultants, estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per 
contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Commercial Practices
Services for Innovation Subprojects may be procured in accordance with 
commercial practices acceptable to the Association.
2.
Individual Consultants
Services that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant 
Guidelines up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,000,000 equivalent, shall be 
procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
