Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.: 18074
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
DOMINI CAN REPUBLIC
PRIMARY EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
[LOAN 3351-DRI
June 24, 1998
Sector Management Unit
Human Development
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalenl:
Current Unit =     Pesos
US$1.00            DR$14.60
(at May 1998)
Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31
GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS
IDB                 Inter-American Development Bank
IBRD                International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICR                 Implementation Completion Report
KfW                 German Credit Institute
NGO                Non-governmental organization
PCU                 Project Coordinating Unit
SEEC                Secretariat (Ministry) of State for E ducation
UNDP               United Nations Development Prog.ram
Vice President    Shahid Javed Burki
Country Unit Director Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
Country Sector Leader Jamil Salmi
Task Manager      Eleanor Schreiber



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Talfle of Contents
PREFACE ........................................
EVALUATION SUMMARY. .
PART L PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT .1
PROJECT BACKGROUND .             .                                          1
PROJECT OBJECTIVES .1
IMPLEMENTATION RECORD.                                                      2
EDUCATIONAL DEVELOPENT.                                                 2
MANAGEMENT DEVELOPENT                          .4
PROJECT MANAGEMNT                           .5
MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Project Timing and Support                  .6
Project Organization and Management              .6
PROJECT SUSTAlNABILITY.                                                     7
BANK PERFORMANCE.                                                           8
BORROWER PERFORMANCE.                                                       8
ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME.                                                      9
KEY LESSONS LEARNED.                                                        9
PART H. STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments .11
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credit .12
Table 3: Project Timetable .13
Table 4: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual (SDR) .13
Table 5: Key Monitoring Indicators .14
Table 6: Studies Completed in Proect .16
Table 7A: Project Costs .17
Table 7B: Project Financing .18
Table 8: Status of Legal Covenants .19
Table 9: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs .22
Table 9: Bank Resources: Missions .23
APPENDICES
A. BORROWER CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR
Bt. MAP
This document has a restricted distribuation and may be used by recipients only in the
perfonnance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
DOMEWICAN REPUBLIC
PRIMARY EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 3351-DR)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Primary Education
]Development Project for which Loan 3351-DR in the amount of US$15 million
equivalent was approved on December 13, 1991 and made effective on July 22, 1992.
The loan was fully disbursed and closed on February 7, 1997, nearly 1.5 years before the
originally scheduled closing.
The ICR was prepared by John Helwig (education consultant) and Eleanor
Schreiber (LCSHD), with the assistance of Sonia Rodriguez-Crane (Task Assistant) and
Agda Colbert (Operations Assistant). The draft ICR was reviewed by Janiil Salmi
(Country Sector Leader, LCSHD). The Borrower prepared a separate report which is
included as an appendix to the ICR.
Preparation of this ICR is based, inter alia, on the Bank's final supervision mission,
which took place in October 1996; the loan agreement; supervision reports; the mid-term
review; correspondence between the Blank and the Borrower; interviews with government
and other authorities, donor agencies and consultants; and relevant reports.



ii
PRIMARY EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 3351-DR)
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
i. In the late 1980s the educational system of the Donninican Republic was
characterized by low quality, poor efficiency and unequal access. Expenditure on
education had fallen to a low of 1.3 percent of GDP by 1988. Recognizing the serious
problems in the education sector, a group of industrialists convened in 1989 to
stimulate interest in rebuilding public education. Following this lead, a broadly
representative group, including government, private sector and civil society
representatives, prepared a ten-year plan for the education sector, the Plan Decenal, for
the period 1991-2000. The project, together with a parallel operation assisted by the
Inter-American Development Bank (IDB), was a central element of the initial five-year
period of the Plan.
Project Objectives and Description
ii.    The project objectives were to improve the quality of primary education, to
increase enrollment of children from low income families, and to strengthen resource
management. An educational development component was designed to improve student
achievement, internal efficiency and parental participation through provision of training for
teachers, school directors and supervisors; community maintenance of school facilities;
and support for a school nutrition program. A management development component was
designed to strengthen supporting institutional arrangements for planning, educational
assessment and community support for schools.
Implementation Experience and Results
iii.   The Project is rated highly satisfactory. Development objectives for the project
and Plan Decenal reforns more broadly remained relevant throughout the period, and
implementation achievements surpassed expectations. Most notably, the Government
more than doubled basic education spending' during the implementation period. The
Secretariat (Ministry) of State for Education (SEEC) ffirther reported that enrollments
in grades 1-8 rose 9 per cent during 1991-94, repetition declined from 14.5 per cent in
1991 to 7 percent in 1996, dropouts decreased from 22 per cent in 1991 to 13 per cent
l Grades 7 and 8, lower secondary, were added to the primary education cycle, grades 1-6, as the final
two years of basic education during project implementation, and provided inputs under the project.



iii
in 1996, and the average promotion rate rose from 64 per cent in 1991 to 80 percent in
1996. While data for the period are not considered fully reliable, the Bank judges the
direction and magnitude of these changes to be reasonable and to reflect trends towards
improved quality and efficiency accurately.
iv.   The project also achieved or exceeded all physical targets and the loan was fully
disbursed some 15 months ahead of the original appraisal schedule. Key quantitative
achievements included provision of traLining for over 10,000 teachers, supervisors and
administrators and upgrading for nearly 2,000 classrooms. The school nutrition program
nearly doubled in coverage to reach 365,000 poor children. A school mapping program
was developed, and parents' associations for all public schools were strengthened to
support school maintenance and other activities. A student assessment system was also
introduced. Early results suggest the need to improve the content of the assessment tools
as well as their use to identify and correct teaching weaknesses.
v.    The highly satisfactory project implementation owes much to its timing. The
bulk of the project was implemented during a period of political and economic stability,
and continuous support for the reform was forthcoming from civil society. Counterpart
funds, though a small share of total, wvere also consistently provided on schedule.
Substantial increases in teacher salaries, which were made over the implementation
period, were especially necessary to revitalize the education system and stimulate the
reforms.
vi.   At appraisal risks associated with SEEC's management capacity were cited to
justify both the establishment of a PCU separate from the line departments of the
Secretariat and the agreement that UNDP would administer the IBRD loan. These
decisions, together with a highly centralized but exceptionally effective management
style of the executive director of the IBRD-assisted project, further explain the
successful implementation record.
vii.   Bank and Borrower performance during design and implementation of the project
were satisfactory. Potential sustainability of the Plan Decenal reforms, including the
externally assisted projects, is reasonably assured through continuing broad-based support
for improving basic education and increasing education expenditures. Plans to strengthen
community involvement in basic education should also facilitate enhanced accountability at
the school level. In addition, a larger, second-phase development program, incorporating
new loans from the IBRD and the IDB, was recently launched to consolidate and deepen
achievements.
viii. Three broad lessons of experience have been identified from the project:
Broad support by representative stakeholders is a prerequisite for successful
introduction and implementation of educational reform. The ad hoc groups
that formed to promote, first, the argument for educational reform and then
the development of the Pi!an Decenal accounted in large part for the



iv
successful start-up and implementation of Plan activities supported by the
project. Strong societal commitment, bolstered by a period of political and
economic stability, propelled a direct and positive response to the need to
strengthen basic education in the Dominican Republic.
When faced with limited institutional capacity in the responsible line
ministry, it may be better to rely on outside capacity and to take a phased
approach to institutional strengthening than to risk delay or even failure in
initiating a much needed reform or project. Thle project, together with the
IDB-assisted operation, constituted the largest share of investment in basic
education during the first half of the Plan Decenal; and competent project
coordinating units contributed to successful implementation. Recognizing
weaknesses in SEEC management capacity, the two PCUs evolved in the
direction of supporting effective project execution without relying directly
on SEEC management capacity. This management structure appears to
have been appropriate for 'jump-starting' the educational reform process in
the Dominican Republic. Sustainability of the reform and its broader
objectives will, however, require more systematic build-up of SEEC
capacity. A conscious effort is being made to involve and to support
technically and administratively SEEC staff as the main program
implementors under the follow-up operations (paras. 21, 22 and 25 of text).
The implementation experience similarly demonstrates the trade-offs
between heavy dependence on an individual and on a larger team for
imnplementation of a program. The executive director advanced the reform
quickly and in a remarkable manner, encouraging the participation of
practitioners in the design and execution of reform activities (e.g., with the
student assessment, para. 14 of text). Nonetheless, his sudden departure
left a leadership void that diminished active support for the reform activities
in an electoral period when an added effort was needed to ensure
continuity.
The ability to take a programmatic approach to project design can facilitate
innovation and improvements during the life of a project. The flexibility
demonstrated by the Bank in accepting last minute changes to design of the
project, notably the addition of a significant andi innovative teacher training
component at negotiations (paras. 6-9 of text), resulted in a stronger
project. Results also support the more recent approaches to learning and
lending employed in the Bank, which encourage experimentation and allow
for periodic adjustment under projects, as warranted. The teacher training
model developed in the course of project implementation, which provides
for professional and career development for the teaching force, raises
standards to reflect the needs for improved quality in basic education, and
is a major contribution to the reform effort.



IMPLEMENTATIO)N COMPLETION REPORT
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
PRIMARY EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 3351-DR)
PART I: PROJECT IM[PLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
Project Background
1.   In the early 1990s the educational system of the Dominican Republic was
characterized by low quality, poor efficiency and unequal access. Expenditure on
education, already comparatively low, fell from 1.7 percent of GNP in 1980 to 1.3
percent in 1988. Recognizing the serious problems in the sector, a group of
industrialists convened in 1989 to stimnulate interest in rebuilding public education.
Following this lead, a broadly representative group, including government, private
sector and civil society representatives, prepared a ten-year plan for the education
sector, the Plan Decenal, for the period 1991-2000. The project, together with a
parallel operation assisted by the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB), was a
central element of the initial five-year period of the Plan.
Project Objectives
2.    The main project objectives were to strengthen the effectiveness of primary
education in the Dominican Republic by raising levels of student retention, promotion
and achievement; increasing the partiicipation rate of poor rural and urban children; and
ensuring effective planning, programming and monitoring of resources available for
primary education. The project comprised two components: one for educational
development and one for managemenit development.
3.    The Educational Development Component was designed to: (a) provide skills
upgrading in key subject areas and teaching methods for some 10,000 public primary
school teachers; (b) provide training for about 750 regional, district and school
administrators and supervisors to introduce regular technical supervision and support
for primary school teachers; (c) initiate a system for maintenance of primary school
facilities based largely on community inputs of labor and government financing of
materials; and (d) provide equipment for, and studies to evaluate, improve and expand
an ongoing school nutrition programr in rural areas and initiate a similar program in
peri-urban areas.



2
4.    The Management Development Component was designed to: (a) strengthen
management information, planning, and monitoring for primary education; (b) support
selected studies on issues related to the future development and financing of basic
education; (c) introduce a student assessment system to measure and monitor
achievement in language, mathematics, science and social science; and (d) strengthen
the SEEC's capacity to support improved community contributions to schools.
Implementation Record
Overview
5.    Development objectives for the project and Plan Decenal reforms more broadly
remained relevant throughout the period, and implementation achievements surpassed
expectations. Most notably, the Govermnent more than doubled basic education
spending' during the implementation period. The Secretariat (Ministry) for Education
(SEEC) further reported that enrollments in grades 1-8 rose 9 per cent during 1991-94,
repetition declined from 14.5 per cent in 1991 to 7 percent in 1996; dropouts decreased
from 22 per cent in 1991 to 13 per cent in 1996, and the average promotion rate rose
from 64 per cent in 1991 to 80 percent in 1996. While data for the period are not
considered fully reliable, the Bank judges the direction and magnitude of these changes
to be reasonable and to reflect trends accurately. The project also achieved or exceeded
all quantifiable targets and the loan was fully disbursedi some 15 months ahead of the
original appraisal schedule.
Educational Development
6.    Teacher Training. The appraisal report called for training for 600 teacher
trainers to provide short-term upgrading for 10,000 practicing teachers in subject
matter areas and to develop and strengthen student-oriented teaching techniques.
However, the project unit, with broad involvement of SEEC and university experts,
designed and implemented a more substantive program with Bank agreement. The
program was innovative in design, drawing on local universities to prepare and deliver
the training in accordance with SEEC guidelines and criteria. This program currently
serves as the bridge between the normal school training received by teachers in the past
and the postsecondary certificate and degree training required for the future under a
new education law. Initial evaluation results confirm that the training has had a
positive impact on student attendance, retention, promotion and scholastic
achievement.2
Grades 7 and 8, lower secondary, were added to the primary education cycle as the final two years of
basic education during project implementation, and provided inputs under the project.
2 Dominquez, Luis and Crespo, Manuel, "Impacto del Programa de Capacitaci6n", and "Pruebas
Estudiantiles", SEEC, 1996.



3
7.    The program consisted of 1,152 hours (72 university-level credits), administered
by four universities through 72 centers located strategically throughout the country.
Participants attended classes each Saturdlay for approximately 18 months, plus two
four-week intensive summer sessions. They also received 100 half-hour radio
broadcasts which supported the classroom lessons, undertook projects in their
classrooms or communities, and were supervised on-the-job by university teachers who
visited each participant a minimum of 12 times. Successful participants received a
financial incentive for completing the certification program which amounted to 20
percent of pay. Overall costs of the training, at under US$500 per participant, were
reasonable.
8.    Over 600 university and normal school teachers were trained and subsequently
taught in the program for classroom teachers as well as school directors. The four
universities enrolled 8,700 participants in the program, in two cohorts during 1993-
1995. By the project's end, about 8,000 teachers had successfully completed the
program. An additional 3,000 teachers enrolled for the third course beginning in 1997.
In the future, the country's four normal schools would be expected to compete to
provide the upgraded and higher level training, or to be converted to in-service training
centers or other uses.
9.    In response to recognition of the importance of first and second grade for
students and the high repetition and dropout suffered at this level, a separate training
program was mounted for first and second grade master teachers. About 75 teachers
completed a 72-credit-hour program for teaching reading, writing and math. This
program was delivered by the Universidad de Las Americas of Mexico, and was
designed to certify the participants as trainers for the program. Outside the project,
during 1997, 25 of the graduates trained an additional 2,500 teachers.
10. School Supervision. A national supervision system was initiated through
development, distribution and training in the use of seven different manuals (52,500
copies) for school directors, district supervisors and regional office technical advisors.
Over 500 of these administrators and technical supervisors also participated in a short
training program provided through UNESCO's International Institute for Planning. A
total of 198 selected central and regional office staff participated in a separate post-
graduate degree program administered by the Catholic University Madre y Maestra in
Santo Domingo, the Autonomous University of Santo Domingo, and the University of
Montreal (Canada). Some 170 participants completed requirements for the master
degree, while 28 received a specialist degree in administration, supervision or
curriculum development. Motorcycles were financed through the project for nearly
350 regional office technical advisors and district supervisors. The recipients signed
agreements under which they purchased the motorcycles through salary deductions.
With the money obtained from the salary deductions a special fund was established for
maintenance and purchase of additional motorcycles. The availability of transportation
greatly facilitated supervisors' work anld enhanced their contribution in support of Plan
Decenal objectives.



4
11.   Facilities Maintenance. A program for routine maintenance of public primary
schools was prepared through the School Facilities Department of SEEC in 1989. Five
regions, with 4,000 classrooms requiring maintenance (approximately 20 percent of
total), were assigned to the IBRD-assisted project and thie six other regions to the IDB
project. The component originally targeted 375 schools for classroom maintenance;
however, review of needs in 1992-93 resulted in an increased number of 529 schools
with rehabilitation rather than simple maintenance needs. A maintenance manual and
training were provided to parent associations to assist with the repairs and to continue
maintenance activities. Nearly 2,000 classrooms were rehabilitated under the project;
18 regional offices were repaired, and special rooms improved for installation of
computers and other equipment; and 13 district offices were also repaired.
12.   School Nutrition. The Project supported development of the SEEC's school
nutrition program.  This included a school feeding program for about 80,000 children
on the border with Haiti, using food provided through the World Food Program. The
project was to strengthen this program and develop another for 100,000 school children
in marginal urban areas, to be financed by SEEC. By 1996, the two programs served
100,000 children in the rural zone and 265,000 in urban areas. The urban program
spurred the creation of local enterprises to supply the nutritional supplements (initially a
biscuit and powered milk). The component also initiatecl a program of micro-nutrient
fortification to make up for broad deficiencies in urban children and a deparatization
program for children in two of the poorer regions in the country. Under the
component, a national survey of height-for-age was undertaken among first grade
children to target the urban feeding program. Other inputs included cost-effectiveness
assessments of alternative supplements, establishment of a monitoring and evaluation
system for the feeding programs and support for strengthening the responsible SEEC
unit and public information and communication on nutrition. These were deemed
useful contributors to improved effectiveness of program quality and management.
Management Development
13.  Information Management. This component supported improvement of
SEEC's management information system. A school mapping program was established,
and a catalog produced, which included information about school location, number of
classrooms, enrollment, and staffing. An educational management information systems
office in SEEC was equipped with computers and staffed with qualified personnel.
Computers were installed in all regional offices and in the central office personnel unit.
It is expected that follow-on projects supported by the IB]RD and the IDB (para. 25)
will support expansion of the MIS program, development of better data gathering tools
and training for planning and statistics personnel at the central, regional district and
school levels. This will be necessary to create the culture required to ensure provision
and use of increasingly reliable data within the education system.



5
14.   Educational Assessment. To monitor the quality of learning achievement and
to identify cost-effective means for raising achievement, systematic educational
assessment was to be introduced under the project. Tests to assess achievement in
Spanish, mathematics, social studies and science were to be administered in grades 3, 6
and 9 and used as diagnostic tools for strengthening achievement. Early on, however,
the intent of the assessment was modified by SEEC for use, together with classroom
grades and teacher evaluation, as a determinant of promotion from one cycle of
education to the next. The tests were administered for the four basic subjects beginning
in 1992 in grade eight. By 1996, grades four, six and eight had been included in
testing. The tests were designed and administered efficiently with input from practicing
teachers and supervisors. However, test content is not fully reflective of new curricular
directions and objectives; and results are not used systematically for assessing particular
strengths and redressing weaknesses. The follow-up project provides resources to
improve the relevance of the tests and a decision is pending on use of the results for
diagnostic purposes.
15.   Community Participation. This component was designed to promote effective
community involvement in primary (later basic) education by expanding and developing
capabilities of the parent-community associations of schools and by strengthening the
functions and capabilities of the SEEC I)epartment of Community Participation.
Parents' associations, which were established for each primary school, participated in
the project programs for facilities maintenance and nutrition. They also helped
distribute textbooks and materials supported by the IDB. The project worked with a
total of 5,026 parent-community associaLtions. Training was provided in the relevant
areas and for the central and regional authorities involved with community
participation. On an experimental basis, the parents' associations also began to monitor
teacher and student attendance. While ]imited in scope, the component yielded positive
results, confirming the potential for increased participation and management inputs at
the school level.
16.   Studies. The project undertook a number of key studies, and produced several
related publications. Topics included teacher training, student assessment, learning
deficiencies, repetition, drop-out, and nutrition. Consultants also undertook special
studies which contributed to preparing the follow-on project (Annex Table 6).
Project Management
17.   Overall authority for management of the IBRD and IDB assisted-projects was
vested in the Secretary of Education. P'olicy and institutional coordination was to be
supported by a committee of division aind director-level staff of the SEEC, which was
never formally created. Originally, one project coordination unit (PCU) was to
manage both the IDB and the IBRI) projects. Instead, two PCUs were established and
each project was managed separately. The decision is explained in part by events



6
surrounding loan negotiations. The IBRD acceded to SEEC's request to reduce
emphasis on infrastructure and increase the focus on tealcher training under the project,
while the IDB did not agree to this change. In addition, the SEEC requested that the
UNDP be contracted to manage loan funds. This change was also agreed with the
IBRD but not the IDB, which had a field office in the country with staff specialized in
procurement and disbursement. The SEEC ultimately signed an agreement with the
UNDP to administer the IBRD loan under a cost-sharing arrangement. Through this
mechanism the UNDP also contributed grant funds to finance curriculum development
for basic education and other related activities. The arrangement with the UNDP
proved effective and efficient for project execution.
18.   The PCU operated from offices located outside SEEC, and was staffed by a
small core of full-time consultants, as well as a number of part-time consultants who
assisted with the teacher training, student assessment, and studies. Four of the part-
time consultants were SEEC division or department directors who served after regular
office hours. These SEEC officials gained valuable organizational skills and were well-
integrated into the project. However, the majority of central SEEC staff did not
participate directly in the project' s implementation.
19.   The UNDP contracted a technical advisor (a non-national) during project
preparation in 1990. This individual served as a technical advisor to several Secretaries
of Education and, in this capacity, as the executive director of the project through early
1995. In May 1995, the then Secretary of Education anid the advisor were ousted on
political grounds. However, project implementation was well advanced at that time
and continued on track under the administrative head of the PCU until completion.
Major Factors Affecting Project Implementation
20.   Project Timing and Support. The highly satisfactory project implementation
owes much to its timing. The bulk of the project was implemented during a period of
relative political and economic stability, and continuous support was forthcoming from
civil society. The original appeal for educational reform emanated from an association
of industrialists which gained the support of the President and Secretary of Education.
A national group, with representatives of the business and industrial, religious and
educational sectors was formed and continued to support what became the Plan
Decenal. Counterpart funds, though a small share of total, were also consistently
provided on schedule. The substantial increases in teacher salaries which were made
over the implementation period were especially necessary to revitalize the education
system and stimulate the reforms.
21.   Project Organization and Management. At appraisal risks associated with
SEEC's management capacity were cited to justify both the establishment of a PCU
separate from the line departments of the Secretariat and the agreement that UNDP
would administer the IBRD loan. These decisions, together with a highly centralized
but exceptionally effective management style of the advisor-executive director of the



7
project, further explain the successful imaplementation record for the project.
(Notwithstanding, the intended design for project management, agreed at appraisal, had
been that the PCU would support the heads of SEEC units to implement the project
from within the Secretariat.)
22.   Despite the success of project inmplementation, the decision to separate the
management of the IBRD- and IDB-assisted projects detracted from overall program
management efficiency and probably from program effectiveness. Administrative
functions and supporting inputs for project management had to be duplicated; and some
program elements developed in different directions as a result of lack of regular
coordination. With teacher training, for example, lessons of experience of each
project's model were incorporated only in 1998 into a consolidated program and set of
activities now under way in the follow-on operations.
Project Sustainability
23.   The sustainability of the Plan Decenal reforms and investment, including the
externally-assisted projects, should be assured by the widespread recognition, since the
1980s, of the importance of providing basic education of reasonable quality to
Dominican youth. Critical and so far sustained supporting elements include: broad-
based support for educational development and reform and continued increases in basic
education expenditure. In addition, under a follow-up program assisted by new IBRD
and IDB loans, SEEC has taken direct responsibility for the program and decisions
related to its content and implementation, with the PCU serving in a supporting
capacity. A plan to further enhance community participation in basic education should
also facilitate sustainability.
24.   Despite some general slowdown in execution of development programs before
and after the mid-1996 elections, continuous support has been forthcoming for the
reforms and improvements introduced under the Plan Decenal, as updated in a new
education law. The broad support organized to launch the Plan is also maintained
under the new law in the form of a high-level policy setting commission for education,
headed by the Secretary and comprising public, private and NGO sector
representatives. Recent increases in teacher salaries, contributing towards the original
target of increasing the GDP share for education from 1.8 percent in 1995 to 2.9
percent by 2000, also confirm the comrmitment of the current government towards
strengthening the education system.
25.  In early 1995 preparation of a inew and much larger project, for US$100 million
equivalent, was begun with support from a Japanese grant and the ongoing IDB and
IBRD loans. The follow-on program, which aims to deepen and extend the quality
improvements achieved under the earlier projects, e.g., in teacher training, student
assessment, school materials, etc., lends continuing support to the second phase of the
reform activities. Despite initial delay, significant implementation and expenditure
activities were launched by early 1998. A single project unit, responsible for



8
coordinating work under the IDB and IBRD operations, as well as a new KfW loan, is
also providing a unified base for supporting the second-phase activities. However, the
revised management arrangements for project coordination support full SEEC
ownership and responsibility for the program. Technical management of project
components is assigned directly to the relevant SEEC urit, and training and on-the-job
support are in place to strengthen SEEC capacity correspondingly.
26.   Finally, the strengthening and expanding of cormmunity participation under the
new projects should increase parental support for the schools as well as accountability
at the school level. The new education law incorporates a shift in responsibilities for
school management towards the school level. While details and timing for these
changes remain to be defined, the shift should further help to consolidate local
participation and raise accountability for school effectiveness.
Bank Performance
27.   Project identification, preparation (supported both by the Bank and the UNDP)
and appraisal were satisfactory, responding adequately to prevailing conditions and
procedures. The flexibility of the Bank, in accepting last minute changes to project
design (para. 17), was a positive contribution. The qualiity and innovation of the
teacher training ultimately provided under the project exceeded expectations and began
to redress critical weaknesses, now recognized throughout the region (the importance of
high quality teacher training was a central theme at the May 1998 presidential summit
in Santiago, Chile). Project risks were adequately identified, and related measures
proposed to use technical and administrative consultants were undertaken. Supervision
of the project was satisfactory. Day-to-day supervision was greatly facilitated by the
capable administrative service provided by the UNDP.
Borrower Performance
28.   The Secretary of Education in office during 1992- early 1995 chose to vest
project management authority in the technical advisor financed by UNDP. During this
time the greater part of project activities was undertaken. The stability of this team
throughout the main period of implementation implied continuous support for the
project and its effective implementation. By the time this Secretary and the advisor
were changed, most of the project had been implemented and loan funds committed.
After May 1995, management was maintained through the PCU director, and all
project activities were successfully completed by December 1996. Due to the
commitments expressed in the Plan Decenal to completing activities within a very tight
schedule, and institutional weaknesses of the SEEC, the PCU actually implemented
most activities directly without involving the SEEC managers and staff. As a result,
SEEC project management capacity was not significantly strengthened under the
project despite participation of several top-level SEEC managers as consultants to the
PCU and larger numbers of SEEC technical staff in design of specific components.



9
Assessment of Outcome
29.   Impact indicators and trends (para. 5.) point to gains in the effectiveness of the
basic education system as a result of the Plan Decenal and the related projects. The
outcome of the IBRD-assisted project was highly satisfactory. In terms of general
appraisal targets, notable achievements include the consistent improvement in
remuneration and incentives for teachers; and the focus of much of the infrastructure
component and the school feeding programs on poorer rural and marginal urban areas.
The educational system also benefited from the inputs under each of the other
components, including: a) the high quality training provided to teachers,
administrators and supervisors; b) the development of the first systematic student
assessment system; c) the introduction of the educational MIS; and c) the support
provided for parents' associations.
Key Lessons Learned
30.   Three broad lessons of experience have been identified from the project:
Broad support by representative stakeholders is a prerequisite for successful
introduction and implementation of educational reform. The ad hoc groups
that formed to promote firsi. the argument for educational reform and then
the development of the Plan Decenal accounted in large part for the
successful start-up and implementation of Plan activities supported by the
project. Strong societal commitment, bolstered by a period of political and
economic stability, propelled a direct and positive response to the need to
strengthen basic education in the Dominican Republic.
* When faced with limited institutional capacity in the responsible line
ministry, it may be better to rely on outside capacity and take a phased
approach to institutional strengthening than to risk delay or even failure in
initiating a much needed re.form or project. The project, together with the
IDB-assisted operation, constituted the largest share of investment in basic
education during the first half of the Plan Decenal; and competent project
coordinating units contributed to successful implementation. Recognizing
weaknesses in SEEC management capacity, the two PCUs evolved in the
direction of supporting effective project execution without relying directly
on SEEC management capacity. This management structure appears to
have been appropriate for 'jump-starting' the educational reform process in
the Dominican Republic. Sustainability of the reform and its broader
objectives will, however, require more systematic build-up of SEEC
capacity at central, regional and district levels. To this end, a conscious
effort is being made to involve and to support technically and
administratively SEEC stafif as the main program implementors and owners
under the second set of projects.



10
The reliance on the UNDP-financed advisor to the Secretary similarly
demonstrates the trade-offs between depending lheavily on an individual for
the implementation of a program and depending on a larger team. The
advisor advanced the reform quickly and in a remarkable manner,
encouraging the participation of practitioners in the design and execution of
reform activities (e.g., with the student assessment, para. 14).
Nonetheless, his sudden departure left a leadership void that diminished
active support for the reform activities in an electoral period when an added
effort was needed to ensure continuity.
The ability to take a programmatic approach to project design can facilitate
innovation and improvements during the life of a project. The flexibility
demonstrated by the Bank in accepting last minute changes to design of the
project, notably the addition of a significant teacher training component at
negotiations and a decrease in new construction, resulted in a stronger
project. Results support the more recent approaches to learning and lending
employed in the Bank, which encourage experimentation and allow for
periodic adjustment under projects, as warranted.
The teacher training model developed in the course of project
implementation, which provides for professional and career development
for the teaching force, raises standards to reflect the needs for improved
quality in basic education, and is a major contribution to the reform effort.
The definition of a clear career path, defined in terms of a progressive,
systematic training program, which can permit an entry level educator to grow
professionally, obtain the maximum certification possible or desired (from
postsecondary to doctoral), and aspire to various positions within the system,
will have a positive effect on student performance.



11
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
Macro pohicies                      
Sector policies                   X
Financial objectives              X
Institutional development                =           X
Physical objectives               X
Poverty reduction                 X
Gender issues                                                                               X
Other social objectives           X      =
Environental objectives                                                                     X
Public sector manage_nent                            x                                      X
Private sector development               =   _                                              X
Other (sptecify)                                                                            x
m~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. X _
Sustainability                       X
Subprqject Sustainability  r                                    _      
..... . ......,..... . ......
Identification                    X                  X
Preparation assistance            X
Appraisal                                _X
Suptervision                                         X 
Preparation                                          X
Imnplementation                   X
Covenant compliance               X     =
Operation (if a plicable)                                                                X
_ =.......... .. .....
X



12
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Cr. 235-DR     Designed to assist in         1971    Completed  2-one year
educational planning,                 1978        extensions
curriculum development and
construction of 9 secondary
schools and one teacher
training school.
Ln. 1142-DR     Focused on vocational and     1975    Completed   1-year delay
community learning centers            1984        due to lack
of
counterpart
funding
I~~~~
Ln. 3951-DR     Focused on second phase of    1995    Under       I&I/2-year
implementation of Plan               implemen-  delay with|
Decenal for development of            tation     effective-
basic education                                   ness while
awaiting
Congres-
sional
approval



13
Tab]lIe 3: Project Timetable
~~~~~~~~~~~~ . ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ .
..-----------.=----.  i.
Identification                                                  9/12/88
Preparation                                             through 11/26/90
Appraisal                         December 1990                 12/5/90
Negotiations                                                    4/29/91
Board Presentation                                              6/20/91
Signing                                                         12/13/91
Effectiveness                      October 1991                 7/22/92
Midterm Review                                                  1/15/95
Project Completion                                              12/15/96
Loan Closing                                                    2/07/97
Table 4: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Appraisal Estimate               0.80  2.20   5.0   8.8  12 0   14.0       0
Actual                            1.8   5.6  10.8  13.9  15.0   15.0   15.0
Actual as % of Cumulative        12%   36%   71%   92%   99%   100%
Date of last disbursement        07-February-97



Table 5: Key Monitoring Indicators
.~~~~~~~~~~~'.. ~ ~ ~ ~   ~     ~    ~ ~ ~ ...                                 .
TEACHER SUPERVISOR UPGRADING
Teacher Trainers               300        450         300        640                                                       600         640
Primary Teachers/School Directors     1,000      4,7661     4,000       8,6992      2,500      6,6103      2,500      2,5584      10,000     11,676 
7,951 16
Supervisor/Adrnin7 ~ ~ ~ ~     ~       ~      ~      ~      ~     ~     ______________  ______    2,558
Supervisor/Adniin7             300          0         450         100         0          200          0         100         950
INrTIATION OF MAINTENANCE
Schools Upgrade                50         169         150        185         100        128         75          47         375         529
Classrooms Rehabilitated          (see        695                    828                    307                    130                    1,962
footnote
9)
SCHOOL NUTRITION
No. of students             100,000     90,000     140,000    170,000    180,000    216,000      180,000    365,000    180,000    365,000
PARENT TEACHER ASSOCIATIONS
Number Operating               4,300      4,305      4,500       4,505      4,700                   5,000                  5,00015,026
Number Provided Training           600         0         1,000       1,250      1,100       5,000      1,000       5,026      3,700       5,026
1 Total teacher/participants enrolled in I st cohort program and in ULA (Universidad de las Americas) program.
2 Total enrolled in I st & 2nd cohort programs and ULA program.
3Total enrolled in 2nd cohort programn and in 2nd cohort ULA program.
4Total enrolled in 2nd cohort ULA program.
5Total originally enrolled in University & ULA programs, plus 2,558 currently enrolled in 2nd cohort ULA program.
6Total number of graduates from 1st and 2nd generation University associate degree program.
7 This program was modified from short training sessions to a graduate degree program for 200 SEEBAC professionals, in two cohorts/generations.
8 The component was modified to reflect a change from preventive maintenance to rehabilitation of schools. Thus the orignal projection of 4,000 classrooms to be maintained was
discarded.



15
Table 5: Key Monitoring Indicators (continued)
PMU organization and staffing      September 1988
Accounting systems and procedures    A substantial review of the financial
management, accounting and audit
aspects of the project was carried out in
August 1989.
Annual action plan                 First plan received in December 1988
Financial Project Monitoring Manual   March 1989
Project Implementation Manual      June 1989
Annual progress report             First report received in March 1990
Midterm review of the project      November 1994
Scientific meeting to discuss and  December 1995
disseminate results of operational
research funded under the project.



16
Table 6: Studies Completed in Project
~.                      .
1. Assessment of causes of repetition and  Designed with view to
dropout                                complement project inputs.
2. Assessment for potential cost-effectiveness  Designed to give special support for children
and affordability                      performing beliow average.
of summer/Saturday programs
3. Assessment of SEEBAC                  To determine potential of SEEBAC based on
future responsibilities for            a decentralized management
guiding sector development.            structure.
4. Learning deficiencies,
repetition and drop-out
in pnmary education.
5. Epidemology.
6. Teacher Training and Incentives.      To determine impact of training program.
7. National Student Assessment Program   To determine impact of assessment program.



17
Table 7A: Project Costs
A. Educational
Development
Teacher and Supervisor    3.8       1.5      5.3      3.9        2.8       6.7
Training
Facilities Maintenance/    0.8       0.8      1.6      0.8        2.0        2.8
Rehabilitation
School Nutrition        0.4       1.2      1.6      0.3        0.5         0.8
Subtotal             5.0      3.5       8.5     5.0         5.3       10.3
B. Management Development
Planning and Information    0.3       1.0      1.3      0.9        1.3        2.2
Educational Assessment     0.7       0.4       1.1     0.7        0.4        1.1
Community Participation     1.4       0.5      1.9     0.12       0.08       0.2
Studies and Preparation    0.5       0.4      0.9      0.3        0.2       0.5
of Projects
Project Management        1.0       0.4      1.4      1.0        0.5       1.5
Subtotal             3.9      2.7      6.6      3.02       2.48       5.5
Physical Contingencies     0.1       0.1      0.2      0.1        0.1       0.2
_               Price Contingencies       1.0       0.7      1.7      0.7        0.3       1.0
_ ____________~i                                      ~     ~     TiT 



18
Table 7B: Project Financing (IJS$ Millions)
Bank                              8.0        7.0       15.0       8.0         7.0         15.0
Government                        2.0        0.0       2.0        2.0         0.0         2.0
TOA                                *.S ____   SM                              75



Table 8: Status of Legal Covenants
.&rJit~~~~I     'zx                                                                          .... ........fv
Loan               3.03(b)                                                             Maintain throughout the project, a coordinating           Fulfilled
unit to be managed by a Project Coordinator and
to be staffed with adequate personnel, all with
functions, responsibilities, and qualifications
acceptable to the Bank.
3.01                               12/31/92                         Provide as needed, as counterpart ftmds for the          Fulfilled
project, the minimum amount of: (1) $200,000, for
fiscal year 1992; (ii) $300,00, for fiscal year 1993;
(iii) $400,000, for fiscal year 1994; (iv) $500,000, for
fiscal year 1995; and (v) $600,000 for fiscal year
1996.
3.02(a)                                                             (I) include in its annual reports of years 1994 and
1997 an evaluation, carried out under terms of           Fulfilled
reference satisfactory to the Bank, on the progress
achieved in the execution of the project, and in
meeting the requirements of Section 3.08 of its
Agreement; and (II) not later than June 30, 1996,
respectively, the terms of reference for the evaluations.
3.03 (a)                                                            Submit the Bank an evaluation, based on an
approved methodology on nutrition activities and         Fulfilled
nutrition needs of children attending primary schools
located in rural and poor urban areas.
3.03 (b)                                           06/30/93         Introduce in SEEBAC a revised management information
system, satisfactory to the Bank.                       Fulfilled



2 2~~~~~~~2.                             ..~~~~~~~~.*... ~~~~~~~~~              2.~~~~~222222.~~~~.....  ..
3.03                         05/30/92                         Introduce the system for evaluation student achievement
in primary education during the academic year 1991-1992;
and apply standard tests on a national scale by the        Fulfilled
academic year 1996-1997 and thereafter.
3.03 (d)                      06/30/96                        Submit for Bank approval a plan for the provision of food
to urban and rural primary schools, administered by        Fulfilled
SEEBAC.
3.04                                                          Maintain in a conunercial bank a Project Account with an
amount equivalent to $100,000, a minimum, to be            Fulfilled
operated in accordance with rules and guidelines
acceptable to the Banrk
3.06                          07/31/96                        Provide for fiscal year 1997 a minimum in pesos equivalent
to $2,000,00 to finance the recurrent expenditures of the  Fulfilled
Project.
3.07                          06/30/93                        The Borrower shall, furnish to the Bank for its review and
comments, the results of the project studies.              Fulfilled
3.08         (i)              06/30/94          12/31/96      (i) gradually reduce the Student Reception Rate to a ratio  (i) 1996-97 estimate is 7%
(ii)             06/30/97                       not higher than: 14% in fiscal year 1994; and 10% in fiscal   (ii) from 22.2% in 1991
year 1997; (ii) gradually reduce the Student Dropout Rate  dropped to 14.8% in
to a ratio not higher than: 6% in fiscal year 1994,o and 4%  1994, (iii) 1996 estinate is
in fiscal year 1997 and thereafter, (iii) gradually increase the   91% of 7-14 age group,
Enrollment Rte to a ratio not lower 92% in fiscal year 1994;  (iv) base salary of teachers
and 95% in fiscal year 1995 and thereafter, and (iv)    quadrupled between 1990
maintain remuneration for school teachers of public primary   and 1995.
schools at levels adequate to attract and retain qualified and
experienced teachers in sufficient numbers.
1.01(b)                        04103/93          04/30/97       Have project records and accounts, including those for the
Special Account, for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, and fumish



-   -   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-- ---. ...  ..
...... . ............ ~ .....   1 ..... ..
E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~' g
to the Bank not later than four months after the end  Fulfilled
of each such year, the audit report.
5.01(a)                     05/92                        Appoint Consultants for project management            Fulfilled
5.01(b)                     05/92           01/97         Hire independent auditors                             Fulfilled
5.01(c)                     05/92                        Open the Project Account with the initial deposit of   Fulfilled
US $100,000



22
Table 9: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Preparation                  82.8                                192,102
Appraisal                    22.8                                47,996
Negotiations                 6.3                                 18,437
Supervision                  52.8                                131,976
Midterm Review                *
Completion                   5.3                                 12,873
TOTAL                       172.2                                403,384
* Mid-term review conducted in Washington.
Data are incorporated in regular supervision.



23
Table 9: Bank ]Resources: Missions
| Identification               No data
available                 .
Preparation                    No data
available
| Appraisal                    No data
available c
Supervision:                                      =          =                             =_=__
I                    2/92             2           5            OS              1           1 I
II                   7/93              1          14           OS              2           1                      l
III                   3/94             6          5        EC, OS, ES,          1           1
IV                    1/96             1          5             OS              1           2            M
V                    10/96             1          5            OS               1          2             M
Completion                       2/97             1          10            ES              I           1  .          =
* BIT = basic industrial technology specialist; CP  chemical physicist; CSS  computer systems specialist; DS  disbursement
specialist EC = economist; ES = education specialist; ENV = environment specialists; HS = health specialist; ICT = science
and technology information specialist IDS = institutional development specialist GMT = geosciences and mineral
technology specialist MT = meteorologist; OS = operations specialist PR  procurement specialists; SR  science research
specialist.
*
Mid-term review was conducted in 1995 in Washington.
I Ratings: 11HS = no problem; 2/S = moderate problems.
2Types of Problems: L = legal; M = management performance; F  availability of funds; PR = procurement SP = studies progess



A. BORROWER CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR
Proyecto de Desarrollo de la Educaci6n Primaria (PRODEP), I'restamo 3351-DO  Informe Final
The Development Program for Basic Education (PRODEP) was implemented by the Secretariat
of Education, Fine Arts and Cults (SEEBAC) through Loan Agreement No. 3351-DO in the amount of
US$17 million, signed between the Dominican Government and the International Bank for Reconstruction
and Development, on December 13, 1991 and promulgated by the Executive Office on February 20, 1992.
On July 10, 1992 the Dominican Government signed an agreement with the United Nations Development
Program (UNDP) for technical and administrative (DOM/91/008/B/01/99). The Bank issued a no
objection for the implemention of the agreement.
The information contained in this docuament demonstrates that the conditions stipulated in
the Loan Agreement were complied with satisfactorily, and the goals were achieved before the
original closing date, reflecting efficient and effective project management
Although this project was to be impimented during a six year period (1992-1998), the goals were
achieved in 4 years. The Project was conceived within the global development strategy framework of
SEEBAC and to support the Ten-Year Education Development Plan (Plan Decenal). It is important to
emphasize that the project was closed I  years before the originally established date.
The final report is presented in compliance with sections 3.02 b) i), 3.01 a), 3.06, 3.08 and
Appendix II of the Loan Agreement. The project goals are the following:
a.- To upgrade the quality of basic education
b.- To increase the enrollment of students from low-income families
c.- To strengthen educational management.
Section 3.08 defines the following goals:
-      Decrease student repetition rate to a percentage not greater than 14% in 1994, and to 10%
to 1997.
-      Decrease student drop-out rate to a percentage not greater than 6% in 1994 and to 4% in
1997.
-      Increase student enrollment rate to a percentage not lower than 92% of the student age
population in 1994 and to 95% in 1997.
-      Maintain teacher income at suitable levels.
The current report is divided into three chapters which compile all information concerning
objectives, goals and management of the project. A section on conclusions focuses on lessons learned
from negative and positive experiences resulting from project implementation.
The first chapter provides details of activities and results related to the two sub-programs;
Educational Development and Management Development. This chapter also includes other activities not
implemented by PRODEP, but which contributed to educational development supported by the Project.
The second chapter describes the cycle of approval and development of the project, and the fulfillment of
conditions cited in section 3.08 of the Loan Agreement. This chapter deals with the fulfillment of
cuantitative goals. The third chapter describes thie administrative and financial aspects of the project and
closing on December 31, 1996.
Page I



Proyecto de Desarrollo de la Educacion Primaria (PRODEP), Prestamo 3351-DO    Informe Final
Sub-Program I "Educational Development": This sub-program comprises three components: Teacher
&  Supervisor Training,  Facilities Maintenance and School Nutrition Programs.  Other activities
implemented by SEEBAC, with financing from PRODEP, have also been included within this sub-
program.
The activities and results attained by this sub-program are the following:
Teacher Training. This objective of this component was to provide training for 10,000 normal school
graduate teachers, to upgrade knowledge and teaching methods in the principle areas of mathematics,
Spanish, natural science and social studies. The program would have a length of 384 hours during
summer vacation periods, and 768 hours in weekends during the school year.
The training program encompassed an instructional program which included distance and face-to-
face methods, and was delivered in 1152 hour/sessions, equivalent to 72 credit/hours of university-level
study. In this sense, implementation of this component exceded expectations.
The face-to-face sessions were carried out on Saturdays and during intensive periods from
mondays to fridays, for one month, during two summer vacation periods. The distance activities included
follow-up through a daily radio program, transmitted by seven stations, with national coverage.
Four universities submitted proposals to PRODEP: all four were contracted: Universidad
Autonomo de Santo Domingo (UASD), Pontificia Universidad Cat6lica Madre y Maestra (PUCMM),
Instituto Tecnologico Santo Domingo (INTEC), and Universidad Central del Este (UCE).
The training was given to supervisors, directed by inteniational specialists; it was a contributing
factor to increase the program quality. the three training opportunities carried out in different moments of
the program implementation, allowed the adjustment of the program to the methodology used in the
training programs of the area.
The analysis of the goal achievements, should have two models, quantitative and qualitative. The
first takes into considerations the quantity of trained teachers. The other one refers to the qualitative factor
and evaluated the characteristics of the program implementation which contributed to increase quality
factors.
The total of evaluated teachers was 8,340. This number indicated a percentage of 92.83 of the
registered teachers. The desertion only reached a 6.66% of the registered population. From the evaluated,
7,951 teachers were promoted, which is 95.33%.
The qualitative factor of the implemented program is based on the fact that is was assumed by the
participant universities as a superior level program of university features. In this way, the training process
adjusted to the academical guidelines used in each one of the institutions for their work.
In order to make universities grant the program the same academic parity internally demanded
from their own formative programs, special quality conditions were created. These conditions were in turn
demanded the training committee imposed on each one of the participant universities.
This characteristic of being a university program was a motivational factor for teachers and drove
Page 2



Proyecto de Desarrollo de la Educacion Primaria (PRODEP). Prestamo 3351-DO        Informe Final
them to make all possible efforts to achieve an academic performance to the same level.
At the same time, the Training Committee had into account that this requirement level demanded
on teachers had to be followed by other facuilities which would encourage and contribute with the
participants teachers in order to attain best results bases on new facilities such as a transportation subsidy.
This subsidy was granted by SEEBAC. The delivery of working materials in the classroom and the quality
of the support material given to the teachers was produced by universities.
Another very important factor in the final results and in the attainment of the proposed goals was
the supervision activities. In this sense we should emphasize the following: the supervision of the teaching
practice in the classroom, the impact test and control supervision of the centers and schools undertaken by
the teaching Comittee.
PRODEP provided a suitcase of materials to the teacher participant for the designs of a teaching
material so they could practice in their classrooms what they learned through the training. In addition
PRODEP contacted several publishing houses of Latin America and Spain in order to establish 100
reference libraries with 150 tittles for the teachers who were participating in the program.
Within the training element, PRODEP decided to open a special training program for first and
second grade teachers in the teaching of writing and reading, and also mathematics. The University de Las
Americas, with its headquarters in Mexico was in charge of this program after being selected among other
offers.
After a selection and a test chosen application to more than 200 participant teachers, 86 chosen
teachers of second grade and 10 technical supenrisor of SEEBAC initiated the program development of 72
credits to introduce a new teaching method of reading, writing and mathematics.
The teaching Comittee is promoting the third generation. Through mechanisms implemented in
other opportunities, registration forms have been distributed and recollected. At this point in time,
approved applications are more than 2,500.
Training of Directors. The training of directors was focused ( according to the terms of the
agreement) towards the instruction of 750 managers and supervisors. However, this instruction was
oriented towards two programs: a training program for directors of the program who did not have an
university degree, and a program at a master level. The first one was initiated with a registration of 1,054
directors, (directors of educational centers, associate supervisor and technicians). These directors received
an offer of It specialized credits in administration, plan and supervision of education, as well as
community work in training centers of the different universities. They also received their university
certificate from UASD, PUCMM, INTEC and UCE.
The master degree in Educational Administration was given to directors of the educational system
district directors, regional directors and technicians of education as well as to technicians of the main
office which had a university bachelor's degree.
This program was developed at a higlh quality level by a foreign university; the University of
Montreal (Canada), and by two local universities, the Universidad Aut6noma de Santo Domingo (UASD)
y the Pontificia Universidad Cat6lica Madre y Maestra (PUCMM). This program was carried out in two
generations: A first generation with 100 student directors, from which 98 persons graduated, (80 with a
master degree in administration and supervision, and 18 with a post graduate title specialized in
Page 3



Proyecto de Desarrollo de la Educaci6n Primaria (PRODEP), Prestamo 33511-DO   Informe Final
educational administration).
The second generation also had: JO directors all of them graduated (90 with a master degree and
10 with a post graduate degree).
The first generation could choose between two mentions: Administration and Supervision.
The second one could choose between Administration and Curriculum Management.
National Supervision System. Another important activily was the introduction of the National
Supervision System. In this aspect, operations and supervision manuals were designed and published for
the educational centers from districts and regions, as well as the closing manual of private centers. The
International Institute of Educative Planning from UNESCO supplied these manuals as a sort of basic
documentation for the planning, supervision and decentralization training to more than 500 director of the
educative system. The directors also received 320 financed motorcycles to encourage them with their
supervision tasks.
Improvement of School Premises. The original goals of this element were the repairment of 375 schools.
However, the original goal was substantially surpassed, since the community cooperated with the
improvement of 447 schools, with 82 schools being currently repaired. This will result in a total 529
schools. In addition, maintenance committees were created tc, develop a maintenance culture, in order to
keep a preventive maintenance plan of some 5,000 classrooms of schools repaired. Another important
achievement of this element was the collaboration of the World Nutrition Program, which donated the
food portions to the participant parents in the repairment of schools.
Scholar Nutrition. The original purpose of this program was to provide scholar nutrition to 80,000
recipients of rural areas and to 100,000 children of marginatecd urban areas. However, the implementation
of this element not only surpassed the original goal, but it also carried out activities which reinforced and
strengthened the management ability of the nutritioni programs of the SEEBAC. This program currently
provides scholar nutrition to 265,000 children in the marginal urban area and to 100,000 children in the
frontier rural zone, at he most economically unprotected schools.
Another significant element is the reinforcement of the nutritional meals with 75% of daily
requirements of vitamins Bl, B6, B12 and folic acid to fill the micro nutrients deficit by the National
Survey of Micro nutrients , which allowed the quantification of anemia problems produced by of iron,
fluoride vitamin A and lackness prevalence of goiter at national level.
As a response to the proposal indicated in the Loan Agreement concerning a model deparasitation
program, this component coordinated, along with the Secretary of State Public Health and Social
Assistance, the implementation of a model deparasitation program carried out in the area of Barahona
65,000 children were deparasited there and all teachers and parents were trained in this sense. This
program was based on an investigation about knowledge, attitudes and practices (CAP-Basal) in intestinal
parasitism performed in the area of Barahona by teachers, students, their mothers and fathers.
Finally, the element managed to create a technical equipment in Information, Education and
Communications from the General Direction for the well-being of teachers and students of the SEEBAC,
with the technical support of the company "Manoff Group Inc." this equipment has the objective of
contributing with health and nutrition education. Moreover, different advises were evaluated to look for
Page 4



Proyecto de Desarrollo de la Educaci6n Primaria (PRODEF'). Prestamo 3351-DO   Informe Final
new nutritional choices and to promote the micro enterprises and the manufacture of food products.
Other Activities. The SEEBAC has undertaken other activities to guarantee the educational development.
PRODEP cooperated in some of these activities, such as educational texts and supplies about multigrade
schools and curriculum transformation, about a new evaluation system which satisfies the requirements of
curriculum transformation.
Sub-Program II. Management Development. The elements of this subprogram have the objective of
strengthening the Management Function, the Technical Assistance, the activities to improve communitary
participation, the student evaluation. It also deals with several completed studies which serve as base to
take decision concerning the following components.
The managerial and technical ability of SEEBAC has been strengthened by the implementation of
the Decennial Education Plan. The trancision administrative structure which collected functions and
organized branches was the base for a new academical and administrative structure proposal legally
established in the General Law of Education. The Congress approved this lay and the administrative
structure will support the establishment of the Matrix Administration and Program System.
Information System for Management. The technical assistance had a very important role through this
element and allowed the establishment of the Educative Location. The information system began
operating Telematic SEEBAC Network and provided the human resource training, the acquisition and
installation of the necessary computer equipment, verification of operating educative data centers, and the
installation of new operating systems.
The data centers available have permiitted the development of a selective group of statistical
indicators for the measurement and analysis of tools, effects, and products of the educative process.
The Educative location was the solutioFn to many problems due to the lackness of information on
educative centers, premises, updated statistics, payment criteria for teachers, data centers integration to the
graphic programs, design of a digital cartogralphic base which facilitated the creation of a geographic
information sub-system.
Among the big efforts of SEEBAC to iintegrate an Information System for the management, the
contribution of PRODEP is obvious for the development of mechanisms and tools designed for the
supervision and appraisal of achievements in the educational area.
Educational Appraisal. The establishment of a System of National Examinations and the scientific
processing of the results were one of the most significant achievements of the Decennial Plan and of the
project. After five years of implementation and achievement of quantitative and qualitative goals that
increased each year and promoted training activities, distribution of educative materials, increase the
promotional level of students, these National Examinations acted as the foundation so they would be part
of the General Law of Education. Although the original document of the project proposed diagnostic
examinations in the subjects of Spanish Language, Mathematics, Social Studies and Natural Sciences for
3rd, 6th and 9th grades according to indications of educative policy and to new dispositions of the
Dominican Government at that time, promotional examinations were done for Spanish Language,
Mathematics, Social Studies, and Natural Sciences in the 8th grade during the period of 1991-1992. The
following year, diagnostic examinations were done for 4th grade in Social Studies and Natural Sciences,
Page 5



Proyecto de Desarrollo de la Educaci6n Primaria (PRODEP), Prestamo 3351 ..DO  Informe Final
and promotional examinations for the subjects of Spanish Language and mathematics, in addition to the
8th grade promotion. As outcome of the analysis from 4th grade, promotional examinations were
administered for the following year 93-94. During this year 93-94, diagnostic examinations were also
administered to the 6th grade for the Spanish language and Mathematics.
The achievements surpassed the original goals and the following challenge is to adequate the
National Examinations to the Curriculum Transformation.
Communitary Participation. This component was attained through the establishment and strengthening
of 5,026 Associations of Parents, Mothers and Friends of Schools. This was due to a wide training
program of this associations about the shcolar maintenance areas with participation from the community,
nutrition health and food manufacture, funds' management, snack bars' administration, submission of
financial statements and other topics. This element, along with the PMA participation, donated a total of
30 stoves for cooking purposes in the frontier zones of Mao, San Juan de la Maguana and Barahona. The
final activities were divided into four main groups: Promotion of Sociocultural Animation; Strengthening
of Technical Equipment; encouragement to the Parents' Associations and Support from the Associations to
other programs of the Decennial Plan. An outstanding activity is the nation-wide presentation of 18
performances of Merengue Opera, with a community assistance of 120,000 persons. Finally, the Parents'
Association participation was evident in the Emergency Repairment Plan of Schools of the new
government.
Research Studies. This component carried out several research studies in accordance to that indicated in
the Appendix II of the Loan Agreement. Some of them were:
a.-    Studies about learning disabilities, failure and desertion rates in basic education.
- Study-implementation of new teaching methodology for reading and writing and mathematics in
I rst and 2nd grades in order to upgrade the teaching quality and to reduce failure and desertion in
these grades.
- Investigation of factors involved in the results of National Examinations of 8th grade in the
General Direction of Barahona and San Juan, during school year 92-93.
b.    Studies about different aspects of SEEBAC administration: Scholar Nutrition.
- Study about the Scholar Nutrition Program CARE-SEEBAC, directed and implemented by
CARE with products donated by USAID.
- Study destinated to the redesign of the administration model for the Scholar Nutrition Program.
- Study which concluded with the outline of a production for the urban marginal level of the
Scholar Nutrition Program.
- Study which resulted in the creation of a specific profile for the institutionalization and
investigation of alternatives of the Scholar Nutrition Program, and a Communication and
Educational Plan about the Scholar Nutrition Program.
- Implementation proposal of a joint administration model with community participation and
scholar nutrition.
Page 6



Proyecto de Desarrollo de la Educaci6n Primaria (PRODEP), Prestamo 3351-DO      Informe Final
c.     Studies of epidemiologic type.
- National Survey of Micro nutrients in children from I to 14 years.
- National Census about height in I rst grade students.
- Research about food patterns and habil:s in basic education students of the public sector.
- Investigation CAP-Basal about Knowledge, Attitudes and Practices regarding intestinal
parasitism.
d.    Studies related to the training and encouragement of teachers.
- Research on the impact of the Training Program for Teachers of Basic Education.
- Studies about the competence level of teachers to implement salary incentives.
e.     Study about the implementation and impact of National Examinations.
f.     Outline of the 2nd Project for Improvement of Basic Education.
Second Chapter describes the basic gcials achieved conceming the different aspects of student
failure and desertion, and the evolution of student registration at a basic level carried out by the Public
Teachiing System, as well as the efforts made concerning goals' rewards and other benefits.
Failure reduction
The activities of the Project as well as other strategical facts of the Decennial Plan undoubtedly
restrained the backward process of failure and promoted the factors which encouraged the inward
dynamics of the educative process. Within this framework, the relative repetition of failure lowered to an
annuall average rate of 14.8% until 1993. This number substitutes and corrects the amount indicated in the
Report 1995 (10.8%). It is necessary to emphasize that even after the mentioned adjustments, the real
achievement of the goal established for this year is very obvious. The control center temporarily indicates
estimated calculations for such rates during school years 1995-96 and 1996-97, and these calculations
suggest a reduction to 7.0% for this last year. This average is even lower than the one established as a goal
(10%).
Desertion reduction
In this aspect it is important to specify that the ciphers herein offered are somewhat different form
those appearing in the Report for 1995. Notwithstanding that, the difference is due to the change of
procedure for the rate calculation. In this opportunity and different to the previous report, the rate value is
the result of the deduction of 100% from the addition of promoted and failed students. This value
represents a modification of the results but not of its trends. Moreover, the achievements in decreasing the
desertion are as obvious as those related to the failure control. Considering the empirical facts dealt in this
section, the relative repetition of desertion decreases regularly since scholar year 1990-91, when the
average was 22.2% In 1994-95, this rate diminishes in a regular fashion to more than a third percent
obtaining an average rate of 14.8%.
Page 7



Proyecto de Desarrollo de ia Educaci6n Primaria (PRODEP), Prestamo 3351-DO      Informe Final
In relation to the reduction of failed and deserted students in the last grades, there is an obvious
increasing trend in the graduated students, i.e. students that obtain satisfactory results in their last year of
basic education. This means that from less than 70% in 1991-92, the graduate student rate increases to a
83.6% in public schools fro 1994-95.
Increase of student registration
The public registration keeps a constant recovery level since 1990-91, thus contributing to
consolidate an acceptable school level in basic education. At this point in time the school rate is
approximately 91% of the population of children between 7 and 14 years; this level corresponds to the
value established as a goal of the project. The increase of students in the initial or pre-school level
involves potential raise in student registration in the I rst grade of basic school, and of utmost importance
is the significant reduction of repetition rate of that grade. In tlhis sense, it is expected that by no later than
scholar year 1997-98, there will be an obvious increase of school level and the beginning of a steady
process to reduce the above-age recurrence in this grade, along with a registration in Basic Education.
Remuneration of teaching personnel
The objective of keeping an adequate remuneration level for the teaching personnel has equally
improved in accordance to indications of the Loan Agreement. Meanwhile the basic salary in 1990 for
turn was RD$607.75 without additional benefits, the total salary (basic salary plus benefits) in 1994 for
turn was RD$1,650.00 and RD$2,300 for turn in 1995. In the year 1996, it was the same amount.
Since January 1995, the basic salary was modified, with a base salary resulting from the addition
of the minimum wage of the public sector to the percentage corresponding to titled teacher. This fact
establishes a differentiated salary due to the difference of academic degree reached by teachers. At the
time of the production of this report, teachers received a salary increase through decree No. 83-97, which
raised the basic salary from RD$1,300.00 to RD$2.500.00. This will result in a substantial increase of
gross salary for turn, since a 92.5% was increased to basic salary plus benefits. It has been estimated that
the basic salary plus benefits of basic education teachers fluctuate between RD$2,700.00 and
RD$3,668.82 per month for turn. That means that the teacher's salary went from RD$607.75 (1990) before
the project, to RD$3,668.82 (1992) at the end of the project.
Coordinator Unit of the Project
Chapter III describes the task of the Coordinator Unit of the Project as an administrative and
logistic support of all the components. During the implementation OF the project, it was necessary to
remeasure the training for teachers and directors, information about administration and maintenance of
schools. In this aspect it was necessary to review the cost of the project so that the mentioned elements
could carry out the stipulated activities.
Hardware, software, telecommunication equipment, automobiles, fumiture, functional equipment
and material included in the project for its operation.
At the end of the project, US$17,307,355.58 dollars were disbursed in correspondance to the
training of teachers and directors, maintenance of schools, iniformation on educational management and
Page 8



Proyecto de Desarrollo de la Educaci6n Primaria (PRODEP), Prestamo 3351-DO          Informe Final
appraisal, which were the four major elements that needed a 79.03% of the amount disbursed.
The difference between the original amount and the amount disbursed is due to the following
reasons: The World Bank disbursed the amount of US$2,409.98 for the benefits obtained due to the
fluctuation in the exchange rate; the Dominican Government provided a counterpart increase for an
amount of US$24,746.60 and PNUD donated an amount of US$280,199.00 to Dominican Education.
For the compliance of section 3.06 of the Loan Agreement, SEEBAC submitted a preliminary
budget plan of $856 million pesos for 1997. From this amount, $650 million were used for the teachers
salary increase; $85 million for the salary increase of administrative personnel, and $121 million pesos for
tile maintenance and repairment of schools.
Basically, these thiree items represented the recurrent expenditures resulting from the
implementation of the project and those referred in the section already mentioned.
In conclusion, the positive and negative aspects found in each one of the elements are presented,
and experiences and goals achieved are identified.
In this way, the role played by the financial institution in indicated, as well as the excellent
relations of its officers, which eased the smoothness of the project. Moreover the participation of the
United Nations Development Program was meaningful in the Technical Assistance, which allowed the
fluency of the necessary resources at the right moments.
Conclusions
In conclusion, we can summarize some of the experiences resulting from the implementation of the
project which may be the guidelines for future educative projects.
The participation of the United Nations Development Program (PNUD in Spanish) was very useful for the
completion, design and implementation of che Project. Moreover, the Technical Assistance allowed the
access to the data centers with high quality international advisors which improved the work level carried
out by the components.
The participation of the United Nations Development Program (PNUD in Spanish) was very helpful for
the completion, design and implementation of the Project. Moreover, the Technical Assistance allowed the
access to the data centers about high quality intemnational advisors that improved the work level carried out
by the components.
It was the first time that cooperation from tie universities was received for the Training of Teachers and
Directors through a common study prograni supported by an innovative methodology completed by
professionals of universities and high quality international advisors. By tradition, universities were islands
which educated teachers with different cunicula.
The program of Scholar Maintenance and the Parents' Association participation in the repairment of
schools reduced the costs, multiplied the number of schools repaired and turned the parents into jealous
guardians of their respective schools, which became part of the Preventive Maintenance Program.
The Scholar Nutrition Program achieved the establishment of the administrative and technical system of
scholar nutrition and the use of alternative meals produced by national and local micro enterprises,
Page 9



Proyecto de Desarrollo de la Educaci6n Primaria (PRODEP), Prestamo 3351 -DO                   Informe Final
resuiting in lower costs of these products. fn addition, it is the first time that a National Survey of Micro
nutrients is performed, as well as a height census, and a model deparasitation program; all of these were
defined by the necessities detected through different studies.
The National Examination System really proved to be a control tool for the teaching and evaluating
activities, and it developed a sense of responsibility and commitment of parents with their children's'
education.
Page IO



IBRD 19599R
12 *                                                                I.                                                                n                                                                   Jr
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
-no-                                         A  T  i!A   ,1tr; ,.
-.-Internatiosal boundares
Luperan                                                                          ---Province boundaries
Monte Cristi                                                                                                                              of Ntional capital
Puerto Plato                                              J   Province capitals
N                                                                    .  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Towns
Peo   MONTE    R-/S T/                                                                                                                 - Mam roads
rzlcrad                     i                              ')- RUERTO    P    ZATA                              Pinyn           -     Railroads
Gaspar    Grande                 Rivers
Dolabon          e       x        ,PS,,N tiho_     SAZZo ~ A/
\DAJAr~~t9 \   SON       Sombaneta> a-   /                       I                                       TRINIDADm
SANTIAGO   ~~~~~.          Sa~ntiago
,,-SX    /  RODRIGZUEZ --v,            San Jose                                      Terim I
*                                  ~~~~~~~~~~        ~~delos Mtoas                                de MaSora
Rest.uro6n '                                       S A NT/A  GO                            7   ,            S  FrncodeMacoris
H  A  I T  I  x-'\,<j/    mn
%.      C4\                                            ~        '                 \            ^         t                            -
<   ELIAS PINA,                                    -- '---'                      i
Z A VEG                            Colu_
'    RAM/REZ                        S.1obonoG,nnde                                    iches
\Connendodor                              A                    t0000          "                        I~~~~~~~~~~~B  de Boyo
SAN  JUAN                                             n  \                                        r        '--
MNENO,j'-  ii\                                                                           EL SEiBO
d a Mouana                                                  NOUEL I MONTE                         n   PlATA  (X   Hate
an                                                                                                              to~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Pat  aaon   gIdnni i..  J      El Macao
El Cercodo                        I         A                 /               ?7 
~~~~                K ~~~~~~  AZUA           ?                                        NAINA                            I~       i                                    I             Hg ey
BAORUCO                         SK                            PEAVIA (CITBL                                                    /CEROIA' 'I                                     *             Z
Han                                                 I               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Son R.fani
Sa}Crnrdbal                SANTO                                                  S          La Romona dol du Ym
*                 Borai fiorah ono                                    B
t             \        t ~~~~~~Polo                                             
41Pedernoles         "      AR AHONA                                                                                                                                                        UNa I TED STATES OF MIRCA
PEDERNAZES  VE
Oviedor                                                                                           MILES                                                                  MEXICO    r I         JAn0_0
io       20        30        Q0        an-e                                                     C
O    10 ao 2      3o    4     5o     6o   io e    iD     in    n                                        EL E  W,__ernN h_  - sicoeAaua
712z                                                               l'                                                                                                                                                            PALOMNAS  ,    PMAPI COLOMBIA'- A    P



