Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
, ~ ~ ~ ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ - ;                 -
Report No. 9 3 7 7-DO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
PRIMARY EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MAY 23, 1991
Human Resources Division
Country Department III
Latin America and Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and mav be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of January 1991)
Currency Unit = Pesos (DR$)
US$1.00  -  rR$11.20
DR$1.00  =  US$0.09
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
IDB         Inter-American Development Bank
NGO         Non-governmental organization
PCU         Project Coordinating Unit
USAID       United States Agency for International Development
UNDP        United Nations Development Program
SEEBAC      Secretariat (Ministry) of State for Education, Arts and Culture



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
PRIMARY EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   .  .           iv
I.    THE  SECTOR   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  1
A. Economic Setting  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       1
B. The Education Sector  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      2
C. Issues in Primary Education   . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      3
D. Government Strategy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           8
E. Bank Strategy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      8
II.    THE PROJECT.       . .          . . .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  ..  .  9
A.  Origin  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  9
B. Objectives and Content  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      9
C. Detailed Project Description  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     10
D. Implementation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     17
E. Costs and Financing   ....  .  .  .  .    ...  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  19
F. Procurement ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .......  .  .   .  20
G. Disbursements ....  .  .  .   .  .  .  .  .   .......  .  .   .  21
H. Accounting and Auditing   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     21
I. Benefits and Risks  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     22
III.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION .......... .                22
This report is based on the findings of preparation missions which visited the
Dominican Republic during 1988/89, led by Mr. Bernardo Kugler (LA4HR); a pre-
appraisal mission which visited in July 1990, comprising Messrs./Mmes. Eleanor
Schreiber (Team Leader, LA3HR), Maria Anderson (Project Costs and Procedures
Specialist, LA2HR), Luis Secco (Consultant/Facilities Planner), and Alfredo
Sanmiento (Consultant/Educational Planner and Management Specialist); and an
appraisal mission comprising Mmes. Eleanor Schreiber (Team Leader), Anna Webb
(Consultant/Community Participation) and Joy del Rosso (Nutrition Specialist,
PHR). Ms. Claire Lucas (Consultant, LA3HR) and Ms. Emma Cubillas (LA3HR)
contributed to the preparation of this report. Messrs. Bernardo Kugler
(LA4HR) and Michael Potashnik (LA3HR), and Ms. del Rosso (PHR) reviewed this
report.
This document has a restricted dI.stribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their ofiBcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- tii -
Page No.
ANNEX I:   Public Expenditut,e on Education
Table 1 - Government Expenditure on Education as Percent of Total
Government Expenditure and of GDP  . . . . . . . . .     24
Table 2 - Government and SEEBAC Current and Capital Expenditure .     25
Table 3 - Distribution of Government Expenditure on Education . .     26
ANNEX II:   Basic Education Statistics
Table 1 - Primary Education in the Public Sectur
Students Enrolled, Teachers and Classrooms by Region      27
Table 2 - Students Enrolled in Public Primary Education by
Gender  . . . . . . . . . . . .      0 .    . . . . .   28
Table 3 - Rural and Urban Repetition and Dropout Rates, 1987/88 .     29
Table 4 - Efficiency ln Primary Education . . . . . . . . . . . .     30
ANNEX III: Primary Education Development
Proposed Inter-American Development Bank-Assisted
Project.. . .. ...  31
ANNEX IV:   Selected Subcomponent Description . . . . . . . . . . .     33
ANNEX V:    Project Management  ... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  40
ANNEX VI:   Project Monitoring  ... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  44
ANNEX VII:  Project Costs
Table 1 - Project Cost Summary  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     46
Table 2 - Project Components by Year Including Contingencies  . .     47
ANNEX VIII: Procurement
Table 1 - Procurement Methods ... .  .  .  .    ..... .  .  .  .  .   .  48
Table 2 - Procurement Limits by Type  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     49
ANNEX IX:   Estimated Schedule of Disbursements . . . . . . . . . .     50
ANNEX X:    Selected Documents and Data Available
in the Project File ... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  51
Map:        IBRD No. 19599R



DOMINICAN -
PRIMARY,                      PROTECT
DATA            YEAR
A.  GENERAL COUNTRY DATA.
1. Population Estimate (Thousands)                                6 869             1986
2.  GNP per Capita (US$)                                             680            1989
8. Aroa ('000 Square Kilometers)                                      48.78         1989
B.  POPULATION DATA:
1.  Crude Birth Rato (Per 1000)                                       81.4          1989
2. Crude Death Rate (Per 1000)                                         6.7          1989
3.Annual Rato of Population Growth (X)                                 2.2          1989
Urban                                                        4.8           1989
4. Total Fertility Rate (Births per Woman)                             S.8          1989
5.  Infant Mortality Rate (Per 1000 Live Births)                      65            1989
6. Life Expoctancy at Birth (Years)                                   es            1989
C. EDUCATION DATA:
1. Primary Education
Enrollment Rat. (X)                                          90             1989
Privat. Schools (X of those enrolled)                  20             1989
2. Secondary Education
Enrollment Rate (U)                                          40             1989
Privat. Schools (S of those *nrollod)                  40             1989
S. Tertiary Education
Enrollment Rate (X)                                          10             1989
Private Schools (X of those enrolled)                  40             1989
4. Education Expenditures
as share of Public Expenditures                         6.8           1988
S. Primary Education Expenditures
as X of Total Education (Public)                           47.4          1988
S. Secondary and Technical Education Expendituroe
as X of Total Education (Public)                           18.4          1988
7. Universities and Other Educational Institutions
as X of Total Education (Public)                           19.6          1988
8. Illiteracy Rat. (X of pop. 16+)
Overall                                            22.7           1989
Female                                              28.2          1989
SOURCE: World Bank, Social Indicators of Development, 1989
Mission Estimates



- iv -
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
PRIMARY EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:         D1minican Republic
Beneficiary:       Secretariat of State for Education, Arts and Culture (SEEBAC)
Amount:            US$15.0 million equivalent
Terms:             Payable in 20 years, including a 5-year grace period, at the
Bank standard variable interest rate.
Proiect
Oblectives
and Description:  The proposed project forms part of the Bank's strategy to
support a coherent macro-economic framework and selected
investments in key economic and social sectors in the
Dominican Republic. It aims to strengthen the effectiveness
of primary education by raising student retention, promotion
and achievement levels; increasing the participation rate of
poor rural and urban children; and ensuring effective
planning, programming and monitoring of resources available
for primary education. The project supports the Government's
planned development program for primary education over the
period late 1991-97; it would be complemented by a parallel
project financed with the assistance of tJe Inter-American
Development Bank.
The Educational Development Component would:   (a) provide
skills upgrading in key subject areas and teaching methods for
some 600 teacher training staff of normal schools and
universities and related in-service training for 10,000 public
primary   school   teachers;   (b)   provide   training   and
transportation for about 750 regional, district and school
administrators and supervisors to introduce improved and
regular technical supervision fcr primary school teachers;
(c) initiate a system for maintenance of primary school
facilities based largely on communitv inputs of labor and
government financing of materials; and (d) provide equipment
for, and studies to evaluate, improve and expand an ongoing
school nutrition program in rural areas and initiate a similar
program in peri-urban areas.
The Management Development Component would:  (a) strengthen
management information, planning, and monitoring for primary
education based on school planning criteria and   socio-
economic indicators; (b) support selected studies on issues
related to the future development and financing of basic
education;  (c) introduce  a  student  assessment  system  to
measure and monitor achievement in language, mathematics,
science, and social science; and (d) strengthen the SEEBAC's
capacity to support improved community contributions to school



materials distribution, school maintenance, and school
nutrition in public primary schools.
Benefits:          Investment in primary education, both for improved quality and
expanded coverage, has a high economic return and is
recognized as a prerequisite for improvements in labor
productivity.  The project aims to achieve these objectives
and targets the enrollment of an estimated additional 80,000
children from low income households; iost of these children
would benefit from the school nutrition program, which would
help to improve achievement as well as retention. Reaching
the project's objectives for strengthened planning and for
community involvement in primary education would contribute to
long-term gains in the effectivene3s of resource management
and would help to sustain project benefits beyond project
completion.
Risks:             Project management relies on SEEBAC capacity which may prove
insufficient for successful and timely implementation.   To
reduce this risk and ensure a balance between efficient
project management and related capacity-building in the
SEEBAC, the project includes technical and administrative
consultants to assist with project management.   In view of
fiscal constraints, a lack of funds for initiating project
implementation and delays in disbursements of national
counterpart funds could also cau'.e implementation delays. To
minimize these risks, UNDP funding has been provided to
complete detailed project design, and government commitment to
provide specific yearly contributions to project financing,
limited to about 12 percent of total project cost, has been
confirmed.



- vi -
Estimated Costs5 a/                                    Local      Foreign   Total
- -   US$ million - - -
Educational Development
Teacher and Supervisor Training                        3.8           1.5       5.3
Facilities Maintenance                                 0.8           0.8       1.6
School Nutrition                                       0.4           1.2       1.6
Sub-Total                                              5.0          3.5        8.5
Management Development
Planning and Information                               0.3          1.0        1.3
Educational Assessment                                 0.7           0.4       1.1
Community Participation                                1.4           0.5       1.9
Studies and Preparation of Projects                    0.5          0.4        0.9
Proj ect Management                                    1.0          0.4        1.4
Sub-Total                                              3.9          2.7        6.6
Total Base Costs                                       8.9          6.2       15.1
Physical Contingencies                                 0.1          0.1        0.2
Price Contingencies                                    1.0          0.7        1.7
Total Project Costs                                   10.0           7.0      17.0
a/  Excluding taxes and duties, which are negligible.
Proposed Financing Plans
Local       Foreign   23al
- -      US$million - - -
Government                                              2.0          0.0       2.0
IBRD                                                   8.0          7.0       15.0
Total                                                 10.0           7.0      17.0
Estimated IBRD Disbursement:
IBRD FYs  1992    1993    1994    1995        1996    1997    1998
---------------------- US$ million ---------------------
Annual                    0.8      1.4     2.8       3.8      3.2      2.0     1.0
Cumulative                0.8      2.2     5.0      8.8      12.0     14.0    15.0
Rate of Return:    Not applicable
Maps                IBRD No. 19599R



DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
PRIMARY EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. THE SECTOR
A. Economic Setting
1.1       After a period of vigorous economic growth, amounting to about
6.5 percent of GDP p.a. from the mid-1960s to the late 1970s, economic
conditions in the Dominican Republic declined sharply. Between 1982 and i986,
GNP per capita fell from US$1,330 to US$730, the rate of open unemployment
climbed from 18 percent to 25 percent, and the external debt rose from
30 percent to 59 percent of CDP. Based on a massive rise in public
investment, intended to reinstate growth, GDP grew by 8 percent in 1987.
However, excessive expansion of domestic demand led to a loss of
international reserves and persistent inflation, reaching a rate of 101Z in
1990. Real GDP growth fell to 2.7 percent in 1989 and to a negative 5.1
percent in 1990.
1.2       In the course of the economic deterioration, social conditions also
worsened. In line with a 25 percent decline in the real minimum wage between
1980 and 1990, poverty increased during the decade. By the late 19809, a
quarter of Dominican families were classified as living below the poverty
line, and malnutrition affected over two-fifths of children. Health, water
supply, sanitation, and housing deficiencies each affected 30-40 percent of
the population. While 90 percent of the relevant age group attended primary
school in 1989, the average quality of basic education had declined to a level
insufficient to prepare youth for productive employment or further education
and training.
1.3       To halt the rapid economic deterioration, the Government recently
implemented a successful stabilization program as a first phase of a
comprehensive economic development strategy. Among other achievements,
inflation was reduced to an annual equivalent rate of less than 10 percent in
the first quarter of 1991; a differential between official and parallel market
exchange rates was eliminated with the devaluation of the official exchange
rate; and key domestic prices for gasoline, electricity, flou. and sugar were
substantially increased. Medium- to long-term prospects, however, will depend
on the Government's capacity to maintain stabilization efforts and implement
policy reforms needed to sustain growth.
1.4       Efforts to implement the development strategy will need to include
measu!-es to protect the most vulnerable segments of the population. Measures
to provide the population, more generally, with competitive skills required to
modernize the economy will also be high priorities. In the human resources
sectors, special attention should be paid to reinstating or extending basic
services, with a view to serving first the least well-off segments of the
population, most notably those living along the border with Haiti and in
marginal urban areas. In the education sector, provision of an adequate basic
education for all children will be a key requirement for achieving the broader
economic development objectives.



B. The Education Sector
1.5       Estimates of educational coverage in the Dominican Republic compare
favorably with those of higher income countries in the region. Primary
education, which errolls over 1.3 million children (evenly distributed by
sex), is approaching universal coverage,11 with a reported 90 percent of
those aged 7-12 attending grades one through six. Enrollments of some 40
percent of the age group at the secondary level and 10 percent at the tertiary
level are typical for the region. Enrollments in private primary schools have
increased gradually, from 5 percent i.o 20 percent since the mid-1960s, in part
as a response to declining quality in public schools. The private sector also
accounts for substantial shares of students at the secondary and higher
levels, or about 40 percent at each. Public education is currently provided
free of charge at the primary and secondary levels, with the exception of
small user fees charged for materials; nominal tuition is charged at the
tertiary level.
1.6       The education system builds from the primary cycle of six years
followed by a secondary cycle of six years and postsecondary courses of
varying lengths. In 1989, the Government officially extended basic education
to eight grades, with grades seven and eight to be provided at existing
primary schools as well as in secondary schools. In practice, resource
constraints have since prevented significant advances in the provision of
eight years of education for all children.
1.7       Primary and secondary education are managed by the Secretariat of
State for Education and Culture, the SEEBAC. The SEEBAC comprises a central
office and 10 regional directorates, divided into 60 school districts and 240
"nucleos", or rural school clusters. Each cluster includes a central school
which is intended to serve as an educational resource and development center
and to offer eight grades; several subcentral schools, offering six grades;
and satellite schools, offering four grades. In all, some 5,000 public
primary schools operate in the Dominican Republic. Higher education is the
responsibility of the National Council for Higher Education, which operates
independently of the SEEBAC.
1.8       The system, especially basic education, suffers from low quality
and efficiency, and selectively from problems of unequal access. Only half of
children enrolled complete the primary cycle; less than 20 percent of children
entering grade one complete the cycle in six years; and at least 10 percent
of children, mainly poor, do not attend school. Secondary education, largely
an urban phenomenon, suffers from weak articulation with the labor market and
postsecondary education, and like higher education serves mainly students from
middle to upper income families. In addition, at the tertiary level, a large
number of small institutions have appeared over the past twenty years offering
programs of mediocre to poor quality.
I/   Detailed educational statistics have not been updated since 1986 in the
Dominican Republic; official estimates for later years may overstate
achievements, especially in the enrollment ratio.



- 3 -
1.9       Expenditure on education, already one of the lowest in the region,
fell from 1.7 percent of GNP in 1980 to 1.3 percent of GNP in 1988. Private
expenditure on education, at 2.8 percent of personal income (0.1 percent of
Income of the poorest 30 percent of families) is not enough to compensate for
Lhe low level of public experditure. Despite an increase of about 10 percent
in real public expenditure during 1986-90 (Annex I), that for education
declined from 10 percent to 8 percent of the total. Over the same period, the
share in total education expenditure for primary education remained constant
at about 45 percent. The composition of expenditure on education, at about 95
percent recurrent, 5 percent capital, is typical for the region. The
recurrent cost per student in primary school, at about US$25 in 1990, is
insufficient (in the region, only Haiti has a comparably low per student
expendituze), and reflects inadequate levels of salary as well as non-salary
expenditure.
C. Issues in Primary Education
1.10      The main issues in primary education are low educational and
management effectiveness. Constraints to educational effectiveness derive
mainly from inadequate quality and expenditure. Problems are evident in
shortfalls in provision of classroom materials, training and technical support
for teachers, and appropriate physical facilities. School feeding, to
encourage the regular participation of poor children, is also limited.
Institutional weaknesses center on inadequate management information, both
quantitative and qualitative, for subsector planning and monitoring.
Institutional support for community participation in basic education is also
inadequate, especially in the light of current fiscal constraints.
Educational Effectiveness
1.11      Key statistics on educational performance in the Dominican Republic
indicate excessive inefficiency in the primary education subsector in the
Dominican Republic. While the estimated 90 percent participation rate is
high, only 45 percent of children entering grade one complete the first cycle
of education. The average student completes four grades but needs 6.7 years
to do so. Average repetition and dropout rates, at about 17 percent and 10
percent, respectively, are high, with incidence greatest in grade one (about
25 percent and 14 percent, respectively) and in raral areas (Annex II).
1.12      Problems of quality largely explain the inefficienctes.  No
systematic nationwide achievement tests are administered to primary school
students in the Dominican Republic. However, evidence from occasional
testing, suggests that the quality of basic education is among the lowest in
the region. A recent assessment of mathematics scores of eighth grade
Dominican students shows poor results (a 27 percent average score, compared
with a 50 percent average in a 20 country study), even in comparison to
countries with lower per capita incomes.
1.13      Poor educational effectiveness is explained largely by a dearth of
textbooks and other classroom materials, and poor teaching. Limited access to
school places in selected geographic areas, and poor attendance and dropout
resulting from poverty, also contribute.



-4-
1.14      Textbooks and Materials.  A severe shortage of classroom materials
exists in primary schools in the Dominican Republic. Only 30 percent of
primary school students and 25 percent of eighth grade students have access to
textbooks. Recognizing the importance of textbooks as a determinant of
quality, the Government initiated a program to provide textbooks for all
primary school students in 1986. After initial delivery of some 600,000
mathematics and language textbooks for use in the lower grades, the program
was discontinued due to budget constraints. The National Book Bank, within
the SEEBAC, is responsible for managing the distribution of textbooks and
other materials. When available, books are lent to students for a nominal
yearly fee (DR$0.50 in 1986); student workbooks are sold at cost. Students
unable to pay are exempt from charges. While proceeds are returned to the
central SEEBAC as a form of partial cost-recovery, the main purpose of the fee
is to iLnstill a sense of responsibility for caring for the books among
students and their families. Basic textbooks, workbooks and teachers' guides
are currently required for each grade of primary education, together with
basic reference materials (e.g., maps, dictionaries, etc.) for schools.
1.15      Teacher Performance.  The current student-teacher rstio in primary
education in the Dominican Republic is appropriate at about 29 in public and
25 in private schools, on a single shift basis. (The apparent ratio of 47
does not take account of double shifts carried by two-thirds of the teachers).
However, the quality of pre-service training for teachers, provided in five,
postsecondary normal schools, is generally low; and the training is
inadequately linked to the primary curriculum and to special needs (e.g., for
multigrade teaching in small, rural schools). Moreover, about 3.800
practicing teachers (about 17 percent of grade one-eight teachers in public
schools) lack formal qualifications and regular in-service upgrading is not
provided. As a result, teachers are ill-prepared in terms of subject-matter
knowledge, as well as teaching skills, to implement the primary curriculum,
particularly without supporting materials. Subject-matter supervisors at the
regional level, district officers and central school directors in the rural
areas also receive insufficient technical support and upgrading. In-service
training for teachers and supervisors, and regular technical support and
supervision, need to be instituted over the near-term to upgrade teachers'
skill levels in basic subject-matter areas and teaching techniques; and a plan
to improve teaching skills through improved pre-service training needs to be
developed over the medium-term.
1.16      Despite a 30 percent across the board increase in civil service
salaries in mid-1990, teachers lack incentives to strengthen performance. The
base salary of the primary school teacher in the Dominican Republic is less
than the minimum wage in the public sector (US$54 per month in early 1990).
The need to complement salaries explains the high share of teachers carrying
two shifts per day. Anong consequences of low salaries are included an
abbreviated school day (typically four hours during the morning shift and 3.5
hours during the afternoon, compared with an international norm of five hours
per shift); frequent teacher absenteeism; and a growing annual loss of
teachers to other types of employment (about 5 percent turnover each year
compared to a norm of 2 to 3 percent) at a time when the number of pre-service
trainees is decreasing owing to the low salaries.



1.17      The basis for an improved incentive system exiets in the Teachers'
Statute (Law 874 of 1978). It provides for automatic annual salary increases
as well as for continuous evaluation of teachers' performance but has not been
regularly effected over the past decade. In view of the urgent need to
improve conditions of service for teachers, a draft bill, calling for a
doubling of teachers' salaries and maintenance of real value on an annual
basis, as well as for four-hour shifts, was presented to Congress in December
1990, and approved thereafter. The bill was, however, vetoed by the President
in view of severe fiscal and financial constraints in February 1991. An
alternative proposal by the Secretary of Education through the regular
budgetary process, provides for an increase in the basic teacher's salary of
20 percent for 1991, plus adjustments for steps in grade, in all amounting to
about 35 percent of the current salary bill. This increase, awaiting final
approval, would be the first in a planned series of annual adjustments. Over
the medium-term, non-salary improvements (e.g., health benefits) would also
need to be considered for teachers and performance evaluation criteria would
need to be reintroduced.
1.18      School Facilities.  High student and teacher absenteeism, and
student drop-out also result from poor classroom conditions. A maintenance
system is lacking, owing both to inadequate resources and inadequate
recognition of need in the past. Dilapidated, or otherwise substandard
classrooms, and an absence of adequate water supply and sanitation facilities
worsened in recent years by vandalism, are common problems. The poor
conditions have reduced commitment to schools by students and parents and have
contributed to overcrowding in schools with adequate facilities. Results of a
1989 inventory carried out by SEEBAC indicate that of some 19,000 classrooms
in public primary schools, about 4,600 required rehabilitation and another 760
required replacement. Improvements in existing facilities, where warranted by
the number of school-aged children, would help to improve school attendance
and efficiency; and a program of maintenance needs to be introduced by the
SEEBAC.
1.19      While primary schools enroll an estimated 1.3 million, some 130,000
children in the age group 7-12 never attend school and over 100,000 abandon
the system each school year. Non-enrolled children, predominantly from low-
income families, are located mostly in the frontier provinces and in the slums
of the largest cities. A lack of accessible schools and overcrowding explains
a share of the non-enrollment of poor children, which could be largely
overcome by upgrading existing facilities. Recently revised student promotion
criteria should aloo assist in freeing places occupied by over-aged children,
if implemented in conjunction with improvements in educational quality. The
new procedures rely on periodic review of student performance rather than a
single, end of year decision.
1.20      School Nucrition.  A greater share of non-enrollment is explained
by poverty than by lack of classrooms, in particular, by the participation of
children in income-generating activities and the perception by parents of low
benefits accruable to school attendance. Complementary services for children
from low income families, provided through the school, can serve to reduce
obstacles to school participation. One promising service is the provision of
a school meal. Evidence indicates that nutrition deficiencies and poor health



- 6 -
are among the causes of low school enrollment, absenteeism, early dropout and
poor school performance. The particular value-added of use of the school as a
venue for feeding and nutrition efforts is the potential for improving the
learning capacity of children and related educational effectiveness and
efficiency.
1.21      "CARE", an international non-governmental organization (NGO),
currently manages a school meal program for children in primary schools. Food
is financed by the United States Agency for International Development (USAID)
and distribution and transportation by the SEEBAC. The program serves about
75,000 children in 377 schools along the border with Haiti. It requires
evaluation, but provides the basis for an expanded program both in rural and
marginal urban areas. The need for some improvements is already evident.
CARE would like to transfer its management responsibilities to the SEEBAC,
which currently lacks the administrative capacity in its School Nutrition Unit
in the Department of Student Welfare to take on the task. Program planning
and monitoring, and interagency communication are generally weak. Storage and
cooking facilities also need to be improved; and the meal needs to be provided
early in the school day to enhance learning productivity. These improvements
would require more effective community participation -- parents are
responsible for cooking and serving the meal.  Children's needs for
deparatization and iron supplementation, as means to improve overall health
and performance, also need to be assessed. In addition, alternative channels
for managing and delivering expanded school feeding, including participation
of local NGOs, would need to be developed.
Educational Management
1.22      Planning and Programming.  The current organization of the central
and regional offices of the SEEBAC dates from the early 1950s and was designed
for about half of the current student population. The SEEBAC employs over
41,000 staff, including nearly 22,000 teachers in grades one-eight. Its
management capacity is limited and highly centralized. A major problem, in
the current economic environment, is SEEBAC's inability to retain sufficient,
qualified and motivated staff in the central and regional offices. A
decentralized system for planning and programming, based on school-level
information, was introduced in 1983 but has not been kept up to date. The
absence of sound planning data has an impact on all aspects of operation of
the basic education system. Adequate information is lacking to guide
developments with curricula, techniques and teacher upgrading; and the
allocation of limited public resources, especially for provision of school
facilities, often corresponds poorly with needs. In addition, information on
private schools is lacking. Constraints in management capacity at the
regional offices of the SEEBAC, poor communications with the center, and
duplication of functions between and within these two levels further detract
from sound planning and programming.
1.23      In the light of these weaknesses, and insufficient resources to
overhaul the SEEBAC and to upgrade sector conditions over the short-term,
existing institutional and staff resources need to be strengthened and used
more efficiently. Priority areas include reinstituting and strengthening the
microplanning system as the key mechanism for decision-making, and provision



- 7 -
of supporting computer equipment for the central and regional planning offices
of the SEEBAC. In addition, regular monitoring of sector performance would
need to be added to this effort.
1.24      Educational Assessment.  The lack of adequate information for the
management of basic education is compounded by the absence of systematic
information on educational outcomes. While results of piecemeal educational
assessments have confirmed the poor quality of the system, continuous
measurement of outcomes required to guide decisions on curricula, materials
and teaching practices, are not available. To complement improvements in
management effectiveness, a regular system of student evaluation needs to be
developed and introduced for basic education.
1.25      Community Participation.  An important and available resource for
improving sector management and efficiency is the community. Community--
especially parent-- involvement appears to have a positive bearing on both
school attendance and quality.?- A tradition of community involvement with
basic education exists in the Dominican Republic. Currently, 4,000 of the
5,000 public primary schools have organized parent-teacher associations. The
associations operate with limited or no monetary resources at present, but are
generally highly committed to improving educational effectiveness. Where
established, parent-teacher associations were responsible for collecting the
rental fees for the textbooks distributed in the mid-1980s. Additional funds
collected by better-off associations are used for modest inputs to school
upkeep and for materials. Associations also manage the school feeding.
1.26      To strengthen the participation of the associations, additional
support needs to be provided. Cost-sharing arrangements, similar to those
employed for the school nutrition program, would provide effective incentives
to increase community inputs of labor to carry out routine maintenance and
other activities. Retention of all or part of the rental fees for schcol
materials by the associations for school use would further boost community
involvement. In addition, the associations need assistance in organizing and
managing school-related activities. The Department of Community Participation
in the SEEBAC is responsible for assisting the associations but would need to
be strengthened, together with its regional representatives, to provide
adequate orientation and administrative support to existing associations, to
help establist. new associations, and to help evaluate activities. The
Department would also need to improve coordination with SEEBAC's technical
units responsible for school facilities and school nutrition, and with the
Book Bank.
2/   With the exception of a limited number of elite, urban schools, private
primary schools operate at similar resource levels as public schools in
the Dominican Republic. However, educational outcomes at the private
schools are more effective and costs per graduate less than in the
public sector ("School Effects and Costs for Private and Public Schools
in the Dominican Republic', Jimenez, Lockheed, et. al., IBRD, PPR
Working Papers, October 1989). According to the findings of this study,
part of the explanation lies in parental attitude.



- 8 -
D. Government Strategy
1.27      The Government's economic development strategy is largely in line
with the Medium-Term Economic Program prepared with Bank assistance in 1988.
Deviations and disruptions in the process of executing the broad development
strategy have contributed to the shortfall in the provision of social services
in recent years. In the education sector, questions of finance and problems
of low productivity oi the labor force were widely debated over the past year
in the public and private sectors. Under the sponsorship of industry,
guidelines were prepared for meeting requirements for economic development
through basic improvements in the education system. This is being followed by
joint government-private sector preparation of a detailed ten-year plan for
the sector, coordinated by the UNDP. A private foundation has also been
established to support the effective development of private, non-profit
schools as well as selected efforts to improve public school performance at
the primary level. These activities have served to solidify consensus on the
need to increase resources for the sector and correct inefficiencies in the
management and use of existing resources. Among priority recommendations are
included increasing resources to strengthen primary education with an emphasis
on decentralized management and responsibility at the local level. The
Government's main response is embodied in a development program for public
primary education for the period 1992-97 which aims to improve educational
quality and coverage. The proposed project would support this program
focusing on improved teacher performance and support, strengthened
institutional capacity of the SEEBAC and expanded community participation at
the school level. It would be complemented by a project assisted by the
Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) focusing on provision of educational
materials and facilities rehabilitation. A recent project assisted by USAID
is supporting primary education development in private primary schools in
urban centers.
E. Bank Strategy
1.28      The proposed project forms an integral part of the Bank's strategy
for country assistance, which includes support for a coherent macro-economic
framework along with selected investments in key economic and social sectors.
Bank strategy also emphasizes poverty alleviation, through cost-effective
measures necessary to reverse the deterioration in the social services. The
Bank seeks to support an increase in priority expenditures in the social
sectors within a viable fiscal and economic framework, while at the same time
ensuring an appropriate balance between public and private sector
participation, and among expenditures on essential recurrent and capital
costs. The proposed project focuses not only on improving primary education,
but also on establishing more effective mechanisms for resource allocation and
for management at both central and local levels. Bank dialogue with local
authorities has contributed to increased awareness of sector issues, and the
Bank's participation in project identification and preparation has been
essential to project design and can be credited for having attracted the IDB
to provide financing for a complementary project. This project, focusing on
providing textbooks, and other educational materials and facilities
rehabilitation for primary schools is expected to be approved by the IDB Board
of Directors in June, 1991.



- 9 -
1.29      The Bank Group previoasly financed one credit and one loan in
education in the Dominican Republic. Credit 235-DR, approved in 1971, was
designed to assist in educational planning, curriculum development and
construction of nine secondary schools and a teachers' college. It was
completed in 1978 after two, one-year extensions. Loan 1142-DR, approved in
1975 and focusing on vocational and community learning centers, was fully
disbursed by 1984 with a one-year delay due to a variety of difficulties
related to lack of local counterpart funding, a chronic issue across sectors
in the early 1980s. In both cases, project evaluations and performance audits
emphasized the importance of supporting institutional development and
sustainability of project benefits. Due to restrictive governmental policy on
external borrowing, several sectoral investment projects with multilateral or
bilateral support were dropped during the 1980s. Included were a proposed
basic education project in 1983 and a training project, approved by the Bank
in 1985, but never made effective following a change of government in 1986.
(Several important Bank recommendations contained in the earlier proposed
basic education project were, however, carried out independently by the
Government, including the creation of a planning office at SEEBAC, the
introduction of a revised primary curriculum, and the establishment of
institutional arrangements for providing textbooks). Experience of previous
projects, including measures to support institutional development and project
sustainability, and to facilitate timely counterpart funding, have all been
carefully considered in the design of this project. In particular, the
project includes specific measures to build key capabilities for planning, and
for program and project management; to foster continuity in project benefits
and inputs through strengthening management and community support, and the
provision and efficient use of requisite funds; and, during project execution,
to limit requirements for local counterpart financing in view of current
financing constraints.
II. THE PROJECT
A. Project Origin
2.1       The proposed project was prepared by SEEBAC under a UNDP technical
assistance project administered by the Bank. Preparation was carried out
during 1989/90. Appraisal was completed in December 1990. Negotiations took
place in Washington, D.C., during April 30 - May 3, 1991. At negotiations,
the government delegation was headed by Dr. Luis Toral, Governor of the
Central Bank.
B. Objectives and Content
2.2       The project supports the Government's planned development and
investment program for basic education during late 1992-97. It aims to
improve the quality of primary education, to increase enrollment of children
from low income families, and to strengthen resource management. It includes
two main components: the educational development component is designed to
improve student achievement, internal efficiency and student participation;
the management development component is designed to strengthen supporting
institutional arrangements for planning, educational assessment and community
support for primary education. Investment criteria target the poor as the



- 10 -
priority group to be served under the project, in particular by focusing a
school nutrition program and maintenance of school facilities in low income
areas. The project would be complemented by a separate operation which would
be financed with the assistance of the IDB. The IDB project would center on
the provision of textbooks and other learning materials for all students in
public primary schools, teacher and supervisor orientation to use of these
materials and the rehabilitation/replacement of dilapidated classrooms in
rural areas (Annex III).
C. Detailed Proiect Description
Educational Development (proposed outlay US$9.6 million including
contingencies)
2.3       This component is designed to strengthen educational effectiveness
by improving school quality and coverage. It centers on providing teacher
training and regular supervision; maintenance of facilities; and, expansion of
school nutrition.
2.4       Teacher Training.  In tandem with planned increases in teachers'
salaries (para. 1.17), a program of regular in-service training for primary
school teachers would be introduced under the project. During project
implementation, the training would reach approximately 10,000 practicing
teachers (nearly half of public primary school teachers), with initial
priority given to those lacking formal qualifications and teachers posted in
rural schools and in schools in marginal urban areas. The training is
designed to upgrade knowledge in the core subject-matter areas of mathematics,
language, science and social science; enhance analytic skills; and improve
teaching techniques. The training would support the primary school curriculum
broadly but incorporate special emphases appropriate for differing school
environments (e.g., small rural schools, central rural schools, and urban
schools in marginal areas). The training would be provided for grade one
through eight teachers. School directors would be included. It would be
based in part on self-study modules, which would be complemented by group
follow-up and additional instructor-led training sessions during vacation
periods (90 hours) and weekends during the school year (45 hours), and on in-
school demonstrations during the school year. The full program would be
completed in the course of a year for each participating teacher. The
training would be conducted in available SEEBAC institutions, including normal
and secondary schools. Instructors would be drawn from the SEEBAC, normal
schools and local universities. To provide the in-service training and to
achieve more general improvements in the quality of pre- and in-service
training of primary school teachers, 600 normal school and university faculty
of education staff would receive training. The project would provide
financing for the in-service training of 10,000 practicing teachers and for
the teacher trainers as well as technical assistance (30 staff-months) to
complete the design of the training and training materials, to train the
teacher trainers and to monitor the implementation of the training.
2.5       Teachers completing the program would be eligible for salary
increments (steps in grade) as provided in the Teachers' Statute. It is
planned that the in-service training would be extended after the project



- 11 -
implementation period to cover remaining teachers in the system, as judged
appropriate; and that regular in-service training, of shorter duration, would
be continued on a regular basis thereafter. An assessment of medium- to long-
term requirements for upgrading teaching quality through improved pre-service
training, and for linking improved performance to appropriate incentives
(salary and non-salary), would also be carried out under the project.
Recommendations for altornative structures for delivering pre-service training
and support for primary school teachers would be included. Satisfactory terms
of reference for this study were prepared by a consultant, approved by the
Bank, and financed during project preparaticn by the UNDP. During
negotiations, the Government agreed to furnish to the Bank for review the
results of this study by June 30, 1993 (para. 3.1a).
2.6       School Supervision.  To further strengthen the performance of
responsible administrators and teachers in the schools over the near-term, the
project would support the development of an improved and regular system for
school supervision.  The system would be based on t:e provision of technical
support for school-based personnel through school visits and would complement
the in-service training to be provided. It would make use of central, rural
schools and selected urban schools for providing demonstration of new or
improved techniques and for seminars for teachers in the area. Key objectives
of improved supervision would be to complement, and consolidate the gains of,
the in-service training to be provided under the project and to begin to
provide school administrators and teachers with improved skills needed to
identify and ameliorate problems of student achievement, as well as efficiency
(attendance, dropout). To launch improved supervision, the project would
provide an upgrading program for supervisors based on objectives of the
primary school curriculum in core subject areas and objectives for raising
internal efficiency in the schools, in particular by strengthening teaching
techniques. The supervisor training would be carried out for one week a month
over six months during the school year using both group instruction and
demonstration techniques. As with the in-service teacher training, it is
planned that r^gular upgrading for supervisors of shorter duration would be
provided regularly after project completion. Trainers would be provided by
local universities.
2.7       The project would include consultant services (20 staff-months) to
help design and introduce the new system of technical support and supervision,
to prepare materials and trainers, and to orient and upgrade staff of the
Directorate General for School Supervision of the SEEBAC to generate and
monitor effective strategies for school supervision. The training for
supervisory staff, including 750 school directors (central school directors in
the rural clusters), district officers and regional technical supervisors
would also be financed. To help overcome the problems of logistics for school
administration and supervision, the Regional Directorates would be provided a
multipurpose vehicle and district officers and directors of central schools in
the rural areas would be provided small motorcycles (approximately 300). To
promote care and maintenance of the motorcycles, SEEBAC plans to sell them, at
cost, to the district officers and central school directors. Monthly payments
would be established and drawn automatically from salary checks over a five-
year period. The payments would amount to some US$160 a year, equivalent to
about 10 percent of average annual teacher remuneration prior to the planned



- 12 -
1991 improvements. This is considered affordable in view of the comparatively
higher cost of individual vehicle purchase and the general need for
transportation among the central school directors and district officers.
Maintenance would be the responsibility of the central school directors and
the district officers but would be financed, together with fuel, by the
SEEBAC. Repayments for the motorcycles would be retained in a SEEBAC fund for
this purpose.
2.8       Facilities Maintenance.  Under the project, a program for routine
maintenance of all public primary schools would be developed by the SEEBAC.
As part of the project, a system for involving the parent-teacher associations
in the routine annual maintenance of the schools would be introduced. The
plan calls for government provision of maintenance materials and community
inputs of labor for regular upkeep of the schools, e.g., painting, fixing
furniture, etc. For more complex maintenance and improvement tasks, including
repair or replacement of basic water supply and sanitation facilities, local
labor, mainly youth trained in an ongoing program developed for the SEEBAC
w'th Swiss assistance, would be contracted by the parent-teacher associations.
The maintenance training program would be extended, using existing facilities
of vocational and technical schools, to reach youth in each school district.
2.9       The maintenance system would be piloted during the first year of
project implementation and expanded thereafter. Based on an average
allocation of US$300 equivalent per year per school, about 4,000 (20Z of
total) classrooms at public primary schools would benefit from maintenance
under the project. Approximately 75 rural school clusters and 300 urban
schools would be involved. Criteria for selecting the schools would be based
upon need as well as commitment of the local parent-teacher associations but
would take into account the value of experience to be gained from selecting
schools in diverse geographic communities serving different income groups.
The School Facilities Department of the SEEBAC, with support of the Community
Participation Department, would be responsible for selecting participating
schools during project implementation. The School Facilities Department, at
the central and regional levels, would provide technical support to the
associations. A manual for routine maintenance was prepared by the SEEBAC
during 1989 and is well-suited for use by the community. Materials and
supervision required for routine maintenance would be provided by the SEEBAC
through the School Facilities Department. Labor would be provided by the
parent-teacher associations, in an estimated amount equivalent to about half
of total costs. Before completion of the project, the SEEBAC would be
expected to initiate a permanent system for maintenance incorporating
community support.
2.10      The project would include financing for the provision of
maintenance materials, training for youth to carry out more specialized
maintenance activities, and upgrading for SEEBAC central and regional staff
responsible for facilities management. Technical assistance would also be
provided (20 staff-months) to assist with implementation of the pilot phase
and with design of training and orientation for SEEBAC staff and community
participants.



- 13 -
2.11      School Nutrition (Annex IV).   To improve participation and reduce
hunger, the school-nutrition program currently provided in the frontier zone
would be strengthened. Food for the rural school meal would continue to be
provided by USAID through 1994. Thereafter, arrangements would be sought with
other donors, principally the World Food Program, to continue to provide, or
finance, food. A small increase in the number of beneficiaries of this
program, from 75,000 to 80,000, is planned during implementation. A school
nutrition program designed to serve 100,000 claildren in marginal urban areas
would also be introduced under the project, using food provided by the World
Food Program. Both nutrition programs would be supported and supervised by
the School Nutrition Unit of the SEEBAC and run by parent-teacher
associations, with additional support provided by the Community Participation
Department. SEEBAC would seek the participation of local NGOs to assist with
food delivery and orientation of the associations in the urban schools.
Emphasis would be given to facilitating meal preparation by parent-teacher
associations, to ensure that food is provided early in the school day
(breakfast for morning and lunch for afternoon shifts); and potential for use
of pre-prepared foods would be explored. In addition, a pilot effort to treat
iron deficiency and parasitic infections through the schools would be
introduced and monitored.
2.12      The School Nutrition Unit in SEEBAC would be strengthened to manage
food storage and distribution, develop improved training and information
programs for participating parent-teacher associations, and coordinate
activities of contributing agencies. Under the ongoing rural feeding program,
these responsibilities are carried out for SEEBAC by CARE, which plans to
phase out its support by 1995. Regional staff of the SEEBAC would be
designated to replace CARE contract staff to form a link between the center
and the communities, and would be responsible for providing technical training
and information to the community volunteers responsible for preparing and
serving the food, and for regular supervision. Prior to expanding the ongoing
program and introducing the urban program, baseline data would be collected
for the rural program to enable later evaluL-ion of its impact on nutrition
status, health, enrollment, attendance, and achievement of beneficiary
students to identify general needs for improving the program. Community
participation and related training needs would also be assessed. The baseline
assessment, to be carried out in 1991, would be followed by mid-term and final
evaluations during project implementation, which would also incorporate
analysis of the urban program. A needs assessment for the urban school
nutrition program would also be carried out. Appropriate terms of reference
for the evaluation and the urban needs assessment have been prepared.
2.13      The project includes financing for the upgrading and functional
reorientation of staff of SEEBAC's School Nutrition Unit, principally through
provision of a long-term consultant in school nutrition programming (36 staff-
months), for the systematic training of regional nutrition staff, and for the
provision of training (of a week's duration) and regular supervision and
information to community volunteers (one representative per school, or about
400 in total) during project implementation. The establishment of a
monitoring and information system on school nutrition, and the impact
evaluation of the nutrition programs, would also be financed, together with a
study of alternative nutrition programming and a study of epidemiological



- 14 -
data, to be conducted in 1992, to form the base for the pilot intervention for
deparatizati3n and iron supplementation. Final terms of reference for these
studies were reviewed by the Bank in March 1991 and found to be satisfactory.
At negotiations, the Government agreed to complete an evaluation of nutrition
activities and needs of primary school children in accordance with criteria
and methodologies satisfactory to the Bank by December 31, 1994, and to
propose satisfactory arrangements for continued provision of food for the
school nutrition programs after 1994 by June 30, 1994 (para. 3.1b).
Management Development (Annex IV) (Proposed outlay US$7.4 million including
contingencies)
2.14      The management development component would strengthen the
allocation and use of resources for primary education mainly by improving
information for planning and programming, introducing a related system of
assessing and monitoring student achievement and promoting community
participation. Selected studies on development issues in basic education and
on educational managemert are also included. The component further includes
financing for consultants for the Project Coordinating Unit (para. 2.25) and
for related operating expenditures (amounting to US$1.5 million of the US$7.4
million outlay).
2.15      Information Management.  Support for improved planning and
programming would center on updating and improving the SEEBAC's decentralized
management information system. The information system introduced in 1983,
based mainly on school location and other standard planning criteria (school
population density, distance from schools, numbers enrolled, etc.), would be
strengthened. Selected socio-economic information (e.g., on family incomes
and occupations, students' health) would be included to ensure that sector
objectives for raising the participation of low income children could be
monitored adequately. Educational assessment data, to be generated through
the project, would also be incorporated in the system, once available. In
addition, simple mechanisms for information sharing would be formed to support
textbook distribution, school maintenance and school nutrition activities,
with a focus on community participation.
2.16      The base for the information system would continue to be the
school. Both public and private institutions would participate. Information
would be generated and used at the local level for decision-making by school
administrators and aggregated for use at the regional and again at the central
level for annual and multi-year planning, and for programming and resource
allocation purposes. System design would promote the timely availability of
information for decision-making at each administrative level. Simplicity in
reporting requirements would be a design priority for the updated system to
help improve data reliability.
2.17      Consultant services (12 staff-months) would be provided to complete
development improvements for the information system initiated with UNDP
support, and to orient and train 60 central and regional staff of the SEEBAC
on use of the system, including the analysis of information collected.
Seminars and manuals would also be provided on the system for administrators
of the central schools in the 240 rural clusters and for urban school



- 15 -
administrators in both public and private schools. Computers and software,
and other office equipment for the information system, for the central and
regional planning offices of the SEEBAC, would also be provided. During
negotiations agreement was reached that the upgraded management information
system be introduced by June 30, 1993 (para. 3.1b).
2.18      Studies.  The project would support selected studies on issues in
basic education and educational management more broadly. Included is an
assessment of causes for repetition and dropout, designed with a view to
complementing project inputs. Alternative solutions (e.g., establishing
summer and Saturday programs, tutoring and special support for children
performing below average) would be assessed for potential cost-effectiveness
and affordability. Drawing on existing assessments of SEEBAC's organization
and functions, a study on SEEBAC's future responsibilities for guiding sector
development based on a decentralized management structure would also be
included. Suitable terms of reference for these studies were prepared by a
consultant, approved by the Bank, and financed during project preparation by
the UNDP. During negotiations, the Government agreed to furnish for Bank
review results of these studies by June 30, 1993 (para. 3.1a). Studies
related to the preparation of future development projects and programs for the
sector would also be included. The UNDP would manage the studies and
complement them as judged appropriate with further studies in parallel with
the project. The UNDP would also sponsor seminars and workshops for relevant
public and private sector authorities on study outcomes.
2.19      Educational Assessment.  To monitor the quality of learning
achievement and to identify cost-effective means for raising achievement,
systematic educational assessment would be introduced under the project.
Testing would be initiated in the school year 1991/92 in language and
mathematics for a represantative sample of grade four students. These would
be extended in early 1993 to cover additional subjects, science and social
science, and geographic areas. Grade eight testing would be introduced in
1994 and applied coun.ry-wide. The system would be standardized and
introduced on a national scale during the school year 1996/97. Standard
procedures would be followed for preparing criterion-referenced tebLs (i.e.,
questions linked to specific curriculum objectives), making use of the
experience acquired in the past by national experts.
2.20      Tests would be administered by central and regional staff of the
SEEBAC in collaboration with regional supervisors and teachers. Results would
be used to provide performance feedback to teachers, school directors,
district officers, and regional staff of the SEEBAC. They would include data
on performance in several sets of learning-specific objectives, which would be
used to strengthen teaching techniques or to alter curriculum objectives. In
addition, an analysis of the determinants of learning achievement would
provide feedback to regional and national authorities on priority needs for
the allocation of resources. A proposed design for the educational assessment
was prepared with UNDP-financed technical assistance. Revisions and further
development would be completed by June 1992. The project includes financing
for the introduction of the system, including consultant services (12 staff-
months) and orientation and training for 4,500 teachers participating in the
development and piloting of the tests. Study tours (eight staff-weeks) for



- 16 -
SEEBAC staff to familiarize themselves with other achievement testing systems
in the region are also included. During negotiations, agreement was reached
that the assessment system would be introduced in the 1991/92 school year and
established on a national basis by the 1996/97 school year (para. 3.1b).
2.21      Community Participation.  The project aims to achieve effective and
sustained community in%alvement in primary education by expanding and
developing capabilities of the parent-teacher associations. This improvement
would be based on strengthening the functions and capabilities of the SEEBAC's
Department for Community Participation, including its regional
representatives, to focus on providing regular support for the associations.
Specifically, the Department would arrange training to enhance participation
techniques, procedures and practices for the associations; monitor the
relevant practices and activities; and promote establishment of approximately
1,000 additional parent-teacher associations so that all 5,000 public primary
schools would be represented. Technical support for the associations in
particular areas (e.g.. maintenance) would be the responsibility of the
appropriate SEEBAC department.
2.22      The support for developing the capacity of parent-teacher
associations to increase involvement in school-based activities would be
directed towards the school maintenance and uutrition programs, included in
the project, and to the distribution of student textbooks and materials, to be
provided under the IDB-assisted operation. The National Book Bank (para.
1.14) would be responsible for organizing the distribution. and storage of the
materials and for maintaining control of inventory; parent-teacher
associations would be responsible for the actual distribution of textbooks at
the school level. Partial cost-recovery, in the form of modest rental fees,
would be continued for use of student textbooks. A minimum fee of DR$5 would
be charged annually for use of each textbook, including the accompanying
workbooks. Where charges cannot be met, students would be exempt in
accordance with simple income criteria developed by SEEBAC. Assuming a 75
percent collection rate, over US$0.5 million equivalent would be collected
each year during implementation. Government, through the SEEBAC, plans to
return about half of this amount, up to US$250,000, to the parent-teacher
associations -- about US$50 each -- to purchase complementary materials for
the schools.
2.23      Under the project, the Department of Community Participation would
receive technical assistance (six staff-months) in program planning and
management, community participation training methodologies, and supervisory
and monitoring skills. Financing would be provided for office equipment,
including computers for the central and regional staff of the Community
Participation Department; for one- to two-day orientations on community
participation techniques for representatives of each parent-teacher
association; for study tours (three staff-weeks) for staff of the Department
of Community Participation to visit similar agencies in nearby countries; and
for monitoring of community participation.



- 17 -
D. Implementation
2.24      Management.  Overall authority for management of the project would
be vested in the Secretary, SEEBAC. For general policy and institutional
coordination, the Secretary would be supported by a Committee of Directors of
SEEBAC. The Secretary would be assisted in the general management of the
project by a Project Coordinating Unit (PCU) (Annex V). The PCU would also be
responsible for coordinating implementation of the parallel operation to be
assisted by the IDB. The head of the PCU, the Project Coordinator, would
report directly to the Secretary and be responsible for two functional units:
the technical unit, which would monitor and support technical execution of
project components; and the administrative unit, which would manage personnel,
procurement, finance, accounting and auditing activities under the project.
The PCU would be staffed by local consultants -- a total of about 10,
including the Project Coordinator and five other key personnel: Chief of the
Technical unit; Chief of the Administrative Unit, and an educational, a
testing and an accounting specialist. In the technical unit, the consultants
would serve as advisors to the heads of technical units in the SEEBAC, who
would be directly responsible for guiding implementation of the relevant
component. These include the directors of the Departments of Educational
Materials, Training, Evaluation, School FaciLities, Primary Education, Student
Welfare and Community Participation, and the Planning Office. Direct
implementation would be the responsibility of the regional offices of the
SEEBAC, with support provided or arranged by PCU staff, as required.
2.25      The PCU structure is deemed appropriate to ensure efficiency in
project implementation while retaining implementation authority in the line
and staff departments of the SEEBAC. It incorporates a fund (US$300,000
equivalent) for paying regular SEEBAC staff involved with the project for
extra hours worked on priority project activities. Criteria for fund use
include payment at the actual salary rate for hours worked beyond the official
work day, which ends at 2:30 p.m. Technical and administrative implementation
capacity would be further bolstered through technical assistance to be
provided by a management consulting firm. It is expected that the UNDP would
provide technical assistance in the areas of teacher training, school
maintenance and management information, as well as procurement services for
the project. Financing for key staff of the PCU and for the UNDP technical
assistance is included under the project. The PCU was established and the
Project Coordinator appointed before negotiations. At negotiations, the
Government agreed to maintain, throughout project implementation, the PCU with
adequate qualified personnel, including the Project Coordinator and five other
key consultants (para. 3.1c). Appointment of other key PCU technical and
administrative consultants would be a condition of loan effectiveness (para.
3.2).
2.26      Implementation Processes.  School maintenance materials would be
procured annually in single contracts allowing for regional distribution.
Larger maintenance jobs and supervision of maintenance would be carried out
1nder contracts. Educational testing, training and other services would also
be contracted by the SEEBAC, and administered with the regional support. The
nutrition component would be implemented under the existing SEEBAC-CARE
contract through 1994, when CARE plans to phase out the program (with SEEBAC



- 18 -
absorbing CARE's responsibilities). Community contributions, providedi by
parent-teacher associations, which have a legal basis, would also be managed
through SEEBAC contracts with the associations. SEEBAC staff (centraL and
regional) would monitor implementation under all project components.
2.27      Implementation Schedule and Status.  The project would be completed
in about six years beginning in late-1991 and ending in late 1997. Components
are fully prepared and ready for start-up, with the exceptions of school
nutrition and community participation. These components will be finalized in
June 3.991 with assistance of UNDP-financed consultants.
2.28      Monitoring and Review.  In line with project objectives, key
indicators will be monitored to track and support improvements in the overall
efficiency and effectiveness of primary education. The performance targets,
related to improving efficiency, coverage and expenditure are presented in
Annex VI.
2.29      Four key targets are established in the monitoring plan:
(a) a reduction in the rate of student repetition from the current
estimated 17 percent to 14 percent by 1994 and to 10 percent
annually by 1997;
(b)  a reduction in the average dropout rate from the current
estimated 10 percent to 6 percent by 1994 and to 4 percent by
1997;
(c) an increase in the enrollment of the primary school age
population from the current estimated 90 percent to 92 percent
by 1994 and 95 percent by 1997; and
(d) the maintenance of adequate remuneration to attract and retain
sufficient numbers of qualified teachers for public primary
schools.
The efficiency and coverage targets are based on analysis of information and
estimates currently available and would be adjusted during project
implementation on the basis of improvements in the management information and
planning systems of the SEEBAC, and the outcomes of the educational assessment
system. The targeted gains are projected on the basis of quality improvements
expected to result from project inputs and expenditures, together with the
introduction of revised, and more flexible criteria for promoting students
from one grade to the next (para. 1.19). The targeted increase in the net
enrollment ratio is based on a reduced bottleneck in enrollments at grade one
and a decrease in the number of over-aged students in the system generally,
which would free places for an additional 80,000 children in the 7-12 age
group. The strengthening of school nutrition and community involvement are
considered to be critical elements in achieving this objective. The targeted
salary increase is based on the Government's commitment to raise teachers'
salaries while strengthening performance criteria. An initial salary increase
of 20 percent or more is planned for 1991. At negotiations, the Government
agreed to take all necessary measures to achieve the targets set out in the



- 19 -
above monitoring plan ((a) - (d)) (para. 3.1.d). Achievements in provision of
project inputs would largely determine the progress towards the performance
targets. Monitoring of provision of these inputs (e.g., numbers of teachers
trained, additional parent-teacher associations established) would therefore
also be carried out (Annex VI).
2.30      Additional aspects of expenditure on primary education would also
be closely monitored during project implementation, with a vier; to ensuring
adequate overall levels of financing and to sustaining project benefits and
inputs. Particular emphasis would be given to ensuring that sufficient funds
are budgeted in 1997 to sustain project inputs (primarily, teacher and
supervisor training, maintenance, school nutrition and educational
assessment). At negotiations, the Government agreed to provide an increment
in the '997 budget for primary education as required to finance the costs of
sustaining all project inputs in a minimum amount in pesos equivalent to
US$2.0 million (para. 3.1e).
2.31      The results of monitoring would form a central focus in an annual
review of project implementation. The review would be conducted jointly by
SEEBAC and the Bank, with the IDB invited to participate. It would assess the
previous year's progress towards achieving expenditure, resource management
and monitoring targets, and establish targets and schedules for the following
year. Resolution of implementation problems and required adjustments in
project content and targets, would also form a focus of the reviews. During
negotiations, the Government agreed to undertake an annual review of project
execution and furnish to the Bank, each year by December 1, beginning in 1992,
a report of .esults of implementation for the previous year and proposed
activities and budgetary allocations for the following year; and include in
the annual rerorts for 1994 and 1997 an evaluation of project implementation
and progreas  owards meeting the key monitoring targets carried out under
terms of ref('c3nce acceptable to the Bank and furnished for Bank review by
June 30, 19S3 and June 30, 1996, respectively, (para. 3.1f).
E. Costs and Financing
2.32      Cost.. The total project cost, including physical and price
contingencies tax  excluding taxes, is estimated at US$17 million equivalent
(Annex VII).  Ab ut 41 percent of the total cost, US$7.0 million, would be
foreign. Costs w ..re estimated at January 1991 price levels in US dollars (in
view of the receVt and possible further realignment of the exchange rate of
the Dominican cui-rency). Physical contingencies of 5 percent for works,
equipment and materials are included in the total project cost. Annual price
contingencies were calculated at the projected international rate of 3.4
percent for 1991 forward.
2.33      Estimated costs for maintenance materials are based on recent
prices for the relevant materials. Estimated costs of equipment, furniture
and vehicles are based on current c.i.f. unit prices, adjusted to include
local transportation costs. Estimates for technical assistance and studies
are based on recent international and local costs.



- 20 -
2.34      Financing Plan.  The Bank would finance 88 percent of the project
cost and the Government, 12 percent. The Bank loan would cover 100 percent of
the project's estimated foreign exchange cost and 80 percent of local costs.
Incremental Recurrent Costs
2.35      Incremental recurrent costs for the Government attributable to the
project would amount to nearly about US$2.0 million equivalent at completion,
representing nearly 3.52 percent of the 1990 recurrent budget of the SEEBAC.
These costs would be incurred mainly through continued provision of teacher
and supervisor training and educational testing, and continued support For
community associations, facilities maintenance and school nutrition. ln view
of current fiscal constraints, the financing contribution of the Government to
project financing would be kept to a minimum, US$2.0 million equivalent. The
share of government financing under the project would, however, build
incrementally during 1992-96 to help ease Government absorption of the full
incremental cost burden of US$2.0 million equivalent in the budget during
1997, the final year of planned implementation (para. 2.30) as shown below:
1992       1993      1994      1995       1996
US$ millions    0.2         0.3       0.4        0.5       0.6
In view of the decline in real expenditure on primary education and the
essential need to provide basic education of reasonable quality to the school-
aged population, this incremental financing demand on the budget does not
represent an undue burden. At negotiations the Government agreed to provide
annually the amount specified during 1992-96 (para. 3.1e).
F. Procurement
2.36      Annex VIII provides a summary of procurement arrangements under the
proposed project. The bulk of maintenance works would be carried out by
parent-teacher associations. For more complex maintenan.ce activities
(estimated value US$0.5 million), individual contracts not exceeding US$25,000
would be awarded on the basis of local shopping procedures satisfactory to the
Bank and requiring price quotations from at least three eligible contractors.
2.37      Equipment and maintenance and other materials (total value
US$3.4 million), equivalent in value to US$200,000 or more, would be procured
through international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with Bank
guidelines (estimated value US$1.8 million). All vehicles to be financed
under the loan (estimated value US$0.8 million), would also be procured under
a single contract through ICB procedures, allowing for phased delivery.
Procurement of equipment and materials valued at less than US$200,000 but
above US$25,000 and not exceeding US$1.5 million equivalent in aggregate,
would be carried out on the basis of LCB procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Shopping, with at least three quotations, would be used when purchasing
equipment and materials costing less than US$25,000 but not exceeding an
aggregate of US$150,000 equivalent. Prior Bank review and approval would be



- 21 -
required for all procurement documents and contracts for civil works, and for
goods exceeding US$100,000 in value. All other procurement would be reviewed
on an ex-post basis. For all contracts for goods awarded under ICB, domestic
manufacturers would be allowed a margin of preference equal to the existing
rate of customs duty applicable to competing imports or 15 percent of c.i.f.
price, whichever is lower.
2.38      Employment of consultants under the project would be carried out in
accordance with Bank guidelines for the employment of consultants.
G. Disbursements
2.39      In line with regional averages for the sector, the proceadb of the
loan would be disbursed under the Bank-assisted operation during a seven-year
period ending June 30, 1998, as follows: (a) maintenance works, 80 percent of
expenditure; (b) vehicles, equipment, and materials, 100 percent of foreign
expenditures and 80 percent of local expenditures; (c) training, 85 percent of
expenditure; (d) technical assistance and studies, 100 percent; and
(e) operating costs, 50 percent (Annex IX).
2.40      Proceeds of the proposed loan would be disbursed against submission
of withdrawal applications, fully documented, for all contracts valued at more
than US$20,000. Claims for expenditures of lesser amounts would be disbursed
against presentation of Statements of Expenditure (SOEs) for which the
supporting documentation would be retatned by the PCU for periodic inspection
by the Bank. To expedite disbursements, a Special Account would be
established by the Government in the Central Bank in US dollars. The Bank
would make an initial deposit of US$0.8 million. The Government will also set
up a project account in local currency with an initial deposit of US$100,000
equivalent, equal to four months of local counterpart expenditures. The Bank
would provide retroactive financing in an amount of US$1.0 million equivalent
for expenditures incurred from November 1, 1990 on consultant services,
equipment, materials and supplies to be financed under the loan. During
negotiations, the Government agreed to maintain the project account in pesos
in an amount equivalent to US$100,000 throughout project implementation. A
condition for loan effectiveness would be the establishment and initial
provision of funds for the project account (paras. 3.lg and 3.2).
H. Accounting and Auditing
2.41      The PCU would set up, before disbursements begin, a chart of
accounts and develop an administrative manual for the financial operation of
the project. The accounting system would allow for reconciliation of the
project accounts with the general budgetary accounting system of SEEBAC. The
annual audit reports would include a Statement of Source and Application of
Funds, a separate opinion on SOEs, a separate audit report on the Special
Account fund for the project, and an opinion on compliance. An opinion on
compliance with procurement arrangements specified in loan documents, and on
the appropriateness of procurement documentation, should be included in the
opinion on SOEs. The audit will be performed by a private firm of independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank and under terms of reference approved by the
Bank. It will be sent to the Bank no later than four months after the end of



- 22 -
each fiscal year. Receipt by the Bank of a signed contract with independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank to carry out audits for project expenditure
would be a condition for loan effectiveness (para. 3.2).
I. Benefits and Risks
2.42      Benefits.  Investment in primary education, both for improved
quality and expanded coverage, has a high economic return and is recognized as
a prerequisite for improvements in labor productivity. The project aims to
achieve these objectives and to reduce effects of poverty: it directly
targets the enrollment of an estimated additional 80,000 children from low
income households; most of these children would also benefit from the school
nutrition program, which would help to improve achievement as well as
retention. The introduction of improved planning and programming, and the
educational assessment system for primary education, would also help to
improve participation and achievement of children. Reaching the project's
management and policy objectives, together with the implementation experience
to be gained by SEEBAC's central and regional directorates, would contribute
to long-term gains in the effectiveness of resource management and would help
to sustain project benefits beyond completion. Improved community involvement
in primary education would also help to sustain improved educational quality
and efficiency.
2.43      Risks.  Project management relies on SEEBAC capacity which may
prove insufficient for successful and timely implementation. To reduce this
risk and ensure a balance between efficient project management and related
capacity-building in the SEEBAC, the project includes appointment of technical
and administrative consultants to assist with project management. In view of
fiscal constraints, a lack of funds for initiating implementation, and delays
in disbursements of national counterpart funds could also cause implementation
delays. To minimize these risks, UNDP funding has been provided to complete
detailed project design, and government commitment to provide specific annual
contributions to project financing, limited to about 12 percent of total
project cost, has been confirmed.
III. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
3.1       At negotiations, the Government agreed to:
(a) furnish to the Bank the results of project-related studies by
June 30, 1993 (paras. 2.5 and 2.18);
(b) complete an evaluation of nutrition activities and needs of
primary school children in accordance with criteria and
methodologies satisfactory to the Bank by December 31, 1994,
propose satisfactory arrangements for continued provision of
food for the school nutrition programs after 1994 by June 30,
1994; introduce the improved SEEBAC management information
system by June 30, 1993; and, introduce the student assessment
system in the 1991-92 school year and extend it nationwide by
the 1996-97 school year (paras. 2.13, 2.17 and 2.20);



- 23 -
(c) maintain, throughout the project implementation period, the
PCU with adequate, qualified personnel, including the Project
Coordinator and five other key consultants (para. 2.25);
(d) take all necessary measures to achieve the targets set out in
the project monitoring plan, including a reduction in student
repetition from 17 percent to 14 percent by 1994 and to 10
percent by 1997, a reduction in the dropout rate from 10
percent to 6 percent by 1994 and to 4 percent by 1997, an
increase in the enrollment rate of the primary school age
population from 90 percent to 92 percent by 1994 and to 95
percent by 1997, and the mhaintenance of adequate remuneration
to attract and retain sufficient numbers of qualified teachers
for public primary schools (para. 2.29);
(e) provide a budget increment in a minimum amount equivalent to
US$2.0 million as required, to sustain all project inputs in
1997, and the amount in pesos specified annually for project
financing during 1992-96 equivalent to US$0.2 million in 1992,
US$0.3 million in 1993, US$0.4 million in 1994, US$0.5 million
in 1995 and US$0.6 million in 1996 (paras. 2.30 and 2.35);
(f) undertake an annual review of project execution and furnish to
the Bank, each year by December 1, beginning in 1992, a report
of results of implementation for the previous year and
proposed activities and budgetary allocations for the
following year; and include in the annual reports for 1994 and
1997 an evaluation of project implementation and progress
towards meeting the key monitoring targets carried out under
terms of reference acceptable to the Bank and furnished for
Bank review by June 30, 1993 and June 30, 1996, respectively,
(para. 2.31); and
(g) maintain the project account in pesos in an amount equivalent
to US$100,000 throughout project implementation (para. 2.40).
3.2       The appointment of key consultants to PCU technical and
administrative positions, establishment and initial funding of the project
account, and a signed contract with independent auditors would be conditions
for loan effectiveness (paras. 2.25, 2.40 and 2.41).
3.3       Subject to the above conditions, the proposed project constitutes a
suitable basis for a Bank loan in an amount of US$15 million equivalent to the
Dominican Republic.



- 24 
ANNEX I
Page 1 of 3
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
PRIMARY EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PUBLIC EXPENDITURE ON EDUCATION
Table l: GOVERNMENT EXPENDITURE ON EDUCATION AS PERCENT
OF TOTAL GOVERNMENT EXPENDITURE AND OF GDP
(in constant US$ million - July 1990)
1986       1987        1988       1989        1990
GDP                       4,861      5,163       5,202      5,338       5,557
Total Government
Expenditure                699        875         897        805         779
Ministry of Education        69          70         61          53         64
(SEEBAC)
Primary Education            31          32         29          24         28
Government Expenditure
as Z of GDP                14.4       17.0        17.3        15.1       14.0
Education as Z of GDP         1.4         1.4        1.2         1.0        1.1
Education as Z of Govt.
Expenditure                 9.9         8.0        6.8         6.5        8.2
Primary Education as Z       45.1        46.0       47.3        46.5       44.4
of Total Education
Notes: 1.  GDP for FY90 is projected.
2.  GDP, SEEBAC and Primary Education Expenditure for 1989 and 1990
are budgeted figures.
3.  aate of exchange: DR$8.5 - US$1.00
Source:    World Bank, International Monetary Fund, and National Budget Office.



- 25 -
ANNEX I
Pa-e 2 of 3
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
PRIMARY EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 2: COVERNMENT AND SEEBAC CURRENT AND CAPITAL EXPENDITURE
(in constant US$ million - July 1990)
1988     X     1987      X     1988    X       1989     X    1990       %
(Actual)      (Actual)        (Actual)       (Budgeted)    (Budgeted)
GOVERNMENT
Current Expenditure      500.3   71.6   888.7   44.4   425.3   47.4   868.8   44.3   404.8   62.0
Capital Expenditure      199.1   28.6   486.4   55.6   472.2   2.8   448.3   66.7   374.0   48.0
Total                699.4  100.0   876.1  100.0   897.6  100.0   804.6  100.0   778.8  100.0
SEEBAC
Current Expenditure      86.9   95.6    63.8   91.8    68.8   96.8    60.0   94.6    69.1   93.0
Capital Expenditure        3.1    4.6      6.1    8.7     2.2    8.7      2.8    6.4      4.4    7.0
Total                 69.0  100.0    69.9  100.0    6O.8  1OO.O    52.8  100.0    63.8  100.0
SEEBAC as X of the
National Budget
Current Expenditure       13.2%           16.4K          18.8X           14.0X           14.6%
Capital Expenditure        1.5%            1.3%           O.SX            O.6%            1.2%
TOTAL                 9.9%           8.0%            6.8%            6.6%           8.2%
Rate of Exchange: DR38.6 = USS1.00
Notes: 1. Data for 1986-1988 are actual expenditure.
2. Data for 1989-1990 are budgeted amounts.
Source: National Budget Office.



- 26 -
ANNEX I
Page 3 of 3
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
PRIMARY EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 3: DISTRIBUTION OF GOVERNMENT EXPENDITURE ON EDUCATION
(in constant US$ million - July 1990)
PROGRAM           1986      X     1987      %     1988    1       1989      X    1990 0
(Budgeted)
Administration and
Planning                6.7    9.7      6.6    9.4       4.9    8.0      6.2   11.8      9.6   16.1
Primary Education          31.2   46.2    82.8   48.2    28.7   47.2    24.4   48.6    28.3   44.6
Secondary A Technical
Education              12.7   18.4    14.2   20.3    11.2   18.4         9.3   17.7      9.9   15.6
Financing of Universities
and Other Educ. Inst.   13.6   19.7    12.1   17.3    11.9   19.6          9.0   17.2    11.5   18.2
Adult Education             3.1    4.6      3.1    4.4      2.6    4.3      2.3    4.4      2.6    4.1
Fine Arts L Physical
Education               1.7    2.6       1.7    2.4      1.5    2.6      1.8    2.6      1.8    2.6
Total              69.0  100.0    89.8  100.0    60.8  100.0    62.6  100.0    63.6  100.0
Notes: 1. Data for 1986-1989 are actual expenditures.
2. Data for 1990 are budge:od amounts.
Rate of Exchange: DRS8.6 = US81.00
Source: National Budget Office.



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 o  4
DOMINICAN REPUBLUC
PRIMARY EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
BASIC EDUCATION STATISTICS
Table 1: PRIMARY EDUCATION IN THE PUBLIC SECTOR
Stude;ntsEnrolled, Teachers and Classrooms by Region
(1970-89)
School             Enrolled Students                          Teachers *            Class-
Year        Total       Urban         Rural         Total   Urban       Rural      rooms
1970      68,638       216,227      470,411      10.902       3,802     74100       9,857
1971      705,679      224,073      481.608      11,882       4,001     7,381      10,28
1972      728,360      233,283      493.087    12,108         4,242     7,864      10,815
1973      747,873      242,872      504,801      12,672       4,498     8,174      11,968
1974      769,86       252,854       616.814     13,270       4,771     8,499      12,888
1975      792,382      283,247      629,116    18,901         6,0e2     8,839      18.818
1978      814,363      273,e76       540,678     14,42        6,368     9,178      14,302
1977      838,953      284,616      662,438      15,217       ,        9,627      14,546
1978      860,182      296,786      664,398    16,349         S,04S     9,803      14,359
1979      884,06e      ao7,602      S78.664    17,001        S6,276    10,72S      14,174
1980      908,691      819.883      688,908      17,816       e        11,16S      18,306
1981      933,808      332,347      601,461      18,024       7,103    10,921      16,523
1982      966,100      346,868      609,442      19,617       ,574    12,043       16,896
1983      982,794      374,922      807,872    20,196         8,147    12,048      17,918
1984      949,444      377,337      672.107    20,686         8,461    12,134      17,998
1985      926,317      370,780      665,637    20,786         8,254    12,532      17,755
1986    1,066,491      437,847      617,844    21,788         9,196    12,691      18,199
1987    1,030,246      430,344      699,901      21,716       8,486    13,230      18,426
1988    1,032,065      438,767       593,288    21,850        9,408    12,442      19,045
* About two-thirds of the total number teachers works two shifts per day.
Source: SEEBAC Estimates.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 4
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
PRIMARY EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 2s BASIC EDUCATION STATISTICS
Students Enrolled in Public Primary Educaticn by Gender
(1978-88)
Gender
SCHOOL                               --------------------------------------
YEAR                    TOTAL                MALE                FEMALE
1978                    860,182             441,205               418,977
1979                    884,056             453,450               430,606
1980                    908,591             466,035               442,556
1981                    933,808             478,970               454,838
1982                    955,100             489,891               465,209
1983                    982,794             504,096               478,698
1984                    949,444             433,643               465,801
1985                    926,317             472,013               454,304
1986                  1,055,491             534,084               521,407
1987                  1,030,245             521,373               508,872
1988                  1,032,055             520,844               511,211
Source: SEEBAC Estimates.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 4
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
PRIMARY EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 3: RURAL AND URBAN REPETITION AND DROPOUT RATES, 1987-88
URBAN                   RURAL                   TOTAL
Grade   Repetition  Dropout    Repetition  Dropout   Repetition  Dropout
1        25          11           26         1S          25          14
2        14           8           18         10          17           9
3        12           8           15         10          14           9
4        13           8           14         10          13           9
5        11           8           13         10          12           9
6        11           7           12         10          12           8
7        15           9           13        10           14           9
8        15           7           10          8          12           8
Average    15           9           18         12           17         10
Source: SEEBAC Estimates.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 4
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
PRIMARY EDUCATION DEVELOPOMENT PROJECT
Table 4: EFFICIENCY IN PRIMARY EDUCATION
(1984)
1. Normal Length of Primary Cycle (in years)                        6.00
2. Student-years utilized for 1984 graduates (millions)             3.95
3. Students graduated during 1984 (millions)                        0.32
4. Student-years per graduate in 1984                              12.3
Note: (4) -= (2)/(3)
Source: SEEBAC/Mission Estimates.



- 31 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
PRIMARY EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROPOSED INTER-AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK-ASSISTED PROJECT
1.        The proposed IDB-assisted project forms a complement to the
proposed Bank-assisted project and would complete the investments planned by
the Government for the primary education subsector during the period 1992-97.
The IDB loan would finance the components presented below.
2.        Textbooks and Learning Materials.  The proposed project would
provide textbooks and accompanying workbooks for the use of all students
enrolled in public primary schools in grades one-eight. New curricula,
recently evaluated and approved for the first two grades, and modified
curricula approved for the higher grades, provide the bases for the
development of the textbooks.
3.        Materials would be prepared, tested and revised under the guidance
of the Department for Educational Media in the SEEBAC. An estimated 1.7
million textbooks, 4.7 million workbooks and 29,000 teacher guides would be
provided. Precise quantities would be determined, based on updated enrollment
statistics and projections, prior to the year of delivery of the new
textbooks, and annually for provision of student workbooks.
4.        In order to strengthen support for teachers, particular'.:- -n the
lower grades, libraries of 850 volumes would also be provided for each of the
five normal schools operating in the country. The libraries would be used as
information and resource centers for practicing teachers as well as pre-
service candidates, with a focus on teaching objectives and techniques
relevant to the Dominican curriculum. Smaller libraries, of 50 volumes each,
would be provided for the central schools in the rural areas for use by
students and teachers.
5.        In-service training, focussed on effective use of the new classroom
and library materials, would also be provided for primary school teachers.
The training would be of about a week's duration.
6.        Facilities Rehabilitation and Expansion.  A program of classroom
rehabilitation would be undertaken to complement planned improvements in the
quality of primary education. Rehabilitation would be limited to schools in
rural areas where conditions are poorest and alternative resources lacking.
Emphasis would be given to improving classroom facilities at central schools,
to ensure their suitability to serve as learning and demonstration centers for
the rural school clusters and to provide facilities needed for the complete
cycle of primary education as well as grades seven and eight. Classrooms in



- 32 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
satellite schools in the border provinces would also be improved. In all,
some 550 classrooms would be rehabilitated and 150 would be replaced. Schools
have been selected on the basis of verified needs as well as acceseibility,
enrollment and school-aged population in the catchment areas to ensure that
upgraded classrooms would be used effectively.
7.        An additional 100 classrooms would also he constructed, mainly at
existing rural schools, to alleviate overcrowding and facilitate enrollment of
children currently not attending school. The schools selected for expansion
were identified in accordance with the same criteria used for determining
priority rehabilitation and replacement needs.



- 33 -
ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 7
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
PRIMARY EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SELECTED SUBCOMPONENT DESCRIPTION
Educational Developmer.c Component
School Nutrition
1.          Evidence indicates that nutrition deficiencies and poor health are
among the causes of low school enroli.nent, absenteeism, early dropout and poor
school performance. The relationship between protein-energy malnutrition, poor
cognitive scores and low achievement has been clearly demonstrated. Children who
go to school hungry have decreased ability to concentrate and consequently learn
less. To address this issue, a nutrition component is included in the project.
In addition to the benefits to the education sector, nutrition and health
interventions introduced through the schools offer unique opportunities to
correct health and nutrition problems of public health significance.
2.          There is a history of school feeding in the Dominican Republic dating
back to the 1970s. Experience shows that school meal programs have a significant
effect on school attendance and enrollment. Currently, the SEEBAC has an
agreement with CARE for a school feeding program to reach 180,000 beneficiaries
of the low-income population -- including the frontier regions, sugar
plantations, and peri-urban areas of the capital. At present, this program is
serving approximately 75,000 children in 377 schools in the 10 border provinces
of the frontier zone of the country.' A combination of factors -- including
administrative (e.g., lack of record keeping), operational (e.g., inadequate
storage and cooking facilities), and programmatic (e.g., weaknesses community
participation and inter-agency communication) have prevented SEEBAC and CARE from
implementing the program at the agreed level.
3.          Building on the Government/SEEBAC commitment to reduce hunger in
school children, the nutrition component has been designed to improve on-going
activities in the SEEBAC/CARE school feeding program and expand school
feeding/nutrition activities into additional areas through the use of World Food
Program (WFP) resources.  The goa: of the component is to improve children's
learni.ng capacity via better nutrition and health and thereby improve education
effectiveness and efficiency. Component objectives are to:
(a)   Improve the institutional capacity of SEEBAC to plan, manage and
implement an improved response to the nutrition and health needs
of school children in the country;
Dominican  Republic  Pre-appraisal  Consultancy  Report  for  the
Nutrition Component by Joyce King, June 1990.



- 34 -
ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 7
(b)    Decrease hunger in at least 180,000 low-income school children;
(c)   Increase   enrollment;   decrease   absenteeism,   repetition   and
dropouts; and improve school performance in schools benefitting
from the school meal/nutrition program;
(d)   Increase  community  participation  in  the  school  meal/nutrition
program;
(e)   Improve health and nutrition practices specifically targeted for
change through the nutrition education/communication activities of
the school meal/nutrition program;
(f)   Demonstrate the feasibility and effectiveness of a school-based iron
supplementation and parasite treatment program in decreasing iron
deficiency, controlling parasites and improving school performance
in a selected pilot area; and
(g)   Identify and test alternatives to addressing the problem of hunger
in school children and evaluate the impact on school enrollment and
performance.
Detailed Component Description
4.          Nutrition Institutional Strengthening.  Within SEEBAC, the Nutrition
Division of the Department of Student Welfare is predominantly responsible for
0-t nutrition of school children through its involvement in the implementation
of the SEEBAC/CARE school feeding program. As in most other divisions within
SEEBAC, low staff salaries, a lack of material and technical resources, and
inadequate communication and information systems inhibit effective program
implementation.
5.          To resolve some of these difficulties and improve the institutional
capacity of the Department of Student Welfare, this component would: (i) include
staff training for SEEBAC personnel in the planning, management, and supervision
of nutrition/health activities; (ii) ensure the provision of technical assistance
by CARE in the management and operation of the feeding program; and (iii) develop
effective information and communication systems --through technical assistance
included under the project -- to improve commodities accountability and
monitoring, supervision and evaluation of all nutrition-related activities.
6.          School Meal/Nutrition Program.   The school meal/nutrition sub-
component would supportt
(a)   the provision of  daily  school meals  to approximately  180,000
children from low-income families -- 80,000 located in the 10
provinces of the frontier zone and 100,000 in the peri-urban areas
around Santo Domingo;



- 35 -
ANNEX IV
Page 3 of 7
(b)   the development and implementation of a non-formal nutrition/health
education/communication program, aimed at parents; and
(c)   the implementation of a monitoring,  supervision and evaluation
system for both the feeding and education programs.
7.          Pilot Iron Supplementation and Parasite Treatment Program.  A pilot
effort to treat iron deficiency and parasitic infections through schools would
be designed and implemented under the component.   This activity would be
introduced in 12 schools in one province where iron deficiency and parasite
infections are a problemi. The pilot program would be designed to assess the
impact of providing iron supplements and parasite medication through the
education system on student nutrition and health status and school attendance and
student performance.
The pilot effort would include:
(a)   an assessment phase to prepare for the design of an appropriate
intervention;
(b)   the development and implementation of a baseline instrument;
(c)   a trial implementation period; and
(d)   an evaluation of the trial experience and recommendations  for
future similar efforts through the education sector.
8.          A local research firm, the Center for Investigations on Maternal and
Child Health, has been identified and has agreed to collaborate in carrying out
this research.  The project would provide all of the necessary materials and
supplies for the assessment, intervention, and evaluation phases of the program.
9.          Pilot Alternative School Feeding Programming.  To provide experience
in alternatives to current programming that might offer cost and efficiency
advantages, this component would provide technical assistance and other resources
to enable:
(a)   a review of innovative  school  feeding  interventions  currently
underway in the Dominican Republic or elsewhere in the region; and
2      The assumption is that iron deficiency and parasite infections are
universal problems. It is not the intent of this component to carry
out a national iron or parasite infection assessment.  Rather, a
qualitative assessment of iron status and parasitic diseases would
preceed selection of the province and the 12 schools.   Formal
quantitative assessment procedures would be conducted within
selected schools under this pilot scheme.



- 36 -
ANNEX IV
Page 4 of 7
(b)   the  development  of  potentially  viable  alternative  models  to
addressing the nutrition/health needs of school children and testing
these models on a trial basis.
Management Information
10.         The school map would form the basis for improving SEEBAC information
and planning. It is a combination of techniques and procedures used to plan for
educational needs at the local and regional levels. Preparation of the school
map consists of two phases:   (a) a complete diagnostic assessment of the
educational situation within a geographical area; and (b) a medium-term
projection of demographic variables concerning school population density,
distance from schools, numbers enrolled, etc.
11.         The school map highlights the macro- and micro-dimensions and project
needs of the educational system.  It is used to ensure efficient, equal and
appropriate distribution of educational services to local communities.
12.         Under the project the school mapping methodology would be updated and
income data added. In addition, basic systems for the collection and management
of information pertaining to personnel records, budget and finance would be
developed. The functions and capacity of the Planning Office of the SEEBAC to
use the improved information would also be enhanced.
Student Evaluation System
13.         The main objective of this component would be to monitor the quality
of education in order to identify cost-effective means for attaining quality
gains. Assessment instruments would be developed for measuring the impact of the
revised curriculum, and serve as feedback mechanisms to improve teacher
performance in the classroom as well as textbook content.
14.         The  Directorate  for  Curriculum  Development  of  SEEBAC  with
participation of staff would coordinate work undertaken under this component.
One or more local universities having expertise and experience in educational
assessment would participate. A coordinator from the SEEBAC Project Coordination
Unit would be selected and a committee including the coordinator, the Director
for Curriculum Development and representatives from the universities would be
formed.   In addition, a program administrator, a computer specialist, four
secretaries, and part-time research assistants would be recruited.
15.         The first assessment would take place at the end of the 1991/92
school year with a fourth grade, stratified student sample. Only language and
mathematics tests would be given.   The following year  (1992/93)  tests in
language, mathematics, science and social studies would be given to a nat;ional
fourth grade, stratified student sample. During the third year (1993/94) tests
would be given again to a fourth grade national student sample in the four basic
subjects and to an eighth grade national student sample in language and
mathematics. In the following two years, national student samples of both grades



- 37 -
ANNEX IV
Page 5 of 7
would be given tests in the four subjects before expanding the system to cover
all students in 1996/97. During each assessment, student background data would
be collected by asking students to take home, the day before assessment takes
place, a questionanire to be completed and returned the next day.   School
environment data would also be collected.
16.         The program coordinator's main functions would be tot  (a) ensure
that implementation of the educational assessment program is done according to
schedule with the resources assigned to it; and (b) liaise with staff directing
the textbook development and teacher training programs.   The coordinating
committee's role would be to advise on technical and administrative matters to
ensure effective implementation of the program. The university selected to be
part of the program would form two technical groups composed of its selected
representatives, SEEBAC's program coordinator, four teachers (one per subject),
four experts in educational assessments and four researchers. One group of eight
persons would develop the assessment instruments and the second group of four
persons would conduct related research and monitoring.
17.         During the first year of project implementation, the technical groups
would participate in a two-week workshop on criterion-referenced testing to
improve their theoretical and practical knowledge and skills in this area. The
same groups would participate in a second two-week workshop during the third year
of project implementation to update their skills, learn about new assessment
techniques and review the development of educational assessment in Dominican
Republic.
Technical Features
18.         The proposed educational assessment program would use criterion-
referenced testing of fourth and eighth grade students in four basic subjects--
language, mathematics, science and social studies.
19.         The staff of the Directorate for Curriculum Development would develop
a list of curriculum objectives and content that would then be evaluated by
curriculum development specialists. Teachers and specialists outside of SEEBAC
would be asked to comment on the objectives and priorities before item writing
begins. Item writing would be done by teachers throughout the country. Three
teachers per region and six teachers in Santo Domingo would participate in a
three-day workshop to acquire item-writing skills. A second workshop would take
place during the third year of project implementation. A payment of DR$12 would
be made for each acceptable item. It is expected that during the first year of
the project, 600 items for language and 600 items for mathematics for fourth
grade students would be developed.   During the second year of the project,
another 600 items for science and 600 for social studies for fourth grade
students would be written. in the third year, 300 items per subject for eighth
grade students would be written; during the fourth year, the remaining 300 items
per subject would be developed. Finally, during the fifth year of the project,
800 more items for fourth and 800 items for eighth grade would be written. All
items, together with the amplified objectives would be fed into a computerized



- 38 -
ANNEX IV
Page 6 of 7
data base to facilitate further processing.
20.         All items would go through a content validation process which would
require evaluation by a group of ten persons per subject.   Groups of three
experienced item evaluation specialists would then review the technical quality
of each item.
21.         The items that pass the validation and review process would be pilot-
tested with fourth and eighth grade stratified student samples in different
regions. After analysis of pilot-tests results, the final assessment instruments
of 36 items per subject would be developed. Assessment would be done by a group
of staff of the Regional Directorates or by personal hired for this purpose.
Each year, before testing begins, the technical group would organize a one-day
workshop to train the personnel in giving tests, and measuring and weighing
students.
Specialized Technical Assistance
22.         Activities under this component will receive technical assistance
from experts in educational assessment (apart from participating universities)
that will take place during the first two years and in the fifth year of project
implementation.
23.         The first assessment specialist would review the proposed plan and
assist with the first workshops on criterion-referenced testing during a two-week
assignment. A second two-week assignment would take place during the second year
of project implementation to evaluate previous work done and make recommendations
for changes, if necessary. Finally, during the fifth year, the specialist would
review the work completed and propose further educational-assessment activities
to be done by SEEBAC.
Study Trips
24.         Two members of the technical group would participate in a total of
four short-duration study trips to research centers conducting the same type of
research proposed under this project component. The study trips would take place
during the first and third years of project.
Sustainability
25.         Institutional and technical sustainability of the program would be
assured since a core group of professionals would be trained. This group would
also acquire practical experience in educational assessment and would have a data
base of test items that can continue to be used and added to after the project
is completed. The experience acquired by regional teams in the process of item
writing, test adrtnistration and student measurement would permit continuation
of the program.    reonnel handling data input and analysis would have acquired
important skills to maintain the assessment program.



- 39 -
ANNEX IV
Page 7 of 7
CommunitX Participation
26.         Currently, parent-teachers' associations exist in 4,000 of 5,000
(public) primary schools each with approximately 60 to 500 members. They are not
organized on regional or national levels and receive technical support from the
Department of Community Participation in the Secretariat of Education and Culture
(SEEBAC). The primary institutional issue is how to improve and increase this
support.    The principal community concern is how to achieve effective and
sustained community involvement in schools.
27.         The   strategy   for   this   project   subcomponent   focuses   on
decentralization  and  community  outreach.    The  Department  of  Community
Participation will receive assistance to restructure its activities, emphasizing
the regional level. The community outreach strategy is to provide orientation
and training to parents' associations which will be followed with supervision and
evaluation.   More specifically, this subcomponent would strengthen community
involvement by: (i) enhancing the institutional capability of the Department of
Community Participation; (ii) building beneficiary capacity; and (iii) cost
sharing. Community involvement will particularly be used to create or enhance
programs in school maintenance and minor repairs, school nutrition, and textbook
distribution, control, and care.
28.         The Department of Community Participation will receive technical
assistance  in:    (i) project  planning;  (ii) the  design  of  a  community
participation methodology; (iii) the execution of project activities; and
(iv) monitoring and evaluation. Logistical support would be provided in the form
of a small motorcycle for each of the ten regional coordinators (included in the
supervision component). A technical advisor will be assigned to the Department
and the need for an information system will be addressed,
29.         Beneficiary capacity will be enhanced through the addition and
strengthening of the associations.  An additional 1,000 associatiuns will be
created so that they exist in all 5,000 primary schools. These groups will then
receive a general orientation to the project and will be trained to participate
in textbook distribution, control and conservation.   Four hundred and fifty
parents' associations will be given training for the school nutrition program and
600 associations will receive training and organizational assistance in relation
to the school maintenance and minor repairs pilot program. In addition, annual
evaluations of community participation will be conducted.
30.         Cost sharing on the part of the community will be (primarily) labor
for routine maintenance of school facilities, minor repairs and the school
nutrition program. In addition, parents' associations will retain a share of book
rental fees and establish a fund with the monies to be used for books, book
repair and other priorities.



- 40 -                           ANNEX V
Page . of 4
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
PRIMARY EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT MANAGEMENT
Project Coordinating Unit
Organizational Structure (Chart attached)
1.          The Secretary of State for Education and Culture is responsible
for the Project Coordinating Unit (PCU) and will appoint the Project
Coordinator, who will: (a) manage the Monitoring and Evaluation Unit and the
Administrative Unit; and (b) facilitate coordination among each SEEBAC's
executing units. A single project coordinating unit will serve both the Bank
and the IDB-assisted projects.
Coordinating Committee
2.          The Coordinator will chair the Coordinating Committee and other
committee members will include: the Chief of the Monitoring and Evaluation
Unit, the Chief of the Administrative Unit, the Chief of the Technical
Planning Unit, the Director of the General Directorate for Primary Education
and any other individual responsible for the implementation of any specific
component, sub-component or activity of the project.
3.          The PCU's Coordinating Committee will assist in onsuring effective
project implementation, acting as a liaison between the PCU and SEEBAC's
executing units.
Acquisitions and Bids Committee
4.          This Committee, which will report to the Coordinator, will have
the responsibility of: (i) defining and applying agreed procurement
procedures; (ii) advising the Coordinator on the project's procurement
procedures; (iii) undertaking technical evaluation of bids; and (iv) awarding
contracts for the procurement of goods and services.
Monitoring and Evaluation Unit
5.          The Monitoring and Evaluation Unit will coordinate project
management activities of SEEBAC's (technical) executing units. The
Coordinator will be the immediate supervisor of the Chief of the Monitoring
and Evaluation Unit, who will manage the following: (a) Academic Specialist;
(b) Facilities Specialist; and (c) Institutional Specialist. These
individuals will support implementation under the Bank and IDB assisted
projects.



-41 -                            ANNEX V
Page 2 of 4
6.          This unit will develop and implement a  monitoring and evaluation
syste.n that will assist in efficient project implementation and help SEEBAC's
executing units to prepare their work plans.
More specifically this unit will:
(a)   Develop and implement a system of project implementation
procedures and controls;
(b)   Coordinate annual project monitoring and periodic evaluation;
(c)   Coordinate the preparation of the project plans, budgets and other
targets; and
(d)   Submit monthly progress reports on the project's implementation to
the Coordination Committee.
Administrative Unit
7.          The Administrative Unit will be under the PCU Coordinator's
supervision. The Chief of the Administrative Division will be directly
responsible for Personnel and General Service, Acquisitions and Bids, Audit
and Accounting and Payroll.
8.          The Administrative Unit's personnel will coordinate their
activities with the specialists in the Monitoring and Evaluation Unit and will
develop a close working relationship with the heads of the respective
executing units. Separate teams would be assigned to the Bank and the IDB-
assisted projects.
9.          In general terms, the PCU's Administrative Unit will be
responsible for administering loan resources, accounting and administrative
procedures, and the provision of logistical support. More specifically, the
unit will undertake the following activities:
(a)   Personnel and Acquisitions: it will supervise and hire
consultants, take care of petty-cash purchases, establish
appropriate procurement procedures, and provide secretarial
services.
(b)   Bids and Acquisitions: it will issue/prepare the bidding documents
in accordance with agreed procurement procedures, establish a
procurement time-table; and take care of all other procurement-
related activities in coordination with the executing units.
(c)   Audits: it will commission audits of the PCU's operations and
financial situation; and audit physical implementation.
(d)   Accounting and Payroll: it will implement a sound accounting
system to maintair; adequate records that will reflect the
program's operation and financial situation; prepare and verify
withdrawal applications for the acquisition of goods and services;



- 42 -                           ANNEX V
Page 3 of 4
prepare accounting and financial reports; and manage and
coordinate an adequate internal control system on budgetary and
cashier operations, as well as on the administration of goods and
services.
SEEBAC's Executing Units
10.         These are the units to which SEEBAC has assigned executing
responsibility for the components or sub-components under the Bank and IDB-
assisted projects. This responsibility will be in addition to their regular
duties. The Coordinator does not have an immediate supervisory authority over
the executing units, but relates to them through the SEEBAC's Secretary.



- 43                           ANNEX V
Page 4 of 4
PROJECT COORDINATING UNIT
Organizational Structure
Secretariat of State for
Education and Culture (SEEBAC)II
a'~~1   .                              ._    
4L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
*  Coordination    *   IlCentral Coordinating  II  * Acquisitions and*
*    Committee                 Unit           |     Bids Committee  *
*********************  Ig =   .=       __1  **********
.....................  ....... *.-
II    SEEBAC      11  11 Monitoring, Controll--  Ii Administrative i
Units      11  11 & Evaluation Unit  11   11    Unit
Technical Planning ] ....  Institutional          Personnel and
*  |  Specialist             Gen. Services
Community.
Participation   ..
Curriculum and            Education       I      Acquisitions
Evaluation              Specialist                and Bids
Primary Education
.I .  Facilities                Audits
Traini.g  :; I  Specialist                  Unit
S  Accounting
and Payroll
Student Welfare   | 
School Facilities|.



- 44 -
ANNEX VI
Page 1 of 2
2L   XC REULIC
PRIMAY EDJCATZON ;. P PROJECT
Table As KEY PERFORMANCE TARGETS
Objective             Target/Date                Indicator               Main Supporting            Monitoring
Inputs/Measures           Mechanism
I. Efficieney end
Na) reduce repetition  14X/1994         annual repetition rate (X)   (oducational development,  annual review
,with omphasis on      10X/1997         in primary education          (especlally provision of    based on
grades 1 and 2).                                                      (materials and teacher and SEE8AC MIS,
facilities upgrading;      mld-term (1994
(b) -educe droput      63/1994          annual dropout rate ()         itncreased coaunty         and end-term
with emphasis on      4X/1997                                        ((parent) involvement; use  (1997)
grades 1 and 2).                                                      (of flexible promotion       evaluation of
criterla together with     effectiveness
Cc) rais  not          92X/1994         annuol enrollment ratio (5)  (redisl support; school  of project
participation (wlth    95X/1997                                       (nutrition; and              Inputs In
emphaste on rural and                                                 (educational  assesment      relation to
urban poor).                                                          (results and feedback.  /   achieving
project
targets.
11. Resource Allocation
Ensure an increase In  Increase         Approved line itm In Govt.                                 Annual review
'4oachers' salaries,    teachers'       budget
salaries by at
least 20X in
199.
Maintain 20%
real increose
or higher
during
1992-97.
1.  The educational  ssessmunt (testing) system would compleent and help determine progress towards key
targete.  Once baselIne assessment data are avallable, objectives for Improved student achievemnt
would be set and monitored.  The scheduling of introduction of the aseossmnt system Is covenanted
in the loan agrement.
2. Student-teacher ratios would also be monitored under the program to ensure that tho current ratio (29:1)
does not decline.



DOMINICAN REPU8LIC
PRIMARY EDUCATION DEVELOPFM8NT PROJET
Table2: PROJECT IMPLE1ENTATION AD MoNrTORINO INDICATORS
1992         1993         1994           1995          1996          1997         TOTAL
TEA04BR SUPERVISOR   OrADINO                                      __    _         __                                   _ _     _
In-service Training                                                                                            _
Tr i nees                                            0           300          300              0             0             0             600
Supervisors/Adsin.istrators                          0           S00          450             0              0             0            7S0
Priary School Teachers                               0         1 000        4 000         2.500          2.5000                       10i.0O
INITIATION OF MAINTEPANCE (Clasrooss)                 300           SOO        1,OCO         1,000          1,200             0          4,000
SWo1I  wmTRITION (NO. OF 4HrLREs)                  7M.OCO       100.000      140,0          180.000       1.000CO       180.000              -
ND. OF PARENT-TEACE4S ASSOCIATIWS                                                            .
NO. OPERATING                                   40           4,300        4.O0           4700          S.000         S.000      _ 5 000
NO. PRDVIDE TRAININC                              400          COO        l,OCO          1,100         1.OCO         l,OO           5,000
:   The schedule for introduction of the improved school planning and  anagemnt information eysteo. the atudent assessment system and implementation
of project related studios would also be monitored.
QQ z
c1Q0
01-X



- 46 -
ANNEX VII
Page 1 of 2
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
PRIMARY EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(US$'000)
PROJECT COSTS
Table 1: PROJECT COST SUMMARY
(Including Contingencies)
Z      Z Total
Foreign    Base
Local   Foreign    Total   Exchange   Costs
A.   Educational Development
Teacher and Supervisor
Training                      3.8     1.5        5.3      28         35
Facilities  Maintenance         0.8     0.8        1.6       50        10.5
School Nutrition                0.4     1.2        1.6       76        10.5
Subtotal                   5.0      3.5        8.5      41         56
B. Management Development
Planning and Information         0.3     1.0        1.3       77         9
Educational Assessment           0.7     0.4        1.1       36         7
Community Participation          1.4     0.5        1.9       28        13
Studies and Preparation
of Projects                    0.5     0.4        0.9      45          6
Project Management               1.0     0.4        1.4       29         9
Subtotal                    3.9      2.7        6.6      41         44
Total BASELINE COSTS                 8.9      6.2      15.1       41        100
Physical Contingencies           0.1     0.1        0.2       41         1
Price Contingencies              1.0     0.7        1.7       41        11
Total PROJECT COSTS                 lO       sQ                             113



- 47 -
ANNEX VII
Page 2 of 2
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
PRIMARY EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 2: PROJECT COMPONENTS BY YEAR INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES
TOTALS INCLUDINC CONTINCENCIES
(USS '000)
1992 i/   1993      1994       1995      1996     1997 I    TOTAL
A. Educationr l Develpoment
Teachor and Superaleor Training                       450.0    850.0   2,040.0   1,300.0   1,300.0          -      5,940.0
Facilities Upgrading, Expansion and Maintenanco       250.0     300.0     500.0    800.0       450.0        _      2,000.0
School Nutrition                                      823.0     458.0      310.0      73.0       -          -      1,664.0
Sub-Total Educational Development                   1,523.0   1,608.0   2,850.0   1,873.0   1,750.0         -      9,604.0
B. Manaaement Develooment
Plann,ng end Information Sy-tem                       250.0    300.0    300.0    250.0    800.0             -      1,400.0
Educational A ssament                                 181.0     198.0      199.0    192.0      196.0    343.0    1,309.0
Community Participation                               692.0    434.0       440.0    440.0       31.0       66.0   2,103.0
Studies and Preparation of Projects                   200.0    200.0       165.0    165.0      163.0      165.0    1,058.0
Project Management                                    276.0     250.0     250.0    250.0       250.0    280.0    1,526.0
Sub-Total Management Development                    1,599.0   1,382.0   1,354.0   1,297.0      940.0      824.0    7,396.0
Total Project Costs                                     3.12.0   2.990.0   4204.    3.170.0   2.6902          824.0   M
2/  Includes late 1991 planned expenditures.
k/ Planned expenditures and in mid-1997.
May 1991



- 48 -                           ANNEX VII
Page 1 of 2
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
PRIMARY EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 1: PROCUREMENT METHODS
(US$ million)
Procurement Procedure       Total
Category of Expenditure             ICB     LCB      Other       Costs
Works                                -       -         0.5        0.5
-   -            (0.4)      (0.4)
Vehicles                            0.8      -          -         0.8
(0.8)     -         -         (0.8)
Equipment and Materials             1.8     1.5        0.1        3.4
(1.8)   (1.1)      (0.1)      (3.0)
Training                             -       -         6.6        6.6
-       -        (5.5)      (5.5)
Technical Assistance                 -       -         4.9        4.9
and Studies                      -        -        (4.9)      (4.9)
Incremental Operating Costs          -       -         0.8        0.8
-       -        (0.4)      (0.4)
TOTAL                     2.6     1.5       12.9        17.0
(2.6)   (1.1)    (11.3) (f n.0)
Note:     Numbers within brackets reflects Bank financing.



- 49 -
ANNEX VIII
Page 2 of 2
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
PRIMARY EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 2: PROCUREMENT LIMITS BY TYPE
Expected Number       Average Valuo        Aggregate    Type of
Component         Value            of Contract.          of Contract*           Limit     Procurement
(USS)                                    (US$)               (US$)
Maintenance
Works          lses  than 26,000        -                     -                0.6      Shopping
Vehicles,       800,000                    1              800,000                0.8       ICa
Equipment        less than 26,000 A}     10                15000                0.1      Shopping
& Materials !/  more than 25,000  2       10              150,000                1.5       LCB
leos than 200,000
more than 200,000         8              800,000                1.8       IBC
Training        n. .                       n.a.                 n.a.             68.      Local
Arrangements
Technical
Assistance ki   less then 260,000        20               166,000                4.9       Guidelines
Inc. Op. Costs  na.                       n.e.                  n.e.             0.8      Local
Arrangements
g/   Includes maintenance materials.
b/   Including evaluation, studies and program coordination.



- 50 -
ANNEX IX
Page 1 of 1
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
PRIMARY EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS
(US$ Million)
Bank       Quarter          Disbursed                     Disb. as   Balance
Fiscal Year   Ending            During        Cumulative       Z of        of
Quarter        Amount         Total       Loan
92     June 30,  1992        0.80           0.80            3        14.50
93     Sept. 30, 1992        0.20           1.00                     14.20
Dec.  31, 1992       0.30           1.30                     13.80
March 31, 1993       0.40           1.70                     13.30
June  30, 1993       0.50           2.20           15        12.80
94     Sept. 30, 1993        0.50           2.70                     12.30
Dec.  31, 1993       0.70           3.40                     11.60
March 31, 1994       0.80           4.20                     10.80
June  30, 1994       0.80           5.00            33       10.00
95     Sept. 30, 1994        0.80           5.80                      9.20
Dec.  31, 1994       1.00           6.80                      8.20
March 31, 1995       1.00           7.80                      7.20
June  30, 1995       1.00           8.80            59        6.20
96     Sept. 30, 1995        1.00           9.80                      5.20
Dec.  31, 1995       0.80          10.60                      4.40
March 31, 1996       0.70          11.30                      3.70
June  30, 1996       0.70          12.00           80         3.00
97     Sept. 30, 1996        0.60          12.60                      2.40
Dec.  31, 1996       0.50          13.10                      1.90
March 31, 1997       0.50          13.60                      1.40
June  30, 1997       0.40          14.00            93        1.00
98     Sept. 30, 1997        0.30          14.30                      0.70
Dec.  31, 1997       0.30          14.60                      0.40
March 31, 1998       0.20          14.80                      0.20
June  30, 1998       0.20          15.00          100         0.00
May, 1991



- 51 -                            ANNEX X
Page 1 of 1
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
PRIMARY EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SELECTED DOCUMENTS AND DATA AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE
A.    Selected Documents Related to the Sector
A.1   Demographic and Health Survey (for the Dominican Republic), Institute for
Resource Development/Westinghouse and National Population Council; 1987
A.2   Nutritional and Health Care Services: Recent Experience in the Dominican
Republic; J. Rodriguez-Grossi, Chile, September 1987.
B.    Selected Working Papers Related to the Project
B.1   SEEBAC - Curriculum, Educational and Teeacher Training Component.
B.2   SEEBAC - Educational Assessment Component.
B.3   SEEBAC - Management Information Component.
B.4   SEEBAC - Civil Works Construction, Repairs, Maintenance Component.
B.5   SEEBAC - Terms of Reference for Project Studies.
B.6   IBRD   - School Nutrition Component.
B.7   IBRD   - Community Participation Component.
B.8   IDB    - Detailed Description of Proposed IDB Project for Development of
Primary Education



72~                                                                01l                                                                 70                                                                  69                                          lBRD P      !
I20,                                                                                                                                   DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
-lnte-naional boundaris
Luperon                                                                          ---- Province bo undaries
monteOnisti ,                                                                                                                            N.o-ina capitol
M o n l e C r i s t l._  \          P o e t t o   P l a t o                                         P P r io  e   C a p it a ls
Pe~~~~otto  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~             robert ~~~~~~~~                                                     . ~~Towns
PITce     MONTdo    /  E                                     u   R70 PSTPl/y aallroads
< F   9   (   \  \       t               2       GrSpvr    Grgnde                  Rivers
[  it_   ,,>               tx  ~~VA/V     B RO YT~ ._>                   <.  .         Hernovdvo        -;
Dojaobon  6I     .i7E,,,Y'-  M     oo                                          It t,  ,) >      ''' MPAPI/A  7
\.DAJABON          A,  i'rne              '    '>                        *Tn rtrril         <, ,,   o, TRANC/GAO
/       0L PIDN IG UFZ r-.              So. Jose                           .  ,    iTrnvrrs
*Sd~~~~~~*  ~~~~        t ~~~del.s Motos                                                                              Nau
Restowamcon          P-                               ANvCTIAdGMcol
-hT- ./           S~9                  A ' NT/A  GO                                                  A                                            A/ A
i.  .'                                                                                           1      7                                                S/AMN
X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                            taVego                 0  IA  RE                                     Snchz ona
5'ELiAS PINA                                    v'                                     yvrn                       T \  ~~
,.s/,  ,~~,-..-.o                                  LA      VEGA,         ,             Curl                IT ZNA 
4.1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~R MIxF                                                                           Soloanlo-d
/Reerae                                                                                      0                          0                                                          a 
_Ig~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~vn 'S_                                         /                                                      devy
Paro -Do 'RNn ESAN         I A /                                                                                                                           _ MdNENOR
NOUEiLL        M     N   TE          POnLa          A PLA A     "Y      H                                                      El Moper
/ .0w)                                       Ptato.        . Boy. on? r....on  CAtI.
vlCerdo                        Ili                                                                                                                 ( - *                    EIO LEfE*
ACogociaiv 0  CT/ITO              '/ SAf/
'CI//    Al  ~ ~   ~     ~     ~               ~        /                     igUey
OSIJs        IC   SAN   JO                                             PEDO 30    "O ?  0 W  a     rr?                 Ol
BAORUcO                                                      S//      A     CRISTOBAL Li                                                       G/ to     MAN                               I TAG//A CIA
Zyo                                                                                                                                                                            So. TOR f . _-=  pANAMA  coL Bla R tat
_                                                                              O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S'Ctw  OMINGO          SaPdr4a-ema0adl aadeoe
Borohona         S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ba eYm
VU,cente~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~n
~Pedernotes     /   BA//AHO/AlA                                                                                                                                                       UNiITRO STATES OF AAERICA
PEDE//NALEStoOcav
CUBA
-.Y;ELfZE ~        rmfUlu
ig00or    u         no o       no6.AtMi/i-
7*                                                                  O..,.                                                                            os  ec    ANAMA   C,        VEEUELA



