Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                               LOAN NUMBER 3351 DO
              (Primary Education Development Project)
                              between
                        DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                      Dated December 13, 1991
                                               LOAN NUMBER 3351 DO
                          LOAN AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated December 13, 1991, between DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
      WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of
the Project;
      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
Page  2
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement:
      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
      (b)   In Section 6.02, subparagraph (k) is relettered as sub-
paragraph (l) and a new subparagraph (k) is added to read:
            "(k) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under
      which any further withdrawals under the Loan would be
      inconsistent with the provisions of Article III, Section 3 of
      the Bank's Articles of Agreement."
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have
the following meanings:
      (a)   "Central Bank" means Banco Central de la Republica
Dominicana, the Borrower's Central Bank;
      (b)   "pesos" means the Borrower's national currency;
      (c)   "Project Account" means the account referred to in
Section 3.04 of this Agreement;
      (d)   "SEEBAC" means Secretaria de Estado de Educacion, Bellas
Artes y Cultos, the Borrower's Secretariat of State for Education,
Arts and Cults; and
      (e)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
paragraph (b) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE II
                             The Loan
      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of fifteen million dollars ($15,000,000), being the sum
of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal
valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open, maintain and operate in dollars a special deposit account in
the Central Bank on terms and conditions and in accordance with
procedures, all satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into, and
payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1998 or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.
      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
Page  3
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.
      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.
      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:
            (i)    "Interest Period" means a six-month period
                   ending on the date immediately preceding each
                   date specified in Section 2.06 of this
                   Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period in
                   which this Agreement is signed.
           (ii)    "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost,
                   as reasonably determined by the Bank and
                   expressed as a percentage per annum, of the
                   outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down
                   after June 30, 1982, excluding such borrowings
                   or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated to
                   fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) loans
                   which may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989
                   bearing interest rates determined otherwise than
                   as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
          (iii)    "Semester" means the first six months or the
                   second six months of a calendar year.
      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months' notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:
                   "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
            principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
            from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to
            the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
            of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent
            (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section
            2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
            accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
            preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
            applicable during such Interest Period."
                   "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of
            each Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the
            Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of
            such Quarter."
                   "(c) (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period
            commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in
            a calendar year."
      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through
SEEBAC with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and educational
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
Page  4
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
      (b)   For the purposes of coordinating and supervising the
carrying out of the Project, the Borrower, through SEEBAC, shall
maintain throughout the Project, a project coordinating unit to be
managed by a Project coordinator and to be staffed with adequate
personnel, including five consultants, all having functions,
responsibilities, experience and qualifications acceptable to the
Bank.
      (c)   Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (a) of
this Section, the Borrower shall provide in its annual budget, and
make available promptly as needed, in pesos equivalent, as
counterpart funds for the Project, the minimum amounts of: (i)
$200,000, for fiscal year 1992; (ii) $300,000, for fiscal year 1993;
(iii) $400,000, for fiscal year 1994; (iv) $500,000, for fiscal year
1995; and (v) $600,000, for fiscal year 1996.
      Section 3.02. (a) Without limitation to the provisions of
Section 9.07 (a) (iii) of the General Conditions, the Borrower,
through SEEBAC, shall furnish to the Bank by December 1 of each
year, starting on December 1, 1992, an annual report on the results
of the execution of the Project for the previous year and the
proposed activities to be carried out in the upcoming year and
proposed budgetary allocations therefor, satisfactory to the Bank.
      (b)   For purposes of supervising and monitoring the
activities to be carried out under the Project, the Borrower,
through SEEBAC, shall: (i) include in its annual reports for years
1994 and 1997 an evaluation, carried out under terms of reference
satisfactory to the Bank, on the progress achieved in the execution
of the Project, and in meeting the requirements of Section 3.08 of
this Agreement; and (ii) not later than June 30, 1993 and June 30,
1996 respectively, furnish to the Bank for its review and comments
the terms of reference referred to in subparagraph (b) (i) above.
      Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower, through SEEBAC, shall not
later than December 31, 1994, submit to the Bank for its review an
evaluation on nutrition activities and nutrition needs of children
attending primary schools located in rural and poor urban areas,
such evaluation to be carried out in accordance with criteria and
methodology satisfactory to the Bank.
      (b)   Not later than June 30, 1993, introduce in SEEBAC a
revised management information system, satisfactory to the Bank,
based on standard school location planning criteria, including,
inter alia, socio-economic data on students, educational assessment
data and personnel management data.
      (c)   Put into effect, in terms satisfactory to the Bank, the
system for evaluating students' achievement in primary education to
be developed under Part B.1 (b) of the Project. Such system shall be
implemented as follows: (i) by testing in language and mathematics
a sample of students during the academic year 1991-1992; and (ii) by
applying standard tests on a national scale during the academic year
1996-1997 and thereafter.
      (d)   Not later than June 30, 1994, prepare and furnish to the
Bank for its review and approval a plan for the provision of food to
urban and rural primary schools to be covered under the school
nutrition program, administered by SEEBAC.
      Section 3.04. The Borrower shall:
      (a)   establish, and thereafter maintain, until the Closing
Date, in a commercial bank acceptable to the Bank, a Project
Account, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, for
purposes of meeting expenditures in pesos for the Project, and
deposit a minimum amount in pesos therein, equivalent to $100,000;
      (b)   promptly replenish the Project Account to cover amounts
withdrawn from such account; and
Page  5
      (c)   ensure that: (i) the aggregate amounts available in the
Project Account do not fall below the amount of $100,000 required to
meet four months of estimated expenditures for the Project to be
financed by counterpart funds provided by the Borrower; and (ii) the
Project Account is at all times operated in accordance with rules
and guidelines acceptable to the Bank.
      Section 3.05. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.06. The Borrower shall provide in its annual budget,
and make available promptly as needed, for fiscal year 1997 a
minimum amount in pesos equivalent to $2,000,000 as shall be
required to finance the recurrent expenditures under the Project.
      Section 3.07. The Borrower shall, not later than June 30,
1993, furnish to the Bank for its review and comments, the results
of the studies to be carried out under Part B.3 of the Project.
      Section 3.08. (a) The Borrower shall take all necessary
measures so as to:
            (i)    gradually reduce the Student Repetition Rate to
                   a ratio not higher than: (A) 14% in fiscal year
                   1994; and (B) 10% in fiscal year 1997 and
                   thereafter;
           (ii)    gradually reduce the Student Dropout Rate to a
                   ratio not higher than: (A) 6% in fiscal year
                   1994; and 4% in fiscal year 1997 and thereafter;
          (iii)    gradually increase the Enrollment Rate to a
                   ratio not lower than: (A) 92% in fiscal year
                   1994; and (B) 95% in fiscal year 1997 and
                   thereafter; and
           (iv)    maintain remunerations for school teachers of
                   public primary schools at levels adequate to
                   attract and retain qualified and experienced
                   teachers in numbers sufficient to operate
                   efficiently the public primary schools system of
                   the Borrower.
      (b)   For purposes of this Section:
            (i)    the term "Student Repetition Rate" means the
                   ratio of the total number of private and public
                   primary school students repeating a grade in
                   each year to the total number of private and
                   public primary school students enrolled;
           (ii)    the term "Student Dropout Rate" means the ratio
                   of the total number of public and private
                   primary school students dropping out of school
                   before the end of each year to the total number
                   of private and public primary school students
                   enrolled; and
          (iii)    the term "Enrollment Rate" means the ratio of
                   the total number of students aged 6 to 11
                   enrolled in private and public primary education
                   schools to the total number of the population
                   aged 6 to 11.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
Page  6
maintained records and separate accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, resources
and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
                   paragraph (a) of this Section including those
                   for the Special Account for each fiscal year
                   audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
                   principles consistently applied, by independent
                   auditors acceptable to the Bank;
           (ii)    furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                   any case not later than four months after the
                   end of each such year, the report of such audit
                   by said auditors, of such scope and in such
                   detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
                   requested; and
          (iii)    furnish to the Bank such other information
                   concerning said records and accounts and the
                   audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to
                   time reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)    maintain or cause to be maintained, in
                   accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
                   records and accounts reflecting such
                   expenditures;
           (ii)    retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                   has received the audit report for the fiscal
                   year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                   Account was made, all records (contracts,
                   orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other
                   documents) evidencing such expenditures;
          (iii)    enable the Bank's representatives to examine
                   such records; and
           (iv)    ensure that such records and accounts are
                   included in the annual audit referred to in
                   paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
                   report of such audit contains a separate opinion
                   by said auditors as to whether the statements of
                   expen-diture submitted during such fiscal year,
                   together with the procedures and internal
                   controls involved in their preparation, can be
                   relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Effective Date; Termination
      Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
      (a)   that the consultants referred to in Section 3.01 (b) of
this Agreement have been appointed;
      (b)   that the independent auditors referred to in Section
4.01 (b) (i) of this Agreement have been hired; and
      (c)   that the Project Account has been opened and the initial
deposit referred to in Section 3.04 (a) has been made.
Page  7
      Section 5.02. The date March 12, 1992 is hereby specified for
the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 6.01. The Secretary of State for Education, Arts and
Cults of the Borrower is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
      Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Secretaria de Estado de Educacion,
              Bellas Artes y Cultos
            Av. Maximo Gomez/Santiago
            Santo Domingo
            Republica Dominicana
      With copies to:
            Secretaria de Estado de Finanzas
            Direccion General de Credito Publico
            Avenida Mexico No. 45
            Santo Domingo
            Republica Dominicana
      For the Bank:
            International Bank for
             Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                       Telex:
                   INTBAFRAD                       248423 (RCA)
                   Washington, D.C.                 82987 (FTCC)
                                                    64145 (WUI) or
                                                   197688 (TRT)
        IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
                   DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
                   By /s/ Jose del Carmen Ariza
                                         Authorized Representative
                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                     RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                   By /s/ Yoshiaki Abe
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                   Latin America and the Caribbean
                            SCHEDULE 1
Page  8
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Works                        400,000        80%
(2) Goods                      3,600,000        100% of foreign
                                                expenditures and
                                                80% of local
                                                expenditures
(3) Training                   4,700,000        85%
(4) Technical                  4,900,000        100%
    assistance
(5) Operating and                400,000        50%
    maintenance
    costs
(6) Unallocated                1,000,000
                              __________
         TOTAL                15,000,000
                              ==========
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule: (a) the term "foreign
expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any country
other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from
the territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower; and
      (c)   the term "operating and maintenance costs" means
payments for services, travel allowances, supplies and materials
with respect to operation and equipment maintenance expenditures for
Project implementation.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of
$1,000,000, may be made on account of payments made for expenditures
before that date but after November 1, 1990.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
      The objectives of the Project are: (a) to enhance the quality
of primary education; (b) to increase enrollment of students from
low-income families; and (c) to strengthen educational management.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Educational Development
1.    Training of about: (a) 600 teachers and professors of teacher
training institutions and faculties of education to strengthen their
teaching effectiveness and techniques in languages, mathematics,
science and social sciences for training (pre-service and in-service
Page  9
training) primary school teachers; and (b) 10,000 teachers of public
primary schools to improve teaching skills and techniques.
2.    Training of about 750 administrators and supervisors of public
primary schools to strengthen the provision of administrative and
technical support to teachers.
3.    Improving public primary school facilities in poor urban and
rural areas by: (a) designing and introducing a program of regular
maintenance with the participation of parent-teacher associations to
provide annual routine maintenance for about 4,000 classrooms; and
(b) providing water supply, drainage and sanitation facilities to
such schools, as required.
4.    Expanding the current school nutrition program to about 80,000
primary school students in poor rural areas and to about 100,000
primary school students in poor urban areas, and introducing and
monitoring a pilot program to treat iron deficiency and parasitic
infections affecting primary school students.
Part B:     Management Development
1.    Strengthening the decentralized managerial capacity of SEEBAC
by: (a) improving management information for school planning and
programming, to include, inter alia, socio-economic information on
students, educational assessment data and data on learning
materials, school maintenance and nutrition activities; and (b)
monitoring the quality of learning achievement by introducing a new
system of student evaluation.
2.    Providing technical assistance to SEEBAC for: (a) program and
personnel planning and management, including the provision of
computers, software and other office equipment; (b) community
participation methodology; and (c) Project management.
3.    Studies for: (a) reviewing the causes of learning
deficiencies, repetition and dropout in primary education and
analysis of alternative solutions therefor; (b) designing a
decentralized management structure for SEEBAC; (c) developing
selected epidemiological data; and (d) assessing medium-to-long-term
requirements for upgrading teaching quality through improved pre-
service and in-service training and incentives.
                               * * *
      The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1997.
                           SCHEDULE 3
                       Amortization Schedule
                                     Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                    (expressed in dollars)*
March 15, 1997                            275,000
September 15, 1997                        285,000
March 15, 1998                            295,000
September 15, 1998                        305,000
March 15, 1999                            320,000
September 15, 1999                        330,000
March 15, 2000                            345,000
September 15, 2000                        355,000
March 15, 2001                            370,000
September 15, 2001                        385,000
March 15, 2002                            400,000
September 15, 2002                        415,000
March 15, 2003                            430,000
September 15, 2003                        450,000
March 15, 2004                            465,000
September 15, 2004                        485,000
March 15, 2005                            500,000
Page  10
September 15, 2005                        520,000
March 15, 2006                            540,000
September 15, 2006                        560,000
March 15, 2007                            585,000
September 15, 2007                        605,000
March 15, 2008                            630,000
September 15, 2008                        655,000
March 15, 2009                            680,000
September 15, 2009                        705,000
March 15, 2010                            735,000
September 15, 2010                        760,000
March 15, 2011                            790,000
September 15, 2011                        825,000
_____________________________
*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
      Premiums on Prepayment
      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:
      Time of Prepayment                   Premium
                               The interest rate (expressed as a
                               percentage per annum) applicable to
                               the Loan on the day of prepayment
                               multiplied by:
Not more than three years                  0.15
      before maturity
More than three years but                  0.30
      not more than six years
      before maturity
More than six years but                    0.55
      not more than 11 years
      before maturity
More than 11 years but not                 0.80
      more than 16 years
      before maturity
More than 16 years but not                 0.90
      more than 18 years before
      maturity
More than 18 years before                  1.00
      maturity
                            SCHEDULE 4
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in  Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.    To the extent practicable, contracts for goods (except
vehicles) shall be grouped into bid packages estimated to cost the
equivalent of $200,000 or more.
Page  11
3.    All vehicles shall be procured under a single contract,
allowing for phased delivery.
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in Dominican Republic
may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and
subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Goods estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $200,000
per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $1,500,000,
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive
bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Bank.
2.    Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $25,000 or less per
contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $150,000, may be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price
quotations obtained from at least three suppliers eligible under the
Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
3.    Works estimated to cost more than the equivalent of $25,000
per contract shall be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding,
advertised locally, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the
Bank.
4.    Works estimated to cost the equivalent of $25,000 or less per
contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $500,000, may be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price
quotations obtained from at least three contractors eligible under
the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the
Bank.
Part D:     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
      (a)   With respect to each contract for goods and works
estimated to cost more than the equivalent of $100,000, the
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply.
      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which the Bank has authorized
withdrawals on the basis of statements of expenditure.
2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
      In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures acceptable to the Bank on
the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published
by the Bank in August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                          Special Account
Page  12
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means all Categories
other than Category (6) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $800,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened pursuant to the provisions
of Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement and that procedures for its
operation, satisfactory to the Bank, have been established,
withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals
to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as
the Borrower shall have requested.
      (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                  deposits into the Special Account at such
                  intervals as the Bank shall specify.
           (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents
                  and other evidence required pursuant to para-
                  graph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
                  payments in respect of which replenishment is
                  requested. On the basis of each such request, the
                  Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw
                  from the Loan Account and deposit into the
                  Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall
                  have requested and as shall have been shown by
                  said documents and other evidence to have been
                  paid out of the Special Account for eligible
                  expenditures. All such deposits shall be
                  withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under
                  the respective eligible Categories, and in the
                  respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been
                  justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account,  the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Page  13
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or
      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Categories of the Project, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project,
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized
Allocation.
      Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to
the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request,
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.
