                                  Document of
                               The World Bank




                                                   Report No:ICR0000190




           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                 (IDA-34960)




                                    ON A

                                   CREDIT

                    IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 3.9 MILLION
                       (US$ 5.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                   TO THE

                        GOVERNMENT OF SRI LANKA

                                   FOR A

              LAND TITLING AND RELATED SERVICES PROJECT




                                March 22, 2007




Sustainable Development Unit
South Asia Region

                          CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                                  December 19, 2006
                             Currency Unit = Sri Lankan Rupees (Rs.)
                                       1.00 = US$ 0.0092
                                  US$ 1.00 = Rs 109.15


                                      Fiscal Year
                               January 1 December 31




                    ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS    Country Assistance Strategy
CROLL  Comprehensive Review of Lessons Learned
CTS    Commissioner of Title Settlement
DO     Development Objective
ICR    Implementation Completion Report
IP     Implementation Performance
ISR    Implementation Status and Results Report
LDO    Land Development Ordinance
LGSPA  Land Grant Special Provisions Act
LIL    Learning and Innovation Loan
LSD    Land Settlement Department
MALLI  Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock, Land and Irrigation
MTR    Mid-Term Review
M&E    Monitoring and Evaluation
PAD    Project Appraisal Document
PCU    Project Coordination Unit
PDO    Project Development Objective
PHRD   Policy and Human Development Grant
PSR    Project Supervision Report
QAG    Quality Assurance Group of the World Bank
RTA    Registration of Title Act
SD     Survey Department
SDR    Special Drawing Rights
USD    United States Dollars




          Vice President: Praful C. Patel

        Country Director: Naoko Ishii

         Sector Manager: Gajanand Pathmanathan

     Project Team Leader: Edward C. Cook




                                           2

                                               Sri Lanka
                      Land Titling And Related Services Project




                                             CONTENTS




Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph

 1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................... 5
 2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 7
 3. Assessment of Outcomes...........................................................................................13
 4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome..........................................................16
 5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 17
 6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 20
 7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 21
 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 22
 Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 24
 Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis................................................................. 26
 Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 27
 Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results........................................................................... 30
 Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 31
 Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR..................... 32
 Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders....................... 33
 Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 34
 MAP No. IBRD 31217 ................................................................................................. 35




                                                       3

A. Basic Information

                                                                       Land Titling and
Country:                Sri Lanka               Project Name:
                                                                       Related Services
Project ID:             P050738                 L/C/TF Number(s):      IDA-34960
ICR Date:               03/30/2007              ICR Type:              Core ICR
                                                                       GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     LIL                     Borrower:
                                                                       SRI LANKA
Original Total
                        XDR 3.9M                Disbursed Amount:      XDR 3.2M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock, Land and Irrigation
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

     Process              Date             Process          Original Date   Revised / Actual
                                                                                 Date(s)
Concept Review:        09/30/1998     Effectiveness:         07/13/2001        07/13/2001
Appraisal:             09/05/2000     Restructuring(s):
Approval:              03/22/2001     Mid-term Review:                         09/22/2003
                                      Closing:               12/31/2004        09/30/2006


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Moderately Unsatisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    High
Bank Performance:                               Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Unsatisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings                Borrower               Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory            Government:            Unsatisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Moderately Satisfactory Implementing           Moderately
                                                Agency/Agencies:       Unsatisfactory
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
Performance:            Moderately Satisfactory Performance:           Unsatisfactory


C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                               QAG Assessments
      Performance              Indicators              (if any)               Rating

Potential Problem Project No                    Quality at Entry     None


                                               i

at any time (Yes/No):                        (QEA):
Problem Project at any                       Quality of
                         Yes                                     None
time (Yes/No):                               Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before         Moderately
Closing/Inactive status: Satisfactory


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                           Original         Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                            96                96
Law and justice                                               4                 4


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Land administration and management                         Primary          Primary
Law reform                                                Secondary        Secondary
Rural markets                                             Secondary        Secondary


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                    At ICR                       At Approval
Vice President:          Praful C. Patel                 Mieko Nishimizu
Country Director:        Naoko Ishii                     Mariana Todorova
Sector Manager:          Gajanand Pathmanathan           Ridwan Ali
Project Team Leader:     Edward C. Cook                  Jessica Mott
ICR Team Leader:         Edward C. Cook
ICR Primary Author:      Edward C. Cook



F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The Project Development Objective was to assess and build the methods, framework and
capacity for making sustainable and comprehensive improvements in the land
administration system (parcel-based cadastre, land titling and title registration). Its
operational outputs comprised: * Operational testing and aplication of models to improve
systematic titling and title registries, and * development of institutional framework
(including legal, policy, communications, organizational, management and planning
aspects),and capacity.

  The key performance indicators of this development objective were:




                                            ii

  (a) well functioning small-scale titling and title registry operations that provide
increased tenure security, efficiency in titling and land transactions, land market choices,
and fairness;

  (b) confidence and knowledge to expand shared by the voting public, local leaders,
implementing partners, and concerned professionals;

  (c) a plan for a larger scale project that would be judged ready for appraisal according
to the Bank's quality at entry standards or equivalent, and which provide an acceptable
basis for commitments to finance this follow-on project

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
The PDO was not revised, but the key indicators were modified between the No. 10 PSR
(June 24, 2004) and the No. 11 PSR (December 21, 2004) as follows:

  (a) Functioning of titling and title registratry operations in a number of Districts with
procedures to handle transactions within specified time limits and quality standards

  (b) Viable institutional framework, including cohesive organizational structure and plan
for staffing and human resource development

  (c) Feeback, lessons and knowledge gathered from the field reflected in improved
methods and adoption of new methodology.

  (d) Plan for a larger scale Title Registration Program.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target       Formally       Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value            Values (from        Revised         Achieved at
                                                 approval           Target       Completion or
                                               documents)           Values        Target Years
                Functioning of titling and title registry operations in a number of Districts with
Indicator 1 :   procedures to handle transactions within specified time limits and quality
                standards.

Value           No functioning title       3 Districts, full

quantitative or registries. 0 Districts, noprocedures of high                  6 Districts with full

Qualitative)    procedures.                quality and timely                  procedures
                                           delivery.
Date achieved 03/31/2001                   12/31/2005                          09/30/2006
Comments
(incl. %        Quality of registry operation has not been verified.
achievement)

Indicator 2 :   Viable institutional framework including cohesive organizational structure and
                plan for staffing and human resource development
Value                                      Elaboration of                      Organizational plan
quantitative or Organizational             viable institutional                put forward does
Qualitative)    framework not viable       framework,                          not address key


                                                 iii

                                            including staffing                lessons learned.
                                            of key positions.
Date achieved 03/31/2001                    09/01/2006                        09/30/2006
Comments
(incl. %        The plan provided to the September 2006 supervision mission maintains most of

achievement)    the shortcomings that were evidenced during implementation.

                Feedback, lessons gathered from the field reflected on improved methods and
Indicator 3 :   adoption of new methodology. Commensurate amendments made in the
                Registration of Titles Act and supporting regulations.
                                            1. The
                                            Comprehensive
                                            Review of Lessons
                                            Learned (CROLL)
                                            completed and                     CROLL has been

                                            field manuals                     completed.

                                            reflect improved                  Lessons have been

                                            methodology                       incorporated in

Value                                       based on lessons                  terms of

quantitative or No feedback mechanism       learned.                          simplification of

Qualitative)    available.                  2. Improved                       field methods.

                                            methods                           Working relations

                                            succesfully                       among agencies

                                            adopted by                        remain

                                            agencies.                         cumbersome and

                                            3. Draft RTA                      delays are frequent.

                                            amendments
                                            referred to
                                            Attorney General.
Date achieved 03/31/2001                    09/30/2006                        09/30/2006
Comments
(incl. %        Truly addressing weaknesses in methods and methodology will require adoption

achievement)    of amendments to the RTA, which remains pending.

Indicator 4 :   Plan for a larger scale Title Registration Program
                                                                              Basic plan for a

Value                                       Preliminary draft                 national program

quantitative or No realistic plan           of a National Title               has been prepared,

Qualitative)                                Registration                      focusing primarily
                                            Program.                          on field survey
                                                                              work.
Date achieved 03/31/2001                    09/30/2006                        10/30/2006
Comments        The plan is built around a simple calculation of number of field survey teams and
(incl. %        number of parcels covered per team. It does not address the key bottlenecks
achievement)    identified during the LIL.




                                                 iv

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target        Formally        Actual Value

   Indicator        Baseline Value            Values (from                           Achieved at
                                                 approval            Revised        Completion or
                                               documents)        Target Values      Target Years
Indicator 1 :  New land policy framework established
                                           1.New policy

Value                                      framework                             Discussion of land
(quantitative  not applicable              approved and                          policy remains
or Qualitative)                            adopted by
                                           MALLI.                                diffuse.


Date achieved 03/31/2001                   09/30/2006                            09/30/2006
Comments
(incl. %       For all practical purposes, this issue was beyond the ability of the LIL to deal

achievement)   with.

Indicator 2 :  Decision made on lifting market restrictions under the Land Development
               Ordinance and LGSPA.
                                                                                 Government has
                                                                                 mandated

                                           Amendments                            amendments
Value                                                                            allowing lifting of
(quantitative  not applicable              prepared and                          restrictions on
or Qualitative)                            approved by
                                           Cabinet.                              village expansion
                                                                                 land. Amendments
                                                                                 remain in draft
                                                                                 preparation.
Date achieved 03/31/2001                   09/01/2005                            09/30/2006
Comments
(incl. %       This issue is well beyond the scope of the LIL to handle.
achievement)
Indicator 3 :  Number of land parcels registered.
                                                                                 5,228 title

Value                                                                            certificates issued

(quantitative  0                           22,000                                22,637 parcels

or Qualitative)                                                                  'registered', of
                                                                                 which 14,676 State
                                                                                 land parcels.
Date achieved 03/31/2001                   06/30/2006                            09/30/2006
Comments
(incl. %       Original target refered to title certificates issued for private (non-State) land.
achievement)
Indicator 4 :  Average time period for completing titling in specific area
                                                                                 PCU claims 7
Value                                                                            months, delays
(quantitative  two years                   7 months                              from inaction by
or Qualitative)                                                                  the CTS indicate
                                                                                 that the actual



                                                 v

                                                                               figure is higher.
Date achieved 03/31/2001                     12/31/2005                        09/30/2006
Comments       The figures above apply only to those parcels for which title certificates are
(incl. %       issued. These represent only a minor share of the parcels in a specific land
achievement)   titling area. In effect, titling has not been completed in any of the project areas.
Indicator 5 :  Average time period for completing titling in specific area
                                                                               PCU claims 7

Value                                                                          months, delays

(quantitative  two years                     7 months                          from inacation by

or Qualitative)                                                                the CTS indicate
                                                                               that the actual
                                                                               figure is higher.
Date achieved 03/31/2001                     12/31/2005                        09/30/2006
Comments       The figures above apply only to those parcels for which title certificates are
(incl. %       issued. These represent only a minor share of the parcels in a specific land
achievement)   titling area.
Indicator 6 :  Systematic titling cost per parcel reduced with improved methods.
Value
(quantitative  $US 110                       under $US 40
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 03/31/2001                     12/31/2005
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                     Actual
 No.     Date ISR
         Archived                 DO                           IP                Disbursements
                                                                                 (USD millions)
  1     05/07/2001            Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                      0.00
  2     08/09/2001            Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                      0.00
  3     11/30/2001            Satisfactory               Unsatisfactory                      0.00
  4     03/14/2002            Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                      0.16
  5     09/10/2002            Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                      0.79
  6     10/21/2002            Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                      0.79
  7     03/13/2003            Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                      0.79
  8     06/26/2003            Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                      1.17
  9     12/22/2003            Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                      2.01
  10    06/24/2004            Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                      2.54
  11    12/21/2004            Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                      3.45

  12    06/10/2005     Moderately Satisfactory             Moderately
                                                         Unsatisfactory                      3.96

  13    12/15/2005     Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                       4.25
  14    06/08/2006     Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                       4.62

  15    11/10/2006            Moderately                   Moderately
                            Unsatisfactory               Unsatisfactory                      4.64



                                                  vi

H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




I. Disbursement Profile




                             vii

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design
(this section is descriptive, taken from other documents, e.g., PAD/ISR, not evaluative)
1.1 Context at Appraisal
(brief summary of country macroeconomic and structural/sector background, rationale
for Bank assistance)


The Project was linked to two elements in the CAS: (i) to promote sustainable private
sector led growth and (ii) to improve fiscal discipline. It was seen that introduction of the
land titling system, in combination with appropriate land policy changes, would enhance
tenure security for farmers and other landholders, support improved land productivity and
overall economic efficiency, leading to higher incomes.

The major share of land, including agricultural land, has traditionally been owned by the
State. Under a series of programs, beginning with the Land Development Ordinance
(LDO) of 1935, State-owned land, predominantly in rural areas, has been made available
to private users, mainly for smallholder agriculture and settlement, with a number of
restrictions on economic transactions. These included restrictions on leasing,
mortgaging, sale, and inheritance. (This last restriction is in part tied to officially adopted
minimum land parcel sizes.) The restrictions were put in place to protect against
potential loss of land by beneficiaries and to ensure that land holdings did not become
excessively fragmented. However over time, these limitations were seen
as retarding agricultural growth by limiting: (i) access to land; (ii) the ability to leverage
land as collateral for investment purposes; and (iii) incentives to invest in the land due to
insecure land tenure. A PHRD-financed Land Markets Study during project preparation
confirmed these views and showed that the value of LDO land was as much as 50 percent
lower than comparable privately owned land.

For privately owned land, including most urban land, there were economic efficiency
issues associated with insecure tenure and high transactions costs. Sri Lanka has had a
deeds registration system which records transactions and serves as evidence of rights, but
provides no guarantee of rights. For example, there could be multiple deeds in existence
for a given property, or unregistered transactions. Further, there is not a clear linkage
between the information in the registered document and the actual situation on the
ground. This has contributed to a large number of land disputes, which often take years
to resolve in the courts. It places a burden on the buyer to carry out a full investigation of
the existing rights.

Putting in place a title registration system involves carrying out a comprehensive review
of existing rights through a process of adjudication that includes an analysis of available
documents and evidence gathered from the field. The information 'key' for a title
registration system is the land parcel, and a reliable description of each land parcel must
be provided. On this basis, a definitive decision is taken on rights for a given property,



                                               4

which in turn is supported by a State guarantee of title.

International experience shows that a well-functioning land title registration system can
support broader improvements in land administration through introduction of an
appropriate schedule of fees for service and upgrading, or establishing, a land cadastre
data base. It was expected at appraisal that the project would build the foundation for a
long term program that would lead to an improved land administration system in the
country.

The Government of Sri Lanka had initiated its own land titling pilot project in 1996 and
begun a dialogue with the donor community on this subject. By March 1998 a primary
piece of legislation, the Registration of Title Act (RTA) was adopted. Review of both the
RTA and the experience with the initial piloting effort indicated that there were serious
weaknesses that needed addressing. Given its established international experience with
land administration projects, the World Bank was a natural partner to turn to for this
assistance.




1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)


The Project Development Objective was to assess and build the methods, framework and
capacity for making sustainable and comprehensive improvements in the land
administration system (parcel-based cadastre, land titling and title registration). Its
operational outputs comprised: (i) Operational testing and application of models to
improve systematic titling and title registries; and (ii) development of institutional
framework (including legal, policy, communications, organizational, management and
planning aspects), and capacity.

The key performance indicators of this development objective were:

(a) well functioning small-scale titling and title registry operations that provide increased
tenure security, efficiency in titling and land transactions, land market choices, and
fairness;

(b) confidence and knowledge to expand titling activity shared by the voting public, local
leaders, implementing partners, and concerned professionals;

(c) a plan for a larger scale project that would be judged ready for appraisal according to
the Bank's quality at entry standards or equivalent, and which would provide an
acceptable basis for commitments to finance this follow-on project.




                                               5

1.3 Revised PDO and Key Indicators (as approved by original approving authority), and
reasons/justification


The PDO was not revised, but the key indicators were modified between the No. 10 PSR
(June 24, 2004) and the No. 11 PSR (December 21, 2004) as follows:

(a) Functioning of titling and title registry operations in a number of Districts with
procedures to handle transactions within specified time limits and quality standards.

(b) Viable institutional framework, including cohesive organizational structure and plan
for staffing and human resource development.

(c) Feedback, lessons and knowledge gathered from the field reflected in improved
methods and adoption of new methodology.

(d) Plan for a larger scale Title Registration Program.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries, original and revised
(briefly describe the "primary target group" identified in the PAD and as captured in the
PDO, as well as any other individuals and organizations expected to benefit from the
project)


N/A

1.5 Original Components (as approved)


The Project included the following components and sub-components:

1. Improvement of field operation methods

   (a) Titling methods

  (b) Title registries

  (c) Land records maintenance

2. Development of institutional framework and capacity

  (a) Legal framework

  (b) Policy formulation and project-wide learning




                                               6

  (c) Organizational development, project management, and program planning.

Component one focused on titling and registry operations in the field, and the testing of
technologies, procedures, and processes. It was to include testing of a variety of
implementation arrangements, including the use of private contractors, and focus on
building capacity. The component was to allow for demonstrating improved efficiencies
in the field with respect to time and cost of registration, reducing the number of parcels
with unresolved issues that prevent titling, minimize legal challenges on titles issued, and
increase public confidence in the titling activities.

Component two focused on the key legal, policy, and institutional framework for the
project and provided the foundation for the operation of the first component. It was in
this component that improvements in existing legislation and regulations were to be
made, including revisions to the LDO and the RTA, and that institutional arrangements
would be tested and a viable long-term organizational arrangement identified. This
component also included policy formulation, stakeholder communications, human
resource development, monitoring and evaluation, and development of an information
management strategy.

1.6 Revised Components


N/A

1.7 Other significant changes
(in design, scope and scale, implementation arrangements and schedule, and funding
allocations)

The only significant change after Appraisal was the granting of two closing date
extensions, totaling 21 months, reflecting accumulated delays in project implementation.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes


2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
(including whether lessons of earlier operations were taken into account, risks and their
mitigations identified, and adequacy of participatory processes, as applicable)


The Bank task team did a good deal of work in the preparation phase of the Project on
analysis of the issues bearing on project design. This included the PHRD-financed Land
Markets Study, analysis of the institutional framework, and careful review of the
Registration of Title Act (1998). The Bank missions during the project preparation were
well rounded, with a good range of skill mixes.

The critical decision made during preparation was to go with a Learning and Innovation


                                                7

Loan (LIL). This was based on the fact that the Government had already begun piloting
title registration work which had turned up the need for new approaches, but which also
indicated that Sri Lanka was far from ready for a full-scale land titling program. In the
Bank's view, the use of a LIL was more appropriate for the risks involved and would
allow time for the outstanding issues to be addressed and resolved. The hope was that
the potential of future financing support for a larger scale project would constructively
engage key implementers and stakeholders, and help to leverage the necessary political
will and actions required for successful implementation of the LIL.

The LIL was set up on the basis of the ongoing government program, incorporating the
same three geographical locations. Because these locations were not fully representative
of the range of operating conditions, half way through project implementation, two
additional locations were included, which were believed to provide a broader sample of
the land issues that the LIL was aiming to address.

The preconditions for moving forward with the LIL were kept to a minimum and
grounded in a careful consideration of project alternatives. The Bank team concluded
that this would offer the best opportunity to address the demonstrated weaknesses on the
legal and institutional fronts that would need to be resolved before consideration could be
given to a full land administration project. The RTA was weak as a legal basis for title
registration and would need to be amended substantially. The institutional arrangement
for large-scale titling was not clear and a reliable solution would need to be proven.

At the design stage, full responsibility for project implementation was given to the Land
Settlement Department of the Ministry of Agriculture, which was leading the
Government program at that time. There were inherent problems with this arrangement,
as the Land Settlement Department (LSD) took the position that the title registration
system would be a completely new and separate institution, with no links to the Deeds
Registry at all. To be successful, the program had to incorporate a wider range of
institutional players, which began early in the implementation stage. At appraisal, the
lead position of the LSD was confirmed. Subsequently, the decision was made to
establish the Project Coordinating Unit (PCU) in the Ministry of Agriculture, but it de
facto came under the control of the Survey Department, while the influence of the LSD
on project coordination was greatly reduced.

The Project Development Objective was ambitious, but consistent with the underlying
rationale for the Project. The basic component design was likewise consistent with
achievement of this PDO design, straightforward, and in keeping with good practice for
land administration. However, the sub-components (particularly for component 2) were
built to take on a broad set of activities that pushed the envelop quite hard in comparison
with the demonstrated weaknesses of the existing titling program and the
operational concerns mentioned above. This included taking on the issue of reforming
the LDO program and the broader land policy framework, pushing private sector


                                                8

development, and putting in place a strong program of stakeholder outreach and
communication. These activities were added at the behest of the Bank. While this
package fit together as a coherent whole, it placed a great deal of weight on a relatively
modest operational vehicle.

A preparation process involving a core team of key implementing agency heads appeared
to cultivate inter-agency collaboration at the conceptual level, and what appeared to be
good ownership at the technical level of the project design. However, unspoken tensions
involving differences in social status, inter-agency conflicts of interest, and ambitions of
various Government professions were not explicitly addressed. Furthermore, it may not
have been appreciated at this time how sensitive project implementation would be to
changes in the persons occupying these core team positions. Poor inter-ministerial
collaboration and poor commitment of the ministries outside the Ministry of Land were
major factors that affected the success of implementation. While this risk was
recognized at appraisal, its central importance to overall project risks was not fully
appreciated.

While there was strong collaboration between the Bank team and some officials that
existed at the technocratic level, interaction with high levels of Government was limited,
including on the important land policy issues. This may have been due to the fact that
the lending instrument was a LIL and the total amount of the credit was relatively
modest. Constant ministerial restructuring during this period also inhibited the
establishment of high-level dialogue. In this context, there may have been limited
options available for getting firm understandings on the key land policy issues. One
option that could have been pursued would have been a national level public consultation
process, particularly in relation to LDO lands. The inability to engage at high levels of
Government, combined with the minimal up-front requirements to resolve the legal and
institutional issues, meant that the Project went forward with little demonstrated
commitment from Government beyond that which existed with the members of the core
team, as well as the fact that a pilot land titling effort was underway and the Registration
of Title Act (1998) had been passed.




2.2 Implementation
(including any project changes/restructuring, mid-term review, Project at Risk status, and
actions taken, as applicable)


The project was affected by delays in implementation early on resulting from a change in
the Minister of Agriculture and an erosion of political support for land titling. The
Project Launch Workshop was held nearly one year after effectiveness, and was made
possible following a change in Government and appointment of a new Minister with
strong commitment to the Project. It was during this period that de facto control of the



                                                9

Project was shifted from the Land Settlement Department to the Survey Department.
The Project was never able to make up for this slow start, and over time wound up falling
further behind the original implementation schedule. For the initial delays in project
implementation, the IP rating of the Project was lowered to 'unsatisfactory'.
Once implementation got underway in earnest, this rating was raised to 'satisfactory',
where it remained.

During project implementation, counterpart ownership wavered depending not only on
shifts at the Minister level, but on shifts in persons occupying lead positions in the
implementing agencies. Over time, ownership was revealed to be stronger for
component one -- focusing on the field work, record keeping, and operation of the titling
offices, than for component two -- focusing on the policy, legal and institutional
framework for titling. Progress was being made in testing and improving the field
procedures, and eventually in reducing the number of steps involved in the titling process
from eleven to seven. But even within component one, true ownership was evident only
for the parcel survey activities, rather than for the adjudication and titling functions.

For the key issues of amending the RTA, identifying and resolving weaknesses in the
institutional arrangement for implementation, and taking on the broader land policy
framework, progress was very slow. In particular, issues that had been identified with
the RTA as early as 1998 were still under discussion in 2004. These implementation
problems were due to a combination of the complexity of the vested interests involved
and a lack of commitment of Government including the implementing agency to deal
with these head on or on a priority basis. In particular, there were no champions in the
high level political and policy making arenas to spearhead solving of the outstanding
project issues.

The decision for the Survey Department to play a dominant role in the operation of the
PCU contributed to the fact that the parcel survey aspects of the Project were handled
well and did not represent a constraint on achievement of the project's development
objectives. But it was the Land Settlement Department and the Commissioner of Title
Settlement (CTS) that were central to achievement of the PDO, and by not having the
important functions of these agencies more mainstreamed in implementation, the Project
suffered much more than it gained through subordination to the SD. Bottlenecks at the
CTS in taking timely action on prepared title certificates were particularly telling on
project performance. Beyond this though was the fact that without a basis for getting
full cooperation from all involved agencies, any of the possible implementation options
would have come up short.

Cases with any sort of question about the status of land rights were not dealt with, but
rather left unaddressed where the only recourse was the existing court procedures that
were usually costly and time consuming. While on the one hand the Project was
handicapped by the existing RTA in how it could deal with some of the problem cases,


                                               10

the Project shied away from pro-actively helping people in the field work out their
problems, and saw problem parcels as obstacles to reaching targets. In a number of
cases, particularly those involving state or LDO land, resolution of problems would have
required working closely with Divisional Secretaries and Provincial Land
Commissioners, who hold the power to regularize encroachments or formalize informal
transactions. The Project simply never developed an effective collaboration with these
actors, despite repeated discussion of this issue.

The Mid-Term Review (MTR) identified various impediments to project implementation
and to achievement of the PDO. While implementation generally improved in the second
half of the Project, these gains were not significant enough to result in achievement of the
PDO. The Project would have benefited from focus on solving the pressing issue of a
reliable institutional framework. The frequent lack of coordination among agencies, and
the ultimate lack of institutional accountability was the central factor in the failure of the
Project to achieve its objectives.

It was in the second half of implementation that most progress was made in preparing
amendments to the RTA, as both the implementing agency and the Bank focused
increased attention on this and on the need to get the process under the control of
professional legal expertise rather than technical survey interests.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization


The Monitoring and Evaluation was designed in a way that made it difficult to track
incremental progress on achieving the PDO during project implementation. The PDO
indicators were qualitative and sufficiently general that gauging their attainment or lack
of attainment could not be done until the Project was drawing to a close. This
contributed to a situation where the PDO rating remained 'satisfactory' until very late in
the process.

The output indicators were well designed, but probably too numerous. The PAD had 17
output indicators. At the time of conversion from the PSR to the ISR reporting
framework, the output indicators were transformed into ten 'intermediate outcome'
indicators with generally good continuity of the content of the original output indicators.

In addition to the project indicators, there were a number of socio-economic monitoring
studies and surveys that were to be undertaken that would contribute to the learning
element of the LIL. These included baseline and follow up social and economic
assessments detailed in the Borrower's Project Implementation Plan.

The record of M&E implementation was mixed. Quarterly project monitoring reports
were maintained throughout implementation, structured in accordance with the PDO and
output indicators agreed at appraisal. There was a good deal of information contained in



                                             11

these reports, but the quality of the information was impacted by a number of factors.
First, those responsible for supplying data from the field were under the authority of the
various line departments. The PCU had limited control over their work. Second, the
qualitative assessments of progress were from time to time excessively optimistic or open
to misinterpretation, for example, the reporting of progress toward getting the RTA
amendments finalized.

The large number of indicators meant that the monitoring reports were lengthy. Without
a mechanism for focusing on key developments, such as an executive summary,
important information could get lost in the mass of detail.

Monitoring of the number of parcels making their way through the titling process was
done well. However, there were differences in how these data were related to the output
indicators. One indicator that was added after the MTR was the number of parcels being
titled. The text of the PAD had referred to a target of 22,000 parcels registered. While it
was clear that this was the number of private land parcels titled, the project counterparts
took this to mean preparation of a parcel for issuing a title certificate for both private and
public lands, which allowed for a much higher number to be reported.

Following the MTR, the M&E capacity of the PCU was enhanced through establishment
of a unit dedicated to this work and through bringing on board the requisite skills.
However, little of the planned monitoring studies and surveys was carried out. Some
initial impact study and socio economic studies were done, but there were not of high
quality and added little value to the project M&E and implementation.

The Project Steering Committee was the key organization responsible for acting on the
information that was being provided and on setting priorities. It was ineffective in
carrying out this responsibility, either by agreeing to take action directly and following
up, or by emphasizing key problems to higher levels of Government for resolution. The
PCU for its part made efforts to address issues identified through the M&E system,
particularly in the latter stages of project implementation, but had limited authority to
deal with these by itself.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
(focusing on issues and their resolution, as applicable)


N/A

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
(including transition arrangement to post-completion operation of investments financed by
present operation, Operation & Maintenance arrangements, sustaining reforms and institutional
capacity, and next phase/follow-up operation, if applicable)


At the time that the second project extension was being considered in December 2005,


                                                12

the Bank laid out what it considered to be a necessary foundation for beginning work on
a national roll-out of the land titling effort. This reiterated points that the Bank had made
in the PAD and throughout project implementation, focusing on the need for establishing
a legal and institutional basis. The Bank continues to adhere to this position.

At closing, the final implementation support mission found that this framework is still
not in place. The Bank has formally communicated this position to Government. The
Bank also expressed its interest in remaining engaged with Government on the
outstanding issues.

Government has provided bridge financing to keep the PCU functioning and field work
underway. It will be up to Government to decide how it would like to proceed with the
land titling effort beyond this timeframe.

3. Assessment of Outcomes
3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
(to current country and global priorities, and Bank assistance strategy)


The PDO has remained relevant to the Bank's strategy of assisting Sri
Lanka. Achievement of the PDO for the LIL would lead to establishing a system
for clarification of rights in land, strengthening security of tenure, and facilitating the
operation of markets in land. Government priority for the PDO, at least on paper, was
evident both at the time of preparation and at the present. Government ownership of the
PDO, as demonstrated by actual practice, however, has wavered over time, and in
general has been too weak to support achievement of the development objective.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
(including brief discussion of causal linkages between outputs and outcomes, with details on
outputs in Annex 4)


While there have been positive results from the Project, the PDO has not been
achieved. This has to do with the inability to define and put in place the legal,
regulatory, and institutional framework consistent with a large-scale land titling program
and the efficient operation of a land administration system. On the institutional
side, critical lessons learned during the Project have not led to revising the
existing complicated and counterproductive implementation roles and arrangements,
most likely due to the opposition of vested interests to institutional change. In
comparison with the lack of real movement on the institutional side, there was definite
progress on the legislative side. Toward the end of the Project, amendments to the RTA
that would address serious weaknesses in the existing legislation finally began to take
definite shape, which was made possible by the two extensions of the closing date. If
and when adopted, the proposed amendments to the RTA would substantially meet this
aspect of the Project's DO. However, at Project closing the legal drafting process was
not yet completed, and the finalized draft had not been circulated for comment nor


                                                13

approved by Cabinet and submitted to Parliament. The necessary capacity building to
support a broad national program of titling has also not taken place.

The Project failed to deal with titling of land parcels where there was uncertainty about
existing rights. The land parcels for which land titles were issued were almost
entirely those for which clarity of rights and security of tenure were already high under
the existing system of registration of deeds. The value added of titling these parcels is
limited and does not support the investment expense required to undertake a program of
systematic title registration. Under this Project, only a small percentage of land parcels
that were included in a systematic titling area were actually titled. This is inconsistent
with good practice and points to failure if attempts were made to roll this out on a
broader scale.

It appears that the central importance of adjudication of rights to a systematic titling
program is still not understood or appreciated. Rather, undue focus has been put on the
survey of land parcels. The orientation to survey was reinforced by the composition of
the international Technical Assistance (TA) team. For a successful titling program,
emphasis will need to be placed on full registration of parcels, including resolution of
existing uncertainties in rights rather than merely on the number of parcels for which a
boundary survey has been completed.

Within the confines of the existing legal and institutional framework, there has been
significant learning and assessment with respect to the organization and management of
the field teams and testing and revising of field procedures. However the objective
expressed at appraisal of combining the survey and adjudication teams, which is a
standard international good practice, was never attempted, which left possible efficiency
gains in field work. There has been important learning with respect to the program of
interaction with stakeholders at the local level. Communication with professional
groups, especially lawyers, has improved.

The international TA team composition was aimed primarily at Component 1, which
reinforced inherent biases in this direction. There were no systematic arrangements to
acquire and transfer skills from the international TA to the related implementing
agencies.



3.3 Efficiency
(Net Present Value/Economic Rate of Return, cost effectiveness, e.g., unit rate norms, least cost,
and comparisons; and Financial Rate of Return)


N/A

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating



                                              14

(combining relevance, achievement of PDOs, and efficiency)
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory


While the Project failed to achieve its development objective, some
important learning has taken place, as noted above. There is a good chance that the legal
basis for title registration will eventually be improved with adoption of the proposed
amendments to the RTA, though this cannot be said for certain at present. The Project
was successful in linking title registration with deeds registration through the Registrar
General's office. This is a key institutional step that will facilitate the coordination of the
two systems and the possible eventual move to a title based system. Despite its failings,
the LIL has served to raise a number of very relevant questions for Sri Lanka on how it
wishes to proceed with land administration, and has initiated a number of critical steps
which if followed through on would improve the foundation for a large scale title
registration program. In this sense, the LIL resulted in some learning and innovation,
though not enough to allow for successful scaling up of the titling program without
further developments on both the legislative and institutional fronts.




3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(if any, where not previously covered or to amplify discussion above)
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development


The draft RTA amendments will make it easier to recognize and formalize rights of those
who have weak documentary claims to their land, which are disproportionately the poor.
Field procedures used by the adjudication teams have emphasized equal representation of
spouses in the verification of rights and their reflection in the registry.


(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
(particularly with reference to impacts on longer-term capacity and institutional development)


Institutional change and strengthening was a key element of the Project. As noted above,
the determination of a sound institutional arrangement for implementation of a titling
program was not achieved. In addition, the institutional capacity building foreseen in the
PAD also went largely unmet, due in part to the neglect of the planned training program.


(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative, if any)


N/A

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
(optional for Core ICR, required for ILI, details in annexes)




                                                15

Work on impact and social assessment of the project results, as outlined in the PAD, was
greatly scaled back in practice. One study was commissioned toward the end of the
Project which analyzed the early effects of the utilization of land title certificates. It
confirmed that titles were being issued almost entirely to those parcels that were free of
uncertainties or disputes in land rights. Titles were being utilized about as frequently
as registered deeds for obtaining mortgage credit, but the time required for obtaining
credit was less in the cases where titles were available. The use of titles also reduced the
time required for completing sales transactions.

The study did not find any significant increase in investment in the land as a result of
receiving title. The study concluded that greater investment in the land as a result of
titling could be expected if the titles were provided to those land parcels for which
current rights were unclear or in dispute.




4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: High


The assumption at the time of appraisal was that a large scale land titling program could
be designed, which would make economic sense for Sri Lanka in that the costs and
necessary steps to implement and maintain such a system could be justified by the
economic benefits accruing. What the Project has shown is that given the socio-cultural,
policy and institutional framework, this assumption may not be justified. This is an issue
which the Government will need to consider further. There is a risk that consideration of
this question will be allowed to lapse.

There is the option of a gradual conversion of deeds to title on a demand-driven basis.
Under this approach, transactions trigger the conversion of the deed to a title, with the
land rights holders bearing the costs of such conversion according to a schedule of fees
as determined by Government. This is the approach that has been applied in most land
titling programs in Western countries. A disadvantage is that because it is implemented
on a piecemeal basis, the per parcel costs are usually higher, which makes registration
less accessible to the poor. Since there is not the same attention given to information
campaigns, high-profile public consultations and the like, there is a greater danger that
influential people can exploit their superior knowledge of the process to their own
advantage. The `sporadic' approach would require a program of opening title registry
windows or title offices in conjunction with the existing deeds registry offices. It is not
clear whether there is sufficient ownership in the Registry Department or the
Government in general to pursue this option.




                                              16

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
(relating to design, implementation and outcome issues)
5.1 Bank
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
(i.e., performance through lending phase)
Rating: Satisfactory

The Bank was very active in the preparation of the Project. Preparation teams were well
staffed and covered key questions of project design well. The Bank engaged with a core
group of counterparts  heads of the five key agencies involved  in developing and
elaborating the Project design. The Bank team pushed the envelop fairly hard with
respect to social aspects, needed land policy change, and the breadth and depth of testing
of approaches and feedback. This was a conceptually coherent package with potentially
significant developmental implications. Fiduciary aspects, as well as the plan for
monitoring and evaluation were well prepared.

There was a period of roughly a year following pre-appraisal before the Bank team
concluded that conditions were ready to conduct appraisal. During this period, the Bank
team was seriously considering halting further work on the Project. While the
team identified the key risks in the PAD, it did not reflect their predominance in the
project's overall risk assessment, which was rated as `moderate'. In hindsight, the overall
risk context for the Project was substantial to high.

There were a number of things that the Task Team could have done to improve the
quality at entry, given the difficulty engaging high levels of Government. One possibility
could have been to more actively engage non-government stakeholders on key issues of
land titling, and the controversial land reform measures that were included in the overall
project package. The other would have been to scale back the range of project activities.
Bank management, however, was in favor of going forward with the full package.

(b) Quality of Supervision
(including of fiduciary and safeguards policies)
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Supervision teams were likewise well staffed and provided needed inputs for the work at
hand. A crisis was faced early in project implementation when Government support for
land titling took a significant downturn, which delayed the project launch mission by one
year. Subsequently, the Bank teams continued to draw attention to key issues bearing on
project implementation. Fiduciary aspects were well managed. Supervision reports were
detailed and broad in coverage, and strong on substance.

In retrospect, the Bank erred on the side of optimism in both the IP and DO ratings. The
IP rating was `unsatisfactory' in the hiatus between effectiveness and project launch, but



                                                17

was then raised to `satisfactory', where it remained. The DO rating was `satisfactory'
until very late in project implementation. While assessment of issues by the Bank team
was done well, the critical impediments to achievement of the development objectives
were not faced directly enough in dialogue with Government (though it must be admitted
that part of the difficulty in engaging Government was the lack of ownership of the
project at high levels). The Bank also did not make full use of opportunities to provide
honest criticism of the implementing agency in its dialogue with Government, though it
was aware that there were serious problems in performance.

The PCU eventually started paying attention to problem parcels after a great deal of
persuasion on this, and produced some reports that tried to categorize them and explore
solutions (including where necessary, going back to "root" causes), and there was even
some unsystematic and under-substantiated testing of solutions. This, however, came late
in the day and was always viewed as secondary to the main mission of the PCU of
learning to do the easy parcels as fast as possible. As a result, the project missed out on
an opportunity to learn lessons about solving problems, lessons that could have been
learned even in the current legal and institutional setting and would have continued to be
relevant even with a vastly improved legal framework.

With respect to the RTA amendments, real activity got started after the MTR consistent
with the principle that the amendments should incorporate learning from the LIL. While
the steps involved in getting the agreements drafted and submitted to Parliament were
understood, there could have been more careful consideration of a realistic timeframe to
carry these steps out and agreement reached with the counterpart on following through
that would then have been a key focal point for supervision.

While lessons were being accumulated about the shortcomings of the existing
institutional roles for project implementation, there seemed to have been continued
uncertainty on the Bank's side about what sort of institutional schemes would allow for
successful roll out of the LIL and some reluctance to take the lead in proposing solutions.
Bank experience has consistently shown the correlation between simplicity of
institutional arrangements and the success of implementation of land titling and
registration projects, with the best practice being a single-agency model where cadastral
and registration functions are handled in one organization, and pragmatic procedures for
adjudication are in place (see Lessons Learned, below).




(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

While overall, the technical input and guidance provided by the Bank was sound, the
Bank could have done better in picking up warning signs during preparation of the threats



                                              18

to successful project implementation. Given the demonstrated lack of ownership, the
Bank pushed too hard on the social and policy reform elements. The Bank should also
have been more frank concerning the Project ratings, which were too often `satisfactory',
when in fact both the IP and DO were moderately or fully unsatisfactory

5.2 Borrower
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Unsatisfactory

There was little evidence of Government commitment to meeting the development
objectives of the Project. Although the Government agreed to go ahead with the Project,
it was not viewed as being a sufficiently high priority to devote sufficient time or
attention to resolve problems in performance. There was inadequate intervention from
the high levels of the Government to streamline the project implementation, when it was
affected from time to time by the changes in the policy leadership and changes of the
Government. The commitment and attention of the high levels of the Government to the
policy, institutional and legal framework of the Project was poor. Virtually all issues of
importance were left to the Project Steering Committee to deal with. The Project Steering
Committee was composed of representatives of agencies involved in implementation.
Because of the rather complicated institutional arrangements, the Committee had a
relatively long list of members and difficulty in resolving problems in cases where
unanimity of views among the members did not exist. As a result, many problems did
not get resolved. In cases where the needs of the Project were in opposition to vested
bureaucratic interests, the former suffered. The implementing agencies never worked as
one team to achieve the project implementation targets and to complete the actions that
were agreed as part of the implementation review missions.




(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory


Implementing
                    Performance
Agency
                    There was a natural affinity within the implementing agency for
                    component one, much less so for component two. Over the life of the
                    Project a good deal of effort and energy went into project
Ministry of         implementation, concentrated in the PCU, but evidenced also in the
Agriculture,        activities of the involved line departments. Ultimately, though, the
Livestock, Land     implementing agency saw the project as primarily a technical activity
and Irrigation      centered on the field survey work, and accepted this as sufficient
                    justification for the project investment. There was less appreciation for
                    whether in fact there were economic returns being generated by this



                                               19

                     work, the importance of resolving disputes for land owners, and the
                     need for systematic and objective feedback from project beneficiaries
                     themselves. The political leadership of the Ministry changed hands
                     several times during project implementation. There was no consistent
                     political support for the Project. These changes created tensions and
                     affected working relationships within the PCU and other implementing
                     agency staff. These changing environments created implementation
                     bottlenecks, undermined the decision making authority of the PCU on
                     operational matters and consequently affected the project
                     implementation seriously at times.




(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Unsatisfactory

In sum, the Borrower failed to make use of opportunities provided by the Project to
establish the foundation for an expanded land titling program. Due to lack of clear
priority from high levels of Government, the fate of the Project was subject to changes in
leadership of the involved agencies. Identified problems too frequently went unaddressed
or were not tackled head on, especially when they required taking controversial decisions
or decisions that threatened vested interests.

6. Lessons Learned
(both project-specific and of wide general application)

The major lesson to be drawn from the Project is that in this case a LIL proved to be an
inappropriate vehicle for taking on important and contested legal, policy,
and institutional issues, particularly in light of the lack of project ownership at
sufficiently high levels of Government. It is generally recognized that the legal and
institutional framework for a titling and registration system needs to be resolved in the
project preparation stage. The hope with this Project was that a LIL would provide more
latitude to work out these issues in an admittedly difficult environment. The results
indicate that if there are serious issues precluding movement to a full land titling and
registration project, a LIL cannot get around the lack of Government ownership.

Looking forward, the Government should make a careful assessment of where a title-
based registration system fits within its broader land administration and land policy
framework. In that context, it needs to be clearly aware of the relatively large costs of
carrying out a systematic land titling program on a broad scale. The experience from this
Project with respect to a roll-out of the title registration effort points to the following key
lessons:




                                               20

     recognize the central importance of pragmatic adjudication of rights through the
        systematic titling program if the investment is to bring desired economic benefits
     recognize the need for full coverage of land parcels in a given territorial area
        where the systematic titling is being carried out
     pay more attention to the long-term operation of the title registry relative to the
        initial land titling program
     focus on ways to further reduce the per parcel costs of land titling
     put clear focus on the outputs and development objectives rather than inputs and
        processes
     ensure that there is regular and reliable feedback from intended beneficiaries and
        other stakeholders to verify that the objectives are in fact being achieved.

The amendments to the Registration of Title Act prepared under the Project and now in
their final stage of drafting, will help in addressing some of these lessons, and will
provide a very good overall legal basis for land titling and operation of the title registry
to move forward.

A realistic institutional arrangement, consistent with the lessons learned, would need to
be put in place. Good practice shows that this should be a unified agency for the land
title registry. Further, this would be a closed agency of career professionals not subject
to regular political and administrative rotations. The Bank is prepared to provide more
information on institutional solutions for land registration internationally that have
worked well, as well as those that have not.




7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies


none


(b) Cofinanciers


N/A


(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)
none




                                              21

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)

                                Appraisal Estimate   Actual/Latest
          Components                                                    Percentage of
                                  (USD millions)    Estimate (USD
                                                       millions)         Appraisal

1A. TITLING METHODS                      3.30               3.78            115
1B. TITLE REGISTRIES                     0.11               0.09             82
1C. LAND RECORDS
MAINTENANCE                              0.17               0.13             76

2A. LEGAL FRAMEWORK                      0.03               0.01             33
2B. POLICY FORMULATION
AND PROJECT-WIDE                         0.21               0.01             5
LEARNING
2C. ORGANIZATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT, PROJECT
MANAGEMENT, AND                          2.00               2.39            119

PROGRAM PLANNING


            Total Baseline Cost          5.82               6.41            110

Physical Contingencies                   0.45               0.00            0.00

Price Contingencies                      0.52               0.00            0.00
             Total Project Costs         6.78               6.41
Project Preparation Fund                 0.00               0.00            .00
Front-end fee IBRD                       0.00               0.00            .00
      Total Financing Required           6.78               6.41             95




(b) Financing
                                                  Appraisal Actual/Latest

          Source of Funds            Type of      Estimate      Estimate  Percentage of
                                   Cofinancing      (USD         (USD       Appraisal
                                                  millions)     millions)
Borrower                                        1.78         2.00         112
International Development
Association (IDA)                               5.00         4.85         97




                                           22

(c) Disbursement Profile




                            23

Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Component 1. The output from this component was in part constrained by problems
with implementation of component 2, for example with improvements in the field
methods and the number of parcels titled. Within these constraints, this component
performed reasonably well. Some simplifications were introduced in the field procedures
which allowed for the cost per parcel titled to come down. It was also reported that the
time required to complete the titling process was reduced, though problems with the
operation of the office of the Commissioner of Title Settlements could well have
counteracted this, particularly in the last year of project implementation. The Project
made little progress in testing and improving methods of adjudication and dispute
resolution (tied at least in part to failure to amend the RTA), which meant that critical
testing of problematic cases never took place. The project also failed to deliver intended
outputs for the land records maintenance activity, which was geared to the operation of
the existing deeds registry archive under the Registrar General's Department.

In other respects the component largely delivered what was intended. This included the
program of stakeholder communication, records searching, and operation of the title
registry offices. This component also allowed for rectification of the Government's pre-
Project titling efforts, and most likely helped the Government to avoid legal challenges
stemming from the initial quality of that program. The project met expectations in
designing methods for urban areas, dry irrigated tracts, and other situations.

Component 2. This component suffered a major shortfall in the delivery of intended
outputs. On the legal framework, draft amendments to the RTA are close to completion,
but there is no telling if and when these amendments will be adopted, or what detrimental
changes may be introduced. There was little movement on the intended changes in the
policy framework, and on carrying out underlying studies to inform the policy making
process. While initial short-term project activities related to communications,
information technology development, and impact assessment appeared consistent with
the project design, follow-through was weak. Communications with national level
stakeholders appears to have been weak, though relations definitely improved between
the PCU and the Bar Association. The intended work in the area of organizational and
human development was weak. Domestic training programs were carried largely as
scheduled, though the Government chose not to carry out the international training that
was planned. The M&E work focused on tracking inputs and processes and was not well
focused on impact and participatory social assessments. The M&E program was not able
to provide what was needed for designing a national roll-out program (cost-benefit
analysis, establishment of baselines, etc.).

The early decision to locate the title registries within the Registrar General's Office
represents a very positive step, but further actions are required to address constraints in
staffing, facilities, and inter-agency relationships that affect title registries. The project


                                                24

management was subject to leadership problems and other issues, but was strong for the
final period of implementation.




                                        25

Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis (including assumptions in the
analysis)

N/A




                                    26

Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members


        Names                   Title                 Unit    Responsibility/Specialty
Lending
Supervision/ICR
                       Sr Land
Gavin P. Adlington                            ECSSD
                       Administration Special
                       Sr Land
Edward C. Cook                                SASAR
                       Administration Special
Deepal Fernando        Sr Procurement Spec.   SARPS
                       Senior Rural
Nihal Fernando                                SASAR
                       Development Speci
Isabelle Girardot-Berg Consultant             MNSIF
Anthony John Lamb      Consultant             ECSSD
Isabel G. Lavadenz     Senior Land Policy
                                              SASAR
Paccieri               Specialist
Jonathan Mills Lindsay Sr Counsel             LEGEN
Seenithamby            Rural Development
                                              SASAR
Manoharan              Specialist
                       Sr Natural Resources
Jessica Mott                                  ECSSD
                       Econ.
                       Lead Environmental
Sumith Pilapitiya                             SASES
                       Specialist
                       Senior Rural
Barbara Verardo                               SASAR
                       Development Speci
Jiwanka B.             Financial Management
                                              SARFM
Wickramasinghe         Specialis
Harini Wijesundara     Team Assistant         SACSL
Miriam Witana          Operations Officer     SACSL
Johannes Woelcke       Economist              AFTS2


(b) Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs


No.     Date ISR                                              Actual Disbursements
        Archived              DO                     IP            (USD M)
1   05/07/2001         Satisfactory          Satisfactory                       0.00
2   08/09/2001         Satisfactory          Satisfactory                       0.00
3   11/30/2001         Satisfactory          Unsatisfactory                     0.00



                                             27

4   03/14/2002        Satisfactory       Satisfactory                           0.16
5   09/10/2002        Satisfactory       Satisfactory                           0.79
6   10/21/2002        Satisfactory       Satisfactory                           0.79
7   03/13/2003        Satisfactory       Satisfactory                           0.79
8   06/26/2003        Satisfactory       Satisfactory                           1.17
9   12/22/2003        Satisfactory       Satisfactory                           2.01
10 06/24/2004         Satisfactory       Satisfactory                           2.54
11 12/21/2004         Satisfactory       Satisfactory                           3.45
                      Moderately         Moderately
12 06/10/2005                                                                   3.96
                    Satisfactory      Unsatisfactory
                      Moderately         Moderately
13 12/15/2005                                                                   4.25
                    Satisfactory      Satisfactory
                      Moderately         Moderately
14 06/08/2006                                                                   4.62
                    Satisfactory      Satisfactory
                      Moderately         Moderately
15 11/10/2006                                                                   4.64
                    Unsatisfactory    Unsatisfactory


(c) Staff Time and Cost
                                            Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)

            Stage of Project Cycle                                USD Thousands
                                            No. of staff weeks  (including travel and
                                                                  consultant costs)
Lending
                    FY97                                                       29.95
                    FY98                                                       78.42
                    FY99                                                      203.12
                    FY00                                    16                 96.17
                    FY01                                    29                 60.26
                    FY02                                      1                 0.11
                    FY03                                                        0.00
                    FY04                                                        0.00
                    FY05                                                        0.00
                                    Total:                  46                468.03
Supervision/ICR
                    FY97                                                        0.00
                    FY98                                                        0.00
                    FY99                                                        0.00
                    FY00                                                        0.00
                    FY01                                                        0.00


                                        28

FY02              16     65.40
FY03              22     97.68
FY04              23     87.80
FY05              35    199.67
        Total:    96    450.55




            29

Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results (if any)




                                       30

Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results (if any)




                                  31

Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR




                                   32

Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders




                                    33

Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

         1. Project Appraisal Document, Sri Lanka Land Titling and Related Services
             Project, World Bank, Report No. 22020 CE, March 22, 2001.
         2. Development Credit Agreement, Sri Lanka Land Titling and Related
             Services Project, Credit No. 3496 CE, April 18, 2001.
         3. Land Titling and Related Services Project, Review of Lessons Learned,
             Project Coordination Unit, July 26, 2005.
         4. Comprehensive Review of Lessons Learned, Project Coordination Unit,
             March 31, 2006.
         5. Study on the Early Effects of the Utilization of Land Title Certificates,
             W.G. Jayasena, D. Gamage, G.M. Henegedara, J.K.M.D. Chandrasiri;
             Hector Kobbekaduwa Agrarian Research and Training Institute,
             December 2005 (commissioned project study)
         6. Sri Lanka Land Titling and Related Services Project Addendum Report to
             the Mid-Term Review, Project Coordination Unit, October 15, 2003
         7. Sri Lanka Land Titling and Related Services Project Mid-Term Review
             Mission Report, October 2003.
         8. Establishing a Land Registry under the Registration of Title Act 1998,
             Tony Lamb, FAO, January 2001.
         9. Registration of Titles: Final Recommendations Report for the Legislative
             Framework, DOLA, Government of W. Australia, AusAID, November
             1998.
         10. Preparation and Implementation Support Aide Memoires of the World
             Bank.
         11. Quarterly Project Performance and Evaluation Reports of the Project
             Coordination Unit.
         12. Draft amendments to the Registration of Title Act 1998, various versions




                                          34

                                           80                                                                                                                        81                                                                                                 82




                                                                                                                                                                                                              SRI LANKA
                                                                                                                                                                            LAND TITLING AND RELATED
                                                         JAFFNA
                                                         JAFFNA                                                                                                                              SERVICES PROJECT
                                      JaffnaJaffna


                                                                                                                                                                                                                PROJECT AREAS

                                                                                                                                                                                                                MAIN TOWNS

                                                                                                                                                                                                                DISTRICT CAPITALS
                                                                                 Killinochchi
                                                                                 Killinochchi
                                                        KILLINOCHCHI
                                                        KILLINOCHCHI                                                                                                                                            PROVINCE CAPITALS

                                                                                                                                                                                                                NATIONAL CAPITAL
                                                                    Akkarayan
                                                                            Kulam                 Iranamadu                                Mullaitivu
                                                                                                                                           Mullaitivu                                                           MAIN ROADS
                                                                                  N O RT H E R N                                                                                                                RAILROADS
                                                                                      MULLAITIVU
                                                                                      MULLAITIVU
                                                                                   P R O V I N C E                                                                                                              RIVERS

                                                                                                                                                                                                                RESERVOIRS

                                                             Parangi             Vavuni                                                                                                                         DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
                                                                                  Kulam
                                                                                                                 Kanagorayan
           9                                                                        Aru
                                   Mannar
                                   Mannar                                                                                                                                                                       PROVINCE BOUNDARIES                                           9
                                                                                              Pali                   Aru

                                                                                              Aru
                                                                                                                       Kiul Oya            Oya
                                                                                                                                      Ma
                                                  Giant's                         Porangi
                                                                                                                                                     Oya
                                                         MANNAR
                                                         MANNAR                      Aru      VAVUNIYA
                                                                                              VAVUNIYA
                                                                                                                                      Padowiya     n
                                                                                                                                                 Ya
                                       Maiwatu                                                                    Kitulgala                                                                                      0      10       20         30      40      50
                                                         Oya                               Vavuniya
                                                                                           Vavuniya                                                Yan
                                                                                                            Mukunuwewa                            Oya                                                                             KILOMETERS
                     Gulf of                                                             Pavat
                                                                                         Kulam
                                                                                                                                     Wahalkada
                     Mannar
                                                                                                                                                         TRINCOMALEE
                                                                                                                                                         TRINCOMALEE
                                                                                                                                                                           Morawewa

                                            Madaragam                                                    ANURADHAPURA
                                                                                                         ANURADHAPURA                                                                                 Trincomalee
                                                                                                                                                                                                      Trincomalee

                                                                                        Malwatu
                                                                    Aru                   Oya                              Kapirigama
                                                                                                    N O RT H
                                                                                                             Mahukandarawa                                                                                                                     INDIAN
                                                                    AnuradhapuraAnuradhapura      C E N T R A L                                  Kantalai


                                                                                                P R O V I N C E                                                                                                                                OCEAN
                                        Kata      NochchiyagamaNochchiyagama                          Nachchaduwa
                                                  Oya                        Talawa
                                                                             Talawa

                                                          Tambuttegama
                                                          Tambuttegama                                                      Hurulu
                                                                                           Eppawala
                                                                                           Eppawala                         Wewa

                                                           Rajanganc

                          Puttalam
                          Puttalam                          TambuttegamaTambuttegama       Galnewa
                                                                                           Galnewa
                                                             D.S. Division
                                                             D.S. Division                                                                          P O L O N N A R U W A
           8                                                                                                                         Minneriya                                                                Sidhdhapura
                                                                                                                                                                                                               Sidhdhapura                                                    8
                                                     Mi                                              Kolo                                                             Palonnaruwa
                                                                                                                                                                      Palonnaruwa           Weikanda
                                                                                                                                                                                            Weikanda
                                                             Oya                                    Wewe                                         Parak-
                                                                                                                    Galkiriyagama
                                                                                                                    Galkiriyagama
                                                  N O RT H                                                                                       rama
                                                                                                                                               Sumuara
                                                                                                                                                                                    Manampitiya
                                                                                                                                                                                    Manampitiya

                                                                                                                                                   Amban   Ganga
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Randiyanuwara
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Randiyanuwara
                                            W E S T E R N                                                                                    Bakamuna
                                                                                                                                             Bakamuna                                         Aralaganwila
                                                                                                                                                                                              Aralaganwila
                                                  Deduru                                                                                                         Ganga
                                                              Oya                                                                                   Dehiatte-
                                                                                                                                                    Dehiatte-                                                   BATTICALOA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                BATTICALOA                        BatticaloaBatticaloa
                                                          P U T T A L A M                                                                            Kandya
                                                                                                                                                     Kandya                Pimburettewa

                                           P R O V I N C E                                                                                                                                                         E A S T E R N
                                                                                                                 Bowatenna
                                                                                                                                                                                Maduru
                                                                                                                            Moragaha-                         eli
                                                                                                                                                                                 Oya
                                                                                                                               kanda Kalu                                                                      A
                                                                                                                                     Ganga               Mahaw            Ratkinda                                P RMO V I N C E
                                                                    KurunegalaKurunegala                                   C E N T R A L                                       Ulhitiya
             INDIAN                                                                                                        Matale
                                                                                                                           Matale                                        Girandurukotte
                                                                                                                                                                         Girandurukotte                                         P
                                                                                                                       P R O V I N C E

             OCEAN                                                                                                                                                                                                                    A
                                            Maha       Oya                                                       KandyKandy
                                                                                                                                       Victoria                        Mahlyangane
                                                                                                                                                                       Mahlyangane                                                  Ampara
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Ampara          a
                                                                                          Kegalle
                                                                                          Kegalle                                                                                                             Senanayake                Gai       Oy
                                                         DivulapitiyaDivulapitiya                                                                                                                              Samudra                       R
                                                        D.S. Division
                                                        D.S. Division                                                                                                       Minipe Anicut
                                       Divulapitiya
                                       Divulapitiya                                                                 Udapalatha
                                                                                                                    Udapalatha
                                                                                                                    (Gampola)
                                                                                                                    (Gampola)
                                                                                             UdapalathaUdapalatha                   Randenigala                                                                                                 A
                                   Gampaha
                                   Gampaha                                                  D.S. Division
                                                                                            D.S. Division                                                Ran                                                           Joyanthi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Wewe
                                                                                                                                                                tembe
                                                                                                                  Kotmale

           7                                                                                                                                                                 BadullaBadulla
                                                                                    Kelani
                                                                                          Ganga                                                                                                           M O N E R A G A L A                                                 7
                                                                                                                      Nuwara Eliya
                                                                                                                      Nuwara Eliya
                  COLOMBOCOLOMBO                                                                                                                                                       U VA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Moneragala
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Moneragala


                      HomagamaHomagama WESTERNWESTERN
                      D.S. Division
                      D.S. Division                                                                                                                                           P R O V I N C E
                                       PROVINCEPROVINCE
                                                            Kalu                 Ganga        RatnapuraRatnapura       Balangoda
                                                                                                                       Balangoda


                                                                                             SABARAGAMUWASABARAGAMUW                                                                                                     Kumbukkan   Oya

                                Kalutara
                                Kalutara                                                                                                           BalangodaBalangoda
                                                                                                     PROVINCEPROVINCE                            D.S. Division
                                                                                                                                                 D.S. Division                                          Menik

                                                                                                                                               Walawe
                                                                                                                                                                                                             Ganga
                                                                                                                                               W
                                                                                        Gin Ganga                                              alawe                                            Kirindi
                                                                                                                                  Embilipitiya
                                                                                                                                  Embilipitiya
                                                                                                                                                       Ganga                                            Oya                                        INDIAN

                                                                                                                                                                         Ridiyagama                                                               OCEAN
                                                                                                       Ni     S O U T H E R N P R O V I N C E
                                                                                                       wlala                                                                         Hambantota
                                                                                                                                                                                     Hambantota


                                                          GalleGalle                                        Ganga                                                                           This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.                      IBRD
MARCH                                                                                                                                                                                       The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information shown
           6                                                                                                                                                                               on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank Group, any                6     31217R
                                                                                                                                                                                            judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any endorsement or
     2007                                                                                           Matara
                                                                                                    Matara                                                                                  acceptance of such boundaries.
                                            80                                                                                                                       81                                                                                                  82

