Report No. PID7857
Project Name                     Sri Lanka-Land Titling and Related (@)
Services Project
Region                           South Asia Regional Office
Sector                           Natural Resources Management
Project ID                       LKPE50738
Borrower(s)                      GOVERNMENT OF SRI LANKA
Implementing Agency
Address MINISTRY OF LAND DEVELOPMENT AND
MINOR EXPORT AGRICULTURE
Land Settlement Department
No. 5, Mihindu Mawatha, Colombo 12,
Sri Lanka
Contact Person: Mr. Henry Udakandage
Tel: 94-1-541437
Fax: 94-1-434454
Environment Category             C (Not Required)
Date PID Prepared                March 22, 2001
Projected Appraisal Date         September 5, 2000
Projected Board Date             March 27, 2001
1. Country and Sector Background
Land Allocation. The majority of lands in Sri Lanka are state owned and
controlled. Sri Lanka's covers 6.56 million ha. Of this total area,
about 1.38 million ha is agricultural land owned by the state, but farmed
by private farmers under varying tenure arrangements, most of which
restrict lease and sale. Another 0.88 million ha are is privately held
agricultural land. Urban land comprises 0.05 million ha private land and
0.01 million ha state owned land. The remaining 4.24 million ha is state
land comprised of forests, sparsely used land, and land reserved for
future uses.
Policy Dialogue on Land. As a result in part of agriculture polciy
dialogue with the Bank on the lack of efficiently functioning land
markets, the Government has taken action to implement land-related
strategies. Among other initiatives, it recently enacted a Registration
of Title Act and began drafting of the supportive regulatory and
procedural frameworks and the Surveying and Mapping Act to facilitate a
long-term land administration program. It also carried out pilot surveys
and adjudication exercises in the field. Government officials actively
participated in the PHRD-funded Study of Land Markets which has analyzed
legal, institutional and programmatic issues related to rural land market
functioning.
Rural and Urban Land Issues. Land administration and land policy affects
urban as well as rural sectors. The Bank has not yet had extensive
dialogue on urban land issues. However, rural and urban areas share
common issues. In both rural and urban areas, challenges include (a) the



factor productivity of land and labor which are constrained by government
restrictions on land, (b) high costs and distortions associated with
boundary disputes and insecure tenure, (c) access to, transaction costs
of, and transparency of land administration services, (d) access to
credit (with use of land as collateral), (e) the incentive framework for
natural resource management, and (f) encroachment of state land by
landless people.
Relevance to Private Sector Development and Fiscal Management. Land
titling and related services are also essential for private sector
development and sound fiscal management of the public sector. An
improved land administration system would provide the tenure security,
credit access, efficient land transactions, land market choices, and
transparency that are so important for private sector development in all
sectors, not just agriculture and housing. For fiscal management,
benefits include (a) tenure security and valuation for better property
taxation, (b) increased revenue as a result of the growth in land
transactions, (c) policies that would optimize the transaction and tax
fee structure to ensure participation as well as long-term cost recovery,
(d) appropriate allocation of roles between the public and private
sectors, and (e) plans for public investment based on the most cost-
effective methodologies.
Ethnic Sensitivities. All Bank operations must take into account the
fact that Sri Lanka has faced a civil war since 1983, which has
constrained potential economic growth. More specifically the war has
limited the level of benefits resulting from most development
investments, and in some cases has prevented or delayed project
implementation. The underlying ethnic conflict of this war includes
great sensitivity about land issues. The Government therefore wants to
ensure that its land policy not inadvertently exacerbate the ethnic
conflict, and would like to see that it contributes to a future
resolution.
Land Titling Concept. The Government now wants to transform the
country's land administration system from one based on deedsl and
documents permitting private use of state land2, to one based on
registration of titles3. The establishment of legal framework and
development of capacity for implementing land titling and related
services, would lay the foundation for increased tenure security,
efficient land transactions and administration, and effectively
functioning land markets. It would build the foundation for a long-term
program intended to catalyze the transformation of the domestic
agriculture sector, improve land productivity in rural and urban areas,
develop a focused and well-planned public investment program in land
administration, and increase land user's stakes in long-term natural
resource management.
Long-term Vision. Over the long-term, the Government would like this
transformation to cover Sri Lanka's entire 6.56 million ha. Fully
functioning land markets and resulting productivity gains will require
both an efficient land administration system and a lifting of the
restrictions on privately held state land leases and sales.
1. A deeds registration system records transactions and serves as
-2 -



evidence only in support of proving title to land. A wise purchaser of
land must undertake a cumbersome search of all past deeds concerning the
particular parcel in the system (back 30 years at least) - often vital
documents may be missing. In Sri Lanka the parcel and boundary
information for private lands is held in the offices of the private
surveyors and may not be available. The deeds may not agree with the
facts on the ground. In case of a dispute, settlement times for land
cases in courts are regularly 10 years.
2. There are many forms of documents permitting private use of state
land. Many are parcel based with cadastral surveys (which facilitates
conversion to a title document). Most are inheritable. All impose
varying degrees of control on the rights of the allotees. Overall these
restrictions reduce the potential sale value of the land by 50t or more,
in comparison with privately held parcels.
3. A registration of title system is one where the parcel has been
registered, with transactions thereafter registered against the parcel.
A transaction is not legal until registered and priority is given to
those who register first. Interest holders damaged by the operation of
the system may be compensated for any loss incurred; a guarantee fund
will be operated by Government for this purpose. A registration of title
system facilitates boundary dispute resolution, transparency of records
and efficient land administration.
2. Objectives
The development objective of the LIL is to assess and build the methods,
framework, and capacity for making sustainable and comprehensive
improvements in the land administration system (parcel based cadastre,
land titling, and title registry). Its two outputs would comprise: (a)
models to improve systematic titling and registration operationally
tested and lessons applied and (b) institutional (including legal,
policy, communications, organizational, management and planning aspects)
framework and capacity developed.
The project aims to build the foundation for a long-term program which
would improve the socio-economic and environmental conditions of the
people of Sri Lanka by increasing land resource productivity. This
increased productivity is to be accomplished through a fully developed
and functioning system of land administration that is fair, efficient and
sustainable. The project would create the foundation for a large-scale
long-term program. This long-term program would encompass the entire
country in the next 15 to 25 years and aim at (a) increased tenure
security for farmers and other landholders, (b) efficient land
transactions and administration, (c) provision to farmers and other
landholders of greater control over land management through a full range
of market choices, (d) full cost recovery over the long-term while also
keeping fees low enough to ensure sustained participation in the official
title registration system, and (e) land administration services viewed as
fair to all political factions, social classes, ethnic groups, and gender
categories.
This three year learning and innovation project would improve an ongoing
land titling program that the Government has already initiated. It would
reinforce the commitment that the Government has already made to the
titling concept, and take advantage of the momentum that the Government
has established. The project would also address the limitations of the
-3 -



ongoing efforts, to ensure that these efforts lead to land titling
strategies that are efficient, cost-effective, sustainable, and build on
the lessons learned, both inside and outside Sri Lanka.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
Policy Dialogue. Based on past sector work and policy dialogue, the Bank
and the GOSL have jointly recognized that shortcomings in land
administration and land market policy seriously constrain long-term
productivity of the rural sector, including agriculture, and that similar
constraints in the urban sector are also likely. Examples of this
analysis include the Sri Lanka Non-Plantation Crop Sector Policy
Alternatives, World Bank, March 20, 1996, and the PHRD-funded Sri Lanka
Study of the Land Market, Abt Associates, June 15, 1998. Project concept
development and preparation have further shown how that this LIL would
build the institutional foundation for a long-term program which would
address security, opportunity, and empowerment aspects of the Bank's
central poverty reduction mission.
Bank Experience. The World Bank has extensive experience in land
administration projects. There are about 60 projects with land-related
activities in the Bank's active portfolio. Development in land
administration requires careful strategic analysis and planning. The
World Bank has a well-respected track record for facilitating such
strategic work in Sri Lanka. Land administration also involves external
risks in other sectors, many of which the Bank assistance is addressing
through separate policy and project work. The development of a fair and
efficient land administration system involves a long-term commitment.
Thailand, for instance is preparing its Fourth Land Titling Project which
will complete a process that started about 15 years ago. The World Bank,
as an international financial organization, can sustain such a long-term
commitment. The World Bank assistance is not tied to one model or
technology. The Government is free to select the most appropriate design
for local conditions. This project provides an opportunity to introduce
international best practices and experience, and to bridge this
experience with local understanding and wisdom.
4. Description
The two main project components would comprise: (a) testing operational
methods to improve titling and related services in a subset of the
ongoing program covering 22,000 parcels, and beginning to apply the
improved methods to the program as a whole, and (b) developing the
institutional framework and capacity for land titling and related
services.
Field Operations Testing and Learning. The first component, operational
methods, would include testing various technologies, procedures and
processes in systematic titling (e.g., stakeholder communications,
records search, survey, mapping, adjudication, title issuance) and
related tasks (e.g., registration, and records maintenance). It would
also test a variety of implementation arrangements involving government
staff and private contractors, and developing operational capacity. This
component would develop implementation methods and approaches to reduce
the unit cost and time of systematically titling; reduce the percentage
of parcels with unresolved issues that prevent titling; minimize legal
challenge on titles issued; and increase the public confidence in the
- 4 -



accuracy, completeness, functionality and fairness of the titling
activities. It would also develop hands-on experience in title registry
operation, in ways that avoid public confusion and maximize efficient use
of existing knowledge, staff, and facilities.
Development of Institutional Framework and Capacity. The second
component, institutional framework and capacity, would strengthen the
legal and regulatory framework, formulate policy (e.g., eliminating land
market restrictions, establishing fee structures, etc.) and undertake
project-wide learning (e.g., national-level stakeholder communications,
monitoring and evaluation), and develop a viable organization (e.g.,
cohesive structure and capable staffing, human resource development,
information management strategy), project management (e.g. financial
management, procurement) and program planning.
Note: This document contains tables that cannot be converted into text
files. However, if you have MS Word Viewer on your computer, you should
be able to download the complete original version by going to:
http://www.worldbank.org/pics/pid/lk50738.doc.
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
GOVERNMENT               1.8
IBRD
IDA                      5.0
Total Project Cost       7.8
6. Implementation
A proposed Project Implementation Plan has been prepared. The project
design builds upon the existing staff and resources of the Land
Settlement Department and the Surveyor General's Department, both of
which are within the Ministry of Agriculture and Lands. The Commissioner
of Title Settlement will be the Project Director. The Project Director
will be assisted by a full time Project Coordinator, and a full-time
Survey Coordinator, as well as staff responsible for financial
management, procurement, policy and planning, human resource development,
and information technology. The first two years would focus on the
testing and analysis required to design a realistic, cost-effective, and
high quality plan for the larger-scale development program, while the
third year would focus on applying the learning and transitioning to the
next phase of the plan.
The major field activities planned under the project are inherently
participatory in nature, and the project also includes support for
national-level dialog on policy reform. Initial stakeholder analysis has
already listed of groups impacting the project and being impacted by the
project. Project implementation would include social assessment and
continue to involve a range of stakeholders in project learning. The
main beneficiaries, the landholders, would play a central role in the
operational testing of systematic titling and registration methods, and
the project would include steps to ensure ongoing feedback from them.
The project would involve community based organizations, non government
organizations, professional societies, and academic institutions in a
- 5 -



variety of project activities including stakeholder communications
initiatives (e.g., awareness campaigns), dispute resolution (e.g.,
conciliation committees) monitoring and evaluation, and policy
development.
Monitoring and evaluation will be structured on the logical framework in
the Project Design Summary and the learning and innovation expectations.
The project preparation has developed plans for verifying key performance
indicators, survey designs, and terms of reference for various research
studies related to monitoring and evaluation.
7. Sustainability
Sustainability is a major focus of the project's learning agenda, and
takes into account financial sustainability (efficiency, cost
effectiveness, and cost recovery) and institutional sustainability
(public confidence, legal integrity, organizational coherence, management
capacity, accountability, and realistic understanding of phasing and
scaling requirements).
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
The project design takes into consideration lessons of generic project
implementation in Sri Lanka, and sector-specific lessons related to land
administration. Project phasing, monitoring parameters, and preparation
arrangements address generic project implementation issues involving
project administration, political alliances, client ownership, and
carefulness of design.   The project addresses lessons from land
administration projects through the small scale learning and innovation
approach of the initial project, the single-purpose focus on land
administration, the use of systematic and transparent adjudication, the
existence of necessary preconditions for land titling, the inclusion of
policy development and graduated institutional and legal reforms, and the
consideration of a range of organizational issues.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     The systematic approach to
titling includes all landholders, including poor landholders, who without
the project would have less access to land administration services. The
preparation will gather information on the socioeconomic profile of the
project areas, but the project beneficiaries are expected to be typical
of many rural areas and therefore include a high proportion small
landholders who would be classified as poor. The socio-economic
monitoring will include an assessment of project impacts on opportunity,
empowerment, and security, and establish baseline measurements for the
long-term program.
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues        The project's environmental impact is expected to
be positive, although negligible due to its small scale. Secure land
tenure lengthens the planning horizon for more sustainable land resource
management. The PHRD - funded Land Markets Study shows that there is a
lower rate of land degradation on private land that is freely marketable.
Productivity gains expected to result from the long-term land
administration development program should help to reduce pressures for
forest encroachment, compared with what would take place in the absence
of such a program. Over the long-term, improved land administration
information will also facilitate environmental management.     Even for a
- 6 -



long-term program which hopefully would result from the LIL, the only
conceivable environmental risk would be improvements in land markets
contributing to an increase in environmentally harmful commercial
enterprises, and this possibility is considered highly unlikely.
Nevertheless, the LIL would include indicators for such factors in the
design and baseline measurements of the monitoring and evaluation system
for the long-term program.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Jessica Mott
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 202-458-4507
Fax: 202-477-8277
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending April 13, 2001.
- 7 -



