Document of
T he World Bank
Report No.:   22020 CE
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 3.9 MILLION ($5 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
FOR THE
LAND TITLING AND RELATED SERVICES
PROJECT
MARCH 22, 2001
Rural Development Sector Unit
South Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective January 31, 2001)
Currency Unit = Sri Lankan Rupees (Rs.)
Rs. 1 =  US$0.0115
US$1.00 = Rs. 87
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AusAID   - Australian Agency for                  MOLDMEA   - Ministry of Land Development and Minor
International Development                             Export Agriculture
CRC      - Community Relations and                NGO           - Non-governmental Organization
Communication
CTS      - Commissioner of Title Settlement       NS            - National Shopping
EA       - Environmental Assessment                PCD          - Project Concept Document
FAO      - Food and Agriculture                   PHRD          - Policy and Human Resource Development
Organization                                          Grant
FMS      - Financial Management Specialist        PIP           - Project Implementation Plan
GOSL    - Govemment of Sri Lanka                  PMR           - Project Management Report
GPS      - Global Positioning System              PMU           - Project Management Unit
Ha       - Hectare                                 QCBS         - Quality and Cost Based Selection
ICB      - International Competitive Bidding      RTA           - Registration of Title Act
IDA      - Intemational Development Association   SA            - Special Account
iS       - International Shopping                  SBCQ         - Selection Based on Consultant
IT       - Information Technology                                Qualifications
LDO      - Land Development Ordinance              SD           - Survey Department
LG/SP    - Land Grants (Special Provision)         SFC          - Selection under a Fixed Cost
LIL      - Learning and Innovation Loan            SLO          - State Land Ordinance
LSD      - Land Settlement Department             TOR           - Terms of Reference
Vice President:     Mieko Nishimizu
Country Manager/Director:        Mariana Todorova
Sector Manager/Director:       Ridwan Ali
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Jessica Mott



SRI LANKA
LAND TITLING AND RELATED SERVICES
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                    Page
1. Project development objective                                                    2
2. Key performance indicators                                                       2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project   2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                       3
3. Learning and development issues to be addressed by the project                    5
4. Learning and innovation expectations                                              8
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                              11
2. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                    12
3. Monitoring and evaluation arrangements                                          13
D. Project Rationale
(This section is not to be completed in a LIL PAD)
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                        13
2. Financial                                                                        13
3. Technical                                                                        14
4. Institutional                                                                    15
5. Environmental                                                                    16
6. Social                                                                           17
7. Safeguard Policies                                                               19
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                  19
2. Critical risks                                                                  20
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                   22
G. Main Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                         22
2. Other                                                                            23



H. Readiness for Implementation                                                        24
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                       25
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                        26
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                  33
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                       39
Annex 4: Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary                                           41
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                                             45
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                     46
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                   53
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                 54
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                56
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                          58
Annex 11: Project Alternatives and Lessons Reflected in Design                         60
Annex 12: Social Analysis                                                              63
Annex 13: Risk Analysis                                                                67
MAP(S)
IBRD 31217



SRI LANKA
Land Titling and Related Services
Project Appraisal Document
South Asia Regional Office
Rural Development Sector Unit
South Asia Region
Date: March 22, 2001                               Team Leader: Jessica Mott
Country Manager/Director: Mariana Todorova         Sector Manager/Director: Ridwan Ali
Project ID: P050738                                Sector(s): VM - Natural Resources Management
Lending Instrument: Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL) Theme(s): Rural Development
Poverty Targeted Intervention: Y
Project Financing Data
[ ] Loan     [X] Credit    [] Grant     [ Guarantee      [ Other:
For LoanslCredits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 5 million
Proposed Terms: Standard Credit
Grace period (years): 10                               Years to maturity: 30
Commitment fee: Standard (a variable                    Service charge: 0.75%
rate between 0 and 0.5 percent of the
undisbursed credit balance annual, set
by the Executive Directors of IDA)
Financing Plan:    Source                                    Local         Foreign...      Total.
BORROWER                                                        1.78           0.00           1.78
IDA                                                             1.93           3.07           5.00
Total:                                                          3.71           3.07           6.78
Borrower: GOVERNMENT OF SRI LANKA
Responsible agency: MINISTRY OF LAND DEVELOPMENT AND MINOR EXPORT AGRICULTURE
Land Settlement Department
Address: No. 5, Mihindu Mawatha, Colombo 12, Sri Lanka
Contact Person: Mr. Henry Udakandage
Tel: 94-1-541437                 Fax: 94-1-434454                Email:
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):
.FY         2002       2003       2004      2005
Annual    0.70         1.50       1.50       1.30
Cumulative    0.70        2.20       3.70       5.00
Project implementation period: 3 years
Expected effectiveness date: 06/30/2001  Expected closing date:  12/31/2004
OCS PAD Fo-,. REV ,   200D



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The development objective of the LIL is to assess and build the methods, framework, and
capacity for making sustainable and comprehensive improvements in the land administration system
(parcel based cadastre, land titling, and title registry). Its two outputs would comprise: (a) operational
testing and application of models to improve systematic titling and title registries, and (b) development
of institutionalframework (including legal policy, communications, organizational, management and
planning aspects) and capacity.
The project aims to build the foundation for a long-term programn which would improve the
socioeconomic and environmental conditions of the people of Sri Lanka by increasing land resource
productivity. This increased productivity is to be accomplished through a fully developed and functioning
system of land administration that is fair, efficient, and sustainable. The project would create the
foundation for a large-scale, long-term program that would encompass the entire country in the next 15 to
25 years and aim at: (a) increase in tenure security for farmers and other landholders; (b) efficient land
transactions and administration; (c) provision to farmers and other landholders of greater control over land
management through a full range of market choices; (d) full cost recovery over the long-term, while also
keeping fees low enough to ensure sustained participation in the official title registration system; and (e)
services in land administration to be viewed as fair to all political factions, social classes, ethnic groups,
and gender categories.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
The key performance indicator of the development objective would be: (a) well functioning
small-scale titling and title registry operations that provide increased tenure security, efficiency in titling
and land transactions, land market choices, and fairness; (b) confidence and knowledge to expand shared by
the voting public, local leaders, implementing partners, and concemed professionals; and (c) a plan for a
larger scale project (i.e., the next phase of the long-term development program) that would be judged ready
for appraisal according the Bank's quality at entry standards or equivalent, and which provide an
acceptable basis for commitments) to finance this follow-on project. The small-scale operations would
develop, and the long-term plan would use results of models that would test various technologies and
combinations of public and private staffing arrangements, under a range of geophysical land use conditions,
and tenure conditions. The criteria to evaluate these tests would consist of specific output indicators
measuring cost-effectiveness, efficiency, commitment, public confidence, accountability, wide applicability,
and sustainability of methods to improve systematic titling and registration. The plan would also be based
on analysis of the institutional framework and capacity, as reflected in specific legal policy,
communications, organizational, and management actions. Annex 1 describes the specific quantity,
quality, and timing thresholds of the output indicators.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 15633 plus CAS Progress Report dated 12/23/98
Date of latest CAS discussion: 01/19/99
The project objective is consistent with the CAS, which supports the government's efforts to: (a)
promote sustainable private sector led growth, and (b) improve fiscal discipline. The CAS indicators
specifically highlight that improvements in the enabling environment for private sector development would
- 2 -



include reducing government interference in the agricultural sector, and introducing land markets. The
1998 CAS Progress Report specifically mentions a pilot land titling project proposed for Bank financing.
Increased land tenure security and associated improvements in access to credit, which are anticipated
benefits of the long-term program, would also improve the enabling environment for private sector
financing and investment. The project would aid fiscal adjustment by emphasizing efficiency--especially in
land administration transactions--by building a foundation for cost recovery over the life of the long-term
development program, and by strengthening the land ownership and valuation conditions needed for fiscal
management associated with decentralization. By clarifying rights and increasing tenure security, the
project also would provide a key enabling condition for cost recovery in the irrigation subsector. The
project's careful consideration of appropriate roles for public and private sector entities (e.g., contracting
private sector surveyors) would also address private sector growth and fiscal discipline. T he project will
also increase transparency (e.g., public ratification of land records) and hence address corruption. The
CAS also highlights the need for improved Bank project implementation through steps to improve local
ownership, stakeholder involvement, and procurement, which are reflected in the project preparation plan,
and performance indicators for the project's activities.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
This three-year learning and innovation project would improve an ongoing land titling program that
the Government of Sri Lanka (GOSL) has already initiated. It would reinforce the commitment that the
government has already made to the titling concept, and take advantage of the momentum that the
government has established. The project would also address the limitations of the ongoing efforts to ensure
that these efforts lead to land titling strategies that are efficient, cost-effective, sustainable, and build on the
lessons learned, both inside and outside of Sri Lanka.
Land allocation. The majority of lands in Sri Lanka are state-owned and controlled. Sri Lanka
covers 6.56 million hectares (ha); of this total area, about 1.38 million ha is agricultural land owned by the
state but farmed by private farmers under varying tenure arrangements (most of which restrict lease and
sale); another 0.88 million ha are privately-held agricultural land; urban land comprises 0.05 million ha
private land; and 0.01 million ha state-owned land. The remaining 4.24 million ha is state land comprised
of forests, sparsely used land, and land reserved for future use.
Policy dialogue on land. As a result in the agriculture policy dialogue with the Bank on the lack
of efficiently functioning land markets, GOSL has taken action to implement land-related strategies.
Among other initiatives to facilitate a long-term land administration program, it recently enacted a
Registration of Title Act (RTA) and began drafting the supportive regulatory and proceclural frameworks
and the Surveying and Mapping Act. In the field it also carried out pilot surveys and adjudication
exercises. Government officials participated in the Policy and Human Resource Development- (PHRD)
funded study of land markets that analyzed the legal, institutional, and programmatic issues related to rural
land market functioning.
Rural and urban land issues. Land administration and land policy affects urban as well as rural
sectors. The Bank has not had extensive dialogue on urban land issues, however, rural and urban areas
share common issues. In both rural and urban areas, challenges include: (a) the factor productivity of land
and labor which are constrained by government restrictions on land markets; (b) high costs and distortions
associated with boundary disputes and insecure tenure; (c) access to, transaction costs of, and transparency
of land adrninistration services; (d) access to credit (with use of land as collateral); (e) the incentive
framework for natural resource management; and (f) encroachment of state land by landiless people.
- 3 -



Relevance to private sector development and fiscal management Land titling and related
services are also essential for private sector development and sound fiscal management of the public sector.
An improved land administration system would provide the tenure security, credit access, efficient land
transactions, land market choices, and transparency that are so important for private sector development in
all sectors (not just agriculture and housing). Fiscal management benefits include: (a) tenure security and
valuation for better property taxation; (b) increased revenue as a result of the growth in land transactions;
(c) policies that would optimize the transaction and tax-fee structure to ensure participation as well as
long-term cost recovery; (d) appropriate allocation of roles between the public and private sectors; and (e)
plans for public investment based on the most cost-effective methodologies.
Ethnic sensitivities. All Bank operations must take into account the fact that Sri Lanka has faced
a civil war since 1983, that has constrained potential economic growth. More specifically, the war has
limited the level of benefits resulting from most development investments, and in some cases has prevented
or delayed project implementation. The underlying ethnic conflict of this war includes great sensitivity
about land issues. GOSL therefore wants to ensure that its land policy contributes to a future resolution
does not inadvertently exacerbate the ethnic conflict.
Land titling concept. GOSL now wants to transform the country's land administration system
from one based on deeds and documents permitting private use of state land, to one based on registration
of titles'. The establishment of legal framework and development of capacity for implementing land titling
and related services, would lay the foundation for increased tenure security, efficient land transactions and
administration, and effectively functioning land markets. It would build the foundation for a long-term
program  intended to catalyze the transformation of the domestic agriculture sector, improve land
productivity in rural and urban areas, develop a focused and well planned public investrnent program in
land administration, and increase land user's stakes in long-term natural resource management.
1. A land administration system provides the legal and organizational structure and processes by which private and public rights to land ownership and
use and associated encumbrances are identified, proven, exercised, exchanged, and otherwise changed. In this project document, the term "land
administration system" is not intended to include other broader aspects of land use management.
2. A deeds registration system records transactions and serves as evidence only in support of proving title to land. A wise purchaser of land must
undertake a cumbersome search of all past deeds concerning the particular parcel in the system (back 30 years at least), often vital documents may be
missing. In Sri Lanka, the parcel and boundary information for private lands is held in the offices of the private surveyors and may not be available.
The deeds may not agree with the facts on the ground. In case of a dispute, settlement times for land cases in courts are regularly ten years.
3. There are many forms of documents permitting private use of state land, many are parcel based with cadastral surveys (which facilitates conversion
to a title document), and most are inheritable. All impose varying degrees of control on the rights of the allottees. Overall these restrictions reduce the
potential sale value of the land by 50 percent or more, in comparison with privately held parcels.
4. A registration of title system is one where the parcel has been registered, with transactions thereafter registered against the parcel. A transaction is
not legal until registered and priority is given to those who register first. Interest holders damaged by the operation of the system may be compensated
for any loss incurred; a guarantee fund will be operated by the govemment for this purpose. A registration of title system facilitates boundary dispute
resolution, transparency of records and efficient land administration.
Long-term vision. Over the long-term GOSL would like this transformation to cover Sri Lanka's
entire 6.56 million ha. Fully functioning land markets and resulting productivity gains will require both an
efficient land administration system and a lifting of the restrictions on privately held state land leases and
sales.
-4 -



3. Learning and Development issues to be addressed by the project:
The proposed project would be a learning and innovation exercise limited in scope, scale, and
duration (three years), with most operational tests confined to three small geographic areas. In the design
of titling and registration operations there are a wide range of organizational, staffing, technological, and
other choices that need to be tested to enable sound judgment on which would be most appropriate for
specific Sri Lankan circumstances. Section B4 [Learning Initiative Loan (LIL) Expectations] describes
these issues. Developing and implementing a national land titling registration program also involves
sociopolitical sensitivities and challenges related to the legal framework, land market restriction policies,
organizational arrangements, and safeguard policy framework that need to be addressed. T'he LIL will be
used, inter alia, to develop the legal policy, organizational, and procedural framework, the stakeholder
dialogue, and the economic analysis that will be needed to meet full quality at entry standards for a longer
tenn follow-on project.
Legal, policy, and organizational reforms. The learning and innovation approach provides the
time required to address sociopolitical sensitivities of land titling and land market restriction reforms.
Taking these sensitivities into consideration, three areas of reforn will require careful attention during the
project, these are the: legislative framework, lifting of restrictions on freehold tenure, and organizational
framework. The project will also need to develop a framework that would help ensure that the long-term
program design would identify and address any negative effects on some groups or individuals, especially
the most disadvantaged.
e   Legal framework for titling. The legislative framework for land titling and related services, including
the recently passed RTA, will require amendments to enable full-scale efficient functioning over the
long-term. Key issues that require amendment include provisions on co-ownership, adjudication notice
and appeal, second class title and existing rights, transition indefeasibility, guarantee of title and
indemnity, registrar general of title, title register, certificate of title, clarification of responsibilities, and
several other items. Attachment 4 of the Aide Memoire (May 19, 1998), Mission Notes 5 of the Aide
Memoire (November 20, 1998), and the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) Mvlission Reports
(May 3 to 24, 1999, August 24 to September 9, 1999, and April 22 to May 10, 2000 provide more
details. FAO's advice to government officials has enabled them to understand and define key
amendments. However, the fragile majority in parliament (pending elections), and opposition from the
Bar Association have made it politically difficult to secure passage of amendments in the short-term. It
is clear to the Bank team that it would not be possible to proceed with a large-scale project without
amendment of the law, and the team recognizes that domestically financed operations under the existing
law are already underway. Bank involvement through a LIL is intended to help build the support for
establishing a sound legal framework by better documenting the experience of field operations,
improving communication among stakeholders (including dialogue with the Bar Association on
proposed amendments), and by providing legal expertise for additional modification of the laws,
operational procedures, and dispute resolution institutions.
*   Lifting land market restrictions. From the perspective of the farmer or other small landholders,
lifting land market restrictions would empower them to manage their land resources more effectively by
providing a full range of market choices. The market restrictions in question are associated with the
Land Development Ordinance of 1935 (LDO), the State Land Ordinance of 1949 (SLO), the Land
Reformn Law of 1972 and amendments (LRL), and the Land Grants (Special Provisions) Act of 1979
(LG/SP). The PHRD-funded land markets study found that parcels with these restrictions were worth
only about 50 percent of otherwise comparable privately held land without such restrictions. The
dialogue associated with the preliminary findings of the study has definitely increased the support
-5 -



among some officials and politicians for lifting limitations on land marketing in current state land
allocated to households under restncted tenure. However, some nongovernmental organizations
(NGOs) and some government officials are concerned that a lifting of land marketing restrictions could
impoverish subsistence and share-crop farmers, especially where these farmers are already indebted.
The project would build understanding and commnitment to lifting market restrictions by testing this
reforn in a limited area and assessing the impact. The project will include an awareness program to
enable beneficiaries to fully consider consequences of their new options. The project would also
include design of a monitoring program to ensure that the increased options to move out of subsistence
or sharecrop agriculture, as a result of the lifting of restrictions, would not inadvertently contribute to a
decrease in living standards, taking into account situations involving indebtedness, and also the benefits
of increased transparency and decreased transaction costs that would be associated with such reformn.
The project will thus provide a framework for continuing the policy dialogue, addressing concerns on
socioeconomic impacts, recommending appropriate phasing, and building understanding and support
for such reform. The Bank team has made it clear that GOSL would need to develop a program and
take initial actions to reform marketing restrictions in areas subject to titling in order to justify further
Bank financing after the LIL. Over the long-term the lifting of land market restrictions will greatly
increase the aggregate benefits resulting from land titling, and help ensure its cost-effectiveness.
Without such reform potential gains in economic productivity would be greatly decreased, and it is
questionable whether a long-term land titling program would deliver sufficient benefits to cover
investment costs.
*   Organizational framework Sri Lanka has a very complex organizational arrangement for land
administration, with key actors in five agencies, from three ministries. Elsewhere in the world, simpler
organizational frameworks (often involving only one agency) have greatly facilitated efforts to
streamline land administration activities. In recent years collaboration between various agencies
involved in the existing government initiatives in land titling has been problematic, even within the
same ministry. In the three pilot areas, the SurveyDepartment (SD) has completed 50,000 draft
cadastral surveys during the past four years, while the commissioner of Title Settlement's Department
has issued only 3,000 certificates of title. Within the departments of the Ministry of Land
Development and Minor Export Agriculture (MOLDMEA), better organizational coordination in titling
operations is one of the key intended outcomes of the LIL. Interninisterial organizational issues are
even more challenging. The current legal and organizational framework has created a Registry of Title
within the MOLDMEA, and does not integrate registry functions with the Registry of Land (which
houses deed records) within the Ministry of Public Administration, Home Affairs, and Plantation
Industries. Without further changes in this arrangement, recipients of title would have to deal with
both the Registry of Title and Registry of Deeds for all future transactions. Any long-term program
would need to have only one organization responsible for registering the ongoing transactions to ensure
the necessary coordination and cooperation between the staff operating the old and new systems of
registration, and a seamless hand-over between systems so that the public is not confused, or does not
lose confidence in the new system. An additional aspect of this issue concerns the prohibitive cost of
establishing a series of new offices rather than adapting the existing offices. The Registrar General's
Department has the offices, staff, and facilities to undertake the ongoing transactions under the RTA,
after undergoing some retraining. If the Land Settlement Department (LSD) does this work on a
large-scale, additional costs will be required for new buildings, furniture, archives, staff, and training.
GOSL recognizes these risks and regards such costs to be unacceptable. However, immediate
reorganization is not politically feasible, and LIL implementation through two ministrids would be
administratively difficult. GOSL therefore proposes to develop the plan for future organizational
arrangements based on an analysis of the operations and effectiveness of three pilot registries of title,
which could be established at minimal expense due to the small number of titles.
-6 -



Measures to address adverse social impacts. The LIL project areas specifically exclude
encroached public lands which cannot be regularized (and hence where the project might otherwise
precipitate eviction from public land), and land characterized by ethnic tension. It thereby avoids social
issues subject to Bank safeguard policies in the short-term. The LIL would include the development of a
framework to address the full range of potential social impact issues over the long-term,
which would, inter alia, enable the long-term program to address and comply with Bank safeguard policies
in a carefully considered fashion. The design of LIL activities would also specifically address other social
concerns such as disruption of existing tenurial systems, displacement from private land, disparities in
asserting and defending rights, emergence of latent disputes, and the experience would in turn influence the
social assessment and framework for the long-term program. For further details see sections B4(d), D6,
and D7 below.
Stakeholder perspectives, understanding, and commitment. GOSL is committed to the concept
of systematic titling. This commitment is reflected in the passage of the Registration of Titles Act and the
domestically financed titling initiatives. Over 50,000 parcels in three districts have been surveyed, and
3,000 titles have been issued. However the LIL will help to further strengthen ownership and commitment.
i   Understanding the improved methods and institutional frameworks. Earlier in project preparation
a few officials believed that the domestically financed activities would provide sufficient piloting; their
priority was to proceed as rapidly as possible using current methods and frameworks. However they
faced more problems than they originally expected. Government officials from key implementing
agencies now strongly support the concept of using a Bank-financed project to further irnprove and
strengthen this titling effort, with a focus on efficiency, long-term impact, and cost-effectiveness. The
operational "learning by doing" will provide the understanding needed for realistic expectations and
pragmatic planning of a sustainable long-term program based on Sri Lanka's physical, economic, and
sociocultural conditions, as well as international best practices.
v   The Sri Lanka Bar Association's view. The Sri Lanka Bar Association views the Land Title
Registration Act with great skepticism. The Bar Association agrees with the apprehension mentioned
above, that the current version of the Act would actually increase legal challenges rather than reduce
them. Furthermore, representatives of the Bar Association believe that the concepts of indefeasibility
and conclusiveness of the register would not be accepted in Sri Lanka. They believe that if a bonafide
registered purchaser is able to keep the property, leaving an aggrieved owner with only a claim for
damages, there would be serious discontent. The Bar Association's official (if reluctant) position is
that the Bar will not oppose it but will insist that it be done correctly. The representatives argue
strongly in favor of enacting a completely new law, rather than extensive amendments, but the former
minister regarded this option as unacceptable. The president's counsel has been involved in the FAO
team's advice on the legal amendments, but further efforts to gain understanding and support from the
legal profession are required and would be financed by the LIL. Experience with actual titling
operations, including unfamiliar aspects such as conclusiveness of the registrar, may help to gradually
increase the Bar Association's understanding and support, provided such titling is undertaken over the
long-term within a sound legal framework.
*   Some NGOs, academics, and government officials mistrust market-oriented policy teform
(especially that supported by the World Bank), and its potential impact on the poorest. The LIL
provides field testing to ensure that concerns about poverty impacts of lifting land niarket restrictions
are carefully assessed and addressed prior to policy implementation on a large-scale, and a forum for
- 7 -



dissemination and policy dialogue to facilitate understanding and consensus building.
4. Learning and innovation expectations:
1 Economic    1 Technical    Z Social            X Participation
Z Financial     Z Institutional  1 Environmental C Other
Note: Learning and innovation expectations normally provide the sole basis for project rationale.
However, we believe that it is still appropriate to describe the project alternatives considered and lessons
reflected in the project design and hence have summarized these in Annex 11.
(a) Economic
The project would:
*   develop a system to measure impacts of the long-term development program related to tenure
security, efficiency of land transactions and other land administration, provision of land market
choices. In addition, the project would carry out the baseline measurements of these impact
indicators. When combined with projected investment costs, this work would provide the basis for
cost-benefit analysis of the next project phase of the long-term program;
3   cover the impact monitoring and evaluation of its own expected achievements, which include
indicators of cost-effectiveness, efficiency, allocation of public and private sector roles and
sustainability. As an integral part of this monitoring system, the project would include measures to
facilitate understanding and use of monitoring and evaluation findings by policy makers and
operational managers.
3   also provide a vehicle for continued policy dialogue and development on a range of issues,
including lifting of land market restrictions on state land grants, and addressing concerns about
socioeconomic impacts associated with such tenure reform.
(b) Financial
The project would:
*   identify efficient and cost-effective ways of land titling and registration for a variety of local Sri
Lankan field conditions, through testing various operational methods. The preproject average cost
and times are based on an analysis of the pilot activities (1996 to 1999) initiated by GOSL without
external assistance, and the expectations are based on experiences in other countries. The test
results would provide the basis for financially sound design of large-scale replication;
*   also include the development of a fee policy that would ensure sustained public participation in the
registration system and enable eventual cost recovery for the investment program over the
long-term (25 to 40 years). If fees are too high, the landholders would rely on informal
transactions, and not use the registry; if fees are too low, titling and registration cduld create an
unsustainable fiscal burden. The analysis would include the development of assumptions on the
projected increase in transactions over the long-tern, and a structure of fees and other charges.
Profits in the later years of the long-term program would offset subsidies in the initial years.
- 8 -



Experience in other countries shows that such cost recovery is relatively easy, since the increased
rate of transactions increases the revenue from transaction fees; and
*   develop an effective financial management system to build the capacity for implementation of a
long-term, large-scale investment program and for the management and operation of the land title
registries in the area of financial management.
(b) Technical
The project would:
*   develop cost-effective and realistic procedures and standards for productivity and timing of unified
multidisciplinary teams undertaking the systematic titling and related services (including
stakeholder communications, records search, survey, mapping, adjudication, title issuance, and
registration) aimed at efficiency and social considerations outlined below;
*   test and compare various combinations of government staff and private contractors in systematic
titling tasks, and a variety of arrangements for productivity incentives, delegation of authority, etc.;
*   test various survey technologies including use of a global positioning system (GPS), total stations,
and photomapping;
*   test a variety of arrangements to build expertise and capacity in adjudication;
*   develop hands-on experience in the operation of land title registries;
*   test a various approaches to land records preservation and maintenance including the use of
compactors for storage, manual restoration of critical documents, archiving, culling, and testing
computerized indexing, etc.; and develop a strategy for the most cost-effective investment program
over the long-term; and
*   conceptualize the operational arrangements for titling, registration, records maintenance, and
related activities required for situations not tested during the initial three-year project.
(c) Institutional.
The project would:
*   build understanding and develop the legal amendments, regulations, and procedures for the legal
framework that would be required to implement a sustainable and comprehensive land
administration development program.
*   develop understanding and support for policy reforms related to land markets and cost recovery,
and would collaborate with other stakeholders in analysis related to interactions between land
administration and land management policy (e.g., encroachment on state land including parks and
watersheds, informal settlements in urban areas, etc.);
*   develop a strategy to communicate with stakeholders on land titling and related services in order to
develop understanding, receive and respond to feedback, build consensus, and manage
-9-



expectations. A major element of this communication is the transparency that is inherent in the
field-based systematic design where local people witness the operations, the reliance on parcel
based titles rather than deeds, and the extensive measures to ensure public notice and access;
*   (a) develop consensus, design, and test organizational and procedural rationalization needed for
cohesive and cost-effective land titling in a multiagency arrangement, (b) develop staffing and
human resource development plans (covering both public and private sector roles) and initiate
actions required to ensure capacity for larger-scale program, (c) and develop an information
management strategy to optimize long-term use and sustainability of land administration
information systems;
* empower government officials to develop hands-on experience in project management; and
* develop knowledge and skills needed for realistic long-tern planning, and design a monitoring and
evaluation system for the long-term development program.
(d) Social.
The project would:
*   identify measures to ensure that operational procedures and standards address social
considerations, including beneficiary costs of titling process (e.g., minimizing the number of visits
to the field, and time required from land users), manage expectations, maximize transparency and
public confidence, ensure full involvement of and benefits to women and other marginalized or
disadvantaged beneficiaries, and maximize dispute resolution;
3   develop and test impact assessment methods and develop a system for long-term socioeconomic
monitoring and evaluation;
*   address social as well as conflict related issues associated with potential policy reforms;
3   include the design and testing of stakeholder communications strategies; and
*   include the development of a social assessment and development framework for the long-term
program, which would include measures to address potential adverse impacts such as: displacing
people occupying or using state land, disrupting existing tenurial systems, loss of rights due to the
relatively weak capacity of some persons to effectively assert their rights during adjudication,
displacement from private lands, surfacing of latent disputes due to adjudication, and exacerbation
of ethnic tensions. One of the main lessons from the project would be to find if it is possible to
develop a social framework for adjudication that both provides adequate safeguards, and has broad
and sustainable support, given the challenging sociopolitical dynamics of Sri Lanka in its ongoing
conflict.
(e) Environmental
*   the design of the monitoring and evaluation system would incorporate provisions for the
measurement and analysis of changes in land use associated with land titling and land market
policy reform over the long-term; and
- 10-



*   policy development and long-term planning supported by the project would include steps to
collaborate with other stakeholders in analysis of interactions between land administration
improvements and land management policies [e.g., encroachment on state lands (parks and
watersheds) and informal settlements in urban areas, etc.].
(f) Participation
*   land users (the main beneficiaries) would play a central role in the operational testing of systematic
titling and registration methods. The project would include steps to ensure ongoing .feedback from
them.
*   The project would involve community based organizations, NGOs, professional societies, and
academic institutions in a variety of project activities including communications initiatives (e.g.,
awareness campaigns), dispute resolution (e.g., conciliation committees), monitoring and
evaluation, and policy development.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The two main project components would comprise: (a) testing operational methods to improve
titling and related services in a subset of the ongoing program covering 22,000 parcels, and beginning to
apply the improved methods to the program as a whole, and (b) developing the institutional framework and
capacity for land titling and related services. The first component, operational methods, would include
testing various technologies, procedures, and processes in systematic titling (e.g., stakeholder
communications, records search, survey, mapping, adjudication, title issuance) and related tasks (e.g.,
registration, and records maintenance). It would also test a variety of implementation arrangements
involving government staff and private contractors, and developing operational capacity. This component
would develop implementation methods and approaches to reduce the unit cost and time of systematically
titling; reduce the percentage of parcels with unresolved issues that prevent titling; minimize legal challenge
on titles issued; and increase the public confidence in the accuracy, completeness, functionality and fairness
of the titling activities. It would also develop hands-on experience in title registry operation, in ways that
will help to avoid public confusion and maximize efficient use of existing knowledge, staff, and facilities.
The second component, institutional framework and capacity, would strengthen the legal and
regulatory framework, formulate policy (e.g., eliminate land market restrictions, establish affordable fee
structures, etc.) and undertake project-wide leaming (e.g., national-level stakeholder communications,
monitoring and evaluation), and develop a viable organization (e.g., cohesive structure and capable
staffing, human resource development, information management strategy), project management (e.g.,
financial management, procurement) and program planning.
component                   Sector ,dxd   s            , :
1. Improvement of field operation  Institutional                    0.0                  0.0
methods                             Development
la. Titling methods                                     3.78       55.8      2.47       49.4
lb. Title registries                                    0.12        1.8      0.05        1.0
l.c. Land records maintenance                           0.19        2.8      0.15        3.0
- 11 -



2. Development of institutional                                             0.0                    0.0
framework and capacity
2a. Legal framework                     Institutional          0.03         0.4       0.01         0.2
Development
2b. Policy formulation and              Institutional          0.25         3.7       0.19         3.8
project-wide learning                   Development
2c. Organizational development,         Institutional          2.41        35.5       2.13        42.6
project management, and program         Development
planning
Total Project Costs                        6.78       100.0        5.00       100.0
Total Financing Required                           6.78      100.0        5.00       100.0
*Note: The Bank does not have a specific code for land administration projects. The overall sector code for the
the project is "natural resource management" because the project is task managed within a rural development unit, it will
be implemented primarily in rural areas (and rural land administration is classified as "natural resource management").
However, the project primarily concerns institutional development, i.e., organizational, legal, and policy learning and reform.
2. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
The project design makes use of the existing staff and resources of the LSD and the SD, both of
which are within the MOLDMEA. Additional staff will be employed only if they provide short-term
specific requirements or are only required for the duration of the project and there is no capacity within the
departments in those fields. The Commissioner of Title Settlement who is responsible for the
implementation of the RTA, will be the Project Director. The Surveyor General will continue to be
responsible for the survey and mapping activities. A steering committee will provide overall guidance, and
will be chaired by the Secretary in the MOLDMEA, and will be comprised of: the Secretary, Additional
Secretary, the Commissioner of Title Settlement, the Surveyor General, the Land Commissioner, and a
representative from the stakeholders. A users group will advise the Steering Committee. The Project
Director will be assisted by a full-time Project Coordinator, and a full-time Survey Coordinator, as well as
staff responsible for financial management, procurement, policy and planning, human resource
development, and information technology (IT). The first two years will focus on testing and analysis, while
the third year will focus on applying the learning in the design of a realistic, cost-effective, and high quality
plan for the larger-scale next phase of the program.
The project includes arrangements for ongoing training as specified in a detailed training plan, as
well as the development of a long-term human resources development and training strategy. The project
also includes the development of an information management strategy and the establishment of an IT
management group.
GOSL has prepared a comprehensive project implementation plan (PIP) which provides further
details on implementation arrangements.
- 12-



3. Monitoring and evaluation arrangements:
Monitoring and evaluation is structured on the logical framework in the project design sunmmary
and the learning and innovation expectations. The PIP specifies arrangements for verifying key
performance indicators, terms of reference for various research studies related to monitoring and
evaluation, and project reporting contents. Reports will be prepared on a quarterly basis and will be
provided to the steering committee and the World Bank. Each project subcomponent will te managed by a
designated officer, who will lead his/her respective teams, oversee ongoing evaluation, and organize
meetings and/or workshops for learning from experiences.
D. Project Rationale
[This section is not to be completed in a LIL PAD. Rationale should be implicit in paragraph B: 3.]
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
[For LIL, to the extent applicable]
O Cost benefit    NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
e Cost effectiveness
O Other (specify)
Economic evaluation. Although there will be no cost/benefit analysis of the initial project, the
project itself will include analyses that will provide the basis for cost benefit analysis for the next phase,
and for the long-term investment program. Cost effectiveness has played a major role in determining the
specific design of the project activities.
Consideration of alternatives. The decision to tackle land administration through a learning and
innovation project took into consideration a range of alternative project approaches, as ou11ined in Annex
11.
Experience of comparable projects. The experience of successful land titling projects in other
parts of the world lend some support to the value of the long-term program which is envisaged to arise from
the project. Improvements in land titling in these projects have ranged from 34 percent (World Bank,
Thailand Land Titling Project 1991 to 1994) to 12.3 percent (World Bank, Guatemala).
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
[For LIL, to the extent applicable]
Operational efficiency gains. The project explicitly aims to reduce the operational cost of titling
from an estimated $110 per parcel at present, to around $40 per parcel. The project will also reduce the
time required to complete a long-term titling program to around 20 years.
Learning and capital costs. A significant portion of the LIL costs relate to start-up learning and
capital costs which should be amortized over the anticipated period of the long-term program.
Fiscal Impact:
The small size of the initial project makes its fiscal impact negligible, but the project will include
- 13 -



analysis of potential fiscal impacts of the longer-term program. This analysis will in turn influence policies
for the long-term investment program that will be developed under the project on organizational framework,
fee levels that ensure sustained participation and long-term cost recovery, and the allocation of public and
private sector roles.
3. Technical:
[For LIL, enter data if applicable or 'Not Applicable']
Technical targets in the project have been set low mainly as the lessons in the project are
paramount, not the physical target numbers. The target of 22,000 parcels registered is low, but is realistic
considering that LSD is still building capacity.
The cadastral survey methods proposed for the project are viable and have been in use by the SD
for the last three years. The base mapping methods proposed for use are also well known to the
department. Base mapping is planned to be undertaken by the SD; this is considered to be practical
considering the small contract size, and that the Sri Lankan private sector has no capacity to do the task--it
is too small to be of interest to the intemational contractors.
Private sector surveyors are to be used for most of cadastral survey, however they do not have
experience in undertaking the task. They are already part of the sporadic process, and for sustainability
reasons must not be left out of the systematic process. This is one of the aims of the LIL, including the
training to carry out this work. It is clear that the private sector should be brought into the adjudication
process.
The simultaneous adjudication and delimitation of the real property in the project is proposed under
the LIL. This means LSD and SD will work together, which is clearly needed, considering the mismatch
between the numbers of parcels completed over the last three years by the two departments. The Secretary
of MOLDMEA has agreed provide the necessary oversight to ensure that (a) Commissioner of Title
Settlement (CTS) and SD collaborate closely and make ongoing improvements in this collaboration in light
of experience; and (b) ensure the private sector's involvement in aspects of these processes. This
agreement is recorded in the minutes of negotiation.
The development of a common IT strategy including data management for all of the departments in
the project is important. The Secretary of MOLDMEA has agreed to make the necessary arrangements for
LSD, SD, and the Valuation Department (and if possible, the Registrar Generals Department) to agree on
the main principles, and to implement joint and compatible arrangements.
Legal Framework Considerations
There is foundation law in place--the RTA, 1996--that will enable trials to proceed under the LIL.
As a result of the trials proposed in the project improvements will be available, and these amendments will
be submitted to parliament by the MOLDMEA during PY3. During preparation, considerable work was
done to identify the necessary improvements.
Other existing laws require amendments to allow imnproved recognition of rights and to allow
transactions to be made or conducted more smoothly. During reparation over 25 laws were examined, and
amendments prepared; enactment of these amendments is likely to take place in PYI. The processing is
outlined in the schedule of legal reform implementationn. More work on these laws is required under the
project, and support given to the technical assistance of both domestic and intemational experts.
- 14 -



Some regulations under the RTA were gazetted in 1998, however more are needed especially for
the new land titles registry offices to become operational. During preparation recommendations on most of
these draft regulations were prepared, and a schedule for further processing is outlined in in the schedule of
legal reform implementation.
A draft survey act has been prepared and is planned for passage through parliament before the
project begins. Because of its technical nature, it is not considered critical that it be in place before the
start of the project, however it is needed in PY2. Regulations are being developed and will be ready during
PY1. The schedule for further processing of the survey act is included in the schedule of legal reform
implementation.
In Sri Lanka, there are about one million titles issued that carry restrictions on actions of what is
able to be done with the land; as a result of a study and survey conducted during preparation, there was
general agreement that these restrictions should be lifted. The acts involved include the State Lands and
LDO, and recommendations on amendments of the required articles have been prepared. The schedule of
further processing of these amendments is in the schedule of legal reform implementation
4. Institutional:
The central focus of the LIL is institutional; it is intended to support an overall institutional
development process covering the legal policy, and organizational framework, and to test improved
operational arrangements at a field level. Decisions and initial action to implement decisions on key legal
policy, and organizational issues represent important project outcomes. There is a significant risk that one
or more of these outcomes will not be achieved (see Section F below on Risks). The LIL financing
mechanism has been selected in part because there can be a higher tolerance of such risks under a LIL than
under most other financing mechanisms.
4.1 Executing agencies:
The LSD is responsible for activities on adjudication, registry, and project coordination. Its
existing implementation capacity is extremely limited, and one of the major objectives of the LIL is to
address this constraint in a cost-effective manner. The LIL also includes capacity building support for the
other lead implementing agency, the SD, support for interagency coordination between key agencies within
the MOLDMEA, and strategic analytic and planning support for the full range of agencies that would
potentially be involved in a long-term titling program. Prior to the project, under the doniestically financed
pilot land administration activities, both interagency collaboration and learning and evaluation were
particularly weak, and therefore these aspects will require close attention during project implementation and
supervision. Special attention will also be required to ensure satisfactory arrangements to expand capacity
for communications and adjudication, so that these do not become bottlenecks.
4.2 Project management:
The PIP will include a staffing plan, job descriptions for key staff positions, a list of contracted
specialists and studies complete with terms of reference, and training plans. The project design includes
organizational arrangements to address gaps in expertise. For example, as a condition of appraisal, the
project administration section includes a contracted project accountant and a procurement specialist.
4.3 Procurement issues:
Procurement arrangements are satisfactory. MOLDMEA has recruited a procurement specialist,
as per the terms of reference approved by the International Development Association (IDA), to oversee the
- 15-



procurement aspects of the project. As a condition of negotiations, a procurement plan for all expenditure
items for the entire project period is being prepared, and all the procurement packages are being prepared
for works, goods, service contracts, and consultants needed during the first year of project. Annex 6
describes procurement and prior review arrangements.
4.4 Financial management issues:
The MOLDMEA would have a satisfactory financial management system (OP/BP 10.02)
requirements for managing project finances and for commencing disbursements on the basis of project
management reports (PMRs). Per the terms of reference approved by IDA, a financial management
specialist (FMS) has been recruited by the MOLDMEA to oversee the financial management aspects of the
project. GOSL's financial regulations (which have already been reviewed and are considered satisfactory
by the IDA) will provide the internal control framework for the project. Project accounts will be
maintained on a cash accounting basis and are expected to be computerized by July 31, 2001. The Auditor
General of Sri Lanka will carry out the annual external audit of the project accounts, and on a semiannual
basis will also report on the reliability and adequacy of the internal control system for PMR-based
disbursements.
5. Environmental:                  Enviromnental Category: C (Not Required)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
Environmental issues. The project's environmental impact is expected to be positive, although
negligible due to its small scale. Secure land tenure lengthens the planning horizon for more sustainable
land resource management. The PHRD-funded land markets study shows that there is a lower rate of land
degradation on private land that is freely marketable. Productivity gains expected to result from the
long-term land administration development program should help to reduce pressures for forest
encroachment, compared with what would happen in the absence of such a program. Over the long-term
improved land administration information will also facilitate environmental management. Even for a
long-term program that would hopefully result from the LIL, the only conceivable environmental risks
would be improvements in land markets contributing to an increase in environmentally harmful commercial
enterprises--this possibility is considered highly unlikely. Nevertheless, the LIL would include indicators
for such factors in the design and baseline measurements of the monitoring and evaluation system for the
long-term program. While the environmental impact of the project due to secure land tenure is expected to
be positive, certain policy distortions (such as protective trade tariffs, subsidies, etc.) beyond the scope of
the project may contribute to a reduction in the expected long term environmental benefits. The Bank is
conducting a policy dialogue on these issues under channels separate from this project. The planning for a
long-term program includes the development of a policy framework for addressing the problem of
encroachments and potential resettlment issues associated with country-wide issues, which will need to take
into consideration the special requirements of environmentally sensitive areas.
Justification/rationale for category rating: The land regularization process will recognize
property rights for established possessors as confirmed and controlled by neighborhoods and communities.
This type of control avoids creating incentives for deforestation and settlement pressures. Land titling will
not encourage forest clearing as this is not a criteria for recognition of rights. It is not considered feasible
to include land use management within the scope of the project, because this would involve many other
agencies, but the project would not weaken existing environmental land use management mechanisms, and
would facilitate their consistent application. The project would not involve involuntary resettlement; there
is no taking of land for project implementation; and the project would not cause eviction or increase
restrictions of access of private parties who are occupying the privately held publicly owned land. Indeed,
- 16 -



the project would aim at increasing the tenure security of the private parties occupying the public land
through titling, and resolving disputes between the private parties who hold usufruct on this public land.
The LIL would not title public parks or other public lands as government holdings in situations where this
would lead to displacement or restriction in access. The LIL will develop a policy framework for
addressing such situations in a long-term program.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
Not applicable.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft:
Not applicable.
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
Not applicable.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
The LIL would include indicators for impacts on land use in the design and baseline measurements
of the monitoring and evaluation system for the long-term program. A socio economic survey which will
include impacts on land use, will be undertaken during project implementation. This survey will serve to
establish a baseline of existing land management practices and the current position with regard to land
degradation. Another survey will be undertaken towards the end of the project (to compare with the
baseline survey), but long-term impacts will probably not yet be evident at that early stage. It is anticipated
that the baseline survey would also be used as the basis of comparison for impact measurement during a
long-term follow-on program. Such subsequent surveys would include, to the extent they are evident,
evaluation of the environmental impacts of the project, taking into consideration potential positive impacts
of secure land tenure resulting from the project and possible negative impacts of policy distortions which
are outside the scope of the project itself.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
The systematic approach to titling includes all landholders, including poor landholders, who
without the project would have less access to land administration services. The preparation will gather
information on the socioeconomic profile of the project areas, but the project beneficiaries are expected to
be typical of many rural areas, and therefore include a high proportion small landholders who would be
classified as poor. The socioeconomic monitoring will include an assessment of project impacts on
opportunity, empowerment, and security, and establish baseline measurements for the lon,g-term program.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
Participation. The major field activities planned under the project are inherently participatory in
nature, and the project also includes support for national-level dialog on policy reform. Initial stakeholder
- 17 -



analysis has listed groups that are impacting the project, and groups that are being impacted by the
project. Project implementation would include social assessment and continue to involve a range of
stakeholders in project learning. The landholders, the main beneficiaries, would play a central role in the
operational testing of systematic titling and registration methods, and the project would include steps to
ensure receiving their ongoing feedback. The project would involve community based organizations,
NGOs, professional societies, and academic institutions in a variety of project activities including
stakeholder communications initiatives (e.g., awareness campaigns), dispute resolution (e.g., conciliation
committees), monitoring and evaluation, and policy development.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
Under the titling methods subcomponent, community relations and communications (CRC)
activities would develop support and cooperation. At an early stage CRC would focus on key professionals
involved in land market activity, including notaries, real estate agents, banks, other lending agencies,
surveyors, land economists, etc. This would take place about two months prior to the systematic field
parties arrival. Stakeholder communications and information sharing with several community groups
including trade unions, NGOs, community based organizations, and the landholders, would take place at
various times throughout the titling process including the 30-day review and appeals period. These
stakeholder communications will be through the media, publicity campaigns, forums, extension, village
meetings, doorstep meetings, letters and communications, and be supported through staff training and
development of a CRC manual.
The policy formation and project-wide learning subcomponent will include support for
communicating with the general public through a media campaign and series of local meetings, pamphlets,
bimonthly bulletins, explanatory papers and use of secretariat offices. Workshops and seminars have
already been used to get feedback from stakeholders and to keep them informed of project progress and
plans. This "user group" will be extended to include more of the private sector, NGOS, and local
stakeholders from the field test sites. They will continue to be consulted in a series of workshops. The
subcomponent will include the contracting of social scientists to undertake the impact studies.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
The project implementation processes include a strong focus on social development outcomes in the
learning agenda (see sections B3 and B4(d) above), in monitoring and evaluation (see section C3), and in
many of the project-financed activities (e.g., awareness campaign, boundary dispute resolution, stakeholder
communications). Full-time specialists include a community relations and communications officer and a
monitoring and evaluation officer. Additional social scientists will carry out the impact and policy studies.
The project includes extensive arrangements to ensure good communication with local- and national-level
stakeholders.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
Social development outcomes represent a significant portion of the overall outcomes outlined in the
logical framework for both the long-term program and for the initial project. The project will support
baseline measurements of long-term program outcomes and periodic measurement of project outcomes.
These outcomes include factors such as "increased tenure security" and "services viewed as'fair to all
political factions, social classes, ethnic groups, and gender categories". The baseline program
measurements and periodic project measurements will be gathered through household surveys and public
awareness evaluations. The periodic project outcomes will also be measured through assessment by
- 18 -



implementers, beneficiaries, and other stakeholders, and government and project statistics. E_xamples of
specific indicators for the project include: (a) public confidence of accuracy, completeness, functionality,
and fairness in improved methods, (b) minority and vulnerable groups receive titles in proportion to their
representation among landholders in project area, and (c) less than one percent of parcels titled subject to
legal challenge.
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)             0 Yes 0 No
Natural habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                     0 Yes 0 No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                      L Yes * No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                        0 Yes * No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                    0 Yes - No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                     0 Yes 0 No
Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)                               ( Yes * No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                                 _ Yes * No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)     0 Yes 0 No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)           0 Yes 0 No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
The overall approach of the project to resettlement has both short-term and long-term elements.
For the short-term, project activities have been designed in such a way as to avoid displacement of persons
occupying or using government land [see section E5. 1 on justification of the environmental assessment
(EA) classification]. This arrangement is further reinforced through a project covenant (see section G2).
For the longer-term, the project would develop a policy framework for addressing the problem of
encroachments and potential resettlement issues associated with country-wide titling.
The PIP includes an annex outlining the social assessment framework. This assessment not only
addresses the potential displacement of people occupying or using state land, but also addresses a range of
other social issues which are not subject to applicable safeguard policies but which are nevertheless part of
social development good practice. These issues include: (a) potential disruption of existing tenurial
arrangements through titling; (b) potential loss of rights due to the relatively weak capacity of some persons
to assert rights effectively during adjudication and registration (e.g., gender bias, absentee right-holders,
religious or ethnic minorities, lack of education, poverty, poor documentation); (c) potential of systematic
adjudication to surface latent disputes; (d) problems associated with temple lands; (e) potential social
impacts of eliminating land market restrictions; and (f) persons affected by ethnic conflict.
The project's environmental assessment is rated "category C" and the environmental aspects are
explained in section E5. The project areas do not include fragile natural habitats, forests, indigenous
people, international waters, or disputed areas. The project will have no impact on cultural property, pest
management, or dam safety.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
This section is not to be completed in LIL PAD.
- 19-



2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
:t :0V:; Ris::0    k  S:::0ti0RisSkRattingiVjd :0:ia     RiskMitigatin Measuire
From Outputs to Objective
Conflicting interests among stakeholders     S         PIP clearly defines the issues and the project
delay or prevent sustainable decisions on              includes specific social analysis and
the organizational, legal, and policy                  communication activities involving a range of
reforms and the social assessment                      stakeholders including vulnerable groups.
framework required for a long-term                     Reputational risks avoided by avoiding
program.                                               problematic sites in the LIL, and making any
follow-on, long-term program dependent upon
satisfactory performance in reforms and in
development of social assessment framework.
Changes in political leadership,             S         Focus on long-term vision builds support across
insufficient consensus among                           political spectrum. Project includes
stakeholders, and ongoing conflict, delay              communication activities involving a variety of
and/or prevent action on organizational,               influential leaders, and will build understanding
legal, and policy reforms and the social               and confidence among all stakeholders through
assessment framework.                                  learning by doing. Project documents define
expectations and provide implementation
guidance.
Delays or inaction on approval of critical   S         Scheduling benchmarks defined and monitored.
legal amendments and regulations                       Provision of technical support in both
undermine quality of titles issued and                 preparation and implementation to improve
registry operations.                                   quality.
Establishment of title registries separate   M         Government has agreed to review experience of
from land registries causes confusion and              LIL and apply lessons to organizational reform.
undermines confidence.                                 Donor support for large-scale program under
this arrangement would be unlikely.
Political and bureaucratic commitment to     M         PIP includes a structured work program for
structured leaming and adaptation not                  learning and adaptation reflected in the job
adequate.                                              descriptions, technical assistance terms of
reference, training plan, implementation
schedule, monitoring system etc., and referenced
in project covenant.
Change in political parties affects          M         Vision of nationwide coverage in long-term
commitment to project areas.                           program and small-scale of LIL limits political
significance of LIL project areas. Site
scheduling for long-term program will require
process and criteria regarded as fair and
politically sustainable.
- 20 -



Civil strife affects project activities.         N          Selection of pilot areas avoids regions most
affected by existing conflict, and stakeholder
communications activities will build channels
with all ethnic groups.
Project fund flows are not timely, reliable,     N          PIP includes a monitorable funds flow schedule
or adequate.                                                and detailed cost estimates Financial expertise
in place as condition of appraisal.
From Components to Outputs
All implementing agencies do not                 S          PIP describe arrangements for collaboration in
collaborate in team mode.                                   detail. Project covenant on these arrangements.
Government does not make satisfactory            S          PIP includes realistic detailed staffing plan and
arrangements to expand capacity for                         procurement plan including consultant and
communications, adjudication, and other                     service contracts
new tasks, including arrangements to
involve the private sector.
Difficult sites avoided by demarcation and       N          Careful monitoring and paying incentives on
survey staff.                                               completion of all parcels in a specific area.
Title registry staff do not gain skills or       S          Small volume of titles and transactions limits
function in coordination with Lands                         consequences. Lessons learned (even from
Section of Registrar General's                              failure) likely to build support for organizational
Department.                                                 reform.
Records destroyed before they are                N          Records maintenance activities under project
converted or preserved.                                     will address this concern and include long-term
strategy.
Government does not give sufficient              N          Stakeholder communications activities
priority to two-way communications flow.                    structured to address this concern.
Overall Risk Rating                              M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
Annex 13 provides a detailed explanation of risks.
- 21 -



3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
Risk                  Type   Risk  Risk Minimization Measure
of   Rating
Risk
Perception that project would not address    S  N    Public confidence in fairness and techniques
concerns about fairness and                           for impact assessment, and development of
socioeconomic impacts on socially                     stakeholder communications strategy are key
excluded and other disadvantaged groups.              performance indicators. Project will include
stakeholder communications initiatives
including awareness campaigns, and careful
monitoring and management through
interventions that support a transparent and
inclusive titling process.
Pre-existing perceptions and/or actual   G      N    Transparency and client communications
practices of petty corruption in land                initiatives supported under the project will
administration activities do not undernine            make such corruption difficult.
reputation of project operations.
Problems in preproject and ongoing      G       N    Preproject titling has been minimal and little
nonproject initiatives (e.g., issuance of             nonproject titling expected. Project includes
titles that have a high rate of challenge in          close and continued interchange that facilitates
court) may undernine the reputation of                improvement of non-Bank financed activities
titling concept.                                      based on learning from Bank financed project.
Strong lobbying by Bar Association       S      M    Develop strategy of appropriate
against titling.                                      communication with lawyers including
cultivating understanding and support of
long-term program objectives.
Insufficient management capacity due to    G, M  N    Pilot scale and attention to generic project
multiple agency involvement and                       management issues limit risks.
inexperience with Bank project
implementation.
Risk Types: S (Social), G (Governance), M (Management);
Risk Ratings: Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
Annex 13 provides a detailed explanation of risks.
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
None
- 22 -



2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
As conditions of negotiation the GOSL has completed the following:
*   Assigned project implementation unit staff, nominated field staff, and selected full-time local contract
specialists for the project implementation consistent with recommendations in the PIP.
* Completed a socioeconomic baseline profile for the three pilot sites.
* Completed a detailed procurement plan, bidding documents agreed with the Bank, and requests for
proposals for all works, goods, contracted services, and consultancy services required for the first year
of the project.
* Completed arrangements for project financial accounting, monitoring and auditing.
* Developed a schedule of all legal, policy, and organizational reforms.
* Revised the PIP to include (a) clarification of all organizational and interagency arrangements and
processes for LIL implementation, including interagency coordination; (b) completion of descriptions
of staffing arrangements; (c) firther revisions related to the social assessment framework, (d) updated
detailed cost estimates; and (e) other changes to reflect clarifications, correct minor inconsistencies, and
accurately portray the full project design; and enable public issuance of the draft PIP.
The project will be implemented in accordance with organizational and interagency collaborative
arrangements and processes agreed with the Bank. (The minutes of negotiation specify that the PIP
outlines the agreed arrangements and processes, which may be subsequently adjusted in light of experience
as agreed and reflected through exchanges of letters between the Bank and the GOSL. The minutes also
specify that the Secretary of MOLDMEA has agreed provide the necessary oversight to ensure that
* to provide the necessary oversight to ensure that the Land Settlement Department (LSD) and Survey
Department (SD) collaborate closely and make ongoing improvements in this collaboration in light of
experience;
* to provide the necessary oversight to ensure the private sector's involvement in appropriate aspects of
project processes;
* to make the necessary arrangements for LSD, SD, the Valuation Department, and if possible, the
Registrar-General's Department to agree on the main principles and strategy, and to implement joint
and compatible arrangements for information technology including data management;
* to ensure appropriate working arrangements with the Registrar General's Department during the
implementation of the project; and
*   to ensure that all the project implementing parties collaborate with project consultants.)
The project will be implemented in accordance with staffing and training arrangements agreed with
the Bank. (The minutes of negotiation specify that the PIP outlines the agreed arrangements, which may
be subsequently adjusted in light of experience, as agreed and reflected through exchanges of letters
between the Bank and the GOSL.) The project includes a covenant that indicates that by July 31, 2001, the
GOSL will appoint a Registrar General of Title meeting qualifications agreed with the Bank, and
acceptable to both MOLDMEA and the Ministry of Public Administration, Home Affairs, and
Administrative Reforms.
The project reforms including the legal reforms, land market restriction policy reforms, and
organizational reforms shall be implemented in accordance with a schedule agreed with the Bank. (The
minutes of negotiation specify the scope and implementation schedule of the reforms, which mray be
subsequently adjusted in light of experience as agreed and reflected through exchanges of letters between
the Bank and the GOSL.)
No land in or directly adjoining the project areas will be titled as a result of the project in the name
- 23 -



of the government in situations where this would result in the displacement of people occupying such land,
or in restrictions on their access to this land. State land not previously allocated to private persons under
the LDO, or other relevant laws, which is or appears to be subject to unauthorized occupation shall be
excluded from the titling process during the project. However, where such land is identified, project
personnel shall bring it to the attention of divisional land officers and assist them in assessing whether it
would be feasible and appropriate to regularize the occupation in question (i.e., the project will not result in
any titling of encroached public lands which cannot be regularized and hence where the project might
otherwise precipitate eviction from public land).
The project will address social development issues in accordance with arrangements agreed with
the Bank. (The minutes of negotiation specify that the PIP (including Annex 5) outlines the agreed
arrangements, which may be subsequently adjusted in light of experience as agreed and reflected through
exchanges of letters between the Bank and the GOSL. The minutes also specify that the Borrower will
submit to the Bank for review and comments the draft designs and draft final reports of project-financed
studies. The minutes further specify an agreement that the draft terms of reference for a social and
environmental assessment and policy framework (including consideration of resettlement and encroachment
issues) that would address the needs of a long-term titling program would be submitted to IDA by
December 2002 for review and comment, and that a report on this assessment and framework would be
submitted to IDA by September 2003 for review and comment.)
The project shall be monitored with quarterly progress reports submitted to the Bank in accordance
with arrangements agreed with the Bank. (The minutes of negotiation attach a set of financial, physical
output, and procurement formats for project management reports to be submitted quarterly, and also
specify that the PIP describes the content, format, processes and schedule of additional quarterly
monitoring and progress reports. The PIP guidelines may be subsequently adjusted in light of experience
as agreed and reflected through exchanges of letters between the Bank and the GOSL. The quarterly
reports would be submitted within 45 days after the close of each quarter.)
Regarding financial management, the project includes standard covenants on project accounts and
audits. (The minutes of negotiation note that the Auditor General of Sri Lanka is acceptable to IDA as the
independent auditor, attach the terms of reference for the audit, note the standards for auditing would be
Intemational Organization of Supreme Audit Institutions (INTOSAI) standards, and specify that
computerization of the project accounting and reporting system will be completed by July 31, 2001.)
H. Readiness for Implementation
G 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
G 1. b) Not applicable.
1 2. The procurement documents for the first six months' activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation; and a framework has been established for agreement on standard bidding
documents that will be used for ongoing procurement throughout the life of LIL
G 3. The LIL's Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
L 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
- 24 -



1. Compliance with Bank Policies
1 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
D 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
I,m
Jesica Mott   k                   Ridwan Ali                                 Todorova
T am Leader                       Sector Manager                          try Manager
- 25 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
SRI LANKA: Land Titling and Related Services
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:        Sector/ country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Economic productivity of land Agricultural and other income govemment statistics  Increased productivity benefits
users improved.           per unit land increased.                              poor people.
Follow-on Development
Objective:
Fair, efficient and sustainable  Increased tenure security for  Impact monitoring based on   Ethnic conflict and war do not
land administration system    farmers and other landholders design and baseline  eliminate prospects for
serving land users developed  throughout country.    measurements developed     economic growth.
and fully functioning.                               during LIL.
Efficient land transaction and                       No major natural calamities
administration throughout                            affecting agricultural and
country.                                             other economic growth.
Provision to farmers and other                       Sound policy frameworks and
landholders of greater control                       capacity for agricultural input
over land management                                 prices, water ownership and
through full range of market                         maintenance, and fertilizer
choices and jurisdiction to                          distribution, and
decide on most desirable                             non-plantation crop
course of action regarding                           marketing.
their land.
Full cost recovery over                              Sound policy framework and
long-term of all investment                          capacity for non-land
and maintenance costs.                               administration aspects of land
resource management (e.g.,
Services viewed as fair to all                       development planning,
political factions, social                           watershed management.
classes, ethnic groups, and
gender categories.
- 26 -



Project Development         Outcome i Impact            Project reports:            (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                  Indicators:
Broad consensus, confidence, Well functioning small-scale  Assessment by implementers, Political leaders address
methods, framework and      titling and title registry   beneficiaries, and other    project objectives and issues in
capacity for making         operations that provide     stakeholders.                spite of distractions and
sustainable and             increased tenure security,                               disruptions associated with
comprehensive improvements efficiency in titling and in                              elections, political feuding,
in land administration system  land transactions, land market                        civil unrest, civil war, etc.
serving land users assessed    choices, and fairness.
and built.
Confidence and knowledge to  Assessment by public, leaders, It is possible to develop a
expand shared across the   implementers, and concerned  pragmatic social assessment
public, local leaders,      professionals.              framework for the long-term
implementing partners, and                              program which adequately
concerned professionals, based                          addresses contentious social
on newly acquired operational                           issues.
and institutional knowledge
and experience.
Plan for larger scale project   Assessment by specialists and
(i.e., next phase of long-term  funder(s).
program) judged ready for
appraisal according to Bank's
quality at entry standards or
equivalent, which provide
basis for commitment(s) to
finance.
- 27 -



Output from each             Output Indicators:           Project reports:             (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
Methods to improve titling    la. Systemafic titling cost per  la. Analysis of staff fime and  Political commitment to
and registration operationally  parcel reduced with improved  other costs in Bank-financed  selected project areas
tested and lessons applied.    methods from pre-project   models.                      continues.
$110 per parcel to under $40
average per parcel average
overall and under $30 average
per parcel for parcels in flat
and open areas.
lb. Average time period for   lb. Analysis of project model  Project fund flows are timely,
completing titling in specific  experiences.              reliable and adequate.
area (from initial awareness
campaigns to issuance of title
after public review) reduced to
seven months with improved
methods.
lc. Percentage of parcels with  Ic. Analysis of project model
unresolved issues after      experiences.
adjudication that prevent
titling reduced from about 50
percent to 5 percent.
Id. Feedback from field staff  Id. Survey of staff and other  Political and bureaucratic
and other results of models    stakeholders, and review of   commitment to structured
reflected in evolving design of follow-on project proposal and learning and adaptation
methodology, and adoption of project records.             continues.
improved adjudication and
titling methods in ongoing
operations planned and
initiated.
I e. Three title registries  1 e. project records         Establishment of title
functioning, with procedures                              registries separate from land
to handle transactions within                             registries does not cause
specified time limits and                                 confusion nor undermine
quality standards.                                        public confidence.
1f. Public confident of      lf. Survey of users, key     Timely approval of critical
accuracy, completeness,      officials, and other key     legal amendments and
functionality, and fairness in  stakeholders, analysis of  regulations.
improved methods, minority  sociocultural data on
and vulnerable groups receive landholders and title
titles in proportion to their    recipients in project area, and
representation among         review of legal records.
landholders in project area,
and less than one percent of
parcels titled subject to legal
challenge.
Ig. Records maintenance in   1g. project records
project sites.
Ih. Methods adjusted to reflect lh. project records
learning.
- 28 -



li. Methods of titling and   I i. project records
related services for urban
areas, for large irrigated
tracts, and other situations
designed.
Institutional (including legal, 2a. Legislative, regulatory and 2a. review of project records   Commitment of GOSL
policy, project-wide         procedural framework for                                  continues regardless of
stakeholder communications,  efficient, effective, and                                 changes in political
organizational, management, sustainable land titling and                               leadership.
monitoring and evaluation,   title registration established                            Problems in recent and
and program planning         (including parliament                                     ongoing nonproject initiatives
aspects) framework and       approvals) by project month                               do not undermine reputation
capacity for land            30. Decision on final                                     of titling concept.
administration and related   amendments to Registration of
services developed.          Title Act by project month 30.
2b. Decision on long-term    2b. review of project records   Sufficient understanding and
organizational responsibilities                           consensus among stakeholders
for registration of title by                              to permit sustainable decisions
project month 24.                                         on the organizational, legal,
and policy reforms and the
social assessment framework
required for the long-term
program.
2c. Decision made on lifting   2c. review of project records
of market restrictions on
leases and freeholds for
parcels currently under the
LDO, LG, and SLO; analysis
underway of other market
restrictions; analysis underway
of encroachment on state
lands and informal settlements
in urban areas, and policy
developed for fees--all by
project month 30.
2d. Stakeholder              2d. review of project records
communications strategy at
national level developed and
tested by project month 12.
- 29 -



2e. Viable organizational  2e. review of project records
framework including cohesive
organizational structure and
plan for staffing and human
resource development
covering both public and
private sector roles designed
by project month 24 and
initiated by project month 30,
and information management
system designed by project
month 24.
2f. Sumnmary implementation
2f. Effective management    progress rating for LIL equal
throughout project period.    to satisfactory or highly
satisfactory.
2g. project records
2g. Techniques for impact
assessment of titling tested
and preliminary findings
identified.               2h. review of PIP for second
phase.
2h. Realistic plans for
long-term development
program management by
project month 24, and
monitoring and evaluation
sytem for long-term program
designed with baseline
completed by project month
30
- 30 -



Roy oilOnnA-.
Hifjlrb y     b                   ts IndW   
Project Components i       Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:          (from Components to
Sub-components:            component)                                            Outputs)
1. Field Operations Methods  See detailed cost tables  Financial and progress reports
Testing and Learning
la. Methods of stakeholder                                                       All implementing agencies
communications, surveying,                                                       collaborate in team mode.
mapping, records searching,
adjudication, and other                                                          Government makes
processes required for                                                           satisfactory arrangements to
systematic titling.                                                              expand capacity for
communications, adjudication
and other new tasks, including
arrangements to involve the
private sector.
Demarcation and survey staff
cover difficult sites subject to
disputes and/or multiple
ownership.
Pre-existing perceptions
and/or actual practices of
petty corruption in land
administration activities do
not undermine reputation of
project operations.
lb. Methods of title                                                             Title registry staff gain skills
registration and title registry                                                  and function in coordination
operation.                                                                       with lands section of Registrar
General's Department.
Ic. Methods to improve land                                                      Records are not destroyed by
records maintenance.                                                             rats, fire or other hazards
before they are converted or
preserved.
2. Development of
institutional framework and
capacity.
2a. Legislative, regulatory and                                                  Opponents of titling
procedural framework for land                                                    (including some lawyers) do
administration.                                                                  not block legal reform.
- 31 -



2b. Policy formulation and                                                   Project activities in
project-wide learning,                                                       communication and
including tenure, land                                                       monitoring effectively address
management, and cost                                                         concerns about possible
recovery policies; stakeholder                                               adverse socioeconomic
communications; and                                                          impacts of land market reform
monitoring and evaluation.                                                   on disadvantaged groups.
Govemment gives sufficient
priority to two-way
communications flow.
Government gives sufficient
priority to monitoring and
evaluation, and to using these
findings to address social
concerns.
2c. Organizational                                                           Bureaucratic and political
development and project                                                      interests do not prevent
management, including                                                        organizational rationalization.
structural rationalization,
staffing plan, human resource                                                Management capacity
development plan, and                                                        sufficient in spite of multiple
information management                                                       agency involvement and
strategy; project                                                            inexperience with Bank
administration, and program                                                  project implementation.
planning.
Decision makers apply project
lessons.
-32 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
SRI LANKA: Land Titling and Related Services
By Component:
Project Component I - US$4.09 million
Note: Although monitoring and evaluation, studies, technical assistance, and human resource
development activities would be coordinated and administered centrally and therefore are described under
subcomponent 2c, they would be regarded as integral elements of every subcomponent.
Subcomponent la: The Titling Methods subcomponent would comprise the range of activities
needed to cover about 22,000 parcels in portions of three different districts: Balangoda, Gampaha, and
Gampola. The sites were selected for the variations in terrain, population, density, cultivation patterns,
urban/rural mix, and public/private ownerships. In the third year some 6,000 new parcels will be surveyed
and adjudicated using the methods deemed most cost and time effective during the first two years.
The titling operations would be based on an integrated team approach, with joint field teams
consisting of adjudicators and surveyors, to work with village representatives, conciliation committees, and
landholders, all under one management. By the second year of the project there would be twelve teams for
each district. The team will mobilize into an area after start-up community relations and communications
work in that area, during which time searches would be made in the office of the Land Registry, SD
(district), and Valuation Department. Field activities would then be conducted, including survey and
adjudication work to issue and register all titles in a village area. Improved methods of investigation,
demarcation and survey would reduce the time to cover a village or group of villages from more than one
year to a seven-month period (including a two-month stakeholder communications period and a one-month
review period at the end). The teams with the landholders, would undertake the necessary demarcation,
adjudication, surveying plan and map drawing, plus the title document and supporting documentation
preparation, to allow it to be delivered to the new registration of titles offices for registration and issuance
to land holders. The integrated approach will be much less costly than the practices used during 1996-99
because it will minimize the number of survey and adjudication visits to the field, minimize the number of
separate steps and times the land holders must be interviewed, and delegate decision making powers to field
teams. The provision of vehicles, modern survey technology, and production incentives will also increase
output rates. The project will improve the quality by increasing the transparency, ensuring lhat women are
involved, and facilitating out-of-court dispute resolution.
The higher-level staff would support and undertake some of the community relations and
communications tasks; supervise the teams in the adjudication and surveying with the appropriate staff,
review parcels in dispute (with advise of the conciliation committee; support the teams in making up title
documentation and plans, and make their own quality management by a nominated person in the party
(though the SD would continue their standard supervision, reviews and checks). They would undertake the
land rights decision-making and the 30-day review process, and deliver the titles to the Registration of Title
Office.
Most of the titling would be systematic, but the project would include sporadic titling in any of the
three project areas where the field teams have initiated work for any state land that is being privatized, and
for any subdivision of existing private lands.
Activities of the titling methods subcomponent would include:
- 33 -



*   Stakeholder communications with landholders, local registry staff, local notaries, local surveyors,
real estate agents, bankers, and other professionals involved in land market activity. This would
include awareness and information sharing through newspaper publicity campaigns, forums,
extension, village meetings, doorstep meetings, letters, and communications with several
community groups, agencies, trade unions, NGOs, community based organizations, and the
landholders themselves. It is also needed with the local notaries, surveyors, bankers, and real
estate brokers. The actual function would be carried by at least two project groups: by a special
project team and the systematic field teams themselves. The types of media would include: radio,
newspapers, news-sheets, brochures, local community methods, and limited regional television.
The project director would start the process with visits at the district, divisional administration
levels as well as necessary with mayors. Then the divisional secretary's staff and the project staff
would take over at the village-level working when they start with the systematic field parties at the
land holder level. They would also hold group meetings with the bankers, the notaries, surveyors,
and brokers. in the selected areas would commence about two months before the systematic field
parties are due to start in an area. Stakeholder communications would be needed at various times
throughout the process including during the 30-day review and appeals period at the end of the
systematic adjudication process.
3   Records searching. Prior to and during survey and most other field activities, special project staff
would systematically search offices of the Land Registry, SD, Valuation Department, LSD,
Agrarian Services Department, and other offices for relevant records and compile these for use in
survey, mapping, and adjudication. These searches may be undertaken under private contract if
the workload becomes too great for adjudication staff.
3   Surveying and mapping would rely mainly on ground based survey methods. In the pilot areas in
the three-year project most areas are bush, jungle, and coconut palm, where the use of air mapping
and remote sensing based methods are not effective. The GPS would be used for survey control.
Paddy areas are in the valley floors and while they are wide, they still best done using ground based
methods with new technologies. To speed up the survey work, more modem equipment is
necessary including more total stations, more GPS systems, and more small field office equipment
including digital mapping computer workstations and plotters. Also necessary are more vehicles
for the field teams and supervisors. Aerial mapping methods for dryland areas would be trialed on
a small scale in PY3, including GPS coupled with total station use and possibly high resolution
satellite imagery. There is an extensive private sector survey industry in Sri Lanka and contracted
teams would be used starting in PY2. Private sector contracting, however, would require contract
management and supervision, and quality control by the govemment. The cadastral maps would
build upon the experience of the 1996 to 1999 pilot project. Maps are now mainly digitally
produced at a scale of 1:2000 showing parcel numbers comers marked, main physical features,
main survey marks, supported by other supporting sheets in table format presenting landholder
information, supporting documentation, and other legal rights information and limited parcel
information. Mapping methods to be tested would include combining the use of GPS and/or total
stations with pen computers to allow automated map production and database entry in the field.
*   Adjudication and dispute resolution would test methods to optimize the use of CTS's capacity,
which is currently limited. At present CTS has about 92 staff at the field level for, demarcation and
investigation and 25 at the assistant commissioner level for adjudication. Under the project one
method to be tested would build upon the 1996-99 experience in the pilot area of Balongoda, where
CTS has used divisional secretary's staff and others to conduct adjudication. Another possible
- 34 -



model might test the use of privately contracted adjudicators. Local people serving in conciliation
boards would assist in the adjudication process, and build on the considerable experience of
mediation boards established under the Mediation Boards Act, No. 72 of 1998.
0   Title issuance. The joint field teams would conclude their work with the actual issuance and
delivery of the titles to the registry offices, after a 30-day review period. The title issuance process
includes several measures to ensure full transparency, e.g., public announcements in newspapers,
issuance at prearranged public village meetings.
Subcomponent lb: Title registry offices will be established using new graduate staff trained for
this purpose. At the start a small physical space in the existing offices of the district secretariat or the
district survey office would be made available for the registration of title functions. This subcomponent
also includes an analysis of the success, viability, and replicability of these arrangements, leading to
recommendations for further institutional and organizational framework for national implernentation.
Subcomponent lc: Land records maintenance in Sri Lanka, complete conversion would
probably take at least 30 years. Therefore the existing document registration system must be maintained
not only to support the existing land market transactions for many decades, but to allow documents to be
preserved to allow them to be used when the conversion does takes place. The project would include
support for urgently needed equipment and other support especially in storage systems (e.g., compressor
shelving systems, and records preservation using modem technologies, to support storage and accessibility
of the valuable state land cadastral plans of the SD). The project also includes the development of a plan to
address records preservation in a more comprehensive manner in the long-term program. As part of this
effort, the Registrar General's Department would undertake a survey of the usage of its deeds archives.
The objective here would be to aim under the long-term program at prioritizing deeds according to usage,
and to applying the rules given in appropriate laws.
Project Component 2 - US$2.69 million
Subcomponent 2a: Legal Framework The project would undertake ongoing activities to
identify existing legal constraints to the operation of efficient, fair and transparent land adrninistration in
Sri Lanka, and develop comprehensive proposals for their correction. This would involve several types of
activities:
*   Amendments, regulations and assistance in operationalprocedures. Project legal experts will
need to assist in completing activities commenced during project preparation with FAO support
and under the auspices of the Australian Agency for Intemational Development's (AusAID)
project. In addition to processing the RTA amendments that have already been drafted, it will also
involve recommendations for the amendment of over 25 related laws that directly affect or are
affected by the introduction of a title registration system. A revised survey act is likely to be
enacted before the project commences. Proposed amendments to the Registration of Documented
Ordinance, LDO, Notaries Ordinance have already been prepared and should be enacted within the
first year of the project. The remaining laws have been reviewed and necessary amendments
identified. A series of regulations and office procedures related to both the RTA Ead the revised
survey act needs to be developed, building on the initial set of gazetted regulations and
recommendations subsequently developed under the FAO support. A final procedhural manual will
be produced in the first half of the second project year.
*   Legal work neededfor private sector involvement, policy reform, and other project
- 35 -



innovations. Related to the previous item, there will be a need to focus on legal measures to
facilitate innovations that may be proposed or tested during the course of the project. For
example, the project should evaluate the legal implications of different approaches to greater
private sector involvement in registry operations. Similarly, there will be a need for the project
to assess the legal dimensions of any proposed policy reforms designed to reduce restrictions
on the marketability of land. The Land Commissioner's Department has already initiated
work to revise the State Lands Ordinance and the LDO in this regard.
*   Designing alternatives to the use of courts. The project would develop viable institutional
alternatives to the use of courts for resolving disputes that arise under the Title Registration
Act. With respect to disputes arising during adjudication, the effective implementation of the
conciliation board concept in the Act could be facilitated by analyzing and learning from the
considerable experience of mediation boards established under the Mediation Boards Act, No.
72 of 1988. With respect to appeals of adjudication or registration decisions under the Act, the
project would assess the feasibility of creating specialized tribunals to deal with land matters,
and in doing so, evaluate the experience of other countries in establishing such bodies.
*   Iterative learning on legal aspects. The project will need to respond to lessons from the field.
Sound law reform should be an iterative process, with periodic attempts to assess the operation
of new laws and regulations, and to use that information to feed back into refinements and
revisions. While this may be conceived of as an integral part of the overall monitoring and
evaluation component of the LIL, it is important to keep several distinctly "legal" issues in
mind while designing these activities. Title registration introduces some significant and
untested doctrinal innovations to property law in Sri Lanka. Examples include concepts such
as the indefeasibility of title, the conclusiveness of the register, state guarantee of title and
various others. As part of subcomponent 2b, the LIL will develop methods of evaluating
whether these concepts are being successfully assimilated into Sri Lankan legal culture, and the
extent to which they have been understood, misunderstood, distorted, or ignored.
*   Training, continuing education, and extension on legal aspects of title registration. The
success of the adoption of a title system will depend in some significant measure on the
doctrinal changes mentioned in the previous paragraph being understood by judges, lawyers,
adrninistrators and users of the system. Under subcomponent 2b, the LIL will assist this
learning process by supporting (a) the development of written training materials for lawyers,
judges and registrars on law, including a distillation of comparative jurisprudence from other
title jurisdictions; (b) the development of lay person guides (perhaps as insertions in more
general guides on the system overall) to the legal aspects of title registration; and (c) in
collaboration with the Bar Association of Sri Lanka, the development of courses or seminars
for practitioners on title registration law as part of the Bar Association's program of continuing
legal education.
*   Legal aspects of organizational development. During project preparation and the life of the
project, legal experts would assist in determining the legal advantages or disadvantages of
different institutional options for project administration, such as creation of an authority.
Subcomponent 2b: Policy formation and project-wide learning. The project would include
activities to formulate policies and to develop national-level stakeholder communication. More specifically,
they would comprise:
- 36 -



*   Policy formulation will include de jure and de facto actions to lift market restictions on leases
and freeholds for parcels currently under the LDO and related legislation in the three project
areas. It will also include studies (costed under subcomponent 2c), workshops, dialogue, and
pilot reform activities on: (a) analysis of socioeconomic impacts of removing land market
restrictions and land titling rural areas; (b) analysis of socioeconomic impacts of land market
reforms and land titling in urban areas; and (c) analysis of fees, taxes, and cost recovery
strategy, and guarantee of title. The activity of the Land Commissioner's Department will be
progressively affected by the change in the tenure system, particularly through the relations of
existing restrictions and the resolution of encroachments on state land. This will enable the
Land Commissioner's Department to update their records and develop an appropriate land
management strategy for the long-term program. The project would also include efforts to
ensure that the project implementing agencies participate in the ongoing policy dialogue related
to land use management, a dialogue which involves a large number of agencies that are not
involved in titling.
*   National-level stakeholder communications. To be effective dissemination of project
information has to be based on an understanding of the questions and perceptiions that direct
stakeholders and other parts of the public have formed. Information and public awareness,
therefore, have to be based on two-way communication. A user group has been formed to get
feedback from stakeholders and to keep them informed of project progress and plans, and they
will continue to meet. The general public will be targeted through a media campaign and series
of local meetings, bimonthly bulletins, pamphlets, and explanatory papers. In addition to the
stakeholder communications activities that would be an integral part of the titling activities
under subcomponent la, the project would also include support for professional assistance in
publicity and media campaigns to educate the wider public about titling, and as well as the
development of strong communication channels with key stakeholders such as banking and
legal professionals. Some stakeholder communications would also take place as part of the
social assessment activities undertaken as part of monitoring and evaluation clescribed below.
Subcomponent 2c: Organizational development, project management, and program planning.
*   Structural rationalization and staffing. The project would test the project organization
arrangements as a mechanism for interagency collaboration, and explore options for the
long-term organizational arrangement. It would also include testing and analysis of the use of
staff incentive payments, develop a long-term staffing plan, and develop procedures for
ongoing interagency coordination.
*  Human resource development. Training programs would include specially designed in-service
training courses for project staff; training of other project participants such as conciliation
committee members; NGO active in stakeholder communications and monitoring, etc.; study
tours, workshops, international seminars, etc. Training would cover a wide r ange of topics
including: legal aspects, community relations and awareness training, demarcation, cadastral
survey as necessary, adjudication, facilitation of dispute settlement, working with conciliation
committees, documentation requirements and standards, field office organization, computer use
(for a limited number of persons), reporting requirements, and quality assurance and team
management. The students and outsiders would evaluate the training. Lessons and
innovations would be introduced through the training program. A draft manual would be
developed over the period of the three-year project and finalized for the possible follow-on
- 37 -



program. The project would also develop a long-term plan for human resource development.
*   Information management strategy. During the three-year project, an IT/informnation
management strategy would be developed for the project and for all project agencies. This
strategy would guide the IT used in the project including digital mapping, and data bases. It
would include office procedures and where a method of assessing IT can help. Such a strategy
with standards and guidelines would support individual agencies to develop their own
information systems independently though optimized and information sharing made possible
between them because of: (a) agreed data management standards and definitions; (b)
institutional responsibilities for data updating agreed and clarified; (c) technology agreements
made between agencies; (d) cost and fee agreements signed between the agencies; and (e) an
assigned IT coordination office responsible for ensuring the implementation of the strategy and
that agencies use the standards. It should also include a review of existing office practice and
integrate revised practice with new technology.
*  Monitoring and evaluation would comprise: (a) performance assessment of project activities,
based on indicators outlined in log frame and on learning and innovation expectations, (b)
evaluations of field methods to identify lessons learned and most appropriate options for the
future program, (c) follow-up impact and participatory social assessments in project areas, and
assessments in new areas covering all major tenure arrangements, agroecological zones, and
socioeconomic situations not covered in the initial three-year project (with special attention to
areas such as in the large dry-zone colonization schemes, locations directly affected by the
ethnic conflict, and locations with larger scale encroachment and to topics as conflict impact
assessment and gender), and (d) design of monitoring and evaluation for long-term program
(including cost-benefit analysis), and measurement of baseline data. Activities would include
surveys, data analysis, participatory rural assessment exercises, and workshops. There is a
designated officer in charge of the learning and reporting related to each project subcomponent.
*   Project management and administration. The project would provide an opportunity for
project staff to develop hands-on experience in project management, and include support to
build these management skills. The project also would include support for financial
management and for other administrative tasks such as procurement and progress reporting,
building the management and administrative capacity needed for a large scale investment
program.
*  Program planning. The project would include support needed to prepare a PIP for a
follow-on project.
- 38 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
SRI LANKA: Land Titling and Related Services
Sn Lanka
Land Titling and Related Services                                                               (USS '000)
omponents Project Cost Summary                                                                              %     %
Foreign   B
Local    Foreign     Total   Exchange  C
A. Field Operation Methods Testing and Leaming
Titling Methods                                                            2,131.7    1,167.7    3,299.4      35
Land Tttles Registry Offices                                                  66.0      43.2      109.3       40
Land Records Maintenance                                                      70.5      99.4      169.9       59
Subtotal Field Operation Methods Testing and Leaming                         2,268.2    1,310.4   3,578.6       37
B. Development of Institutional Framework and Capacity
Legal Framework                                                              20.3        7.2       27.5       26
Policy Formation and Project Wide Leaming                                    122.2      89.6      211.8       42
Organizational Development, Project Management and Program Planning          744.4    1,258.7   2,003.1       63
Subtotal Development of Institutional Framework and Capacity                   886.9    1,355.5    2,242.4      60
otal BASELINE COSTS,                                                        3,155.1    2,665.9    5,821.0      46
Physical Contingencies                                                      219.8      225.1     444.9       51
Price Contingencies                                                          336.9     178.3      515.2       35
otal PROJECT COSTS                                                          3,711.9    3,069.3   6,781.2       45
- 39 -



Sri Lanka
Land Titling and Related Services                                          (USS '000)
xpenditure Accounts Project Cost Summary                                                %      % Total
Foreign   Base
Local    Foreign     Total   Exchange  Costs
I. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works                                           34.6       10.8       45.4       24        1
B. Goods
1. Vehicles
Vehicles                                            254.2      335.3     589.5        57      10
2. Equipment
Office Equipment                                      7.7       59.1      66.8        88       1
Computers                                            27.7      221.7     249.4        89       4
Software and Support Equipment                       18.7      143.8     162.5        88       3
Survey Equipment                                     91.6      508.7     600.2        85      10
Subtotal Equipment                                    145.6      933.3    1,078.9       87      19
3. Furniture
Office Furniture                                     28.1       24.0      52.1       46        1
Archive Furniture                                    13.5       11.5      25.0        46        -
Subtotal Furniture                                     41.5       35.5      77.0        46       1
4. Supplies and Materials                              37.2      141.8      179.0       79        3
5. Beacons                                             25.9        3.0      28.9        10
Subtotal Goods                                          504.5    1,448.8    1,953.3       74      34
C. Allowances, Incentives, & Transport                  733.6      134.0     867.6        15      15
D. Service Contracts
Photomaps                                               8.9        3.0      11.9        25        -
Survey and Demarcation                                228.5      125.3     353.7        35       6
Rent of Premises for Project Work                     179.7          -      179.7        -       3
Temporary Staff                                        79.2          -       79.2        -        1
Searches                                                5.7          -       5.7
Subtotal Service Contracts                              501.9      128.3     630.2        20      11
E. Technical Assistance and Training
Foreign Technical Assistance                              -      780.7     780.7       100      13
Local Technical Assistance                            177.8          -     177.8         -       3
PIU Contract Staffing                                 214.7          -     214.7         -       4
Community Relations and Communications                 71.3          -      71.3                  I
Studies                                                48.7          -      48.7         -       1
Local Training                                         58.4       17.4      75.8        23       1
Intemational Study Tours                                  -      105.0     105.0       100       2
Workshops (Bank)                                       49.9       14.9       64.8       23        1
Subtotal Technical Assistance and Training              620.8      917.9    1,538.7       60      26
Total Investment Costs                                   2,395.4    2,639.8    5,035.3      52       87
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Existing Staff                                       666.0          -      666.0        -       11
B. Civil Works 0 & M                                      4.6        0.8        5.5       15        -
C. Vehicle 0 & M for Registry Operation                  11.4        2.1       13.5       15        -
D. Equipment 0 & M                                       65.7       12.0       77.7       15        1
E. Telecommunications Fees                               11.9       11.2      23.1        48        -
Total Recurrent Costs                                     759.7       26.1      785.7        3       13
otal BASELINE COSTS                                     3,155.1    2,665.9    5,821.0      46      100
Physical Contingencies                                  219.8      225.1     444.9        51       8
Price Contingencies                                     336.9      178.3     515.2        35       9
otal PROJECT COSTS                                      3,711.9    3,069.3    6,781i2      45      116
- 40 -



Annex 4: Cost Effectiveness Analysis Summary
SRI LANKA: Land Titling and Related Services
Present Value of Flows                 FRa b           -
Economic Analysis Financial Analysis
.     -- . Taxes       i      ; 
Project Costs                 $5.0 million        $5.6 nillion    $0.8 million            0
If the difference between the present value of financial and economic flows is large and cannot be explained by
taxes and subsidies, a brief explanation of the difference is warranted, e.g. "The difference between financial and
economic costs arises from price controls on the inputs."
Summary of benefits and costs:
Project benefits: The benefits of the project comprise the assessment and development of the
methods, framework, and capacity for making sustainable and comprehensive improvements in the land
administration system (parcel based cadastre, land titling, and title registry). These benefits are structured
in two intended outputs:
(a) models to improve systematic titling and registration operationally tested, and lessons applied; and
(b) institutional (including legal, policy, conmnunications, organizational, management, and planning
aspects) framework and capacity developed.
The project aims to build the foundation for a long-term program which would hopefully follow the
project, and which would contribute to higher productivity, efficiency, cost and time effectiveness, and
public confidence in land administration. If the project does not fully achieve the minimum institional
reforms and lead to a long-term program, the benefit would mainly be in the form of a leaming exercise,
since there would be serious questions regarding the sustainability of the project-created assets such as
titles, title registries, and use of new skills. The small size of the LIL limits the risk exposure of such an
outcome.
Projected benefits of intended follow-on long-term program. This follow-on large-scale program is
envisaged to result in a fully developed and functioning system of land administration that is fair, efficient,
and sustainable, and that would encompass the entire country in the next 15 to 25 years. It aims at:
(a) increasing tenure security for farmers and other landholders, with associated improvements in
capital investments, land use, access to credit, etc.;
(b) efficient land transactions and administration, with associated savings of public expenditures, and
transaction and opportunity costs of land administration clients;
(c) providing to farmers and other landholders of greater control over land management through a full
- 41 -



range of market choices, with associated increase in value of affected land parcels estimated at 50
percent (based on the land markets study findings) and associated improvements in land use;
(d) full cost recovery over the long-term while also keeping fees low enough to ensure inclusive and
sustained participation in the official title registration system; and
(e) land administration services viewed as fair to all political factions, social classes, ethnic groups,
and gender categories.
Ultimately these benefits would result in increased productivity and improved governance.
Quantitative analysis of benefits. The institutional development nature of the project precludes
meaningful economic and financial quantification of the project benefits. For example, the design focuses
on the development of efficient titling methods and models rather than maximizing per parcel output within
a fixed cost. At this early stage, the learning process, establishing new organizational frameworks, and
patterns of behavior are more important than the total titling volume. However, the project includes the
development of a detailed monitoring and evaluation framework and baseline measurements which will
eventually enable quantitative economic assessment of benefits of the envisaged long-term program. Based
on the experience of successful land titling projects in other parts of the world, the benefits of the long-term
program are likely to be substantial--land titling projects elsewhere have resulted in rates of return on
full-scale implementation of about 34 percent (World Bank, Thailand Land Titling Project 1991-94), 17
percent (USAID, Honduras) and 12.3 percent (World Bank, Guatemala, estimated).
Fiscal impacts. The models created under the project are expected to significantly reduce the units
costs and time periods of various land administration activities, and thus make a large-scale program
financially feasible. For example, the project aims to reduce the cost per parcel of systematic titling from
$11 0  per parcel preproject to under $40 per parcel. The reduction in per parcel cost would reduce the
prospective total cost of title registration in Sri Lanka by around $560 million (undiscounted). It would
also reduce the time taken to complete the process to about seven months per parcel, enabling completion of
a full-scale program within 20 years. The models are also expected to resolve disputes, reducing the
portion of parcels with unresolved disputes after adjudication from 50 percent to 5 percent, and aiming at
less than I percent of the parcels titles being subject to legal challenge. Boundary and other land disputes
have been common in Sri Lanka and frequently take decades to resolve in court. The models and
framework developed under the project should enable a significant reduction in the public and private costs
of such disputes, and the inclusion of disadvantaged and vulnerable clients who otherwise would not have
access to legal redress. The up-front subsidy of titling helps to ensure high participation of landholders on
a voluntary basis, and titling projects in other countries (such as Thailand) have demonstrated that land
administration fees can provide full cost recovery over the long-term. The project supports policy analysis
on land administration fees which may result in policy reform with fiscal impacts--the extent of these
impacts will depend on the findings of the analysis and associated policy reforms. The small-scale land
administration operations created under the project are also likely to increase the accuracy of land valuation
and hence result in an increase in stamp duty revenue.
Preproject and without project situation. A further appreciation of the incremental project
benefits can be derived from an understanding of the current pre-project situation and projections of the
likely without project scenario. Existing issues include the following:
*   Land Settlement Department staff lack skills in adjudication, for example, existing information is
not sufficiently used, third party interests are not informed (hence disputes are created and rights
- 42 -



are not protected);
*   the legal framework for land titling is inadequate;
*   the organizational framework for title registries is not efficient, effective, or sustainable;
*   no published results, workshops, or stakeholder discussions have reviewed progress of ongoing
titling activities, either in terms of implementation experience or socioeconomic impacts;
*   little coordination between survey and adjudication staff has resulted in multiple visits which waste
government budgets and client's time;
*   coverage has been incomplete with 50 percent of cases referred for further investigation;
* coverage has been limited to rural areas only; no piloting in economically significant urban areas;
* prospects for large-scale financing of systematic titling unlikely;
* lack of the use of modem and efficient survey and information technology for efficiency and
productivity gains in titling;
*   absence of the involvement of private sector capacity and skills to supplement government capacity
and skills to speed up title registration and coverage;
* no motivation to carry out a continuing land related policy reform dialogue; and
* human resource development essential for an efficient long-term land titling program not
addressed.
Without the project, most of these conditions would be likely to continue, with the possible
exception of coordination between survey and adjudication staff, which is beginning to improve as a result
of project preparation discussions, and the legal framework, where advice has been provided with
Bank/FAO support. Without the LIL project, the unresolved problems would probably prevent the
achievement of a high quality, long-term systematic titling program. In fact the festering problems would
be ultimately likely to undermine the reputation of titling in general, the prospects of ever reinitiating titling
in the future, and the prospects of ever achieving a well functioning land administration system in the
country and the other intended benefits of a long-term program.
Field visits during project preparation have indicated that the public is extremely receptive to titling
and has many ideas on what to do once they have clear title (usually they needed to know where the
boundaries were or a document that they can use for collateral for loans). These visits have clearly
demonstrated that titling should proceed, only better and more quickly. Delay or cancellation of titling at
this stage would be serious. The current government program has demonstrated that titling is beneficial to
the rural community, but that the government does not have the capacity or resources to undertake the
program. If the LUL project is delayed or dropped, the government may give up altogether. If the
government carries on without a LIL, the problems would be likely to continue and to worsen in magnitude,
making long-term success highly unlikely.
Costs. The institutional development nature of the project benefits means that the most of the costs
should be attributable to the future large-scale, long-term program. More than 27 percent of the costs are
for technical assistance, training, and workshops directly fostering the development of human capital, while
the 30 percent of the costs for goods is mostly for items that will be used for years beyond'the three year
period of the LIL. Almost 27 percent of the total costs are for technical services, allowances, incentives,
and transport which directly contribute to the creation of two types of permanent assets: the individual
titles themselves, and the knowledge of improved methodologies in the form of new models for titling
- 43 -



operations. Keeping the total project within the $5 million IDA credit ceiling and $6.9 million total costs
limits the total risk exposure, should the project fail to lead to a follow-on titling program.
Main Assumptions:
Annex 1 lists the critical project assumptions, and Annex 11 provides a detailed risk analysis.
Cost-effectiveness indicators:
Cost effectiveness has played a major role in detennining the specific design of the project activities. The
analysis of project alternatives (see Annex 11) rejected more expensive and complicated alternatives of a
broader scope project concept, a larger scale project, and also rejected project concepts which lacked the
essential learning and reform elements which would be essential preconditions for achieving the benefits
that would stem from a successful long-term program. The unit costs are appropriate given the local
conditions, comparable with ongoing Bank-financed projects, and within standard government budget
norms. The project costs as a whole are less that the total costs of the only other LIL in land administration
(Philippines - Land Administration and Management Project). The project makes use of international
experience when establishing performance indicators for titling models (for specifics see paragraph on
fiscal impacts above and PAD Annex 1).
These indicators should compare the project with a suitable comparator, e.g. unit project costs of alternative
project designs or international standards.
- 44 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
SRI LANKA: Land Titling and Related Services
The costs and financing are estimated in "project years" which do not correspond to the
govermment fiscal years which are equivalent to calendar years. The project fmnancing would take place
during four government fiscal years, beginning about half-way through calendar 2001.
(US$ million)
Implementation Period   2001/2002 2002/2003 2003/2004
Project Costs
Investrnent Costs            2.21      2.65       1.01
Recurrent Costs              0.23      0.56      0.12
Total Project Costs          2.44      3.21       1.13
IDA                          1.83      2.25       0.93
Government                   0.61      0.96      0.21
Total Project Financing      2.44      3.21       1.13
-45 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
SRI LANKA: Land Titling and Related Services
Procurement
All civil works financed under the project amounting to about $52,000 are small-scale renovation
of existing building of the LSD, three field offices and the three land titles registry offices. The location of
these buildings are widely spread.
The procurement of goods would consist of: (a) vehicles ($650,000 ); (b) office equipment
($75,000); (c) computer equipment and software ($450,000); (d) survey equipment ($665,000); (e)
furniture ($90,000); (f) beacons ($35,000); and (g) other small supplies ($200,000).
The service contracts would consist of: (a) production of photomaps ($76,000); and (b) private
sector survey and demarcation survey ($430,000); (c) rent of premises ($230,000), (d) temporary staff in
the form of field helpers and office assistants ($102,000), and (e) contracts to search land records ($7,000).
The allowances, incentives, and transport ($1,005,000) would cover the costs needed to implement
the project. Incentive payments would be paid only for the duration of the project on top of the regular
salaries. Allowances and transport would include normal allowances at standard government rates, as well
as public transport fares, vehicle rentals, and a comprehensive fee for government and private vehicle use
based on distance traveled for project operations multiplied by a unit price per km covering cost of vehicle
fuel use, maintenance, depreciation, etc. All of these costs are associated with creating an asset (titles and
the entire cadastre) and therefore can be considered investment costs in economic terms. Under this
arrangement these costs are not recurrent--they are not needed to "maintain" the title/cadastre asset.
The consultants and training would be required for: (a) technical assistance and studies
($1,3024,200); (b) project implementation unit contracted specialists ($290,000); and (b) study tours,
seminars, and workshops ($310,000).
Preparations of procurement schedules, and all international competitive bidding (ICB), national
competitive bidding (NCB), and international shopping (IS) procurement will be done by the project
management unit (PMU). Procurement of works, goods and services under the project would be carried
out in accordance with the provisions of the Bank!s, "Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and
IDA Credits", January 1995, revised January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999.
Procurement of consultants would be in accordance with the provision of the "Guidelines: Selection and
Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers", January 1997 revised September 1997 and
January 1999. The procurement methods applicable to various expenditure categories are summarized in
Table A. Procurement thresholds and prior review requirements are outlined in Table B. Procurement of
works, goods, and services would be carried out as follows.
-46 -



Procurement methods
Works: Given the nature of the works and the area of spread the renovation works of the building
would be awarded under seven separate contracts, each estimated to cost less than $35,000 equivalent,
following NCB procedures acceptable to IDA.
Goods: Motorbikes and three-wheelers estimated to cost $20,000 would be procured following
national shopping procedures in accordance with paras. 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. Any urgent
requirements of other vehicles estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent may be procured under
IS/national shopping (NS) procedures in accordance with paras. 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines, with prior
approval from IDA. All other vehicles estimated to cost around $570,000 equivalent will be procured
under a single ICB package. Specialized survey equipment which has a limited number of suppliers and
which is estimated to cost around $350,000 will be procured through IS. Computers and survey equipment
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent in aggregate, and less than $50,000 equivalent per contract
would be procured under NS procedures. Standard software packages and IT support estimated to cost
around $40,000 will be procured by direct contracting from the manufactures/agents. All the other
computers and survey equipment estimated to cost around $620,000 equivalent would be procured under
two ICB packages; one for computers and the other for survey equipment. Urgent requirements of office
equipment estimated to cost less than $25,000 equivalent may be procured under NS procedure with prior
approval from IDA. Other office equipment estimated to cost around $50,000 equivalent will be procured
under a single NCB contract. Both the office furniture and archive furniture will be procured following
two NCB contracts. Furniture estimated to cost less than $20,000 equivalent may be procured under NS
procedures with prior approval from IDA. NS procedures will be used to procure beacons. Other small
supplies and materials estimated to cost $210,000 in the aggregate and less than $20,000 equivalent per
contract shall be procured through NS procedures.
Services: Production of photomaps and associated survey (for the testing of photogranumetric
methods) estimated to cost $70,000 would be carried out under force account by the Survey Department, as
they are the only organization in Sri Lanka capable of photomap production. Private surveyors for survey
and demarcation would be contracted based on work specifications under local shopping. Rent of premises
estimated to cost $210,000 will procured under direct contracting. Temporary staff in the form of field
helpers and office assistants estimated to cost $95,000, and contracts to search land records estimated to
cost $7,000 will be procured through local shopping procedures.
Consultant Services: Selection of consultancy firms for technical assistance estimated to cost
$50,000 equivalent or more would follow quality and cost based selection (QCBS) procedure. Technical
assistance and study consultancies estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent may be selected following
selection based on consultant qualifications (SBCQ) procedure in accordance with paragraph 3.7 of the
guidelines, or selection under a fixed cost (SFC) procedure in accordance with para. 3.5 of the Guidelines.
Selection of individual consultants for technical assistance would follow Section V of the Guidelines. Key
specialists for the PMU would be employed following procedures acceptable to IDA.
Procurement methods (Table A)
-47 -



Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
Sri Lanka
Land Titling and Related Services                                  Procurement Method
rocurement Arrangements                        International    National
(US$ 000)                                        Competitive   Competitive                    Consulting
Bidding       Bidding        Other         Services        N.B.F.      Total
Civil Works (Office building rehabilitation)                 -         48.8           3.3               -            -         52
(39.0)        (2.6)                                    (41
Goods
Vehicles                                               584.8            -          65.0               -            -        649
(332.6)                     (37.0)                                   (369
Office equipment                                           -         51.1          21.9               -            -         73
(40.9)       (17.5)                                    (58
Computers, and other IT                                334.8            -         117.8 1.2           _            _        452
(297.0)                   (104.5)                                    (401
Survey equipment                                       303.5            -         362.1 1.3           _           _         665
(257.2)                    (306.9)                                   (564
Furniture                                                  -         69.7          17.4               -           -          87
(55.8)       (13.9)                                    (69
Beacons                                                    -            -          33.4               -           -          33
(26.7)                                   (26
Other small supplies                                       -            -         202.4               -            -        202
(161.9)                                   (161
Subtotal                                             1223.2         120.8         820.0             0.0         0.0        2163
(886.9)       (96.7)      (668.4)            (0.0)       (0.0)     (1,652
Service Contracts
Photomaps                                                  -            -          13.7 4                                    13
(10.9)                                   (10
Survey and Demarcation                                     -            -         405.4  4-                                 405
(324.3)                                   (324
Rent of Premises                                           -            -         208.8 2             _           _         208
(167.0)                                   (167
Temporary staff                                            -            -          92.0               -            -         92
(73.6)                                    (73
Land records searches                                      -            -           6.6               -            -          6
(5.3)                                     (5
Subtotal                                                 0.0          0.0         726.5             0.0         0.0         726
(0.0)        (0.0)      (581.2)            (0.0)       (0.0)      (581
Allowances, Incentives, and Transport                        -             -       1,005.5              -            -       1,005
(804.4)                                   (804
Consultants, Training, and Workshops
Technical Assistance and Contracted Specialists            -             -            -         1,612.3 s                  1,324
(1,612.3)                (1,324
Training and Workshops                                     -             -        308.5 1.2.          _                     308
(308.5)                                   (308
Subtotal                                                 0.0          0.0         308.5          1612.3          0.0       1632
(0.0)        (0.0)       (308.5)       (1,612.3)       (0.0)     (1,632
Recurrent                                                    -             *            -               .       912.3         912
otal                                                  1,223.2         169.6       2,863.8         1,612.3       912.3       6,781
(886.9)      (135.7)     (2,365.2)       (1,612.3)           -     (5.000
Note: Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by World Bank
1/ National shopping
2/ Direct contracting
31 International shopping
4/ Force account
5/ Quality and Cost Based Selection, Selection Under Fixed Cost, Selection Based on Consultant Qualifications, and Individual Consultants.
-48 -



Prior Review Thresholds
Civil Works: IDA's prior approval would be required for first two contracts awarded following
NCB procedure.
Goods: IDA's prior approval would be required for all ICB contracts, for first two NCB
contracts, and for all international shopping of specialized survey equipment.
Consultant Services: Contracts estimated to cost $50,000 equivalent or more would be subjected
to prior review by IDA in accordance with paras. 2 and 3 of Appendix I to the Consultant Guidelines.
IDA would review the terms of reference cost estimates, and short list for all other contracts.
Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Expenditure             Contract Value Threshold          Procurement             Contracts Subjected to Prior Review
Category                ($ thousands)                     Method
I      Civil works             All contracts estimated to cost less    NCB               The first two contracts
than $20,000                                             shall be prior reviewed by IDA in accordance
with paras. 2 and 3 of
Appendix I to the
Procurement Guidelines.
2      Goods
(a) Vehicles            >= $50,000 per contract           ICB                     The first two contracts'
shall be prior reviewed by IDA in accordance
with paras. 2 and 3 of
Appendix I to the
Procurement Guidelines.
All other contracts               IS/NS                  Post Review
(b) Office equipment    $50,000 or less per contract      NCB                     The first two contracts
shall be prior reviewed by IDA in accordance
with paras. 2 and 3 of
Appendix I to the
Procurement Guidelines.
$20,000 or less per contract      IS/NS                  Post Review
(c) Computers and      >- $50,000 per contract            ICB                    The first two contracts
survey equipment                                                                  shall be prior reviewed by IDA in accordance
with paras. 2 and 3 of
Appendix I to the
Procuremnent Guidelines.
Specialized survey equipment      IS                     Specifications, quotations, and contract award
shall be prior reviewed by IDA
All other contracts               IS/NS                  Post Review
(d) Furniture           >= $20,000 per contract           NCB                     The first two contracts
shall be prior reviewed by IDA in accordance
with paras. 2 and 3 of
Appendix I to the
Procurement Guidetnses.
All other contracts               ISINS                  Post Review
- 49 -



(f) Beacons and other  All contracts                    IS/NS                   Post Review
small suppliers
3.     Service Contract
(e) Photomaps                                           Force account           Post review
(b) Private            All contracts                     National shopping      Work specifications and cost estimates shall be
demarcation survey                                                              prior reviewed
(c) Rent of premises   All contracts                     Direct contracting     Post review
(d) Temporary staff    All contracts                     National shopping      Post review
and records searches
4      Allowances,                                              Force account          Post review
Incentives, and
Transport
5      Consultancy
Services
Studies, technical     Firms:                           QCBS                    Prior review in accordance with paras. 2 and 3
assistance             Contracts estimated to cost                              of
$50,000 equivalent or more                              Appendix I to the Consultancy Guidelines.
Prior review of consultants contracts shall be
govemed by the provisions of paras. (i), (ii),
and (iii) below.
(a) With respect to each
contract for the employment of consulting
finns
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000or
more, procedures set forth in paragraphs 1,2,
[other than the third subpara. of para. 2 (a) ]
and 5
of Appendix I to the Consultant Guidelines
shall apply.
(b) With respect to each contract for
employment of consulting firms estimated to
cost the equivalent of $S50,000 or more, but
less than the equivalent of $200,000, the
procedures set forth in paras. 1,2, [other than
the second
subpara. of para. 2 (a) ] and 5 of Appendix I to
the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
Firms:                           SBCQ or SFC            TOR, cost estimates and
Contracts estimated to cost less                        short-list shall be prior
than $50,000 equivalent                                 reviewed.
Individual consultants           IC                     TOR, cost estimates and
Contracts estimated to cost                             short-list shall be prior
$30,000 or less                                         reviewed.
Training and                                             Direct contracting and    Post review
workshops                                                NS
Financial Manaeement
Financial management arrangements: The Secretary of the MOLDMEA will be responsible for
the implementation of the project. A project coordinator, who will be supported by a team  of professionals,
- 50 -



including a financial management specialist (FMS), will lead the implementation efforts. In addition two
critical agencies, namely, the SD, and the LSD, will also be involved in the implementation of certain
activities of the project.
Internal controls: The financial regulations (FRs) of the GOSL will provide the internal control
framework for managing project finances. The FRs, which are well established and documented, cover
almost every aspect of financial administration and will provide necessary safeguards for ensuring orderly
and efficient conduct of project activities. Extracts of applicable sections of the FRs have been
incorporated in Annex 14 of the Borrower's PIP. A review of the FRs can be found in the Country Profile
of the Financial Accountability and in a Country Financial Accountability Assessment study carried out by
Bank consultants in 1999.
Accounting system: Separate set of accounts will be maintained for recording all financial
transactions of the project on a cash basis of accounting. The chart of accounts developed for the project
will facilitate recording of project expenditure by financing source, disbursement category, project
components, and expenditure type and will also enable production of the quarterly PMRs as per the agreed
formats.
Coordination with SD and LSD: As per the proposed implementation arrangeme,nts of the
project, the SD and LSD will directly pay for certain types of project expenditure. On a monthly renewable
imprest basis, the MOLDMEA's FMS will advance funds to SD and LSD, and record the expenses on
receipt of the monthly statements of expenditure reports from the two agencies.
Computerization: The MOLDMEA will take necessary action to identify and/or modify suitable
software for computerizing the project's accounting and reporting systems by July 31, 2001.
Staffing: The FMS will supervise the financial management aspect of the project and will be
responsible for ensuring timely recording and reliable reporting of all financial transactions. The FMS will
work closely with the accounting staff of the SD and LSD, other project staff of MOLDMEA, and with the
World Bank. The terms of reference of the FMS is available in the project files. The IDA reviewed the
qualifications of the FMS and concurred with his appointment. The secretary of MOLDMEA, will be
responsible for assigning support staff to the FMS, as deemed necessary.
Auditing: The project accounts will be audited by the Auditor General of Sri Lanka. The terms of
reference for the project has been developed and is available in the project files. The PMU will be
responsible for submitting to IDA: (a) annual audited project financial statements, within six months after
the end of each fiscal year; and (b) annual and semiannual management letters issued by the Auditor
General on the specific items mentioned in the auditor's TOR, within six months and three months,
respectively, after the end of the period.
Financial Manaeement Action Plan:
1. Computerization of the Project Accounting and Reporting System    - Target Date: July 31, 2001
- 51 -



Disbursement
Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)
Allocation of Credit Proceeds: The disbursement categories to be used for the project and
allocations of the credit proceeds amongst these categories are given in the table below.
Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Expenditure Category                    US$      Financing Percentage
million
I. Civil Works                           0.04    100$ of foreign expenditure
80% of local expenditure
2. Goods                                 1.49     100% of foreign expenditure
100% of local expenditure (ex-factory cost) and
80% of local expenditure for other items procured
locally
3. Consultant Services and Training      1.73    100% (net of taxes)
4. Service Contracts                     0.52    80%
5. Allowances Incentives, and Transport  0.72    80%
6. Unallocated                           0.50
Total                                    5.00
Special Account
The project would adopt the PMR-based disbursement method from the beginning and all disbursements
would be channeled through the Special Account (SA).
Project Management Reports: The MOLDMEA will submit the quarterly PMRs to the IDA,
within 45 days of the end of the quarter, for receiving advances in the SA. The PMRs will follow the
formats given in the project financial management manual, exposure draft, and will be finalized and agreed
upon during credit negotiations.
Special Account (SA): The MOLDMEA will be responsible for opening and operating a SA at
the Central Bank of Sri Lanka according to terms and conditions acceptable to the IDA. The SA will be
denominated in US Dollars. The amount of advance in the SA will be based on the six-month forecast as
reported in the PMR and should not, at any given time, exceed the equivalent of $500,000.
Retroactive Financing: To assist the GOSL with prompt execution of Bank-financed operations,
the credit will retroactively finance IDA's share of eligible project expenditures paid for by the GOSL prior
to the credit signing date. Therefore, payments made for eligible project expenditures before the date of the
Credit Agreement but after December 15, 2000, in respect of disbursement categories 1 through 5 can be
claimed under the Credit, subject to an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of $500,000.
- 52 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
SRI LANKA: Land Titling and Related Services
Projoct -biLh  .         lnn.l
Time taken to prepare the project (months)       12                           29
First Bank mission (identification)              04/19/98                     04/19/98
Appraisal mission departure                      04/20/99                     09/05/2000
Negotiations                                     02/08/2001                   02/08/2001
Planned Date of Effectiveness                    06/30/2001
Prepared by:
Ministry of Land Development & Minor Export Agriculture (formerly Ministry of Agriculture & Lands)
Preparation assistance:
PHRD Grant TF025284:       Sri Lanka: A Study of the Land Market
PHRD Grant TF025223:      Sri Lanka: A Study of the Land Market, and
Short-term Specialists in PMU during preparation
Benchmark Survey on Project Areas
PHRD Grant TF027164:      Report on Organizational Arrangements for Program Implementation,
and International Land Administration Specialist
PHRD Grant TF027059:      Stakeholder workshops during preparation
Netherlands Trust Fund:   International Land Policy Economist
FAO                       Review of Land-Related Legislation
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                     Speciality
Jessica Mott                      Task Leader
Nihal Fernando                    Co-task Leader
Lynn Holstein                     Land Administration Specialist
John W. Bruce                     Legal Counsel and Land Administration Specialist
Julitta Rasiah                    Financial Management Officer
Jayantha De Mel                   Procurement Specialist
Geeta Sethi                       Economist
Per Egil Wam                      Social Development Specialist
Sasanka Perera                    Social Development Specialist
Geraldine Burnett                 Program Assistant
Andrea Ruiz-Esparza               Program Assistant
Sunith Pilapitiya                 Environmental Specialist
Mohammed Nawaz                    Legal Counsel
Ivonna Kratynski                  Disbursement Officer
Cora Shaw                         Peer Reviewer for Land Administration and Economics
A.A. Wijetunga                    External Reviewer for Land Administration Aspects
S.T. Hettige                      Extemal Reviewer for Social Development Aspects
- 53 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
SRI LANKA: Land Titling and Related Services
A. Project Implementation Plan
Project Implementation Plan, June 2000 draft, December 2000 updated draft, and February 2001 final
report
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Correspondance during Appraisal (September 2000 - January 2001)
Aide Memoire dated March 14, 1999, including Mission Notes:
* Schedule of Mission Agreements
* Updated Project Information Document
* Features of the Project Concept, Logical Framework, and Risk Assessment
* Comments on Land Administration Aspects
3   Comments on Economic and Social Development Aspects
3   Comments on Financial Management
3 Comments on Procurement
3 Comments on Cofinancing Arrangements
Aide Memoire dated November 20, 1998, including Mission Notes
3 List of persons met and places visited
3   Updated Project Information Document
3   Revised Logical Framework
3 Learning and Innovation Expectations
3 Legal Considerations
3   Land Administration Considerations
3 Financial and Project Management Considerations
3 Social Development Considerations
* Economic Considerations
Final Project Concept Document, dated September 29, 1998
*   Aide Memoire dated May 19, 1998 including attachments
* List of persons met and places visited
* Draft Logical Framework for 25 Year Program and 3 Year Project
* List of Project Preparation Steps and Arrangements
* Technical and Policy Considerations
C. Other
Report on the Benchmark Socio-economic Survey and Social Analysis, December.2000 (prepared
by Hector Kaobbekaduwa Agrarian Research and Training Institute with PHRD funding)
Review of Land Related Legislation of Sri Lanka (FAO: John Lindsay and Tony Lamb, covering
- 54 -



analysis during 1998-2000)
Government progress reports dated 1/05/99, 8/10/98, and 6/10/98
Reports of Gavin Adlington, international land administration specialist, from 1998, 1999, and
2000.
Reports of Paul Munro-Faure, international land policy economist from 1998 and 1999.
Sri Lanka: Feasibility Design Study - Land Titling and Cadastral Mapping Project, July 1997,
Volume 2 (Land Law in Sri Lanka and Surveying and Mapping in Sri Lanka), and Volume 3
(Background Documents)
Sri Lanka: Registration of Titles - Final Recommendations Report for the Legislative Framework,
November, 1998 (prepared by Department of Land Administration, Government of Western
Australia under the AusAID financed Land Titling and Cadastral Mapping Project, Stage 1)
Sri Lanka: Land Title Registration Project - Report on Organizational Arrangements for
Programme Implementation, September 1998 (prepared by B.C. Perera with PHRD funding)
Summary of Proceedings of the Stake Holder Analysis, 4th - 5th September 1998 (with PHRD
funding)
Sri Lanka: A Study of the Land Market, June 15, 1998 (prepared by Abt Associates with PHRD
funding)
Financial Management Documents:
1. Terms of Reference for the Financial Management Specialist;
2. Chart of Accounts (also included in the PIP);
3. Monthly Statement of Expenditure formats (also included in the PIP);
4. Terms of Reference for auditing project accounts (also attached to minutes of negotiation).
*Including electronic files
- 55 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
SRI LANKA: Land Titling and Related Services
Feb-2001
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions                               disbursements
Project ID    FY   Purpose                                         IBRD         IDA                  GEF    Cancel.   Undisb.        Orig   Frm Rev'd
P044809        2000 LEGAL AND JUDICIAL REFORMS                         0.00      18.20                  0.00       0.00     15.79       -1.37      0.00
P058070        2000 North-East rnigated Agriculture Project            0.00      27.00                  0.00       0.00     24.92       -0.85      0.00
P063472        1999 EMERGENCYY2KTA                                     0.00      29.00                  0.00       8.49      4.14      13.98       0.00
P010525        1998 GENERAL EDUCATION II                               0.00      70.30                  0.00       0.00     56.02      32.98       0.00
P034212        1998 MAHAWELI RESTRUCTURI                                0.00     57.00                  0.00       0.00     30.10       10.98      0.00
P035828        1998 CONS OF MEDIC PLANTS                               0.00       0.00                  4.60       0.00      2.65       0.64       0.00
P039965        1997 ENERGY SERVDLVY.                                   0.00      24.20                  5.90       0.00      3.36       1.03       0.00
P010526        1997 HEALTH SERVICES DEV                                0.00      18.80                  0.00       3.46      5.01       6.73       0.00
P010498        1997 ENERGY SERVICES DLVY                               0.00      24.20                  5.90       0.00      9.16       4.57       0.00
P010513        1997 ENVIRONMENTAL ACTION                               0.00      14.80                  0.00       0.00      8.64       8.23       0.00
P042266        1996 TEACH ED &DEPLOYMENT                               0.00      64.10                  0.00       0.00     27.46      26.75       0.00
P010517        1996 PVT SECT INFRAS DEV                                0.00      77.00                  0.00       0.00     63.61      63.44      13.54
P010467        1995 COL. ENV. IMPROV.                                  0.00      39.00                  0.00       0.00     12.46      16.98       0.00
Total:       0.00      463.60               16.40       11.95      263.35     184.08      13.54
- 56 -



SRI LANKA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
Feb-2001
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                        Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval         Company                       Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic    Loan  Equity   Quasi   Partic
1999               Aitken Spence                   0.00    2.73    0.00     0.00    0.00    2.73     0.00    0.00
1996/97            Asia Power                      0.00    0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00
1999               DCR Lanka                       0.00    0.09    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.05      0.00    0.00
1992               Eagle NDB                       0.00    0.06    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.06      0.00    0.00
1981               Lanka Hotels                    0.00    0.64    0.00     0.00    0.00    0.64     0.00    0.00
1997               Lanka Orix                      1.50    0.30    0.00     0.00    0.60    0.16     0.00    0.00
1996               Lanka Orix Lease                1.11    0.00    0.00     0.00    1.11    0.00     0.00    0.00
1998               MLL                             0.00    0.00     1.80    0.00    0.00    0.00      1.80    0.00
2000               NDB Housing Corp                0.00    1.11    0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00
1999               Nations Trust                   0.00    1.09    0.00     0.00    0.00    1.09     0.00    0.00
1997               Packages Lanka                  0.00    1.11    0.00     0.00    0.00    1.11     0.00    0.00
1992               Pyramid Trust                   0.00    0.25    0.00     0.00    0.00    0.25     0.00    0.00
1999               SAGT                           35.00    7.30    0.00     0.00    5.00    2.33     0.00    0.00
2000                Suntel                         0.00    7.50    0.00     0.00    0.00    7.50     0.00    0.00
1988/95            Union Assurance                 0.00    0.50    0.00     0.00    0.00    0.50     0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:        37.61    22.68    1.80     0.00    6.71   16.42     1.80    0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval        Company                           Loan    Equity     Quasi    Partic
1998               Apollo Lanka                   5000.00      0.00   1558.15      0.00
2000               NDB Credit Line               35000.00   3500.00      0.00      0.00
Total Pending Commitment:     40000.00   3500.00   1558.15      0.00
- 57 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
SRI LANKA: Land Titling and Related Services
Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                        Sri    South   middle-
Lanka       Asia  Income         Development diamond^
1999
Population. mid-year (millions)                          19.0      1329      2,094                   Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method. USS)                        820       440       1,200
GNP (Atlas method, US$ billions)                         15.6        581     2,513
Average annual growth, 1993-99
Population (%)                                            1.3        1.9        1.1
Labor force (%)                                           1.t        2.3        1.2     GNP                                Gross
Most recent estimate (latest year availablt, p993i99                                    pem
capita                        enrollment
Povert (X of population below national poverty line)       25
Urban population (% of total population)                   22         28        43
Life expectancy at birth (yearsx                           73         62        69
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)                   17         75        33
CNid malnutrition (% of children under 5)                  36         51        15                 Access to safe water
Access to improved water source (% of population)          64         77        86
Illiteracy (% ofpopulatlion age IS+)                       11         46        16
Gross primary enrollment (%of school-age population)      109        100       114               Sri Lanka
Male                                                    110       110        114               Lower-middle-income group
Female                                                  108        90        116
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TREND.S
1979     1989       1998       1999
GOP (USS billions)                               3.4      7,0       15S4       16,0      Economic ratios'
Gross domestic investment/GOP                  25.8      21 7       25.1      27.1
Exports of goods and services/GDP              33.7      27.3       36.2      35.3                       Trade
Gross domestic savings/GDP                      13.8     12.2       19.1       19.8
Gross national savings/GDP                         .     14.6       23.8      23.9
Current account balance/GDP                     -6.7     -5.8       -1.5       -3.1     O si
Interest paymentslGOP                           0.8       1.6        0.8       1.0                                    investment
Total debt/GDP                                 46.2      74.1       55.4       54.7      Savings        < '
Total debt service/exports                      12.9     18.6        6.5       10,0
Present value of debtUGOP                                           40.8
Present value of debtJexports                                       s. ,  90:8
Indebtedness
1979-89  1989-99      1998       1999   199903
(avtage annual growth)
GOP                                    5.0       5.3      47         43         55                SnLanka
GNP per capita                         3.4       4.0      3.4        2.4        3.6           .......... Lower-middle-income group
Exports of goods and services          5.5      7.4       1,0        4.0        47 
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1979     1989       1998       1999      Growth of investment and GDP I%)
(% of GDP)
Agriculture                                     26.9     25.6       21.1       20.7    s5
Industry                                       28.2      26.8       27.5      27.3      1      
Manufacturing                                 19.1     15.3       16.5       16.4      s
Services                                       44.8      47.6       51.4       52.1
Private consumption                            77.1      77.3       71.1       71.2            94   95   95   97   9S   99
General government consumption                  9.2      10.5        9.8        9.0                     GDI           GDP
Imports of goods and services                  45.8      36.8       42.2      42.6
(average annual growth)                     1979-89  1989-99        1998      1999      Growth of exports and imports (%)
Agriculture                                      3.5      2.1        2.5        4.5     1 5
Industry                                        5.0       7.1        5.9        6.0
Manufacturing                                  5.5       8.3       6.3        4.4    10
Services                                         6.5      5.6        51         4.0        
Private consumption                              5.7      5.7        7.5        6.4
General government consumption                  7.0       5.9        3.4       -2.5
Gross domestic investment                       7.5       6.9       15.2        6.4                 95xpoms 'i ,rts  99
Imports of goods and services                   8.0       8.4       11.5        7.0
Gross national product                          5.0       5.3        4.6        3.9
Note: 1999 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.
- 58 -



Sri Lanka
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1979    1989       1998     1999     Infation
Domestic prices                                                                  2
(% change)                                                                         .
Consumer prices                             10.8    11.6        9.4      4.7    is
Implicit GDP deflator                                 8.1       9.2      4.6    ic 
Govemnment finance                                                                5
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                               o
Current revenue                                ..    24.0      17.9     18.2            94   95   96   97   98
Current budget balance                        ..      1.4      -1.7     -0.4                  GDP deflator      CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                       ..    -8.7       -8.4     -8.9
TRADE
(US$ millions)                             1979    1989       1998      1999      Export and Import levels (USS mill.)
Total exports (fob)                           ..   1,558      4,798    4,600     soo.
Tea                                          ..    379        780      621
Other agricultural goods                    ..       ..       352      373
Manufactures                                ..    490       2,460    2,425
Total imports (cif)                           ..   2,22       5,890    5,899
Food                                        ..       94       723      655    2,000
Fuel and energy                                     165       215      257
Capital goods                                       333      1,477    1,565       om
Export price index (1995=100)                  ..      ..       141      139           93  94  95  96  97  ss  99
Import price index (1995=100)                  ..      ..       116      122                  * Exports    *Imports
Termsoftrade(1995=100)                         ..      ..       121      114
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(UIS$ millions)                            1979    1989       1998      1999     Current account balance to GDP (Ye)
Exports of goods and services              1,134    1,851     5,712    5,565     0
Imports of goods and services              1,537    2,565     6,659    6,718         * 
Resource balance                            -403    -714       -947   -1,153    -2
Net income                                   -15    -163       -180     -253
Netcurrenttransfers                            ..      ..      900       911     4ii *I*    -
Current account balance                     -226    -414       -227     -495    4         *
Financing items (net)                         ..       ..       190      758
Changes in net reserves                        ..      ..        37     -263    4
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)        ..       ..    1,984    1,639
Conversion rate (DEC, loca8USS)             15.6    36.0       66.1     69.6
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1979    1989       1998     199
(US$ millions)                                                                   Composition of 1999 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed       1,554    5,181     8,526    8,727
IBRD                                       33       82        26        15                   G:433  A: 15
IDA                                        78      702      1.648    1,651             F: 556            B: 1,651
Total debt service                           159     422        452      683
IBRD                                        7       12         8         8
IDA                                          1       7        24        27                                    C: 265
Composition of net resource flows
Officialgrants                             116     195        114
Official creditors                         103     298       379       504
Private creditors                          10      -48        126     -201         E: 4.049                 D: 1.758
Foreign direct investment                  47       20        193
Portfolio equity                            0        0         6
Worid Bank program
Commitments                                68       20        57        56     A - IBRD                    E - Bilatal
Disbursements                               15      59        97        4      B - IDA    D- Other muttleteral  F - Private
Principal repayments                        4        7         19        4     C - IMF                    G - Short-term
Net flows                                   11      53        78        44
Interest payments                            3      12         14       14
Net transfers                                7      41        64        30
Development Economics                                                                                            9/912000
- 59 -



Additional
Annex 11
Project Alternatives and Lessons Reflected in Design
SRI LANKA: Land Titling and Related Services
Note: This section is norinally not completed in a LIL PAD. Rationale is implicit based on the learning
and innovation expectations. However, we believe that it is still appropriate to describe the project
alternatives considered and lessons reflected in the project design and hence have included this annex.
Project Alternatives Considered and Reasons for Rejection
Project Alternatives                     Analysis and Reason for Rejection
Broad scope covering not only land issues but  The experience of other Bank projects shows that land
also other agricultural policy issues (proposed  administration is best tackled in a focused approach rather
in draft PCD during FY97)                than within a project with multiple development objectives
Broad scope covering not only land       Inclusion of land use and land management issues would
administration issues but also land use and  require involvement of additional agencies, further
land management issues                   complicating the projects challenging organizational issues,
and is therefore not considered feasible. Furthermore, there
is a need for analytical work on land use and land
management policies and strategies prior to identification of
a project concept.
Larger and longer-term project encompassing   GOSL has specifically requested a small scale project only,
both pilot and initial scaling up of operations  to enable it to build understanding and consensus on key
institutional issues before making commitments to the legal,
policy, and organizational framework required for
large-scale operations.
Improvement of existing deed system without  A significant portion of landholdings are based on
any introduction of parcel-based title system    documents permitting private use of state land and therefore
not yet in deed system. Many of these state land parcels
already have surveys which would facilitate conversion to
title. A deed system, even with incremental improvements,
would not as readily resolve boundary disputes, have same
potential to minimize transaction costs over long-term, be as
readily transparent, or be as easily used for various public
purposes such as land valuation.
Focus on land administration without reforms  Reforms are required to achieve a full range of market
related to fully marketable freehold and  choices and the resulting productivity gains. Over the long
leasehold tenure                         term, it is questionable whether land titling without such
reforms would deliver sufficient benefits to cover investment
costs. Policy reforms would be essential prior to large-scale
investments, and it is essential that the learning and
innovation project help address concerns-related to reforms
and facilitate their implementation.
- 60 -



Focus on reforms related to fully marketable   The benefits of reforms related to freehold tenure would not
freehold and leasehold tenure without attention  be realized without corresponding steps to address the major
to land administration                   constraints in the land administration systerm itself
Conditioning LIL support on organizational   Immediate reorganization is not politically feasible, and LIL
arrangements which ensure close coordination  implementation through two ministries would be
of deed and title registry operations, hence  administratively difficult. The small scope of the LIL
minimizing public confusion, public confusion, makes costs minimal. LIL involvement now will facilitate
and future transaction and investment costs.   decision-making on sound organizational arrangements for a
long-term program.
Land reform in the form of more equitable  Relative to other countries, land distribution among private
entitlements of those vulnerable groups and    parties within Sri Lanka is relatively even and the
individuals who need some protection     Government does not view land tenure inequities as a major
problem. The LIL would in any case increase transparency
and improve management within a framework which
safeguards the concerns of vulnerable groups. Furthermore,
improved land administration would be a pre-requisite if
redistributative land reforms were desired in the future. The
LIL's land market policy reform would reduce the role of the
public sector as a land holder, which in turn would reduce
the potential for political manipulation of the land
distribution system in ways which may harm vulnerable
groups.
Focus on a initiating titling in high-value  Ownership of titling concept strongest within MOLDMEA
mostly privately owned metropolitan/urban  which focuses on rural areas. Limiting organizational
lands.                                   complexities will also strengthen feasibility of LIL
implementation. Long-term vision is for a program that
would cover both rural and urban areas. Impact of area
sequencing for first phase of program would be limited due
to small scale of initial field testing.
Lessons Learned and Reflected in the Project Design
Land Administration. The learning and innovation approach builds on the following lessons and
best practices learned from land administration in other countries:
* land titling projects require political support, supportive and coordinated bureaucratic priorities,
institutional capacity to design and implement, willingness to commit adequate resources, and realistic
estimates of complexity and costs;
* land administration investments require a relatively favorable land policy environment. The experience
of piloting and up-scaling with graduated institutional and legal reforms has worked well; and
* land administration programs are most cost-effective when they are area-wide and combined with agile
conflict resolution mechanisms, usually in the form of systematic adjudication.
Generic Project Implementation. The project design takes into account several generic project
implementation issues commonly experienced in Sri Lanka:
*   Bank project implementation suffers from procurement delays, weak financial management, and weak
project management. Preparation includes review of past experience and realistic, detailed planning of
procurement steps, the fund flow schedule, and project management activities. The overall project
- 61 -



phasing will be grounded in these plans;
*   in past Bank projects, PMUs separate from line departments with project directors who are not in line
positions, have weakened the impact and sustainability of project supported reforms. The
mainstreaming of project administration within the LSD and use of line staff wherever available will
help to strengthen institutional memory, improve the application of project experience to follow-up
programs, and demonstrate ownership;
*   close association of a project with a political faction can undermine project sustainability. One
indicator of the program development objective explicitly highlights need for services to be viewed as
fair to all political factions; and
*   a project prepared without active participation and input of the client lacks client ownership and
commitment during project implementation. The client is taking the lead in project preparation. A core
team has been appointed and is at work. Action is being taken to consult all relevant project
stakeholders. The project design will be shaped by these collaborative partnerships.
- 62 -



Additional
Annex 12
Social Analysis
SRI LANKA: Land Titling and Related Services
The following is a brief overview of possible social implications of land titling in Sri Lanka and
project design features which address these implications. As the LIL will be implemented in three smaller
areas with less apparent social or ethnic conflict issues than in other parts of the country, most of the
following will therefore apply to the country-wide long-term program expected to follow the LIEL. As noted
in the PAD, the LIL is designed to provide direct knowledge related to land titling in Sri Lanka, and also
include a component of detailed studies of the anticipated social implications of the wider program,
including the issues highlighted below. This overview does not claim to be comprehensive, but rather
attempt to highlight certain key social issues pertaining to land titling in Sri Lanka.
Land has social and political implications in Sri Lanka. Its value often exceeds the strictly
economic conditions by contributing to the households' social and cultural identities. Because of this,
contests over ownership and control over land are part of the sociopolitical history of particular regions.
Control and rival claims over land have also contributed to the ongoing armed conflict. In a politically
sensitive environment as is currently the situation in Sri Lanka, issues related to land may again be used to
rally support for partisan social or ethnic agendas. In such a situation, public perception--fueled by
political interests--may be more important than what can actually be documented. In addition to further
investigating the objective social impacts, it is therefore necessary to understand the multitude of interests,
perceptions, fears and hopes related to land that the different stakeholders have, as well as how these can
play within the political agendas.
Land tenure arrangements in Sri Lanka can be broadly grouped into lands under state control and
private control. Ownership of about 80 percent of the total land area is estimated to be vested in the state,
of which large extents have been alienated to small-holder operators under various legislation. Those lands
are characterized by restrictions in marketing, which is argued as a major factor associated with the low
productivity and under-use of land in Sri Lanka and one a factor inhibiting rural development. In both
private lands and states lands which are privately allocated, disputes over land ownership, boundaries and
tenurial arrangements exacerbated by an ineffective land administration system which fails to provide quick
legal resolutions to such disputes are typical causes for family disputes and disharmony in rural and urban
life.
Systematic land titling is expected to have significant positive social implications for all
landholders, including the rural poor, by resolving ambiguities about rights over land, by clarifying land
boundaries, and by establishing a transparent, reliable, and accessible land registration system. These
changes are expected to include the following social effects:
*   increased land security, which may stimulate landholders' investments in e.g., agriculture, or improved
housing;
*   decreased incidence of land disputes (which normally do not favor the poor due to the cost, access to
legal advise, and documentation involved);
*   better chance of obtaining bank loans, at better terms, with land as collateral; and
*   better opportunities for rural poor to escape poverty by increasing their control over and use of their
land assets and associated debts and the choices they have for investments in the farm and nonfarm
sectors.
- 63 -



However, there are concerns that land titling may also have negative social impacts, especially if it
expands to a long-term large-scale program. In consultations with civil society groups concerns about
possible negative impacts tend to dominate the discussion despite some being based more on speculation
than documentation. The continuing social assessments to be carried out as a part of the LIL will
investigate the possible negative social impacts as basis for design of countermeasures and how to
maximize the positive social impacts in the long-term land administration program which is envisaged to
follow the LIL. The social analysis strategy is described in Annex 5 of the PIP. Possible negative impacts
may include:
*   Information and education: There is a fear that some groups may be unable to pursue their
entitlements despite wide coverage information dissemination. Reasons for such inability may include
their location outside the country or in remote or war-affected areas; limited capability to articulate
their interests and concerns; or limited knowledge of or experience with the government system. This
may also be because certain right holders are living in other countries. The LIL includes extensive
support for dissemination and awareness building. It also includes an impact monitoring, project
performance monitoring, and project learning workshops which, inter alia, will assess the effectiveness
of information and education efforts supported under the project. The work on social assessment for a
future long-term program will address the information and education challenges associated with land
titling in specific localities and involving or affecting vulnerable persons.
a Poverty (associated with the lifting of market restrictions): There is a concern that lifting of market
restrictions, issuing of titles and increased marketability of land may lead poor subsistence farmers to
sell, and that the number of casual wage laborers or rural unemployed therefore may increase. There is
also concern that unequal access to information (see above) may result in a form of speculation that
places the poorest at a further disadvantage. Reasons for selling may include coercion, settling of debt,
or to pursue other income opportunities. Voluntary sales may be a positive move it was noted by the
Sri Lankan Rural Assessment (2000, pg. 1) that a growing rural nonfarm sector has become the path
out of poverty for the rural poor, while those who continue to depend upon subsistence agriculture have
become the very poor. The land markets study has already indicated that a policy reform which would
make many small rural parcels (which the government has distributed to relatively poor families) more
readily marketable under the formal system would effectively raise the value of these parcels by 50
percent, thus increasing the value of an important asset of these rural families. Both the rural and
urban impact studies include carefully designed sample surveys which will, inter alia, address the issue
of impact on poverty and the impacts of project sponsored investments and policy reforms and the
social assessment framework would take into account special considerations related to a long-term
program.
* Ethnic Conflict: Contested historic claims to land on ethnic grounds is one of the underlying causes
for the ongoing armed conflict, and one concern would be that issuing of titles could be perceived as"
cementing" what some Tamil groups see as colonization of their traditional land by Sinhala settlers
through government resettlement schemes (such as Mahawelli). Another side of the problem is when
Sinhalas may consider that issuing of tiles to Tamil right holders in contested areas as giving in to
Tamil political demands for a traditional Tamil homeland. Similar concerns are likely to arise in the
central hill country among Sinhalas and Tamils of Indian origin. Competing land claims and disputes
are emerging between Tamils and Sinhala, Sinhala and Muslims, and Muslims and Taimils in the
eastern region partly as a result of the displacement, relocation and resettlement of the conflict affected
people. The internally displaced (IDPS) represent a problem in several ways--many of them hold rights
to land (e.g., Muslims from Jaffha), but are unable to exercise those rights until there is a peaceful
- 64 -



solution, some internally displaced people are relocated to new areas but their permanent settlement is
contested by other inhabitants of those areas; repeated displacement and destruction of local
government offices have lead to loss of documents on land rights. The project will also include further
review of special regional and religious inheritance systems reflected in personal laws, whiich have and
can continue to coexist with land titling, to ensure they are not reinterpreted in a negative fashion with
adverse social impacts. The work supported by the project on social assessment framework will
directly address the issue of addressing ethnic conflict in a long-term framework, which represents a
significant risk (see PAD Annex 13 Risk Analysis).
*   Discrimination and disruption of existing tenurial arrangements: The relevant part of the
government system may not pay equal attention to all groups; they may tend to ignore the rights of
groups such as the: very poor, uneducated, illiterate, low-caste, women, and certain ethnic groups
(e.g., former estate Tamils). The project objectives, transparent procedures with extensive awareness
activities, and performance indicators directly address this concern. The impact studies and social
assessment framework include (a) further analysis of issues of gender bias, absentee right-holders,
religious or ethnic minorities, persons affected by ethnic or other conflict, poverty, poor or no
documentation of land holdings, occupiers of temple land and other aspects that may be identified in the
future, (b) review of relevant project efforts in and experiences especially public awareness and field
staff skills and (c) develop appropriate strategies for the future program. The social analysis would
further consider personal (customary) laws, which include the Kanyan law applicable to the Kandyan
Sinhalas, the Tesawalamei applicable to the Tamils of Jaffha, and the Muslim Law applicable to the
Muslims. It would consider the implications these may have for the fulfillment of the project
objectives, ensuring that the project does not inadvertantly interfere with the with existing rights to
land, and that the project has no unforeseen consequence of exacerbating existing divisions and
suspicions among the groups that practice the divergent personal laws.
*   Potential displacement of people occupying or using state land: A high percentage of land in Sri
Lanka is state land. A significant amount of this land is occupied by private persons through
permitting, grant and leasing schemes, under the LDO, State Lands Ordinance and other legislation.
The project activities will not disturb such legally authorized private rights over public lands; instead,
through adjudication and registration, the project will assist in the clarification and confirmation of
those rights. At the same time, however, unauthorized occupation of state land is a problem in Sri
Lanka, and field visits have indicated that it occurs in the project areas. This may take place in the
form of encroachment beyond the boundaries of privately allocated state land or unauthorized transfer
of a legallv-defmed parcel. The overall approach of the project to this issue has both short term and
long term elements. For the short-term, project activities have been designed in such a way as to avoid
displacement of persons occupying or using government land. For the longer-term, under the social
assessment framework the project will develop a policy framework for addressing the problem of
encroachments and potential resettlement issues associated with countrywide implementation of the
Act. Specifically:
(a) during the project, no land in or directly adjoining the project areas will be titled in the
name of the government in situations where this would result in the displacement of people
occupying such land, or in restrictions on their access to this land;
(b) state land which is or appears to be subject to unauthorized occupation shall be excluded
from the titling process during the project. However, where such land is identified, project
personnel shall bring it to the attention of divisional land officers and assist them in assessing
whether it would be feasible and appropriate to regularize the occupation in question, taking
- 65 -



into consideration, inter alia, Bank safeguard policies on natural habitats and forestry.
Consistent with current government approaches to this issue, it is anticipated that it will be
both possible and acceptable to regularize many of the instances of unauthorized occupation
within the project areas. Where such regularization can be accomplished, the land in question
will once again be included in the titling process, thus ensuring that the coverage of the titling
program within the project areas is as comprehensive as possible; and
(c) during the project, information on the types, extent, and reasons for encroachment in the
project areas will be gathered and analyzed. This will be used to design a comprehensive
government strategy for dealing with encroachment in the context of titling, and a policy
framework for addressing the resettlement implications of such a strategy consistent with
World Bank guidelines in the design of a long-term program.
*   The potential for increased disputes due to systematic adjudication: In the long run, systematic
titling and registration of land in Sri Lanka is expected to reduce the incidence of land disputes, by
clarifying boundaries, by resolving ambiguities about rights over land and by putting in place a
registration system that is transparent, reliable and accessible. In the short-term, however, some have
raised the concern that the process of adjudication and normalization of rights may bring to the surface
latent disputes that may have otherwise remained below the surface, thus increasing the level of
disputes rather than reducing it. There is little evidence so far of this phenomenon from the field work
carried out by government adjudication teams in the pilot areas, but this may in part be due to the fact
that many "difficult" cases have been deferred for the time being. The impact studies and social
assessment work of the project will entail close study of this issue, and the testing and refinement of
adjudication practices designed to address emerging disputes in a fair, efficient, and transparent
manner. Special atter tion will be paid to evaluating and strengthening the capacities of
community-based institutions to play a meaningful role in this regard, in particular the conciliation
boards referred to in the Act.
- 66 -



Additional
Annex 13
Risk Analysis
SRI LANKA: Land Titling and Related Services
The risks of the project are significant in the aggregate and these aspects of the project have therefore been
carefully reviewed and considered. Some highlights of the review are outlined below.
From LIL Development Objective to Long-term Program Objective
At the level of development objective of the LIL, there are two major risks which woald affect
prospects for a long-term program: (a) distractions and disruptions associated with elections., political
feuding, civil unrest, civil war, etc. prevent the political leaders from addressing project objectives; and (b)
issues in the Sri Lankan context it is not possible to develop a pragmatic social assessment framework for
the long-terrn program which adequately addresses contentious social issues.
Both of these risks are significant, they are outside the control of the project itself, except to the
extent that the use of a LIL mechanism provides an exit strategy for the Bank that would avoid reputational
risks that might be associated with a problematic long-term program. The prospects for the LIL
successfully leading to a long-term program are uncertain. Every effort has been made to keep the
development objective modest, and to provide guidance on what would be needed in a social assessment
framework. However, there is still a risk that a major learning of the project may be that project objective
itself or that the development of a social framework proves to be "too hard" in the Sri Lanka context. This
risk is one of the main reasons that the project has been designed as a LIL rather than a SIL.
From Outputs to LIL Development Objective
Conflicting interests among stakeholders delay or prevent sustainable decisions on the
organizational, legal, and policy reforms and the social assessment framework required for a
long-term program. The success of a long-term program will require firm consensus among the key
Ministries (Finance, Lands, and Public Administration) for a rational and cost effective organizational
arrangement and legal and policy reforms. The extent to which this consensus can be reached in the future
is not clear at present. Also, the responsibility for the amendments to certain ordinances (e.g., Registration
of Documents Ordinance) rests with other ministries meaning that a high level of support and coordination
between the MOLDMEA and those ministries are required. In the context of Sri Lanka's ongoing conflict,
it may be difficult to develop sufficient support for the reforms and agreement on a social assessment
framework. It may be particularly challenging to develop guidelines and processes for systematic
adjudication in a future program in sites subject to ethnic conflict, encroachments of public land which
cannot be regularized, and other contentious social issues. There are no examples of well-functioning
social assessment frameworks for land titling which are readily applicable to Sri Lanka. The PIP clearly
defines the issues and the project includes: (a) plans that a high level committee comprising the three key
ministries would review the lessons and experiences of the LIL objectively to take a decision about the
future organizational arrangements; (b) inclusion of a representative of the Ministry of Finance in the
project steering comnmnittee to effect interministerial coordination; and (c) specific social analysis and
communication activities designed to reduce this risk. The risk, as it relates to the planning of a long-term
program in a tirnely fashion, is critical and substantial.
- 67 -



Changes in political leadership and insufficient political consensus delay or prevent legislative
action on organizational, legal, and policy reform. There is currently considerable political support for
the titling programn, but it has been heavily reliant on individual support from the minister of the forner
Ministry of Agriculture and Lands, which in October 2000, was divided into two ministries, with a new
Ministry of Land Development and Minor Exprot Agriculture (MOLDMEA). There is both support and
opposition across the political spectrum. The project is not considered politically sensitive and the new
minister has not altered the project concept. A complicating factor has been the embarrassment associated
with the need to amend the new RTA, but the transfer to a new ministry makes this less problematic. It
should be noted that a registration of title program has been attempted many times in the past, but always
failed due to opposition from the legal fraternity and politicians. This risk can be classified as critical and
substantial. The project design addresses this risk by: (a) focusing on long-term vision which builds
support across the political spectrum, (b) including communication activities involving influential persons,
and (c) building understanding and confidence among all stakeholders through learning by doing.
Delays or inaction on approval of critical legal amendments and regulations would undermine
quality of titles issued and registry operations. This risk involves amendments to the RTA, the
regulations and procedures to operate a land title registry, and the enactment of additional laws and
regulations. The full set of amendments as well as the most urgent and priority amendments necessary to
the RTA have been identified by the government. They are very important as they affect the ability of the
project to deal with the recognition of rights, disputes, multiple ownership, land transactions and the
reliability of the registers that will be produced. The procedures outlined in the Act for adjudication are
also contrary to good practice and would delay titling if followed. There are recommendations on a set of
critical legal amendments but the timely passage of the amendments through parliament is essential for
achievement of the project objectives. This is highly unlikely to happen until the project is under
implementation, after stakeholder communication activities have been underway and when the minister can
demonstrate its success and explain the need for amendments by referring to practical experience of the
LIL. It is common in legislative matters for amendmnent approval to be slow and it is also possible that the
amendment could be rejected. There is also the danger that the opposition of key stakeholders may result in
the delay or rejection of the amendments and that the number of amendments may encourage the legal
community to press for revision or rewriting of the whole Act. When the Act was first approved, the legal
community generally was pressing for revocation of the existing Act and preparation of a new Act but this
was not acceptable to the minister.
Establishing regulations and procedures is also necessary since they are required for effective
operation of a Land Titles Registry. Some regulations have been prepared, but additional regulations are
needed. The regulations and procedures follow on from, and are dependent on, the wording of the Act but,
given the expected delays in enacting amendments to the Act, it will not be possible to implement all
necessary regulations and procedures in the short- to medium-term because some will contradict the Act.
Others which concem matters not covered by the Act can be drafted immediately. Companion legislation in
the form of a new Survey Act and, amongst others, revised registration of documents and notaries
ordinances are also deemed necessary. The draft Survey Act has already been drafted and is ready for
submission to parliament. Ammendment of certain of these other laws, which are considered critical or
which are being made in place of amending the Registration of Title Act, is to be undertaken so that at least
some of the critical problems concerning land titling can be addressed. Further amendments will be
undertaken in the life of the project. Survey regulations are also necessary to ensure uniformity of
approach and good practice. Any delay in enacting this companion legislation and regulation would affect
the achievement of project objectives. Overall, delays or inaction in further developing the legal framework
is a critical issue with a substantial risk, the risk on passage of companion legislation is lower than the risks
associated with the registration of Title Act. The project preparation and design has addressed the risk by:
- 68 -



(a) defining a timne bound action plan and steps for legal reforms, and monitoring schedule plan for all
scheduled benchmarks for the legal reforms, and having a project covenant reference this schedule in the
project legal agreement; (b) providing technical support in both preparation and implementation to improve
quality of legal and regulation amendments; and (c) including mechanisms to build stakeholder
understanding and support.
Establishing title registries separate from land registries may cause confusion and undermine
confidence. The project does not utilize the existing land deed registries which deal with land deed
registration and which are under the purview of the Ministry of Public Administration at present, as the
basis for the new land titles registries. Instead, the MOLDMEA is establishing a new organization to be
the new land titles registry. In the long-term this approach would create enormous problems of capacity in
terms of staffing, training, lack of experience, premises, furniture, public understanding, cooperation with
the existing land registries, public sector employment policy, etc., and may not be viable. The problems
have been compounded by the appointment of a comparatively junior officer to the post of Registrar
General of Title. The forner Minister of Lands and Agriculture was not in agreement with the proposal to
use the land deed registries as title registries. Therefore, an agreement was reached by the Secretaries of
the two concemed Ministries to establish the new land title registry offices within what is now MOLDMEA
during the LIL Project and to carefully monitor the technical, procedural, and cost/time effectiveness of
maintaining two separate establishments for deed registration and title registration and its imnplication for a
long-term program. The parties have agreed to appoint a committee comprising the Ministry of Finance
and the two concerned ministries to review the situation by the mid-term review and apply the lessons
accordingly for a long-tern program.
The number of titles to be issued and amount of transactions expected is moderate. lience there
will be no serious consequences if the lesson learned is to revert to using the Registrar General's
Department for registration of title or it is decided to move the Registrar General's Department into the
MOLDMEA This is a critical issue, with a moderate risk in the for the period of the LIL. The project
addresses the substantial risk for the longer-term program through: (a) the agreement that the GOSL will
review experience of LIL and apply lessons to organizational reform, and a reference to this agreement
implicit in the project covenant on arrangements for organizational reform; and (b) the fact that donor
support for large-scale program under arrangements involving separate registries would be unlikely, and (c)
the fact that the government would be unwilling and unable to domestically finance the costs of replicating
separate registries on a large scale.
The political and bureaucratic commitment to structured learning and adaptation may not be
adequate. There have been no published results, and it was not until 2000 that there were workshops and
stakeholder discussions to review the work of the domestically funded land titling program, which has been
underway for the last four years. Learning and adaptation are fundamental elements of the project concept
and critical to project success. This risk is assessed as moderate. The risk is addressed by (a) inclusion in
the Project Implementation Plan of a structured work program for learning and adaptation reflected in the
job descriptions, terms of reference for multidisciplinary technical assistance, specific research studies,
training plan, and implementation schedule and, monitoring system etc. and (b) project covenants
referencing key arrangements and processes.
Change in political parties might affect the Government commitment to project areas. As
mentioned above, the current program has been heavily reliant on the forner Minister of AgNriculture and
Lands. The small scale of the LIL limits the political significance of LIL project areas, while the vision of
nation-wide coverage in long-term program should build support across the political spectrum. For the
project period the issue is moderately critical and has a moderate risk. Site selection and scheduling for
- 69 -



long-term program will be highly critical and will require processes and criteria widely regarded as fair and
politically sustainable.
Civil strife might disrupt project activities. Civil strife with the Tamils in the North is
continuing with peace looking unlikely. Violence associated with elections and localized ethnic conflict has
also occurred. The selection of pilot areas avoids regions most affected by existing conflict such as the
Northeast. Thus, although this risk is beyond the control of the Project, there is little likelihood of civil
unrest affecting the project activities. However, the ongoing conflict has created a complex land ownership
and tenure problems resulting out of intemal displacement of people followed by relocation and
resettlement of the displaced people by the Government at different locations. These issues will have to be
addressed in the long term program. The long term strategy to deal with such issues is to be developed
within the Project and implemented in the future program would affect majority Tamil areas and a certain
amount of analysis, investigation, and dialogue is to be conducted in those areas during the Project.
Stakeholder communications activities will build channels with all ethnic groups. Although "land" has been
an issue with the Tamils, "land administration" has not been an issue. This situation will be further
evaluated during the Project.
Project fund flows might not be timely, reliable and adequate. There have been significant
delays in the fund flow of the Borrower-executed PHRD grant associated with this project. To address this
potential problem, the PIP includes a monitorable fund flow schedule and detailed cost estimates. Financial
expertise is in place as condition of appraisal. The risk is therefore negligible.
From Components to Outputs
All implementing agencies may not collaborate in team mode. In the preproject activities there
has been little collaboration between the key agencies. Based on past experience, this is a critical issue
with a significant risk. The project will try to mitigate this risk by including the heads of the key
departments in the steering committee, inviting other interested stakeholders to steering committee meetings
and the regular inclusion the various departments and private sector stakeholders in dialogue, workshops,
training and the like. The project design also specifies arrangements and performance indicators for
field-level collaboration. The PIP describes arrangements for collaboration in detail. To reinforce this,
there is a project covenant on these arrangements.
Government may not make satisfactory arrangements to expand capacity for
communications, adjudication and other new tasks, including arrangements to involve the private
sector. The existing land titling program has demonstrated limited understanding of titling needs and weak
implementation capacity. The capacity and support from the key departments varies. Effective private
sector participation is essential for achievement of project targets. The modalities for expanding capacity
(empowerment, schemes of payments, coordination with adjudication teams, contracting etc.), needs to be
worked out very early if mobilization is to be achieved as plarmed for. The Survey Department have
experience with using private sector contractors, and the technical assistance will be expected to assist with
contracting and monitoring arrangements. In the recent titling efforts within Sri Lanka, there have been
significant bottlenecks in adjudication, and the allocated staffing positions for Land Settlement Department
adjudicators have not been filled. For fiscal reasons is its important that overall government staffing not
increase and the new positions for adjudicators will need to be filled by internal transfers. The PIP includes
realistic detailed staffing plan and procurement plan including consultant and service contracts, but it will
be critical that it is implemented, and that organizational, staffing, and procedural options be considered
and tested to maximize overall efficiency within required quality standards. The risk is substantial.
- 70 -



Demarcation and survey staff may avoid difficult sites subject to disputes and/or multiple
ownership. It is naturally simpler and faster to deal with parcels where there are no disputes, no multiple
ownership and where the parcel is easy to survey. If incentives and private sector contracts are based on
parcels surveyed there will be a tendency to avoid the more complicated parcels. The risk will be mitigated
by careful monitoring and paying incentives on completion of all parcels in a specific area. Although the
project itself avoids titling of encroached public land in cases where this would result in the displacement of
people, it includes the development of a policy framework to handle these situations in a long-term
program. These design features reduce the risk to a low level.
Title registry staff may not gain skills nor function in coordination with Lands Section of
Registrar General's Department. The small volume of titles and transactions limits consequences.
Lessons learned (even from failure) are likely to build support for organizational reform. lIowever, this is
a substantial risk which needs to be carefully monitored.
Records may be destroyed before they can be converted or preserved. Existing records at
Land Registries, the Survey Department and other key departments are in poor condition and subject to
destruction by fire or vernin. These records have been in this condition for decades and it is unlikely that
they will be destroyed during the project period. If the records are destroyed there are still means for
acquiring the necessary information, though at greater cost and longer time. This is a low risk and low
criticality. This is more of a problem for the nonproject sites that may not be attended to for some years.
The records maintenance activities under project will address this concern and include the development of a
long-term strategy.
GOSL may not give sufficient priority to two-way communications flow. The stakeholder
communications activities have been structured to address this concern. The risk is therefore negligible.
Possible Controversial Aspects
There may be a public perception that project would not address concerns about fairness and
socioeconomic impacts on socially excluded and other disadvantaged groups. Some NGOS, academics
and govemment officials worry that freeing restrictions against use and disposal of land assets will lead to
speculation and encourage land owners to dispose of their land for immediate monetary benefit or through
coercion. They also worry that pressure may also be applied on ethnicity and gender grounds. There is
little indication of this occurring in other countries that have undergone such projects. The social impact
will be very carefully monitored during the Project. Public confidence in faimess and techniques for impact
assessment, and development of stakeholder communications strategy are key performance indicators. The
project will include stakeholder communications initiatives including awareness campaigns, and careful
monitoring and management through interventions that support a transparent and inclusive titling process.
The risk is therefore negligible.
Problems in pre-project and ongoing non-project initiatives (e.g., issuance of titles that have a
high rate of challenge in court) may undermine the reputation of titling concept. Pre-project titling has
been minimal and little non-project titling is expected during the project period. The project includes close
and continued interchange that facilitates improvement of non-Bank financed activities based on learning
from Bank financed project. Although the issue is critical the risk is small.
Pre-existing perceptions and/or actual practices of petty corruption in land administration
activities continue and undermine the reputation of the project operations. The project design directly
-71 -



tackles this issue with its strong emphasis on transparency, and on building an effective client
communications and awareness program that specifies what the public should expect and strengthens
public accountability.
The Sri Lanka Bar Association may lobby strongly against titling. It is common internationally
for notaries and lawyers to resist introduction of Registration of Title. Sri Lanka is no exception. This risk
is moderate. In most countries the new system soon gains credence and is supported by the legal profession
once it is in place. It is important for the legal profession to support the project as they are the intermediary
with the public during transactions. The project addresses this risk by including the Bar Association in the
steering committee on an ad hoc basis and ensuring the legal profession are fully informed of all activities,
included in the public awareness activity and invited to workshops, seminars, etc., and focusing on building
support for long-tenn program objectives.
Management capacity may be insufficient due to multiple agency involvement and
inexperience with Bank project implementation. The pilot scale of the project and attention to generic
project management issues limit this risk.
- 72 -



MAP SECTION






SRI LANKA
-  -.-                                           LAND TITLiNG AND RELATED
.-'     JAFFtA-\' =;             :                           SERVICES PROJECT
J.          L.             CH              ff 
(, ] U \,    U   . #    &   a t    f .   f  : E  S          ; 5,  jFDA
:0~~~~~~~~~~~ N                                                                        W#  w-  -0:X1 -S :Xit      
=   S :-::  -S  .,4  0S '.f t f:   Sa:      X  S  :   C     E 30    .             i    S O     0  : 
ti:.-    -  :  :DE    i .// SI ', w................................................iO::   X  Sa,W     M
0   3.-  :       \ -;  t;'MANNAR                   \         !000            3  X:;                     ;      :    
:':?~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T 20 ff0 SS0 'S  '     ,\,_t_    S?-1 -0'f-f-      R,'-i'::  S.'
0 ;t 0 0;0j ;000 0 001t t-QDR ; E R N )C;~~~~~~~ t;0 0  ;-; 0;;0
i>&AN~~~~              ~~~~ I,  N " <2.E..'   '
. 9 9. T Hs I 1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Wil |k\
0 0 \ XR ~~~~~T                                                                        EA <>    
| : 3 \ P U tf ~~~Al L A M                                   \<XO   -  R..dreu,\303.0 
1 t: ;00 ~~~W E  E, R:                                          0V
s~~~~0-                        --                                             PROV 
0  ;  C=  UROINCE  \P                              <X;:SV !'3                                        i  
X                    0UTE R NPR  /SOg
~~t w (/ / ~~~~~~~~Th.s .p spr=dueed fby ke hbp DenU,,ild= Th. Wodd B.Ak.
)~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~1, ---         i d. - i. Iy,.. d.b f 6olWmyibyrnmd 11-11,  P.
o _  _   ao                    Mohvg                      gl,         1cseptnceolsuchboundorie.              1. _~i~d 



