Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3496 CE
Development Credit Agreement
(Land Titling and Related Services Project)
between
DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated April 18, 2001
CREDIT NUMBER 3496 CE
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 18, 2001, between DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI 
LANKA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through 
October 6, 1999 with the modifications set forth below  (the General Conditions), 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
A new paragraph (12) is added to Section 2.01 to read as set forth below, 
Page  2
and the existing paragraphs (12) through (14) of said Section are accordingly 
renumbered as paragraphs (13) through (15):
"12.
‘Participating Country’ means any country that the Association 
determines meets the requirements set forth in Section 11 of Resolution No. 
194 of the Board of Governors of the Association, adopted on April 8, 1999; 
and ‘Participating Countries’ means, collectively, all such countries.”; and
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not a Participating Country or for goods produced in, 
or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any 
payment to persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or 
import, to the knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a decision of 
the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of 
the 
United Nations."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings:
(a)
"CTS" means the Commissioner of Titles Settlement of the Borrower;
(b)
"Eligible Categories" means Categories 1 through 5, set forth in the 
table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(c)
"Eligible Expenditures" means the expenditures for goods, works and 
services referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(d)
"Project Area" means approximately 22,000 land parcels in the divisional 
secretariat districts of Balangoda, Udabaladha, and Divulapitiya of the Borrower, as 
it may be modified during the Project implementation by agreement between the Borrower 
and the Association;
(e)
"PIP" means the Project Implementation Plan of the Borrower approved by 
the Association and referred to in paragraph (b) of Section 3.01 of this Agreement;
(f)
"Project Management Report" means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(g)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement; and
(h)
"title related laws" means the Borrower’s current Registration of Title 
Act, Registration of Documents Ordinance, Land Development Ordinance, Notaries 
Ordinance, and all such laws of the Borrower in force that in the view of the 
Association directly affect or are affected by the introduction of a title 
registration system under the Project;
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to three million nine hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 3,900,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2004 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
Page  3
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each June 15 and December 15, commencing June 15, 2011 and ending December 15, 2040. 
Each installment to and including the installment payable on December 15, 2020, shall 
be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be 
two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower’s per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association’s resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower’s economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A)
requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower’s economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of United States of America is hereby specified for 
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01.(a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
Page  4
out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative and financial practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the 
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement, and Guidelines acceptable to the Bank, as it may be 
amended by agreement between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than the Closing Date or such later date as may 
be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a plan for the 
future operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format 
acceptable to the Association, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and 
expenditures related to the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to the Association, consistently 
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year, (A) 
certified copies of the financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for such year as so audited, and (B) 
an opinion on such statements, records and accounts and report of 
such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the Association may from time to time reasonably 
request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Credit Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; 
and
Page  5
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the Project Management Reports submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines 
acceptable to the Association, and furnish to the Association not later than 45 days 
after the end of each calendar quarter, a Project Management Report for such period 
which:
(a) 
(i)
sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and projected sources and applications of funds for the 
Project for the six-month period following the period covered by 
said report, and 
(ii)
shows separately expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit during the period covered by said report and expenditures 
proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit during 
the six-month period following the period covered by said report;
(b)
(i)
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and
(ii)
explains variances between the actual and previously forecast 
implementation targets; and
(c) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and expenditures 
under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, as at the end of the 
period covered by said report.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Secretary, or the Director General, External Resources 
Department, Ministry of Finance and Planning of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance and Planning
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
Colombo, Sri Lanka
Cable address:
Telex:
Fascimile:
SECMINFIN
FINMIN 21409
449823 or
FORAID 21232
447633
Page  6
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI)
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
By /s/ Warnasena Rasaputram
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Mariana Todorova
Country Director, Sri Lanka
Page  7
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
A.
General
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
% of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Civil Works             
   31,000
100% of foreign
expenditures and
80% of local
expenditures
(2)
Goods                   
1,162,000
100% of foreign
expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures (ex-
factory cost) and 
80% of local 
expenditures for 
other items 
procured locally
(3)
Consultants’            
1,349,000 
100%
services, 
training and
workshops
(4)
Service contracts               406,000
80%
(5)
Allowances,                     562,000
80%
incentives and
transport
(6)
Unallocated                     390,000
TOTAL
3,900,000 
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; 
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; 
(c)
the term "allowances, incentives and transport" means allowances, 
incentives and transport costs incurred by the Borrower to implement the Project; and
(d)
the term "service contracts" means contracts for production of photomaps, 
private sector survey and demarcation survey, rent of premises, temporary staff in the 
form of field helpers and office assistants, and to search land records
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of SDR 
390,000, may be made on account of payments made for expenditures before that date but 
after December 15, 2000.  
B.
Special Account
1.
The Borrower shall open and maintain in dollars a special account in its Central 
Bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, except as the 
Page  8
Association may otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower, all withdrawals from the 
Credit Account shall be deposited by the Association into the Special Account in 
accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. Payments out of the Special Account 
shall be made exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.  For each payment made by the 
Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the 
Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and 
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.
2.
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, after the Association has 
received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account has been duly opened, 
withdrawals from the Credit Account of amounts to be deposited into the Special 
Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
Each application for withdrawal from the Credit Account shall be 
supported by a Project Management Report.
(b)
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the 
Credit, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit into the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (i) the 
amount so requested; and (ii) the amount which the Association has determined, based 
on the Project Management Report accompanying said application, is required to be 
deposited in order to finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period 
following the date of such report; provided, however, that the amount so deposited, 
when added to the amount indicated by said report to be remaining in the Special 
Account, shall not exceed the equivalent of $500,000.  Each such deposit into the 
Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under 
one or more of the Special Account’s Eligible Categories.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if the Association determines at any time that any Project Management 
Report does not adequately provide the information required pursuant to Section 4.02 
of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Association determines at any time that all further withdrawals 
should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account; or
(c)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01(b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of: (A) the records and accounts for the Special Account; or (B) 
the records and accounts reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals 
were made on the basis of Project Management Reports.
4.
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any 
time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in 
whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account 
pursuant to Section 6.02 of the General Conditions. Upon such notification, the 
Association shall determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the 
Special Account may be made and what procedures should be followed for making such 
deposits, and shall notify the Borrower of its determination.
5.
(a)
If the Association determines at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or 
was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Association, provide such additional evidence as the 
Association may request, or deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association 
shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment.
(b)
If the Association determines at any time that any amount outstanding in 
the Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures 
during the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to sub-paragraph (a), (b) or (c) 
Page  9
of this paragraph 5 shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal 
or for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Development Credit 
Agreement.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assess and build the methods, framework and 
capacity for making sustainable and comprehensive improvement in the land 
administration system. The project aims to build the foundation for a long-term 
program to develop a fair, efficient, and sustainable land administration system.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Developing and Testing Operational Methods
Provision for works, vehicles, equipment, furniture, materials, allowances, 
incentive payments, transport, service contracts, consultancies, training, and 
workshops for:
1.
Carrying out activities to test and develop improved titling methods and develop 
operational capacity in respect of about 22,000 land parcels  in various systematic 
titling technologies, procedures, and implementation arrangements. The methods 
referred to herein will involve, inter alia: (a) stakeholder communications; (b) 
search and compilation of records; (c) cadastral surveying and mapping; (d) 
adjudication and dispute resolution; and (e) title registration and issuance.
2.
Establishing title registry offices and capacity in titling registry methods, 
procedures and operation; and undertaking of analysis, satisfactory to the Association 
in its scope and quality, of arrangements for title registries with recommendations 
for a future institutional framework.
3.
Developing support facilities for land record maintenance, and development of a 
plan for records preservation in a long-term program.
Part B:
Institutional Capacity Strengthening and Policy Formulation
Provision of works, vehicles, equipment, furniture, materials, allowances, 
incentive payments, transport, consultancies, training, and workshops for:
1.
Improving the legal and regulatory framework including: (a) amendments of title 
related laws, regulations and operational procedures; (b) legal work needed for 
private sector involvement, land market and other policy reforms, organizational 
reforms, and other project innovations and learning; (c) designing dispute resolution 
alternatives to the use of courts; and (d) supporting training and learning in legal 
aspects of land titling.
2.
Policy formulation, testing, and analysis including proposed policies to reduce 
restrictions on marketability of land; and Project-wide learning through 
national-level stakeholder communications, research studies, monitoring and 
evaluation, and development of a social assessment framework for a long-term program.
3.
Undertaking: (a) organizational development including structural rationalization 
and staffing arrangements, human resource development, and development of an 
information management strategy; (b) project management and related capacity 
development; and (c) planning of a long-term program.
* *
 *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2004.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Page  10
1.
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions of 
Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, 
September 1997 and January 1999 subject to the modifications thereto set forth in 
paragraph 2 of this Part A (the Guidelines); and (b) the provisions of the following 
Parts of this Section I.
2.
In paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of the Guidelines, the references to "Bank member 
countries" and "member country" shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
"Participating Countries" and "Participating Country".
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts shall be grouped in bid packages estimated 
to cost $70,000 equivalent or more each.
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods and domestic contractors
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive Bidding
(a)
General
Except as provided in paragraph 2 of this Part C, works estimated to cost less 
than $35,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $55,000 
equivalent, and office equipment estimated to cost up to an aggregate of $50,000 
equivalent, and office and archive furniture, may be procured under contracts awarded 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
(b)
Improvement of Bidding Procedures
In order to ensure economy, efficiency, transparency and broad consistency with 
the provision of Section 1 of the Guidelines:
(i) 
invitations to bid shall be advertised in at least one national 
newspaper with a wide circulation, at least 30 days prior to the 
deadline for the submission of bids;
(ii)
bid documents shall be made available, by mail or in person, to 
all who are willing to pay the required fee;
(iii)
foreign bidders shall not be precluded from bidding and no 
preference of any kind shall be given to national bidders in the 
bidding process;
(iv) 
qualification criteria (in case prequalification was not carried 
out) shall be stated in the bidding documents, and, if a 
registration process is required, a foreign firm declared as the 
lowest evaluated bidder shall be given a reasonable opportunity of 
registering, without let or hindrance;
(v) 
bids shall be opened in public in one location, immediately after 
the deadline for submission of bids;
(vi) 
bids shall not be rejected merely on the basis of a comparison 
with an official estimate without the prior concurrence of the 
Association;
Page  11
(vii)
contracts shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated bidders;
(viii)post-bidding negotiations shall not be allowed with the lowest 
evaluated or any other bidders;
(ix) 
rebidding shall not be carried out without the Association’s prior 
concurrence;
(x) 
all bidders/contractors shall provide bid/performance security as 
indicated in the bidding/contract documents;
(xi) 
evaluation of bids shall be made in strict adherence to the 
criteria disclosed in the bidding documents, in a format and 
specified period agreed by the Association;
(xii)
a bidder’s Bid Security shall apply only to a specific bid, and a 
contractor’s performance security shall apply only to the specific 
contract under which it was furnished;
(xiii) bids shall not be invited on the basis of percentage premium or 
discount over the estimated cost;
(xiv)
extension of bid validity shall not be allowed unless justified by 
exceptional circumstances; and
(xv)
there shall not be any restrictions on the means of delivery of 
the bids.
2.
International or National Shopping
(a)
Specialized survey equipment estimated to cost up to an aggregate amount 
not exceeding $350,000 equivalent, respectively, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
(b)
Any urgent requirements of vehicles, other than motor bikes and 
three-wheelers, estimated to cost up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $50,000 
equivalent, with the prior approval of the Association, may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of international or national shopping procedures in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
(c)
(i) Motor bicycles and three-wheelers estimated to cost up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $20,000 equivalent; (ii) computer and survey equipment 
estimated to cost less than $50,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to 
exceed $100,000 equivalent; (iii) office furniture and urgent requirements of office 
equipment estimated to cost up to an aggregate not to exceed $20,000 and $25,000 
equivalent, respectively, with the prior approval of the Association; (iv) small 
supplies and materials estimated to cost less than $20,000 per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $210,000 equivalent; (v) beacons; and (vi) survey and 
demarcation works, may be procured
under contracts awarded on the basis of national 
shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the 
Guidelines.
(d)
Services to be provided by temporary office support staff, record 
searchers, and contracted field helpers shall be procured in accordance with 
procedures acceptable to the Association.
3.
Direct Contracting
(a)
Standard software packages and information technology support costing 
$40,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate, may, with the Association’s
prior 
agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the 
Guidelines.
(b)
Renting of premises, estimated to cost $210,000 equivalent or less in the 
aggregate, may, with the Association’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
4.
Force Account
Work for the production of photomaps and associated survey (for the testing of 
Page  12
photogrammetric methods) which meet the requirements of paragraph 3.8 of the 
Guidelines, and costing $70,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate, may, with the 
Association’s prior agreement, be carried out by force account in accordance with the 
provisions of said paragraph of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review 
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for goods awarded under international competitive 
bidding procedures set forth in Part B of this Schedule, the first two contracts each 
for works and goods awarded under national competitive procedures set forth in 
paragraph 1, Part C of this Schedule, and all contracts for specialized survey 
equipment awarded in accordance with international shopping procedures under paragraph 
2 (a) of Part C of this Schedule, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions 
of the Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers", published by the Association in January 1997 and 
revised in September 1997 and January 1999, subject to the modifications thereto set 
forth in paragraph 2 of this Part A (the Consultant Guidelines); and (b) the 
provisions of the following Parts of this Section II.
2.
In paragraph 1.10 of the Consultant Guidelines, the references to "Bank member 
countries" and "member country" shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
"Participating Countries" and "Participating Country".
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality-and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Under a Fixed Budget
Technical assistance and studies estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent 
per contract
may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.5 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Technical assistance and studies estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent 
per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
Page  13
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of firms estimated to 
cost less than $50,000 equivalent, the Terms of Reference, Cost estimates and the 
shortlist shall be furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval. The 
contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have been given. 
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval. The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Association, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about January 31, 2003, a mid-term evaluation report 
integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant 
to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the 
Project during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the 
measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Association, by March 31, 2003, or such later date as the 
Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, 
and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Association’s views on the matter.
2.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
implement the Project in accordance with organizational and inter-agency 
collaborative arrangements and processes, staffing and training arrangements, agreed 
with the Association;
(b)
appoint no later than July 31, 2001, the Registrar General of Title with 
qualifications agreed with the Association;
Page  14
(c)
undertake the Project reforms including legal reforms, land market 
restriction policy reforms and organizational reforms in accordance with the schedule 
to that effect agreed with the Association; and
(d)
address, through the Project, the social issues in accordance with 
arrangements agreed with the Association; and
3.
(a) 
No land in or directly adjoining the Project area will as a result of the 
Project be titled in the name of the Borrower in situations where such an action will 
result in the displacement of people occupying such land, or in restrictions on their 
access to this land.
(b)
The Borrower’s State land not previously allocated to private persons 
under the Land Development Ordinance or any other relevant law of the Borrower, which 
is or appears to be subject to unauthorized occupation will be excluded from the 
titling process during the Project implementation. However, where such land is 
identified, the Project personnel will bring it to the attention of divisional land 
officers and assist them in assessing the feasibility and appropriateness of 
regularizing the occupation in accordance with criteria and policies agreed with the 
Association, and after prior approval of the Association.
