Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 20549
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(27720; P8500; P8501; 22714; 03710)
ONA
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 9.6 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
FOR A RURAL COMMUNITIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
JUNE 16, 2000
Socially and Environmentally Sustainable Development
Country Department 6
Regional Office for Latin America and the Caribbean
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective April 2000)
Currency Unit = Bolivianos
Bs. 6.12 = US$ 1.00
US$ 0.16 = Bs. 1.00
FISCAL YEAR
January 1  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CORDES              Regional Development Corporations (Corporaci6n Regional de Desarrollo)
COSLTDE             Swiss Agency for Cooperation and Development
(Agencia Suiza para la Cooperaci6n y el Desarrollo)
COTESU              Swiss Technical Cooperation (Cooperaci6n Tecnica Suiza)
CV                  Supervisory Committee (Comite de Vigilancia)
EC                  Cooperating Agency (Entidad Cooperante) for FDC
EE           :      Executing Agency (Entidad Ejecutora) for SNDR and SNPP
FDC          :      Small-Fanner Development Fund (Fondo de Desarrollo Campesino)
FIS          :      Social Investment Fund (Fondo de Inversi6n Social)
FONAMA              National Environment Fund (Fondo Nacional del Medio Ambiente)
GM                  Municipal Government (Gobierno Municipal)
IFAD                International Fund for Agricultural Development
LPP                 Popular Participation Law (Ley de Participaci6n Popular)
NGO          :      Non-Governmental Organization
OTB                 Grassroots Organization (Organizaci6n Territorial de Base)
PAO                 Annual Operative Plan (Plan Anual Operativo)
PRIP         :      Participatory Rural lnvestment Project
(Proyecto de Inversion Rural Participativa).
PMD          :      Municipal Development Plan (Plan de Desarrollo Municipal)
RCDP                Rural Communities Development Project
(Proyecto de Desarrollo de Comunidades Rurales).
SAE                 Subcretariat for Ethnic Affairs (Subsecretaria de Asuntos Etnicos)
SAG                 Subsecretariat for Gender (Subsecretaria de Asuntos de Ge'nero)
SAR          :      Staff Appraisal Report
SISPLAN             National Planning System (Sistema de Planificaci6n Naciona)
SNDR         :      National Secretariat of Rural Development
(Secretaria Nacional de Desarrollo Rural)
SNPP                National Secretariat for Popular Participation
(Secretaria Nacional de Participaci6n Popular)
Vice President:   David De Ferranti
Country Manager/Director:   Isabel Guerrero
Sector Manager/Director:   John Redwood
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   David Tuchschneider



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                       1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                       1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry            2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                               3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                15
6. Sustainability                                                                    17
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                      18
8. Lessons Learned                                                                   23
9. Partner Comments                                                                  25
10. Additional Information                                                           34
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                 35
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                 41
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                 43
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                 44
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                 46
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                    47
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                48
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P006202                                       Project Name: RURAL COMMiUNITIES DE
Team Leader: David Tuchschneider                          TL Unit: LCSES
ICR Type: Core ICR                                        Report Date: June 16, 2000
1. Project Data
Name: RURAL COMMUNITIES DE                           L/C/TFNumber: 27720; P8500; P8501;
22714; 03710
Country/Department: BOLIVIA                                              Region: Latin America and
Caribbean Region
Sector/subsector: AG - Agency Reform
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:  02/02/94                                Effective:                    12/22/95
Appraisal:  02/06/95                                  MTR:                      09/01/97
Approval:  08/03/95                                Closing: 06/30/99            08/31/99
Borrower/implementing Agency:  GOVERNMENT OF BOLIVIA/SNDR (VPEPP); GOVERNMENT OF
BOLIVIA/FDC
Other Partners: COSUDE (Swiss Development Cooperation)
STAFF                Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President:      David De Ferranti                         Shahid Javed Burki
Country Manager:    Isabel M. Guerrero                         Yoshiaki Abe
Sector Manager:      John Newman                               Nicholas J. Krafft
Team Leader at ICR:   David Tuchschneider                      Pierre Werbrouck
ICR Primary Author:   David Tuchschneider; Vladimir
Pary; Claudia Ranaboldo
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS--Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N-Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: H
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:                        S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The overall project objectives were to: (a) alleviate rural poverty by carrying out rural investments
identified and formulated following a participatory planning process; (b) enhance the institutional capacity
of the Secretariat for Rural Development (SNDR), the Small-Farmer Development Fund (FDC), and the
Secretariat for Popular Participation (SNPP) to carry out the project; (c) improve the capacity of
municipalities and rural communities to implement municipal development plans (PMDs); and (d)
strengthen non-government organizations (NGOs) assisting municipalities and rural communities in
identifying, formulating and implementing rural investments and managing their PMDs.
Specific objectives were to: (i) operationalize and institutionalize participatory planning processes
at the municipal and community level, following principles laid down in Popular Participation Law; (ii)
empower grassroots organizations to effectively take the planning of community development efforts in
their own hands; (iii) assist municipalities in the formulation and implementation of municipal development
plans; (iv) strengthen executing and co-operating agencies in sub-project preparation, implementation, and
administration; and (v) increase and improve FDC's rural investment portfolio.
The objectives of the Rural Communities Development Project (RCDP) were clearly designed
taking into account the Popular Participation reform the country started on April 1994. The project formed
part of the FY94-97 CAS, in which a "Rural development project" was expected to contribute to the
objective of "broadening the benefits of economic growth". By straddling the link between institutional
strengthening and investments, while putting the emphasis on the former, the project placed itself
realistically within the context of the Popular Participation reform while pointing to the long-term
conditions necessary for poverty alleviation. This combination of a strategic vision solidly grounded in
borrower circumstances and priorities allowed the project to spearhead one of the key reforms of the
government, and to help in setting the stage for future efforts directed at poverty alleviation and local
empowerment.
The project was designed taking into account key factors of national relevance: (a) the low impact
of poverty reduction efforts in the country even after the first generation reforms of the eighties; (b) the
concentration of poverty among peasants, indigenous peoples, and the rural female population, above all in
the highlands and the valleys; (c) the increasing deterioration of natural resources. Along this
socio-economic and cultural context, there were important new elements coming into play such as: (a)
structural reforms implemented by the new government of Bolivia and particularly the Law of Popular
Participation (LPP), which devolved functions and resources to municipalities (many of them new),
recognized civil society organizations (OTBs) and provided them with clear powers over public activities;
(b) the connections between these reforms and the new Participatory Rural Development Strategy, based on
the empowerment of rural peoples; ethnical, generational, and gender equality; and environmental,
economic and social sustainability; (c) the new institutional framework of the executive branch of
government, both at the normative and operational levels.
As its objectives clearly reflect, the project aimed at supporting the borrower in the implementation
of this complex and demanding reform by improving the capacity of the relevant national implementing
agencies in order to strengthen local governmental, social and non-governmental actors which were called
on to assume new functions, rights and duties and to administer important resources in a decentralized
manner. The complexity of the project reflected the implementation challenges of the Popular Participation
reform and the Rural Development Strategy. It took into account the institutional circumstances of the
implementing agencies and facilitated their responsiveness to government priorities.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The objectives of the project were not revised during its implementation because they were solidly grounded
in the realities of the country, its reforms and institutional culture, maintaining their relevance to this day.
-2-



3.3 Original Components:
The project was structured in the following components:
I.     Rural Investment Identification and Formulation
This component provided technical assistance to municipalities and OTBs to: (i) carry out Municipal
Development Plans following Participatory Planning Processes in the target area of project intervention; (ii)
register OTBs and establish Supervisory Committees (CVs); (iii) form indigenous municipal districts; and
(iv) prepare rural investment sub-projects through identification, design and feasibility studies.
II.    Training
Through this component the project financed training of public and private organizations in participatory
planning methodology, adjustment of PMDs, management and monitoring of PMDs and PAOs, and
sub-project preparation and implementation.
HII.   Institutional Strengthening
This component strengthened: (i) SNDR, particularly its Departmental network to support and monitor
participatory planning and training; (ii) FDC at the Departmental level to enable it to decentralize its
operations; and (iii) SNPP to enable it to carry out municipal strengthening.
IV.   Rural Investments
The project's investment component provided funds to FDC to finance sub-projects which met the
institutional objectives of the agency, were generated through a participatory planning process and are
included in a municipal development plan and/or annual operational plan.
The components were closely related to the objectives of the project. The emphasis in the first two
components permitted a clear link between the strengthening of local actors (communities, supervisory
committees, NGOs and municipal governments) and the establishment of bottom-up, participatory
processes of investment planning and implementation. Simultaneously, the project provided support to the
national government agencies involved (FDC, SNDR and SNPP, the latter two fused during
implementation) to undertake the needed institutional transformations required for empowering local actors
and establishing a demand-driven rural investment system. In all, the components were aimed at generating
new conditions to alleviate rural poverty.
The most important lessons taken into account in project design were: i) that highly centralized,
supply driven development initiatives rarely meet the needs of the population, are complex from a
managerial point of view and hard to sustain in the long run; ii) that participatory planning and
empowennent of local actors was not sufficient to achieve the objectives if it was not accompanied with the
transformation of the institutions that finance rural investments to accommodate to demand-driven
approaches; iii) that empowennent of local actors requires a special effort to effectively include specific
groups (women, indigenous peoples).
3.4 Revised Components:
The design was not revised during implementation. The most important difference between the SAR and
actual project execution was the result of a major delay in the approval and implementation of IFAD's
parallel contribution.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
The ICR rating for quality at entry for the project is satisfactory for the following reasons: (i) the
objectives were well placed both within government priorities and the CAS; (ii) the Bank's safeguard
priorities were properly taken into account; (iii) the design took into account the borrower's needs and
conditions and was closely linked to the objectives.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
-3 -



During ICR preparation, the determination of the project's outcome rating was the result of discussions
within the task team and with the government. As the sections below will show, the project achieved most
of tte general and specific objectives and surpassed most of the expected outputs, and it has contributed
significantly to setting the ground for poverty alleviation. The project has contributed to laying down
fundamental reforms in the planning and investment systems that will help to achieve this objective in the
future, depending on a number of external factors, including continuity in government policy towards local
empowerment and demand-driven investment. The external evaluation carried out in 1999 by the Swiss
Agency for Development Cooperation, COSUDE, a cofmancing institution of RCDP, concluded that "the
results of the project are highly satisfactory". It added that, "the Rural Communities Development Project
has been the operational instrument of LPP, as it legitimized roughly 4,000 rural communities, 98 CVs,
and made society more dynamic for public management; it also achieved the replication of rural municipal
participatory planning ... plus municipal strengthening in administrative systems in other rural
municipalities." Given this, it could be expected that the project's impact be rated as highly satisfactory.
However, the team came to the conclusion that the likely substantial alleviation of rural poverty in the
future depended on many outside factors. Additionally, the team noted that it was not easy to measure the
impact of the institutional strengthening activities and therefore, by the standards of the Comprehensive
Development Framework, which requires measurable impacts, difficult to come to a definitive statement of
impact.
RCDP contributed to LPP institutionalization and implementation as an instrument of social
democratization, participation, and control. Social mobilization, around participatory planning processes
and the new form to conceive local management, have involved considerable numbers of indigenous peoples
and peasants, OTB representatives, CVs, GMs, and private and public institutions. In short, the project
became one of the most important instruments for the operationalization of the LPP. It provided technical
assistance and training to campesino and indigenous communities as well as assistance to the new rural
municipalities, allowing all the local actors to appropriate the instruments given by the LPP. In so doing,
the executing agencies spearheaded the design and consolidation of a bottom-up system of public
investment financing, based on a formalized process which allowed community organizations to define their
priorities and to be involved in their implementation and control. The project introduced basic instruments
for ensuring the informed participation and leadership of the rural poor, above all, peasants, indigenous
peoples and women in the consolidation of local government in Bolivia. There was a marked improvement
in the volume and quality of the rural investment portfolio both of the local municipalities and of FDC.
Given that most of this investment is being channeled to the priorities determined by local communities in
participatory planning processes, it is expected that the benefits will reach the rural poor and thus will have
a significant impact on poverty alleviation. Based on the results obtained, it could be said that RCDP
design was adequate. A key element for results achievement was the flexibility of the design which allowed
adjustments during implementation, considering the experiences which had been generated. Because it was
an innovative project which went along the new Popular Participation Law, this possibility of change in the
activities of the components and methodological procedures was essential, not only to close the project
successfully but also to accumulate a number of learned lessons which could be of use for other institutions
in the country, and for donors facing new development endeavors. For these reasons, the team settled for a
sound Satisfactory rating.
Further support for this rating is detailed in the discussion that follows. Given that the project was
not designed with a logical framework, the rest of this section reviews the achievement of each of the
general and specific objectives.
Achievement of Specific Objectives
Specific objective i)   Operationalize and institutionalize participatory planning processes at the
municipal and community level, following principles laid down in Popular Participation Law. The
- 4 -



project operationalized participatory planning processes in a total of 132 municipalities, outstripping its
original target of 98 municipalities. Demand for participatory planning in the rest of municipalities has
been high due to the demonstration effects of RCDP and also to the inclusion of municipal participatory
planning into the national planning regulations. By the end of the project, an additional 133 municipalities
had started or completed participatory planning processes of their own, with the support of other projects
or NGOs. The substantial support of RCDP to the operationalization and institutionalization of municipal
participatory planning is shown by: (i) the inclusion of participatory planning into the regulations of the
National Planning System (SISPLAN) and into the conditions demanded by cofmancing funds (FDC and
FIS); (ii) the existence of a set of validated instruments for participatory planning and municipal
management; (iii) the fact that PMDs have become fundamental references for municipal investmnents on
the part of communities, indigenous districts, CVs, NGOs and municipal governments; and (iv) the use of
PMDs as a basic input for the design of investment projects by donors and government.
The project has provided a core body of participatory methodologies which are now the basic
reference for LPP operationalization in Bolivia. These methodologies have permitted the operationalization
of gender and ethnic perspectives in participatory planning as well. The institutionalization of participatory
planning at the local level is very advanced, given the number of municipalities that base their investments
on PMDs and the growing proportion of municipal POAs based on those PMDs (34% on average at project
closing). Full institutionalization of municipal participatory planning, however, will depend on the
consolidation of the decentralized systems of planning and investment, and on continuing government
support for civil society empowerment.
Specific objective ii)   Empower grassroots organizations to effectively take the planning of community
development efforts in their own hands. By taking a leading role in the implementation of the LPP in rural
areas, RCDP contributed substantially to the empowerment of campesino and indigenous communities in
Bolivia. This empowerment started with the legal recognition of the communities (as OTBs) in the first 98
municipalities, and assistance to the constitution and operation of the comites de vigilancia in the project
area. By acquiring a juridical personality, OTBs gained the rights and duties contemplated in the LPP.
This formal recognition forms the basis for citizen participation and control over municipal expenditure.
The empowerment of indigenous groups proceeded further through the territorial reorganization of
municipalities in order to take into account the territorial organization of ethnic groups themselves. RCDP
designed and validated the participatory planning methodologies as means to transform these rights and
duties into concrete practices in each municipality, creating a culture of participation in planning,
implementation and social control. In the 132 municipalities, with 1,600,000 inhabitants (23% of Bolivian
population), there was massive participation in diagnostic and planning activities. Gender techniques were
validated and applied in all these processes in order to ensure that the visions and needs of women were
represented in the PMDs. In 13 indigenous districts a new round of participatory planning was
implemented, taking into account their particular cultural and social characteristics. All these activities
were supported with almost 800 training workshops, 70 of which were dedicated to gender perspectives.
Beyond the difficulties of measuring empowerment, the rising percentage of PMD priorities included in the
municipal POAs, the realignment of NGO activities in local communities to respond to these priorities, and
the continued demands for respect of community priorities reflect the degree to which this objective has
been met. It is important to note, however, that community empowerment varies from place to place in
function of the degree of organization communities had to start with and also of the way in which different
interest groups play out their power in municipal politics. In the 1999 municipal elections, for the first time
more than 50% of elected municipal councilpersons (concejales) are of campesino or indigenous origin.
Specific objective iii)  Assist municipalities in the formulation and implementation of municipal -
development plans. This objective was fully achieved and, due to demand, project resources were
reallocated to attend an extra 34 municipalities. Moreover, the requirements of a great number of
- 5 -



municipalities not included in RCDP to receive support for their PMDs and PAOs also convinced donors to
assign funds for those purposes. In global terms, since the enactment of the participatory planning norm in
March 1997, the country has formulated 265 PMDs, which means 84% of the country's municipalities.
The impact of participatory planning is difficult to understate. It allows all local actors to organize their
demands in time and space within a reasonable projection of available resources. It diminishes
discretionality in resource allocation. It increases govemability. RCDP designed and implemented
methodologies to support municipalities and communities in the implementation of their PMDs, after the
planning activities had concluded. These activities included: (i) the participatory formulation of the
Annual Operational Programs (POA) of the municipalities, in concert with local NGOs; (ii) the
organization of local systems of investment supervision; (iii) follow-up and support for implementation of
the POA; and (iv) subproject profile preparation. During ICR preparation an attempt was made to
measure the impact of these activities in RCDP municipalities, but the results were inconclusive due to the
dearth of information and the difficulty of establishing comparisons with non-RCDP municipalities. With
the support of the Bank, the Viceministry of Popular Participation is now preparing a comparative
evaluation of municipalities which will provide more solid impact data. In personal interviews, however,
mayors and municipal technicians have asserted that this support has been fundamental for carrying out
their activities. Additionally, 84 municipalities received support in installing the fiscal and administrative
systems demanded by SAFCO law. Cofmanced by COSUDE, these activities included the implementation
of: (i) the integrated budgeting and accounting system (SICOM); (ii) the integrated tributary and
non-tributary incomes system (SIIM); (iii) the personnel administration system; and (iv) the goods and
services administration system. An external evaluation performed by COSUDE in 1999 found that, on a
sample of 50 RCDP municipalities, tax and non-tax collections rose from BOB 77,979 in 1996 to BOB
717,463, an 820% increase. A comparison of RCDP and non-RCDP municipalities recently carried out by
VPEPP also found that that the project's municipalities had fewer observations in external audits.
Specific objective iv)   Strengthen executing and co-operating agencies in sub-project preparation,
implementation, and administration. Given that one of the problems identified in RCDP design was the
scarce built-in capacity in public and private institutions for project formulation, RCDP implemented two
lines of action: (a) training in subproject preparation and implementation and (b) technical assistance for
subproject preparation and implementation. In practice, most of these activities were aimed at subproject
preparation, since the need to respond to the demands prioritized in the PMDs became the top priority of
the project. As a result, 114 consultants received direct training in project preparation, 575 subproject
profiles were prepared, and 527 subprojects were fully fonnulated. The market mechanism supported by
the project had an important role in attracting and developing capacity in the rural areas. In 1997, the
project had registered a total of 114 executing entities (NGOs and consultants) in the different areas
financed by the project. By 1999, when the follow up Participatory Rural Investment Project started
implementation, this number had risen to 405. This objective was achieved.
Specific objective v) Increase and improve FDCs rural investment portfolio. This objective was fully
achieved. Participatory planning in the 132 municipalities resulted in a total of 10,536 prioritized project
ideas in all sectors, worth an estimated $US 650 million. Being the product of successive rounds of
decision-making by communities, districts and municipalities, these project ideas represent a socially
agreed focalization of investments which maximizes impact and scope. Not all of these ideas turn out to be
feasible investments, but they represent a basis for diminishing top-down discretionality which will increase
the quality of the investment portfolio in Bolivia in the future. Of these ideas, 575 were developed as
project profiles and another 527 were fully formulated. This allowed FDC to increase its portfolio from
US$ 12,2 in 1996 to US$ 20 million in 1997, and US$ 27 million in 1999.
Achievement of General Objectives:
- 6 -



Achievement of general objectives depended mostly on achievement of specific objectives (see above). The
discussion that follows summarizes the previous paragraphs and provides an assessment of general
objectives:
General objective a)   Alleviate ruralpoverty by carrying out investments identified andformulated
following a participatory planning process. By present-day standards, had a project design summary
logframe been used, this objective would fall under the CAS Objective box. As far as the project is
concerned, this was the most general and ambitious objective. Two points need to be noted in relation to
this objective. First, the amount dedicated to rural investments in the project was small, and stayed small
given the delay in the implementation of IFAD's parallel project. Second, there was one fundamental
element to understand the logic of RCDP. The project aimed at "the institutional strengthening, not so much
the investment, given the need to guarantee demand generation of local projects and strengthen the
executing agencies and the state to cope with such a demand, before channeling great amounts of resources
in rural areas. This design was justified given that the limiting factor in executing a rural development
program in this country is not, to date, due to the lack of resources of project financing, but due to the weak
capacity of executing agencies and OTBs in formulating bankable projects, and the unproven capacity of
FDC to deal with a large number of projects" Ayuda Memoria. Misi6n del banco Mundial y FIDA. 4-15
de Julio de 1994, p.2.
In fact, RCDP was thought of as a "pilot project" which would generate new experiences and
prepare the ground for greater rural investment. RCDP aimed at generating the conditions for that to
happen. In this sense, the innovation of this project was to contribute to poverty alleviation not by means of
traditional investment forrns but fundamentally by consolidating and extending citizenship rights,
consolidating institutions, increasing govemability and increasing access to resources by the poor.
For these reasons alone, it could be expected that the project will significantly contribute to poverty
alleviation in the future. In addition, it is fundamental to point out that RCDP also contributed
significantly to generate a larger and higher quality investment portfolio. This portfolio marks a significant
improvement for the country because: (i) it is designed to be channeled through the joint efforts of
municipal governments and local NGOs, with significant community participation in implementation; (ii) it
is demand-driven by the population as a result of genuinely participatory planning processes; (iii) it
includes projects with a greater impact potential since the participatory planning process produces a
hierarchy of priorities and avoids investment dispersion; (iv) demand identification and participation in
project design is the result of a transparent process in which the role of outside intermediaries is greatly
diminished; and (v) investment sustainability is more likely since it reflects the need of the population and
requires their participation during implementation.
In addition to NGO investments, this portfolio is feeding priorities into the following
government-implemented rural development projects, most of them designed in response to RCDPs
mobilization of demand:
i)     The National Irrigation Program (PRONAR), which is oriented to satisfy small farmer
irrigation needs (US$ 33 million, financed by IDB and GTZ).
ii) The Peasant Producers Technical Support Project (PROSAT), which is oriented to supporting
technical assistance services on demand, while strengthening the capacity of suppliers to qualify and
specialize their services (US$ 13 million financed by IFAD).
iii) The Food Security Support Program (PASA), which focuses on poverty alleviation by means
of support to pre-investment and investment projects on food security which link sectoral demands in
municipal spheres (US$ 100 million, financed by the European Union).
iv) The Rural Economic Development Promotion Project (PADER) supports public management in
order to encourage economic development in the rural areas (1,5 million Swiss francs, financed by
COSUDE).
-7 -



v) The Project for Integral Rural Development in Poorer Areas (DRIPAD), which is oriented at
encouraging, in the greater food insecurity municipalities, an answer to specific demands in infrastructure
to support production and the recovery of the productive base (US$ 33,600 million, financed by the World
Food Program).
vi) The Participatory Rural Investment Project, follow up to RCDP (US$70 million, financed by
IDA, COSUDE and OPEC).
General objective b)   Enhance the institutional capacity of the Secretariat for Rural
Development (SNDR), the Small Development Fund (FDC), and the Secretariatfor Rural Participation
(SNPP) to carry out the project This objective, related to the strengthening of public agencies in charge of
the project's implementation included a challenge considering the notably weak institutional setting in
Bolivia. SNDR and SNPP were fused in the midst of project implementation in 1996 and the departmental
project units were assimilated by the prefectures after the Law of Administrative Decentralization, but
RCDP was never interrupted, in contrast to other endeavors financed by the international cooperation.
Gaps in implementation were overcome, and operations ended only two months after the expected closing
date, having disbursed almost all the budget assigned by the World Bank, COSUDE, and the Government
(US$ 17.9 million).
The most relevant elements which support this positive balance are: (i) the good performance of the
project with regard to its progress indicators, particularly given that, in many cases, the goals were
outstripped; (ii) the validation of an important set of methodological instruments and the establishment of
regulations which facilitate local management and the intervention of different local actors; (iii) FDC's
deconcentration, which was fundamental to increase disbursement capacity, efficiency and to articulate
demands and investments; (iv) the preparation of a number of additional projects with international
financing which complemented the process initiated by RCDP.
General objective c)  Improve the capacity of the municipalities and rural communities to implement
municipal development plans (PMDs). The project: (i) operationalized participatory planning processes at
the municipal and community level in a total of 132 municipalities; (ii) empowered grassroots
organizations to effectively take the planning of community development efforts in their own hands; (iii)
assisted municipalities in the formulation and implementation of municipal development plans through
technical assistance in planning, implementation and municipal management; and (iv) developed the
methodological foundations and provided training to numerous NGOs, consulting firms and technicians at
all levels, facilitating the replication of its experience in a large number of municipalities.
General objective d)   Strengthen non-government organizations NGOs assisting municipalities and
rural communities in identifying, formulating and implementing rural investments and managing their
PMDs. The SAR identified a large quantity of NGOs (roughly 600 with an annual turnover of US$ 200
million). Only 24 had experience in participatory planning experience and a total of 149 were registered in
the project area (63% had previous work in rural development). At present, there are more than 400
registered executing entities, of which 301 have had experience in providing the services required by
municipal governments, OTBs and CVs to implement the LPP and participatory planning. This is the
outcome of a model of institutional strengthening implanted in Bolivia by RCDP whereby those services are
provided through the market, rather than through a bureaucratic apparatus. The qualitative impact of
RCDP on EEs can be seen as follows: (a) a progressively closer relation between NGOs and government,
starting with the recognition of LPP as an instrument of transformation; (b) the accommodation of EEs to
the participatory planning norm; (c) greater relationship with GMs as orientating agencies in investment
matters; (d) the recognition of the need to specialize and diversify services in rural areas; (e) the extension
of institutional services beyond the central axis of the country (La Paz, Cochabamba and Santa Cruz) to
reach poor and unattended areas. The social evaluation carried out during the preparation of the
- 8 -



Participatory Rural Investment Project, which followed up RCDP since December 1998, showed that EEs
were still weak in some areas, above all in relation to the solid management of regulations and the handling
of methodologies for providing an efficient and qualitative support to local actors in planning and
investing. In any case it is worth noting the emergence of a greater quantity of consultant finns and
Individual consultants providing services in rural areas, as opposed to the traditional NGOs. This implies,
as it was already mentioned, a widening of the institutional supply for the rural areas, contributing to the,
creation to a more open and competitive service market.
4.2 Outputs by components:
The project components were designed on the basis of a "pilot phase", financed with Japanese grants, and
executed in 94 municipalities between 1994 and 1995. This experience permitted a field-based, accelerated
learning process involving the recognition of the following: i) the existence of demand differentials between
groups of people and within communities, in particular those of women and indigenous peoples; ii) the need
to aggregate demands between the communities and the municipal level by means of progressive,
consensus-reaching activities; (c) the need to operationally relate the medium-term perspective of Municipal
Development Plans with the Annual Operational Plan (PAO) of the municipal governments; iii) the need to
provide mechanisms for the participatory periodic evaluation and adjustment of PMDs; iv) the badly
needed institutional strengthening, above all of municipal governments, OTBs and CVs; v) the need to
provide preinvestment mechanisms to move from project ideas to project proposals which could be
evaluated by FDC; vi) the main bottlenecks between meeting the demands of the population, budget ceilings
and eligibility criteria of rural investments to be channeled through FDC; (h) the steps FDC should take to
deconcentrate and offer a better service to GMs and OTBs. The pilot phase was fundamental for a careful
definition of the project components, providing a clear perspective on the main limitations and risks for
implementation. Practically all the progress indicators were achieved or outstripped during project
execution. For more detailed information see the section on Government comments.
Component I. Rural Investment Identification and Formulation. This component formed the core of
project activities. OTB registration and CV conformation permitted the implementation of the basic social
aspects of the LPP. It was expected that the project would assist 4,000 communities in the process of their
legal registration and recognition, it assisted a total of 5,084. It also helped in the conformation of 94 out
of the 98 CVs which came into existence in the project area. Once the OTBs were registered and the CVs
conformed, the project assisted in the realization of municipal participatory development processes. The
project was expected to finance these activities in a total of 98 municipalities; it ended up supporting 132
municipalities. A total of 41,452 persons participated directly in these planning activities. A conservative
estimate for participation in community self-diagnostics is for at least 100,000 additional people. Once
PMDs were formulated, the project financed support to PMD execution and PAOs, in order to ensure that
the PMDs would be translated into bankable projects and the municipalities could execute their budgets in
compliance with government regulations. In PMD and PAO execution, it was expected to support a total
of 169, in the end the project assisted with 299 in the same 132 municipalities. The project also expected
to finance adjustments to the PMDs after the municipal elections, in order to provide continuity to
participatory planning processes with the new municipal administrations. The target of 94 adjustments was
reached. The LPP allows indigenous groups to form districts within or between municipalities in order to
provide coherence between administrative and social jurisdictions. Additionally, the project carried out 9
complementary gender diagnostics in a similar number of municipalities. On the basis of this experience,
the participatory planning methodologies were adjusted to mainstream a gender perspective into the project
activities. With Swiss cofinancing, the project aimed at conforming and supporting a total of 30 indigenous
districts. In the end it supported the creation of 73 indigenous districts, but only supported, through
indigenous participatory planning, 13 of them. Those 13 districts were chosen because the legal and
institutional conditions existed for continuing work, and constitute a pilot experience which will be
-9-



replicated more forcefully once those conditions are replicated in other municipalities. The only indicator
which shows an important reduction is the number of subproject profiles prepared as part of PMD
formulation, from an expected 1,095 to 575. This reduction was the result of a change of strategy in the
midst of project execution. It was decided to put more emphasis on the preparation of full pre-investment
studies and thus less profiles were prepared but a larger number of preinvestment studies entered into
FDC's (and other institution's) pipeline (see Component II, below).
Achievement in this component is judged to be highly satisfactory. Overall, outputs exceeded expectations
by a large margin, showing that the design of the project was appropriate. Demand by communities and
municipal governments fueled these results, and the mechanism of contracting local NGOs permitted a cost
efficient implementation. It should be stressed that according to what was mentioned in the previous
section, this component was key to generate a project portfolio based on participatory planning processes.
This changed the usual logic of identification and prioritization of rural investments, creating a base for a
demand-driven public investment system.
Table 1. Component - Rural Investment Identification and Fonnulation
Subcomponent / activity       Indicator            Planned  Actual    Beneficiaries
1. Registration of Grassroots Number of registered  4,000     5,08     5,084   OTBs
Organizations and                                             4
Conformation of Supervisory Number of CVs           98                  94      CVs
Committees                                                    94
1. Municipal Development   PMDs formulated and      98        129      132         municipalities
Plan Formulation          approved by GMs                               41.452     participants
1 '461,912   Population
3. PDM execution and      Number of PAO elaborated   169      299       55        municipalities
PAO                       Number of project profiles                    462,832   population
elaborated                1,095     575
4. PMDs adjustment        Number of adjusted PMDs   94        94        94         municipalities
______________ ________    _____ ____________   814,615  population
5. Indigenous peoples districts Number of indigenous  30      73       42,365    inhabitants
districts created
Number of indigenous
districts with Indigenous  30       13        12,044    participants
Districts Development
Plans
Source: Informe de Cierre PDCR. MDSP, VPEPP. La Paz - Bolivia, Marzo del 2000.
Component II. Training. This component was designed as a support to component I. Due to the novelty
of many of the activities financed by the project, it was deemed necessary to stress the training needs. As
was the case for component I, most of the SAR indicators were exceeded. The following table summarizes
the outputs and the beneficiary information.
Subcomponent / activity      Indicator              Planned   Actual    Beneficiaries
Training:                                                             2,569 GM reps., 5,050 CV reps.,
Participatory Planning  Number of workshops PPP      24      81       15,069 OTB reps., 647
Methodologies (PPP)                                                  technicians from EEs, 18,117
-____ _____ _____ _____   10___ ____ ___  -other.
-10 -



2. PDM/PAO Management Number of municipal           207    653       2,688 GM reps., 1,397 CV reps.,
and Implementation      workshops                                    10,673 OTB reps., 2,857
Number of departmental              28      technicians from EEs, 14,930
workshops                                    other
3. PMDs adjustment      Number of workshops to      9       12       618 GMs reps., 169 CVs reps.,
adjust PMDs                                  1,670 OTBs reps., 471
technicians form EEs., 3,897
_______  other
4. Productive project   Number of workshops to      30      36       114 technicians from EEs
elaboration and execution   elaborate projects
techniques
5. Technical Assistance    Number of contracts for  450    61
Productive project      technical assistance
elaboration and execution   Fully designed projects         419
6. Gender perspective in    Number of department    12      11       248 women and 27 men
participatory planning  workshops                           71       1,329 women and 99 men
Number of municipality              6
workshops
_Diffusion Programs       I
Source: based on Informe de Cierre PDCR. MDSP, VPEPP. La Paz - Bolivia, Marzo del 2000.
Training took on priority topics linked to participatory planning processes, PMD and PAO management
and implementation, and PMD adjustment. Training of executing entity (mostly NGOs) technicians
training, as well as technical assistance for OTBs and GMs focused on productive project elaboration and
execution. The emphasis on productive aspects by RCDP, from the very beginning, was considered as
fundamental to create an equilibrium with social investments (in health, education, sanitation) and support
the sustainability of rural municipalities in the future. To that end, there needed to be developed a new
capacity not only at in local level government but also with private executing entities (NGOs and
consultants).
Also in this component all indicators were outstripped A total of 82,640 received training. Of
these, 5,875 were GM representatives, 6,616 CV representatives, 27,412 OTB representatives, 4,090 EEs
technicians, and 38,647 other citizens.
As mentioned above in the discussion of Component I, Technical assistance for project elaboration
and execution was redirected into sub project preparation on the basis of a reduced number of profiles.
Subproject preparation was contracted in packages, reducing the expected number of contracts, but ending
up with 419 fully designed projects. This number is less than the 450 subprojects expected, but is more
concrete than the 540 person-months of consulting set in the SAR.
As in Component I, given that performance indicators far outstripped what was expected, the
component is rated as highly satisfactory.
Component m.        Institutional Strengthening. Expected Results. Implementation of the
institutional strengthening component was expected to generate the following results: (i) CORDEs and EEs
would be able to implement the PPP in an additional 205 municipalities; (ii) ninety-eight municipalities
would be able to adjust their PMDs and PAOs after the 1995 municipal elections; (iii) community
investment proposal would better reflect PPP efforts as training of municipalities, CVs, and OTBs
progresses; (iv) technical training of EEs involved in project preparation would improve the quality of
proposal submitted to funding agencies for evaluation, thereby reducing processing time and costs; (v)
decentralization efforts in FDC, coupled with the effects of better quality project proposal, would reduce
- 1 1 -



project processing time by fifty percent from its current level of eight months; (vi) strengthening of SNDR
would sustain and institutionalize PPP efforts at the national level and ensure an institutional capacity to
facilitate implementation of these efforts in rural communities; (vii) SICOPRE would be installed in 98
municipalities; and (viii) increase administrative and fnancial management capacity in 98 municipalities
and indigenous municipal districts indicated bay effective and full utilization of municipal co-participation
funds.
RCDP performance in the indicators defined for this component are shown in the table below:
Table 4: Component m - Institutional Strengthening
Subcomponent / activity      Indicator                Planned Actual    Beneficiaries
SNPP
1. At central level (former Number of consultants at central  54  61
SNDR)                  level (people/year)
2. At departmental level   Number of consultants at   114      111
(former SNDR)          departmental level (people/year)
3. At central level for  Number of consultants for    8        13
municipality strengthening  municipality strengthening
(former SNPP)          (people/year/
4. FDC                 Number of consultants          62       48
(people/year)
5. Municipal management Number of training modules    4               1,629 EEs technicians
Number of municipalities covered  84   81    81 GMs
Source: based on (i) Informe de Cierre PDCR. MDSP, VPEPP. La Paz Bolivia, Marzo del 2000; (ii)
indicadores de Implementaci6n de Proyecto, Anexo 1. Ayuda Memoria de Supervisi6n del BM. La Paz -
Bolivia, Mayo 1998.
The figures above are simply to show the staff hired to support the institutional strengthening at the levels
planned by RCDP. However, they are not direct evidence of the results achieved in terms of institutional
development impact.
On that account, the following was achieved: (i) a set of private and public agencies has supported
the formulation of 254 PMDs (that is, 84% of the municipalities of the country) achieving the proposed
indicator; (ii) the planned indicators have been overachieved as to PMDs (132) and PAOs (299) (see
component); (iii) the investments proposed for the communities at RCDP took into consideration the
demands emerging from planning, and technical assistance was channeled to increase pre-investments
capacities at GMs and OTBs (see component II); (iv) technicians from EEs were trained to improve the
quality of the proposals according to the eligibility criteria of FDC; (v) FDC was de-concentrated reducing
the average timing to process project proposals from 8 to 4 months, and, at present, improving such an
average to 3 months, plus increasing the execution capacities and disbursements from US$ 5,5 million in
1995 to US$ 16 million in 1999; (vi) there was strengthening for the former SNDR and later central and
departmental agencies so as to have LPP institutionalization work, and generating a local capacity for its
implementation in rural communities (see General Objectives and Components I and II).
With regards to SICOPRE implementation (Integrated Accounting System), later called SICOM
(Sistema de Contabilidad Integrada y Formulaci6n Presupuestaria) [Integrated Accounting and Budgeting
System], and the betterment of administrative and financial capacity of GMs, there were more than the
expected results. This is due to the issuing of new regulations, a process in which the project was
substantially involved. Concrete results:
Integrated Accounting System and Budgeting (SICOM): implementing the budgeting and
- 12 -



accountability components, assets and treasury accounting.
*     Sistema Integrado de Ingresos Municipales (SIIM) [Municipalities Integrated Income System]:
between 1996 and 1997 tax collections from 50 municipalities in which the system was first imnplemented
increased from B$ 77,979 to B$ 717,463, which represents a 820% increase.
*     Sistema Administrativo de Personal (SAP) [Administrative Staff System]: diagnostics of SAP were
elaborated in 100% of 84 municipalities, the organizational structure was designed and approved in 80% of
municipalities; specific regulations were elaborated in all 100% of the municipalities; documentation was
organized in personal files for all human resources, as well as assets and liabilities.
*     Sistema de Administraci6n de Bienes y Servicios (SABS) [Goods and Services Administration
System]: regulations were developed for all of 50 municipalities in the first phase, and implemented in 95%
of them; manuals of proceedings developed in 88% of the municipalities in the first phase and implemented
in 65% of those municipalities; forms developed in 96% of municipalities in the first phase and
implemented in 65% of those municipalities.
FDC's decentralization plan was carried out completely. Subproject approval and implementation
is now fully in charge of its departmental offices. In these offices, the municipalities and communities
present their project proposals. The ceilings on subproject evaluation approval were raised from $50,000
as agreed during project preparation to $250,000 by the end of the project. At present, the ceiling has been
raised even further, to $350,000.
IV.   Rural Investments. Expected Results. The rural investment component was expected to: (i)
increase FDC's investment portfolio by approximately 700 sub-projects and a total of US$ 15 million,
including a minimum of 60 projects which respond to demands expressed in indigenous district
development sub-plans; (ii) improve the quality of FDC's investment portfolio as sub-projects would fully
reflect beneficiary participation; and (iii) increase the number and competence of ECs involved in
sub-project preparation and implementation.
Table 5: Component m - Institutional Strengthening
Subcomponent I activity     Indicator                        Planned Actual       Beneficiaries
1. Productive Infrastructure Number of projects financed (average rate   23  146    18,915 households
2er project US$ 50,000)                               5,086,379.42 US$
2. Agricultural Production  Number of projects financed (average rate   207  42  5,778
Support                 per project US$ 15,000)                                households
283,530.84 US$
3. Institutional        Number of sub-projects financed (average   9   5
Strengthening          rate per project US$ 10,000)         _                _
4. Pre-investment Studies   Number of pre-investments financed  30     109
(thousands dollars)                                   343,962.77 US$
Source: Informe de Cierre del PDCR. MDSP, VPEPP. La Paz - Bolivia, Marzo del 2000.
Investments generated and available at RCDP completion were estimated at US$ 35 million, a large share
of which are being financed by FDC via its main financing funding sources (IDA, KFW, IDB and Japan).
Others are being financed by the Food Security Support Program from the European Union. Potential
investments of the profiles generated at RCDP were estimated at US$ 47 million.
In this component, planned indicators had to be changed because funds were not available due to
the delay in approval of the funding from IFAD and other donors. As it was seen, in the SAR it was
expected for the Bank to contribute only US$ 4.4 million for rural investments. During project execution,
- 13-



more funds were reallocated to this component, allowing in the end for investments worth US$ 5.7 million,
which benefited 24,693 households or 125,000 inhabitants in the intervening municipalities. FDC
cofinanced a total of 146 works subprojects, 42 production support subprojects and 109 pre-investment
subprojects.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Although the SAR does not include any financial or economic analysis, an estimate was provided by FDC
for the Rural Investments Component (Annex 3). From that economic analysis, ERR (Economic Rate of
Return) was estimated at 48% and a NPV (Net Present Value) at US$ 12 million at a 12% discount rate.
85% of the subprojects were regarded as successful. This analysis requires further verification. A study
carried out by the Bank, during the preparation of the follow up Participatory Rural Investment Project,
found that the failure rate for FDC subprojects was 40%. On the basis of this study, the Bank projected a
ERR of 37% for rural investments in FDC. All these figures need to be verified in field-based studies to
be carried out by FDC on a yearly basis until 2002.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
Although the SAR does not include any financial analysis, an estimate was provided by FDC for the
Rural Investments Component. From that financial analysis, FRR (Financial Rate of Return) was
estimated at 46% and an NPV (Net Present Value) at US$ 7,7 million at a 16% discount rate. The
observations made above apply here as well.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
Being institutional development one of the most relevant aspects of RCDP, in this section the most
important impacts are reviewed, with a focus on the qualitative impacts.
Central and public institutions in charge of normative matters. These received different names
and functions during project implementation. Between 1993 and 1996, the transit went as follows: from
Rural and Provincial Development Secretariat (SDPR), to National Secretariat of Rural Development
(SNDR), to Subsecretariat of Rural Development as the latter was named when merged into the National
Secretariat for Popular Participation (SNPP). Since the new government came to power (second semester
1997), SNPP was transformed into the Viceministry of Departmental and Municipal Strengthening and
Popular Participation (VDDMPP), later called Viceministry of Popular Participation and Municipal
Strengthening. At present, this office is called Viceministry of Strategic Planning and Popular
Participation (VPEPP).
The main elements by which we can measure the effects of institutional strengthening in this case
are: (a) the capacity to implement reforms (above all LPP) according to assigned competencies; (b) the
participation in and the elaboration of policies and strategies (e.g. Agriculture Productive Transformation
Strategy ETPA), and in the formulation of national norms (SISPLAN); (c) the capacity to design and
organize the implementation of participatory and strengthening instruments and methodologies
(participatory planning with gender and ethnical focus; administrative systems for municipality
management); (d) the establishment of a market for technical assistance to local actors, through transparent
and competitive procedures for hiring and monitoring; (e) the capacity to generate other programs and
projects within the Rural Development Strategy, complementary to RCDP and oriented to
economic-productive development; and (g) the progressive sectoral articulation (above all, health,
education, and sanitation) to develop synergies aimed at rural areas.
Many positive advances suffered some stalling and even moved backwards due to government
changes and the difficulty, notorious to the country, of maintaining policy and inplementation continuity
during government transitions and even with ministerial changes.
Decentralized public institutions. There had also been changes in terms of institutionalization.
- 14 -



During the project's preparation there were still at work the CORDES which were, later, de-structured.
Consequently, the project initial implementation counted on the Rural Development Departmental
Secretariats (SDDRs) which, with the Decentralization Law, were incorporated, in most cases, as
Municipality Strengthening Main Offices in the Popular Participation Secretariats (SDPPs). With the
change of the structure of the executive (including departmental levels) of the new government, there were
distributed functions in a Social Main Office (participatory planning, community and municipality
strengthening) and a Sustainable Development Main Office (support to municipality investments). This
fragmentation, and even more, the weaknesses of the Prefectures and a high degree of partisan influence
was seen with preoccupation by the World Bank. However, the project was decentralized by means of
signed agreements with the Prefectures, which made viable the continuity of RCDP in institutional,
operational, and financial terms using operational units. It is evident that the departmental level was the
weakest for reasons that go beyond RCDP.
Municipalities. This is the level, including municipal govermnents and OTBs, at which RCDP
aimed most of its efforts, with different activities and components. The most visible and relevant impacts
are as follows: (a) the visibility of the municipalities in rural areas because, before LPP and RCDP
implementation, they did not exist and did not count at all nationwide; (b) the slow construction of their
institutionality by the appropriation of norms and methodologies for local management (from participatory
planning to administrative systems); (c) a progressive orientation to investments which make the
municipality viable, aiming at impact maximization; (d) a slow but greater governance of GM given the
transparency and low intermediation in investment identification and execution via participatory planning.
OTBs and CVs. The most important contributions of RCDP, at this level, are having generated the
conditions for the transit of formal recognition of these grassroots agencies to the beginning of an effective
use of their rights. Foremost there was particularly the identification and prioritization of community
demands and their progressive orientation to higher impact investments. As it was pointed out earlier, this
is a slow process, which implies de-structuring former habits and overcoming centuries of exclusion.
Given that new and old elites attempt to re-articulate their powers around GMs it is fundamental to keep
on supporting grassroots organizations in the new forms of local management.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Due to the proactive action of project management and Bank supervision, achievement of project outcome
was affected negligibly by outside factors. Primary among these were the municipal elections of 1995,
which saw changes in most of the local administrations the project had worked with. The project
implemented a transition strategy for these elections based on emphasizing achievements to date. The
importance of participatory planning and appropriation by local civil society organizations of this process
permitted a substantial degree of continuity in project activities. Also, in the rural municipalities, these
elections saw the rise of a new group of leaders coming from civil society, many of whom had participated
in the early project activities. Municipal strengthening activities were the most affected because municipal
government staff were replaced after local elections, but most of these activities were actually undertaken
after the elections, thus the impact on outcome was negligible. Contractor performance caused some delays
in project implementation, particularly in the case of administrative strengthening of municipal
governments, because there were few consulting fimns capable of providing this type of training and
technical assistance in the rural areas and the project needed to execute intensive training activities for
contractors to find capable personnel. IFAD's delay in processing its parallel financing (PROSAT) also
had a negligible impact on the expected poverty alleviation given the time frame and additional resources
required for this outcome.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
- 15 -



As in the previous case, proactive management and supervision permitted the project to control the
potentially negative impact of many factors under government control. The implementing agency for the
institutional strengthening components (I, II and III) suffered several institutional changes. When the
project was being prepared, this agency had been born as the Secretaria Nacional de Desarrollo Provincial
y Rural (SNDPR). When the LPP was promulgated, the "Provincial" was taken out of its name, given the
law's emphasis on the municipal level. This required a considerable shift in the scale and space of
intervention. SNDR implemented the project through its own, deconcentrated units in all 9 departments of
Bolivia. In the midst of implementation, after the approval of the Law of Administrative Decentralization,
these units were assimilated into the new Prefectures, under the command of the Departmental Prefect, who
was designated directly by the President. As a result, SNDR had to enter into interinstitutional agreements
with the prefectures in order to continue project implementation, including the need for commitments by the
new prefectures for counterpart funds. and personnel. This change created a difficult bureaucratic layer for
the project, requiring an important increase in monitoring and supervision by SNDR's team. Almost
simultaneously, SNDR became a Subsecretaria under the Secretaria Nacional de Participacion Popular,
requiring further accomodation by the project. Towards the end of the project, the new government
reformed the executive branch again, transforming SNPP into the Viceministry of Municipal Strengthening
and Popular Participation (VMPPFM). Throughout all these changes, the core project team was preserved,
permitting the project to adjust rapidly to the new situations and administrative procedures, and to recover
the rhythm of implementation. It is important to note that these institutional changes forced the project
team to increasingly behave as a project unit, separating itself from the institution's hierarchical
organization. In the end, due to the agency's capacity to accommodate to these changes, they affected
outputs in a negligible way.
Until the end of 1996, FDC had basically not started to implement the Rural Investments
component. This agency was basically paralyzed by the incapacity of its top management and by the
government 's unwillingness to change it due to political patronage. All other donors suspended
disbursements. IDA did not, because so little of the project had been implemented and thus no major
problems existed. Instead, FDC agreed to create a project unit which was inserted, matrix-like, into FDC's
organization. Once FDC, under donor pressure, selected its key managers in an open, competitive process,
this unit helped to carry out the agreed deconcentration of decision-making to the departmental offices and
investments started to flow.
Though commitment to decentralization under the last 2 governments has been basically constant,
the creation of the Prefectures may have partially affected the potential outcome by creating a level of
government with large discretionary powers over municipalities. Continuing resistance to devolution by the
agriculture, education, health and water and sanitation sectors also introduced ambiguities into local
initiatives. The overall effect added up to a reduction of accountability and responsiveness of national and
local governments to participatory planning.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Management of SNDR/SNPP was very effective, and the project preserved, sometimes under insistence
from the Bank, a core group of highly committed, professional staff who generally managed to extricate
themselves from the pressures of patronage and political clientelism. As mentioned in the previous
sections, this allowed the project to accommodate to sometimes radical institutional changes. Project
management organized a monitoring and evaluation system which permitted an efficient handling of an
operationally complex relationship with the 9 prefectures and more than a hundred municipalities. FDC,
once it placed a professional, politically-independent management team, recovered from a slow beginning
and deconcentrated its operations to an even greater extent than what had been agreed to with the Bank and
increased its disbursement capacity radically.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
- 16 -



The total cost of the project reached US$ 17,9 million, of which US$ 12,9 million correspond to IDA, US$
2,4 million to COSUDE, and US$ 2,6 million to the central and local governments. The variations with
respects to the amount estimated in the SAR, were mainly due to the delay in IFAD's funding and its
independence from the project. This also affected counterpart projections.
Implementation and disbursement at the beginning were delayed, mainly due to difficulties in
getting started. Later the project caught up, reaching the planned levels. The project ended only two months
after it was initially foreseen for completion.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationalefor sustainability rating:
The project's "likely" sustainability rating is based on its close linkage to the implementation and
operationalization of the Law of Popular Participation. The project developed and implemented
methodologies of participatory planning which were, through trial and error, tailored to the institutional
framework provided by the LPP. In so doing, the project facilitated the empowerment of local campesino
and indigenous communities over municipal investment planning and execution. Participatory planning
also permitted the municipal governments to organize demands in time and space and with respect to its
budgetary and institutional possibilities. In terms of institutional strengthening, thus, the projects activities
are sustainable because they have been appropriated by all local actors in an institutional framework which
clarifies their respective responsibilities. Municipal governments also received support in installing the
fiscal and administrative systems required by law in Bolivia, which permitted many of them to increase
their revenues and capacities. The principles of participatory planning have been institutionalized in the
planning and investment regulations of Bolivia. The Law of Popular Participation is now a consolidated
aspect of the decentralized public management system in Bolivia and all political actors show strong
commitment to its continuity and deepening. Importantly, the project has facilitated the creation of a
market for technical assistance all over the territory of the country, which will facilitate future access by
local actors to providers of technical assistance.
In terms of the investment subprojects, the project is also deemed to be sustainable. Participatory
planning has permitted an increase in the quality of the investment pipeline for the municipal governments
and for the funds dedicated to cofmancing local demand (FDC and FIS). The PDMs represent local
priorities and provide a limitation to discretionary allocation by the municipal governments and the funds.
Additionally, since the investment priorities reflect the consensus and negotiations among communities and
local governments, and require monetary and in-kind counterparts, the likelihood that the works will be
sustained over time is increased, a fact made easier by the availability of funds at the municipal government
level. Nevertheless, the level of poverty and accumulated demand in most rural communities is so great
that there are strong political incentives for municipal governments to place a higher priority in the
execution of new investments than in maintenance. In the final analysis, the sustainability of the project
will depend on whether the investments in infrastructure and assistance to production increase the incomes
of the rural poor, and on whether the municipal governments increase their revenues (central government
transfers and locally generated) and allocate them properly.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Insofar as the project supported the implementation of the Popular Participation reform, no specific
transition arrangements were made for the institutional strengthening activities. At the municipal level, the
project helped rural municipalities, which were created by the LPP, to start operating as public institutions
in close relation with civil society organizations. The sustainability of these efforts depends on the
continued support for Popular Participation at the national government level, and in particular for the
devolution of power to municipalities and the transfer of resources to them. Though this support is
sometimes put into question due to power struggles between sector ministries, prefectures and
- 17-



municipalities, the fundamental policy principles on which Popular Participation rests have become part of
the permanent political landscape of the country.
The future operation of the investment subprojects is arranged through agreements between FDC
and the municipal governnents and communities for the operation and maintenance of the investrnents.
Though these agreements in themselves do not ensure that the subprojects will be properly maintained, the
fact that they are locally-defined priorities and have required the deployment of important counterparts on
the part of local beneficiaries increase this likelihood. Additionally, FDC has agreed to monitor the
operation and maintenance of past investmnents and will condition future investments to adequate operation
and maintenance.
IDA is financing a follow up project to RCDP to continue assisting in the implementation of the
LPP and its model of local investment identification and implementation. The Participatory Rural
Investinent Project (Cr. 3065-BO) was designed to consolidate the results of the RCDP and to fill out many
needs that were identified during project execution. Primarily, PRIP aims to: (i) to increase the availability
of funds for infrastructure and productive investments in order to better reflect the composition of demand,
and to complement investments in health, education and basic sanitation, because the latter have a limited
effect on poverty reduction in the short term; (ii) to consider institutional strengthening as a process to be
deepened and consolidated at all levels (public institutions, GMs, OTBs, small-producer organizations,
NGOs and consultant firms); (iii) to support a greater sense of appropriation of the project, eliminating
bureaucratic hurdles, strengthening local management and orienting actions and investments to GMs and
communities; (iv) to develop multiple disbursement mechanisms to decrease the dependence of the project
on one funding agency only.
During the preparation of the new project the social evaluation provided a strategy which was included
in the design. Its key elements are: (i) to improve and complete municipal development plans (including the
gender and ethnic approaches) in a more consistent manner; (ii) to develop a training and information
Program to increase social participation and control by OTBs and CV; (iii) to channel resources directly to
municipalities so that they can increase their learning capacities; and (iv) to channel resources directly to
competent communities.
Additionally, IDA is preparing a Decentralization Project, whose implementation will increase the
overall sustainability of the system of decentralized public management. In particular, the Decentralization
Project will aim to remove some perverse incentives now existing through (i) the ambiguous devolution of
responsibilities to the local and departmental levels, and (ii) the lack of clarity in cofinancing rules for
municipalities, including maintenance conditions. IDA's continued involvement in the sector allows for the
implementation of monitoring arrangements and a focus on results.
Given the long-term horizon required to measure the impact of this type of projects, and due to the
particular conditions provided by the LPP, an impact evaluation of the institutional strengthening efforts
and their link to investments could provide important lessons for projects elsewhere.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
Project Identification (S). There was a World Bank mission in October 15th to 30th, 1993 composed of 3
Bank staff and a consultant from IFAD. This mission considered, jointly with the Bolivian government, the
possibility of preparing a rural development project in accordance with the new government priorities on
poverty alleviation. This initiative was to complement related World Bank projects in the environment,
human development and land tenure sectors. This identification mission was consistent with government
priorities, and the CAS.
Project preparation (S). Between December 1993 and November 1994, the Bank deployed four missions
- 18 -



to the field (one for preparation, and three for pre-appraisal) roughly every four months. In these missions
there were 7 people involved on average, amongst World Bank staff, consultants hired by the World Bank,
IFAD and COTESU. The latter two were possible co-financiers of the project. In the third mission there
was also staff from FAO. The missions reflected on a mixed composition of skills on socio-cultural,
economic and financial, institutional and environmental matters, and there was continuity in terms of the
professionals involved. The missions took place in a context facilitated by a PHRD grant: (a) given the first
preparation mission, the former SDPR organized five working groups as permanent counterparts to the
Bank team, each in charge of formulating the components envisioned initially; (b) SDPR started a pilot
phase to test out implementation in the field. Thus the missions took place combining fieldwork and
permanent interaction with the government agencies, civil society, and international cooperation.
The missions adequately identified the main elements of the project proposal: (a) the connection with
public policies and the government strategic priorities; (b) the institutional capacities of the government
agencies, emphasizing decentralization and deconcentration; (c) participatory planning as an instrument of
social mobilization to allow a new approach to rural development and poverty alleviation, contributing to
the concrete implementation of the LPP; (c) the most adequate financing mechanisms for rural investments
given the new demand-driven approach.
Project Appraisal (S). The appraisal mission took place between February 6th to 24th, 1995. There
participated two members of the World Bank, and one IFAD consultant. This team had participated in two
previous missions, guaranteeing continuity. The execution of the pilot phase, and field verification as well
as the permanent interaction with SDPR staff, allowed an accurate definition of the relevant institutional
aspects, the development of validated implementation methodologies, identification of economies of scale,
norms and procedures for contracting NGOs, and the proper identification of possible risks. In addition,
there were three more missions (two for effectiveness preparation in April and August 1995, and one in
February 1996 for launching the project. Overall, the lending phase permitted to focus on the following
aspects:
(a)    The degree of commitment of central, departmental and municipal public institutions, EEs
and grassroots organizations. However, it was clear that basic support for the project was based on
SNDR, OTBs and municipalities. These were highly motivated for participatory planning project piloting
in their territories.
(b)    The strengths and weaknesses of governmental counterparts, particularly FDC, as the
channeling agency for investment subprojects.
(c)    LPP implementation provided important inventives for project sustainability. The LPP
allowed a scenario in which rural municipalities had their own resources and other complementary funding;
this made them, in principle, less dependent on RCDP from a fmancial and economic point of view. At the
same time, the project's pilot phase permitted the design of methodologies of participatory mechanisms for
demand identification, project prioritization and PMD formulation, implementation and control, which
created enormous interest and appropriation on the part of the project's beneficiaries.
(d)   In spite of the complexity of the proposed tasks, the project was designed in a simple way
in terms of number of components and their articulation, as well as allowing flexibility during execution
given the objectives and risks.
(e)    The risks were properly identified in the SAR: First, project implementation called for the
involvement and support of numerous central and local government and private agencies, most of which
had weak management and poor coordination amongst them. Second, the implementation of the
participatory planning process was ambitious and difficult. Third, there was a possibility that the demand
generated by the project might outstrip both Cooperating Agencies' capability to transform this demand in
bankable projects as well as FDC's disbursing capacities, creating unsatisfied expectations among
communities and reducing project impact. The mitigation measures included: (i) institutional strengthening,
particularly at regional level; (ii) the development of a pilot experience before project implementation; (iii)
-19-



the foreseen adjustments in the participatory planning processes; (iv) the technical assistance to strengthen
pre - investment processes and the timely channeling of investment funds.
(f)    The SAR contemplated a budget in which 47.8% of the resources were allocated to Rural
Investment Identification and Formulation (Component I), Training (Component II), and Institutional
Strengthening (Component III), and 52.5% was allocated to Rural Investments (Component IV). Having
been unable to get the funds from IFAD timely, this proportion ended as 73.35% for the first three
components and 26.65% for the investments. In consequence, demand for investments far outstripped the
resources available for investment subprojects. However, it is doubtable whether FDC could have
increased its disbursement capacity far enough to take care of greater resources anyway.
(g)    Two potential financiers (COTESU and IFAD) participated actively in the project
identification, preparation and evaluation. The SAR identified their contributions to the project. COTESU
ended cofmancing US$ 2,4 million, an amount superior to the one foreseen in the SAR. IFAD later
approved a stand alone credit of US$ 8,090,000 (again a amount greater than what had been envisaged in
the SAR). Although other donors did not plan to support the project directly, it is important to mention that
due to its strategic importance in the implementation of the LPP, the project served to channel a significant
number of projects during its implementation (see 4.1).
(h)    The implementation plan and performance indicators were suitably developed and were,
with minor modifications, useful for supervision during the life of the project. Impact indicators were not
included in the SAR, particularly for the institutional strengthening activities.
(i)    The choice of an investment operation was adequate given the range and complexity of the
project.
(j)    The project's design was consistent with the Bank's safeguard policies. To simplify
matters for FDC, it was agreed that FDC would obtain a permission from the Ministry of Sustainable
Development to approve Fichas Ambientales, and a set of standard environmental mitigation measures
were agreed to. FDC did not apply these measures in a consistent and regular manner but the project did
not produce any important negative environmental impacts due to the types of subprojects financed and
their small size.
7.2 Supervision:
Project supervision is rated satisfactory. Between may 1996 and October 1998 there were 5 supervision
missions and a midterm evaluation was carried out in September 1997. Additionally, starting in 1997, a
Rural Sector Coordinator was hired in the Resident Mission with Swiss funding to carry out closer
monitoring of project execution. Two to six people participated in the supervision missions. COSUDE
participated in 3 missions, and in two cases the Bank hired consultants in agricultural economics and civil
engineering for field supervision of FDC's subprojects. These missions lasted an average of 13 days,
except for the midterm-evaluation which took 23 days. In all occasions the workload was distributed
between the project's implementing institutions, the relationship with different public agencies, donors, and
fieldwork. Visits to municipalities included assessments with departmental prefects, mayors, NGOs, and
indigenous and peasant organizations. The missions were spaced at roughly every six months, but timing
depended on the most critical implementation periods.
The following criteria were taken into account for determining the rating: (a) project progress was
reported with precision and detail; (b) problems were identified and addressed proactively, permitting
project implementation to continue unabated despite major outside disturbances (implementation of the
Law of Decentralization, changes in the organization and structure of the implementing agency for
components I, II and III, etc.). The analysis and recommendations for those problems were differentiated
according to level of responsibility (RCDP management, other agencies of the government, extemal
factors). In some cases (Decentralization Law, and national elections) disturbing effects were foreseen and
actions were taken in a pro-active way suggesting a number of solutions; (c) in general, PSRs and
Supervision Form 590s were realistic; (d) significant attention was paid to the project's expected impact in'
-20 -



relation to the structural transformations of the country at the municipal level, and the consolidation of a
proposal for the empowerment of indigenous and peasant organizations; (e) there was much attention paid
to FDC at work, its progressive deconcentration, disbursement levels, and its coherence with the whole
project; (f) the recommendations were closely followed-up, and there was enough flexibility with their
implementation when the circumstances allowed; (g) throughout the project the Bank maintained a close
relationship with the implementing agencies, cofinanciers and beneficiaries. The presence of a Rural
Coordinator in the Resident Mission contributed to finding easier and faster solutions to a number of
problems directly and without much bureaucratic involvement.
There are some pending issues related to FDC's 1998 entity audit (which was qualified but
accepted by the Bank) and disbursements in both FDC and VPEPP. There were no significant deviations
from Bank policies and procedures.
7.3 Overall Bankperformance:
On the basis of the criteria stated in the above paragraphs, the Bank's overall performance was rated as
satisfactory. Project preparation was conducted on the basis of a close involvement with the government's
agencies in charge of the Popular Participation reform, and on the basis of pilot implementation in the field,
resulting in a flexible and well designed project. Supervision was proactive and carried out in a true spirit
of partnership with the executing agencies, permitting the timely identification of problems and application
of mitigating measures and solutions.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Project preparation was mainly in charge of the Secretariat of Provincial and Rural Development (later
SNDR, later part of SNPP) and progressively by FDC. SDPR was a government agency created by the
executive reform of 1993. SDPR inaugurated a fresh approach to handling government business in Bolivia
by focusing on field activities, partnerships with NGOs and other government agencies, including the funds,
and by recruiting staff and consultants on the basis of merit, not political affiliation. With the support of
PHRD grants, SDPR initiated a pilot phase of intervention, in parallel to the consensus/making process for
the LPP, which served to identify the means whereby this law could be implemented, while at the same time
working out the links between institutional strengthening and investments. This process also served to
establish strong stakeholder commitment, since social, governmental and non-governmental actors were not
only involved in a common implementation effort, but also in extensive consultations that served to validate
the implementation methodologies.
By July 1995, when the project was negotiated with the World Bank, SDPR had allocated a great
amount of its efforts in project preparation. This meant specifically: (a) the definition of a Participatory
Rural Development Strategy; (b) the recuperation and systematization of previous experiences of
participatory planning and rural development; (c) the realization of participatory diagnostics and planning
in pilot experiences to identify differential demands based on gender, ethnicity and socio-economic status;
(d) the definition of poverty targeting criteria based on the Poverty Map and on the main socio-economic
characteristics of the potentially involved populations; (e) the agreements with FDC on the guidelines for
considering PMD demands and the eligibility criteria for rural investment; (f) the establishment of
alliances with different normative sectoral agencies of the government, the Funds, NGOs and private
consulting firms. All these actions were conducted on the basis of intensive field activities with provincial
councils, indigenous and peasant organizations, and local NGOs. FDC participated in many of these
activities but its ownership of the project remained weak during preparation. Its participation, in the end,
was limited to agreeing to a clear deconcentration plan, which in the minds of government officials and
Bank staff was a necessary condition for increasing the investment responsiveness to local demand
generation. The performance in this area was clearly satisfactory.
It should be pointed out that in the preparation phase of the project there was an agreement signed
-21 -



between SNDR and the Sub-Secretariat for Gender (SAG). This agreement gave way to the preparation of
the Rural Development and Gender Strategy as a reference framework to support norms and actions
oriented in the spirit of LPP, both in terms of institutional and operational matters. RCDP preparation was
a key instrument to operationalize this strategy in concrete terms. SNDR and SAG took several important
steps such as: (a) producing joint PAOs at central and departmental levels; (b) sharing offices and
departmental staff; (c) sharing financial resources; (d) developing municipal participatory planning
methodologies with an approach based on differential demands. The experience in 12 pilot municipalities
guided the adjustments in the methodology; e) supporting actions for OTBs training, women organizations,
GMs and EEs as to the new processes from the gender point of view.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
Overall, performance was satisfactory. Decentralization policies (including LPP and later the
Administrative Decentralization Law) were a centerpiece of Sanchez de Lozada's government and basic
continuity was provided by the Banzer government. The project suffered many institutional and legal
changes, but efficiency in implementation plus proactive measures ensured continuity. No doubt the
greatest problems were found in partisan and institutional changes in the departmental level which
generated instability, insecurity, and delays at different moments in the project's implementation. FDC was
plagued by mediocre management, political interference and lack of government commitment to solve its
problems; though towards 1996, with the merit-based recruitment of a new management team, it undertook
a dramatic turnaround.
Another relatively important issue was national and departmental counterparts. At the national
level they produced some delays in project disbursements. At the departmental level, the project managed to
effect agreements with the new prefectures, though their implementation was difficult and produced delays
in implementation.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
Secretaria de Participacion Popular (SNPP). This agency was responsible for components I, II and III.
Most of the activities contemplated in these components were carried out by its Subsecretaria de Desarrollo
Rural (SNDR), formerly a secretariat in itself. Before the promulgation of the Law of Administrative
Decentralization, SNDR carried out the project through its departmental offices; afterwards, through
project units enmeshed in the departmental prefectures. Through all of these institutional changes, a core
thematic and operational team was preserved, permitting project implementation to proceed with few
disruptions. In general, SNPP maintained a technical approach to project implementation which allowed
for the development and continuation of a highly skillful and committed team of professionals. This agency
mounted an adequate monitoring and evaluation system and operated a well managed system for controlling
disbursements to departmental offices. As a result, with few exceptions mostly due to institutional changes
at the departmental level, there were no significant delays in implementation and audits showed only minor
observations. SNPP provided timely, well produced progress reports which were used as the basis for
Bank supervision. At no point did this agency lose sight of its role in empowering local actors, and the
experiences of the pilot phase were successfully replicated in 138 municipalities, with massive participation
by campesino and indigenous communities. SNPP exceeded almost all of the performance indicators
agreed to in the SAR. Its performance was satisfactory.
The situation in FDC, which was in charge of executing the Rural Investment component, was
different. Due to political interference and lack of government will to solve management problems, FDC
advanced very slowly. By the end of 1996, most donors suspended financing of FDC until a new
management team was selected on the basis of open, merit-based criteria. From then on, FDC initiated its
deconcentration process, delegating to departmental offices the approval and supervision of investment
subprojects. By the end of the project, FDC had exceeded all the indicators agreed to with the Bank for its
deconcentration, and its disbursement capacity had improved dramatically. In spite of the weakness of
- 22 -



FDC's institutionality, its performance under the project is judged to be satisfactory.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance.
Overall borrower performance is considered to be satisfactory. The project constituted a very good vehicle
for implementing the LPP and increasing the country's investment capacity in rural infrastructure.
Borrower policies have remained committed to decentralization and Popular Participation and have allowed
for continuity of action through the follow-up Participatory Rural Investment Project. The project
constituted an innovative instrument which allowed government to turn the planning and investment
systems on their head, inaugurating a demand-driven approach to rural development.
8. Lessons Learned
The project has served as an important instrument for methodological experimentation in the country. The
lessons learned in this experience are already significant not only for new Bank projects, but also for other
development operations in Bolivia and elsewhere. In fact, many projects funded by other donors to support
Popular Participation and community-driven development in Bolivia have been designed using RCDP as a
model, or building on its results. The project's lessons and results have also served to organize the National
Dialogue HI, which will feed into the Poverty Reduction Strategy which, in the guise of the PRSP, is a
condition for HPC II. The following are the main lessons learned:
(a)    Policy and project. By now it is an accepted fact that the policy environment is crucial to the
success of any effort to diminish poverty. Rural development particularly lends itself to decentralized
approaches, particularly if devolution to local government is coupled with social empowerment, as is the
case with the LPP. The link between RCDP and the LPP shows how a project can not only serve to
implement a given policy (LPP), but also to energize it and give it direction. From the beginning RCDP
was conceived of as an instrument that would provide local actors with the means to actually make the
precepts of LPP work and, in so doing, would transform the law into an instrument for rural development.
The government used the project as a platform for inducing institutional reforms from the bottom up,
facilitating the secondary changes that the LPP induced beyond the local level. Without the LPP, RCDP
would have remained an average demand-driven rural development project; without RCDP (and similar
projects) the LPP may have taken longer to be implemented as well as had a smaller impact over the
planning and investment systems overall. The crucial innovation came in the use of participatory planning
methods as instruments both for implementation of LPP and for the organization of local planning and
investment.
(b)    Risks and benefits of upward aggregation in participatory planning. The words "participatory
planning" do not appear in the Law of Popular Participation. Yet participatory planning has permitted
local communities and municipal governments to organize demands in time and space. Where participatory
planning has proceeded on the basis of a true consensus-building effort, it has allowed communities to
negotiate their needs with their neighbors and so on up to the municipal level. This means that in the end
investment priorities reflect an appreciation that resources and capacities are limited, thus emphasis is
usually placed on investments that are expected to have the greatest impact over the largest number of
people, as an examination of PMDs shows. This ordering of accumulated demands increases local
govemability, since the municipal government is not expected to solve everything for everyone at once.
The downside of this process lies in the fact that community-level demands get relegated by
supracommunal priorities, and many potentially very successful community initiatives do not have access
to the investment pipeline in the short run. By the same token, the specific demands of women, the poorest
or indigenous minorities may also get relegated. This methodological phenomenon must be differentiated
from another, better understood in the literature as capture by local elites.
- 23 -



(c)    Participation and investment quality. Municipal participatory planning raises the quality of
investments for the following reasons: (i) prioritized demand is the outcome of successive aggregations,
from community to municipality, a process which tends to select projects which aim at maximizing impact
and benefits; (ii) demand identification becomes a transparent process, reducing the role of intermediaries
and restricting top-down discretionality in the allocation of resources; and (iii) communities are more likely
to carry out or demand proper maintenance of investments since they reflect their own needs and priorities.
Community involvement in the design, execution and/or control of investments themselves ensures their
quality even further. Beneficiary involvement in planning and investment, however, does not guarantee
sustainability if the proper incentives are not in place. The operation and maintenance costs of
infrastructure, in particular, reduce the availability of future funds for new investments. Field visits and
conversations with beneficiaries show that the communities that have benefited from earlier investments
have an interest in their maintenance, but other communities that are waiting for their turn will favor
dedicating resources to their own priorities. Municipal governments will also favor dedicating resources to
new investments over maintenance of old ones because the former are more popular with voters. One
solution for this situation lies in conditioning additional central government cofmancing of new investments
to proper maintenance of existing ones.
(d)    Participation requires an efficient response. The local institutionalization of participatory
planning depends not only on creating a culture of permanent consultation and consensus-building, but also
on the capacity to respond swiftly and effectively to local priorities. If investments are delayed or priorities
are not respected, participation loses its value and there is a risk of disempowering civil society
organizations and of diminishing govemability. Investments may be slow coming if: (i) local capacities are
not reinforced properly and adequately to take on the challenge; (ii) financing institutions do not modify
their procedures to respond efficiently to demand-driven initiatives. Local priorities may be upset: (i) by
lack of funding for the range of types of demands identified in participatory processes; (ii) by differential
ease of access for different types of investments; (iii) in a decentralized system, by the resistance of central
institutions to losing decision-making powers over the allocation of resources; and (iv) by capture by local
elites, for their own interests or those of political parties. A strong commitment on the part of government
is needed to ensure that sectoral ministries and funding agencies accommodate to decentralization, adopting
signaling systems as instruments to facilitate the encounter between national and local priorities. Also, civil
society organizations need simple and effective instruments to control government expenditures. The LPP
provides for the Comites de Vigilancia, but their powers are mediated by sanctions that require processing
through congress, where they get tangled in political considerations that have little to do with local realities.
The LPP gives communities a number of rights of control over government activities, but these are still
waiting to be implemented fully.
(e)    Timeframefor empowerment and institutional transformation. In a decentralization process,
community empowerment requires a sustained effort over the long run. Participatory planning is an
excellent instrument for strengthening civil society organizations because it allows for transparent and joint
decision-making between society and local government. However, all local actors require sustained
support to build a culture of governance based on participation and accountability. This long term effort
needs to be focused on the clarification of roles and responsibilities of everyone involved, including
non-local actors. Regardless of the consistency of the policy environment, behaviors take long to change,
particularly when that entails the devolution of power. Strengthening efforts should also focus on
facilitating the appropriation by civil society of the legal and institutional mechanisms of decentralization.
Civil society organizations need to be able to operate the instruments whereby powers are devolved to.
them; thus, these instruments need to be designed taking the social and cultural context of beneficiaries in
mind. Otherwise, there is a risk that the mechanisms for empowerment (participatory planning, formal
- 24 -



social control over budgetary allocation, supervision of investments, etc.) become too complex and
legalistic, and thus exceed the capacities of communities to handle. Experience shows that quality is -o-L al
odds with simplicity. For example, a good Municipal Development Plan is one that truly reflects the iicc(3
and priorities of the local population, and can be handled by civil society organizations as a continuous,
reiterative process which reflects a growing understanding of their potentialities and limitations.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Comments by the Borrower (Viceministry of Public Investment and External Financing)
Luego de la revisi6n del documento, se verifica en general que el proyecto ha cumplido en forna
satisfactoria con los objetivos y metas propuestas al inicio del proyecto, promoviendo y desarrollando la
capacidad de un alto porcentaje de Gobiemos Municipales e instituciones representativas de la Sociedad
Civil, en el ejercicio y aplicacion de leyes, normas, conceptos e instrumentos de la descentralizaci6n
administrativa y la participacion popular, acciones que han sido liderizadas por el Viceministerio de
Planificaci6n Estrategica y Participacion Popular (VPEPP).
Uno de los logros importantes del proyecto ha sido la elaboraci6n de Planes Departamentales Municipales,
definidos sobre la base de la Planificaci6n Participativa, lo que ha permitido determinar las demandas
sociales en terminos de inversion puiblica, que se han satisfecho en cierta medida mediante el financiamiento
de proyectos a traves del Fondo de Desarrollo Campesino (FDC).
Es importante destacar que debido a los logros alcanzados en el PDCR y a fin de satisfacer la demanda ain
insatisfecha y ampliar la asistencia tecnica a otros Gobiemos Municipales, actualmente se ejecuta el
Proyecto de Inversi6n Rural Participativo, que se constituye pricticamente en una ampliacion del PDCR.
En tal sentido, manifestamos nuestro acuerdo con el Informe de Cierre, sugiriendo que en el marco del
Proyecto de Inversi6n Rural Participativo se de una mayor difusi6n a la informaci6n contenida en los
Planes de Desarrollo Municipal (PDM), especialmente entre las instituciones sectoriales del nivel nacional
(Ministerios y Viceministerios) y departamental (Prefecturas), a fin de adquirir un mayor conocimiento de
las prioridades y demandas de inversi6n puiblica del nivel local, y permitir su incorporaci6n en los planes
nacionales, sectoriales y departamentales.
Asimismo, es importante su diffision en el marco de la Politica Nacional de Compensaci6n, cuyo desarrollo
estA a cargo del Directorio Unico de Fondos (DUF).
Comments by Viceministry of Strategic Planning and Popular Participation,
and Fondo de Desarrollo Campesino
En respuesta a su nota BV/MO/568/00 de mayo 29 del afno en curso, donde remite el Informe de Cierre de
actividades del Proyecto de Desarrollo de Comunidades Rurales (PDCR), expreso a usted mi total acuerdo
con los datos y comentarios formulados, destacando puntualmente los aspectos siguientes:
Es indudable que la conceptualizaci6n y estructuraci6n del PDCR, se formul6 y aplic6 en
respuesta a la aplicaci6n de las politicas de cambio estructural en el Estado Boliviano, apoyando a la
ejecuci6n de la Ley de Participaci6n Popular, a traves del rescate de experiencias de participacion local.
Otro aspecto relevante es el apoyo que se brind6 al reconocimiento juridico de las organizaciones
-25 -



tradicionales de base, las que se constituyen en sujetos de derecho en el proceso de desarrollo municipal.
Ademas de la asistencia a la conformaci6n de los Comites de Vigilancia, como entes representativos de la
sociedad civil organizada en el proceso de gesti6n y control municipal.
*      Tambien amerita destacar el fortalecimiento a la institucionalizaci6n de los municipios
eminentemente rurales, los que empezaron a generar politicas y estrategias de desarrollo en relaci6n
coordinada con las organizaciones tradicionales de la sociedad civil organizada. En este contexto, la
planificaci6n desde la base se constituye en un verdadero sustento del desarrollo local, concentrandose en
un instrumento facilitador del proceso, 1o Planes de Desarrollo Municipal (PDMs).
*      La generaci6n de instrumentos destinados a la institucionalizaci6n, del proceso de planificaci6n
participativa, al fortalecimiento de la gesti6n municipal, la priorizacion de necesidades traducidas en
demandas consensuadas, las que a su vez se plasmaron en proyectos y la capacitaci6n de actores locales
como gestores de su propio desarrollo, es otro aspecto que merece ser destacado.
Por otra parte el PDCR se constituy6 en un elemento generador de programas y proyectos de
apoyo al desarrollo rural, pues gener6 una cadena de demandas fruto del proceso de planificaci6n
participativa, que no podian ser s6lo atendidas por el Proyecto, lo cual dio lugar al establecimiento del
Programa Nacional de Riego (PRONAR), Programa de Apoyo a la Seguridad Alimentaria (PASA),
Proyecto de Asistencia Tecnica para Productores Campesinos (PROSAT), Programa de Apoyo a las
Empresas rurales (PAER) y el Proyecto de Promoci6n al Desarrollo Econ6mico Rural.
Finalmente, al haberse rebasado los indicadores de progreso e impacto es una muestra clara de la seriedad
del trabajo realizado por los tres niveles de organizaci6n y administraci6n del Estado, por lo que cabe
expresar mi satisfacci6n y agradecimiento a traves de su persona a todos los organismos fmanciadores y
personal tecnico, que hicieron realidad la ejecuci6n y profundizaci6n de la Ley de Participaci6n Popular.
Con este motivo aprovecho la oportunidad para saludarle muy cordialmente.
Lic. Msc. Mario Galindo Soza
Viceministro de Planificaci6n Estrategica y Participaci6n Popular
Viceministerio de Planificaci6n Estrategica y Participaci6n Popular
Fondo de Desarrollo Campesino
A.    EVALUACION
1.    De los objetivos
En tmrtninos generales, el PDCR rebaso los indicadores de progreso programados en por los menos un 20
% mas (Ver cuadros en section 4.2). La cobertura territorial de 138 municipios significo abarcar una
poblaci6n de alrededor de 1.600.000 habitantes (23%) de la poblaci6n del pais, movilizando 53.500
ciudadanos en el proceso de planificaci6n participativa, se ha capacitado a 64.781 miembros de
gobiernos municipales, comites de vigilancia, organizaciones territoriales de base, entidades ejecutoras,
sector puiblico. Por otro lado, la inversi6n de 5.7 millones beneficia a 41.264 familias significando
alrededor de 200 mil habitantes de los municipios en los que se intervino.
En el caso del FDC, a partir de la conformaci6n de oficinas departamentales desconcentradas, la
- 26 -



aprobaci6n de manuales operativos, el nuevo PIDER y el reglamento de Comites Departamentales de
funcionamiento, el FDC ha facilitado la operaci6n de fmanciamiento de la inversi6n demandada por los
actores sociales locales, al mismo tiempo que estos se han beneficiado frente a la agilidad de los procesos
implantados, con una mayor coherencia tecnica en la evaluaci6n de proyectos, mejor conocimiento del
medio en el que los proyectos van a ser ejecutados, mayores niveles de ejecuci6n fmanciera y un mayor
acercamiento del FDC a las comunidades y municipios.
2.     Del diseno
La conceptualizaci6n y, posterior estructuraci6n del proyecto, ha sido ordenado en base a la
participaci6n como sosten del proyecto,.el ambito institucional, el desarrollo de instrumentos y por
uiltimo el manejo del territorio, como el soporte fisico para el accionar de los actores involucrados y
concretar acciones.
a      Participacion
*   Rescate de experiencias innovadoras. El proyecto hizo suyas las experiencias de participaci6n local
concretadas, en desarrollar organizaciones cuyas acciones buscaban superar su estado de situaci6n,
como el caso de la Provincia de Mizque.
*   Fortalecimiento de comunidades locales. La presencia de organizaciones comunales basadas en
administrar procesos de desarrollo locales buscaba asurnir experiencias de su funcionamiento y de la
toma de decisiones colectivas con el fin de darles mayor y mejor soporte a dichos procesos. Es el caso
de los Consejos Provinciales de Desarrollo.
*   Planificaci6n desde la base. Uno de los instrumentos facilitadores de este proceso fueron y son los
Planes de Desarrollo Participativos a nivel Municipal, que hacen de la planificaci6n un verdadero
sustento al desarrollo local
*   Orientaci6n al atmbito productivo. Si bien el proceso de demanda avanza de lo urbano hacia lo
social y de ello al ambito productivo, el proyecto se propuso respaldar sustancialmente este fitimo
6anbito a traves de la preinversi6n e inversiones productivas, financiando a las comunidades
proyectos de asistencia tecnica, infraestructura basica y de manejo de recursos naturales.
b.    Institucional
*   Institucionalizaci6n delproyecto. Criterio centrado en ser parte constitutiva de la entidad puiblica en
la cual el proyecto estaba inmerso y su diferenciaci6n como instrumento especifico para generar
politicas e instrumentos del desarrollo rural.
*   Soporte del Fortalecimiento Institucional. Como parte de la institucionalizaci6n del proyecto
buscaba y daba sustento a la constituci6n, organizaci6n y funcionamiento de las entidades puiblicas
en las cuales estaba vinculada, inicialmente con la Secretaria Nacional de Desarrollo Provincial y
Rural SNDPR. Y en inversiones, al Fondo de Desarrollo Campesino que debia preparar un plan de
reestructuraci6n satisfactorio para los alcances del Proyecto.
*   Complementacion con la politica de Desarrollo Rural. Buscaba atacar las causas de la pobreza,
desde la visi6n de las comunidades campesinas y pueblos indigenas que defmirian su desarrollo local
a partir de la interpretaci6n de su propia realidad concretada en demandas de intervenci6n.
*   Fortalecimiento de las instituciones privadas. Trataba de generar destrezas y capacidades en
planificaci6n sectorial y territorial, elaboraci6n y ejecuci6n de proyectos, asistencia tecnica y control
y evaluaci6n en terceras personas, como apoyo para la implementaci6n del proceso.
c.     Desarrollo de instrumentos:Uno de los grandes retos del proyecto fue generar instrumentos que
-27 -



facilitaran la ejecuci6n del proyecto, retomando las experiencias existentes y buscando generar procesos de
alta participaci6n de los actores locales, perfeccionando instrumentos, guias y manuales.
d.     Manejo territorial: El territorio como sujeto a ser administrado y por ende a ser construido, fue
asumido desde la Provincia con relaci6n a los Consejos Provinciales de Desarrollo - debiles y sin facultades
administrativas, con mas experiencia en procesos de concertaci6n -, hasta el Municipio de la Secci6n de
Provincia, con presencia de organizaciones locales de base fortalecidos por la Ley 1551.
e.    Involucramiento del sector privado: A partir de la definici6n de la operaci6n en el municipio a
traves de terceros, se conform6 una oferta de instituciones privadas dispuestas a imnplementar las
actividades del Proyecto.
f      Organizaci6n del proyecto: El disefno del Proyecto determin6 una "fase piloto" de diseino,
validaci6n y ajuste de instrumentos operativos a nivel municipal y en la administraci6n de los elementos
constitutivos del proyecto tanto en el nivel central y departamental. La "fase ejecuci6n" caracterizada por
la ampliaci6n e implementacion de los componentes y actividades del proyecto en 94 municipios a traves de
EE's y por la inserci6n institucional en la Secretaria Nacional de Desarrollo Rural y sus Direcciones
Departamentales.
3.     De la implementacion:
La implementaci6n del PDCR se efectu6 en dos fases: (i) una piloto, con un periodo de 2 anios (1994 -
1995) y (ii) la fase de implementaci6n, de 3 afios (1996 - 1998). Las que se caracterizaron por los
siguientes aspectos
a.    Adecuacion a las leyes de Participacion Popular y Descentralizaci6n Administrativa
En terminos de componentes y actividades.
Para la aplicacion territorial de las bases conceptuales en la elaboraci6n del PDCR, enmarcadas en la
Estrategia de Desarrollo Rural, inicialmente se tom6 en cuenta la jurisdicci6n de la Provincia.
Con la promulgaci6n de la Ley de Participaci6n Popular, el enfoque de intervenci6n del proyecto
es ajustado a la jurisdicci6n municipal. Al interior de los componentes de Identificaci6n y Formulaci6n
de Inversiones Rurales y Capacitaci6n, rapidamente se estructuro actividades para el "Apoyo al Registro
de 5.084 OTBs y la Conformaci6n de 94 CVs, Difusi6n y Capacitaci6n en 207 talleres sobre la Ley
1551". La planificacion participativa encontr6 unajurisdicci6n politica y administrativa en directa
relaci6n con las comunidades, permitiendo a 132 Municipios identificar sus objetivos de desarrollo de
mediano plazo y la asignaci6n de recursos de coparticipaci6n que le otorgaba la ley; continuando con el
apoyo a la ejecuci6n de 299 PDMs.
Los indigenas, tambien fueron incluidos en este proceso a traves de la creaci6n de 73 Distritos
Indigenas y el fortalecimiento de 13 de los mismos, incorporando la perspectiva de genero en las
Metodologias y Gufas desarrolladas por el PDCR.
El uso de los recursos de coparticipaci6n tributaria y la transferencia de fondos para Inversiones
Rurales, se complementaron permitiendo la construcci6n de 146 obras de infraestructura productiva, 42
proyectos de apoyo a la producci6n y fmanciamiento para 109 estudios de preinversi6n.
En el ambito institucional.
(i) En el nivel nacional, apoy6 el funcionamiento de la estructura de la ex-SNDRP, la ex-SNDR, la
ex-SNPP, el ex-VPPFM, el actual VPEPP y el Fondo de Desarrollo Campesino (FDC) financiando
- 28 -



consultorias de linea y especificas, como tambien su equipamiento y gastos de funcionamiento, y (ii) en
el nivel departamental a las ex-Direcciones Departamentales de Desarrollo Rural, a las ex-SDPP y
fmalmente se conformaron unidades operativas del proyecto al interior de la estructura de las
prefecturas.
El FDC, desconcentr6 las operaciones de evaluaci6n, aprobaci6n, supervisi6n y fiscalizaci6n de
la preinversi6n e inversi6n de proyectos, a sus oficinas departamentales.
Inducci6n a otros sectores y niveles del Estado
El esquema de generaci6n de la demanda a traves de los procesos de planificaci6n participativa, tuvo
repercusi6n en las estrategias de intervenci6n en salud, educaci6n y saneamiento basico, en los
SED-FMC para municipios donde no intervino el PDCR; a partir de la promulgaci6n de la Norma de
Planificaci6n Participativa, 6mbito metodol6gico que permiti6 la formulacion de un total de 297 PDM's.
b.     Capacidad institucional generada
El PDCR, al constituirse en el ejecutor de la Participaci6n Popular, para la implementacion de sus
diferentes acciones en el nivel municipal requirio de Entidades Ejecutoras (EE's), estando comprendidas
en este concepto las ONG's, firmas consultoras y consultores individuales. Para desarrollar y
perfeccionar las capacidades institucionales en las EE's con base en los componentes y actividades del
PDCR, se ejecut6 acciones de capacitaci6n en los sectores publicos y privados, llegando a construir un
registro de 301 EE's (188 firmas consultoras, 91 consultores individuales y 22 ONG's).
c.     Generaci6n de otros proyectos
La ejecuci6n de los componentes del proyecto provocaron en el contexto rural, una cadena de demandas
de los actores sociales que no podian ser atendidas solo por el proyecto, exigiendo que el mismo tomara
iniciativas en la generaci6n y concertaci6n de programas y proyectos para satisfacer las demandas
emergentes de los procesos de planificaci6n participativa. Asi tenemos: Programa Nacional de Riegos
(PRONAR), el Proyecto de Servicios de Asistencia Tecnica para Productores Campesinos (PROSAT),
el Programa de Apoyo a la Seguridad Alimentaria (PASA); el Programa de Apoyo a las Empresas
Rurales (PAER) y el Proyecto de Promoci6n al Desarrollo Econ6mico Rural (PADER),
d     Articulaci6n de actividades
El componente de Identificaci6n y Formulacion de Inversiones Rurales fue la vanguardia del Proyecto,
debido a que abarcaba procesos de planificaci6n y se constituia en elemento motriz y ordenador del
desarrollo municipal. Para la consolidacion de las demandas municipales insertas en el PDM, se apoyo
la Ejecucion de los mismos, concretandose en la Programaci6n Operativa Anual de los Gobiemos
Municipales y en ajustes a la priorizaci6n quinquenal. Para efectivizar el control social, se disenio e
implant6 el Sistema de Seguimiento y Evaluaci6n Municipal (SSEM), habiendose capacitado a
funcionarios de los Gobiemos Municipales, Comites de Vigilancia y Organizaciones Territoriales de
Base para su aplicaci6n
La dinanica municipal oblig6 al Ajuste de PDMs manteniendo actualizada la demanda para la
gestion de recursos y concretar su financiamiento en el componente de Inversiones Rurales, ejecutado
por el FDC.
Para fortalecer la capacidad de gesti6n de 84 Gobiemos Municipales, se apoyo la implantaci6n,
de los sistemas: Administraci6n de Bienes y Servicios, Administraci6n Tributaria, Contabilidad
Integrada, Formulaci6n Presupuestaria, Programaci6n de Operaciones y Organizaci6n Administrativa.
- 29 -



Se formularon 13 Planes de Desarrollo Distrital Indigena, despues de apoyar la distritaci6n
municipal y creaci6n de 73 distritos indigenas .
La capacitaci6n a Instituciones Publicas y privadas facilito la implementaci6n de los
componentes y actividades, en los tres niveles de ejecuci6n del proyecto y con los componentes entre si.
La frecuencia de intervenciones por numero de municipios fue la siguiente: I en 31, 2 en 14, 3 en 12, 4
en 49, 5 en 26 y 6 en 6 respectivamente.
e.    Expansion del servicio: Por el incremento de la demanda en municipios del entomo, se
expandieron los servicios; por ejemplo en el caso de la Formulaci6n de PDMs de 98 programados se
formulaci6n 129 PDMs que abarcan 132 municipios (1 de mancomunidades).
f      Articulaci6n de la demanda desde los oferentes: Antes de la Ley 1551 existian 21 Gobiernos
Municipales con caracteristicas Urbanas, su promulgaci6n institucionaliz6 311 Gobiemos Municipales
en municipios Urbano Rurales. El PDCR condiciono a que los Gobiemos Municipales tuvieran que
acceder al proyecto de acuerdo a la oferta de este y no asi a una jerarquizaci6n de sus necesidades para
la gesti6n municipal y del municipio.
Este aspecto fue adecuado en su momento, facilitando la articulaci6n al componente de
inversiones rurales, ejecutado por el FDC. Como producto de los procesos de planificaci6n y
capacitaci6n, a diciembre de 1997 se presentaron al FDC 157 proyectos a disefno final para su ejecuci6n,
39 ideas de proyectos para fmanciar la preinversi6n y como resultado de apoyo a la ejecuci6n de PDMs
se entregaron 575 perfiles y 42 proyectos
4. Experiencia de operaciones
a.    Aspectos positivos
*  Aprender haciendo: El proceso de participaci6n popular, por ser un continuo aprendizaje de todos
los actores sociales, permiti6 al proyecto en los municipios piloto disefnar y validar instrumentos
metodol6gicos, guias y manuales en procesos de planificaci6n participativa, gesti6n y administraci6n
municipal, en difusi6n y capacitaci6n, elaboraci6n y ejecuci6n de proyectos, que posteriormente
fueron transferidos a funcionarios de las prefecturas, municipalidades, organizaciones de base,
miembros de los Comites de Vigilancia y profesionales independientes, empresas consultoras y
Organizaciones No Gubemrnamentales
*  Paso de la demanda generada a la preinversi6n e inversi6n: La articulaci6n entre los procesos de
identificaci6n de la demanda a traves de la planificaci6n participativa y de inversi6n rural, aunque en
un minimo porcentaje de satisfacci6n de la demanda, fue importante para dotarle al PDCR de
credibilidad en los municipios, comunidades carnpesinas y pueblos indigenas.
*  Descentralizacion y desconcentraci6n: La descentralizaci6n de las operaciones del PDCR hacia la
estructura prefectural no fue la mas indicada, ocasionando cancelaci6n de actividades de hasta un
aAlo en La Paz y Pando, por lo que se determin6 la organizaci6n de unidades operativas en base a
convenios con las prefecturas.
*  La desconcentraci6n del FDC logr6 de manera clara un mejor nivel de ejecuci6n fisica y financiera,
aunque todavia es posible identificar problemas de disefio institucional que no son superables solo a
partir de acciones del PDCR (Ej. exigencias de otras fuentes de financiamiento)
*   Contrapartes: El comportamiento de las contrapates al proyecto fueron: Nacional, de acuerdo a las
exigencias de las categorias del Convenio de Credito y adicionalmente en algunos servicios y
personal. Departanental, que fue acordada mediante Convenio con las Prefecturas, siendo efectiva
recien y regular en la gesti6n 1998. Municipal y Local, fue fmanciera en algunos municipios como
el Chapare y local en especie o esfuerzo local para el componente I, II y III. En inversiones rurales
- 30 -



estuvo determinada por las exigencias del FDC y su cumplimiento regular.
*  Intervenci6n en la ejecuci6n a travis de terceros: Determin6 una ripida ejecuci6n de las
actividades del proyecto en el nivel municipal, habiendo sido determinante para el logro de los
indicadores de proceso del PDCR. Su comportamiento en la ejecuci6n de contratos es variado y esta
registrado en una base de datos.
*  Destreza en el diseno y desarrollo de instrumentos: EstAn desarrolladas destrezas en disefno,
operaci6n y transferencia de instrunentos, tanto en el sector publico como privado como en sus
diferentes niveles administrativos.
*  Investigaci6n-Creaci6n: insumo de desarrollo de politicas: El PDCR tambien desarroll6
investigaciones con el "Estudio de Productividad Rural", que de alguna manera ha servido para
defmir politicas de desarrollo rural como de fortalecimiento municipal, sirviendo ademas para la
elaboraci6n de proyectos de cooperaci6n.
*  Programaci6n y control efectivo sobre las metas y compromisos con el convenio: La presentaci6n
de la Programaci6n Operativa Anual, informes semestrales de ejecuci6n fisica fmanciera, informes
de auditoria y otras clausulas del Convenio de Credito, fueron cumplidas en el tiempo establecido y
de acuerdo con el financiador. El desarrollo del Sistema de Monitoreo - SISMO - facilit6 un control
constante sobre las metas del PDCR, habiendo logrado una mayor ejecuci6n fisica en comparaci6n
con la planificaci6n inicial.
b.    Aspectos negativos
*  Elproceso electoral; municipal de diciembre de 1995 y nacional de Junio de 1997, provoc6 letargo
en el ritmo de ejecuci6n de las actividades, adicionados a la lenta reglamentaci6n de los sistemas de
la Ley 1178, promulgandose las normas en 1995 y 1996
*  La inestabilidad tecnica en la contraparte de las prefecturas: El constante cambio en el personal
t6cnico y administrativo de las contrapartes prefecturales
3  Los cambios en la estructura institucional: La ejecuci6n del proyecto abarca dos gestiones
gubernamentales, en las cuales se dan camnbios y/o ajustes en la estructura del Poder Ejecutivo, que
afectaron directamente en la interlocuci6n del PDCR, tanto en el nivel nacional como
departamental.
3  La lentitud en procesos: Debido a la centralizaci6n que ejercita el Ministerio de Desarrollo
Sostenible y Planificaci6n, deficiencias en el sistema administrativo y financiero de la instituci6n y
una carencia de una estrategia de comunicaci6n y difusi6n propias del proyecto.
B.    EVAL UACION DEL DESEMPENO DE LAS AGENCIAS EJECUTORAS
Participaci6n Popular
La institucionalizaci6n de la coordinaci6n y administraci6n del PDCR en participaci6n popular,
constituy6 un avance en una propuesta integral del accionar de la SNPP y del VPPFM. Durante la
gesti6n 1998 y 1999, esta integraci6n fue enmarcada en el Plan Operativo Anual del VPPFM, del que
formaba parte las actividades del PDCR; sin embargo el sistema fmanciero no supo responder a los
requerimientos de los fmanciadores, ocasionando problemas en la toma de decisiones, en los informes y
auditorias regulares y de cierre, habiendo sido atendidos de forrna manual.
Fondo de Desarrollo Campesino
La ejecuci6n de las inversiones del PDCR en el FDC tuvieron un arranque demorado hasta 1997, a pesar
de esto, el FDC ha desconcentrado sus acciones de evaluaci6n, contrataci6n, supervisi6n y evaluaci6n a
- 31 -



sus oficinas departamentales, superando las metas previstas durante la elaboraci6n del PDCR. La
organizaci6n de un equipo tecnico PDCR al interior del FDC, ha permitido el disefno de instrumentos y el
desarrollo de procedimientos de la fuente PDCR que han sido institucionalizados para todas las fuentes
de fmanciamiento del FDC.
C.    EVAL UACION DFL DESEMPENO DE LA COOPERACION
a)    La presencia de las misiones del Banco Mundial, desde el nivel nacional dio enfasis a las acciones
encaradas en los departamentos, asi como la aplicaci6n de la politica de descentralizaci6n del Banco
Mundial y la presencia de COSUDE en el pais, facilito la articulaci6n entre el proyecto y sus financiadores.
b)    Ante los cambios institucionales del poder ejecutivo, la tarea de informaci6n de los alcances del
convenio y la modalidad de ejecuci6n, permiti6 que los nuevos ejecutivos de las instituciones, asumieran un
reconocimiento del PDCR y actuaran facilitando la continuidad de sus acciones.
c)    La administraci6n financiera fue reconducida a partir de ajuste en las asignaciones en las
Categorias de Gasto y los propios Componentes del proyecto, gencrando condiciones de respuesta a las
demandas principalmente de inversi6n de proyectos productivos.
(b) Cofinanciers:
Comments by the Swiss Development Cooperation (Cooperaci6n Suiza para el Desarrollo)
El Banco Mundial configur6 el fmanciamiento del Proyecto de Desarrollo de Comunidades Rurales, con la
voluntad de cofmanciamiento de la COSUDE en la opci6n de concentrar sus recursos en el componente de
fortalecimiento institucional. La cooperaci6n Suiza acompafi6 a las misiones del Banco Mundial que
conjuntamente con funcionarios del gobiemo de Bolivia elaboraron los documentos previos a la concesi6n
del prestamo que dio origen a la ejecuci6n del Proyecto de Desarrollo de Comunidades Rurales, que ha
concluido en agosto de 1999.
El Proyecto de Desarrollo de Comunidades Rurales (PDCR), ha sido concebido y ejecutado en la nueva
realidad boliviana determinada por la Ley de Participaci6n Popular (LPP), y se adapt6 rapidamente a la
Ley de Descentralizaci6n Administrativa (LDA) cuando el proyecto estaba en ejecuci6n.
De acuerdo a la evaluaci6n realizada por la COSUDE los resultados del PDCR son altamente
satisfactorios. En general cumplen con las metas propuestas y en algunos casos las sobrepasan. Sin
embargo, m6as alla de los indicadores y las metas, el PDCR tuvo efectos e impactos que contribuyeron de
manera fundamental a la implementaci6n de la Ley de Participaci6n Popular.
Los impactos del PDCR fueron posibles gracias al contexto en el que fue ejecutado, marcado
fundamentalmente por la LPP. Pero al mismo tiempo el Proyecto de Desarrollo de Comunidades Rurales
fue el primer instrumento operativo de alcance nacional para la implementaci6n de la Ley de Participaci6n
Popular y sus resultados muestran que tambien fue el instrumento mas poderoso y con mayor impacto para
lograr que la Ley de Participaci6n Popular se convierta en Participaci6n Popular.
El PDCR ha contribuido a desarrollar e implementar la metodologia de la Planificaci6n Participativa
Municipal (PPM), que se constituy6 en el principal instrumento para efectivizar la participaci6n social en
la gesti6n puiblica local.
La metodologia de PPM es ahora parte del Sistema Nacional de Planificaci6n (SISPLAN) y se ha
- 32 -



convertido en uno de los instrumentos de implementacion de las politicas de estado.
Tambien ha permitido la legitimaci6n de los sujetos de la Participaci6n Popular a traves del apoyo a la
obtenci6n de personeriajuridica de un importante n(tmero de comunidades campesinas e indigenas (5084) y
a la constituci6n de casi un centenar de Comites de Vigilancia (94).
En la implementaci6n de los sistemas administrativos dentro del fortalecimiento ejecutado por el PDCR, el
efecto mis visible se dio en el incremento de ingresos propios municipales. En 50 municipios donde se
implementaron los sistemas, los ingresos propios aumentaron en 820% entre 1996 y 1997.
El PDCR gener6 una importante cartera de proyectos a diseno final cuya calidad tecnica posibilita el
acceso al fmanciamiento. Pese a ello todavia existen dificultades para convertir las demandas en proyectos
tecnicamente bancables.
Tambien contribuy6 a canalizar los recursos de inversion para satisfacer parcialmente la demanda
generada en los Planes de Desarrollo Municipal, aunque la demanda fue mayor que la oferta de recursos
canalizados a traves del PDCR.
La ejecuci6n de las inversiones con recursos humanos e instituciones locales abarata los costos de
inversi6n, e incrementa la eficiencia en el uso de los recursos de inversi6n. Ademas el proceso genera
empleo localmente y atrae recursos humanos calificados, lo que califica la capacidad de gesti6n local. De
todos modos, la oferta de recursos humanos calificados todavia presenta ddficit.
La construcci6n institucional y el fortalecimiento municipal fortalecen la capacidad de interlocucion de los
Gobiemos Municipales, los que paulatinamente se convierten en ordenadores de la inversi6n y de las
acciones institucionales. Es decir los Gobiernos Municipales comienzan a gobemar.
A traves del fondo de estudios para el desarrollo rural, se financi6 estudios cuyos resultados pernitieron
identificar temas complementarios a los que abordo el PDCR, indagar posibles acciones y fornular
propuestas nuevas de programas y proyectos, de acuerdo a la evaluaci6n de COSUDE la formulaci6n del
Programa de Apoyo a Empresas Rurales PAER y el Estudio de Productividad Rural, son los que responden
a la orientaci6n bajo la cual se constituy6 el fondo.
La participaci6n de la COSUDE se ha desarrollado en lo formal al interior de los acuerdos y condiciones de
prestamo del Banco Mundial, lo que ha conllevado a un mutuo aprendizaje para las dos instituciones
intemacionales en la perspectiva multilateral y bilateral, por lo tanto visiones diferentes para acercarse a
los clientes. Esta experiencia y su modalidad es inedita e invita a la reflexi6n en varios aspectos a la
COSUDE.
COSLUDE ha sido prudente y discreta en el acompanamiento, procedimiento que marca diferencia positiva
en las experiencias que el Banco Mundial registra. Los programas y proyectos de la COSUDE le han
permitido tener referencias indirectas que le han facilitado observar el desempefno de los actores
institucionales inmersos en la ejecuci6n del proyecto, facilitando elementos para el analisis a estas
instancias nacionales responsables del proceso de implementaci6n y el aporte conceptual oportuno para los
agentes intemos y extemos.
El proceso de Participaci6n Popular por el mandato de la ley y por la implementaci6n del PDCR dio la
oportunidad a la COSUDE de readecuar su Plan Programa Pais (PPP) para armonizar con las prioridades
que Bolivia defini6 como Politica de Estado al incorporar las grandes transformaciones, en este caso las
- 33 -



incluyentes a los campesinos y areas rurales de su territorio como gufas y orientaci6n para la estrategia de
la cooperaci6n.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
10. Additional Information
- 34 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
The following 4 tables (one per each component of the project) show a comparison between:
SAR indicators (Annex 13: Progress Indicators for Monitoring).
Key Performance Indicators (version 1 in 1995 prior to the adjustments of 1996).
Progress Indicators presented by VPEPP in March 2000 (which are Key Performance Indicators'
version 2 used in periodical reports to the World Bank).
These are tables that show that indicators have been maintained almost invariably, but for those which have
been modified to better show the advancement in relation to determined specific products. See paragraph
25 on this issue.
Component I - Rural Investment Identification and Formulation
Progress Indicators  Planned Key Performance      Planned  VPEPP's          Planned  Actual
for Monitoring              Indicators (agreed             Indicators (Final
(Annex 13 SAR, July          upon during the               Report, March
1995)                        August 1995 mission)          2000)
1. Number of PMDs  98        1. Municipal         98       1. Municipal     98       132
produced                     Development Plans             Development
(PMDs) concluded              Plans (PMDs):
(number)                      Formulation and
approval of
PMDs by GMs.
2. Number of        98       2. Coverage of OTB    98                       98       98
municipalities covered       registration program
(OTB Registration)           (municipality)
3. Number of OTBs   4000    3. OTBs registered    4000     2. Number of     4000     5084
registered                  (number)                       registered OTBs
3. Number of     98       94
registered CVs
4. Number of PAOs   169      4. Annual Operative    169    4. Number of      169     299
produced                     Plan (PAO) produced           PAOs designed
(number)
5. Number of project  1095    5. Project Profiles  1095    5. Number of     1095     575
profiles produced            produced (number)             project profiles
6. Number of PMDs  94        6. Adjustment of     94       6. Number of     94       94
adjusted                     PMDs (number)                 adjusted PMDs
7. Number of covered 158
municipalities (Follow
up)
- 35 -



7. Number of     30        73
indigenous
districts created
8. Number of     30        13
indigenous
districts with
Development
District Plans
8. Evaluation of     14 (*)   7. PMDs evaluated    14
PMDs and PAOs                from gender
(Incorporation of            perspective (number)
gender in PPP)
* 80 municipalities through "PPP Adjustment and Support to PAO Implementation" contract. There were
14 in the pilot phase to adjust the methodology with precision.
- 36 -



Table 2:     Component 1 - Training of Public and Private Institutions
Progress Indicators  Planned  Key Performance    Planned   VPEPP's          Planned  Actual
for Monitoring               Indicators (agreed            Indicators (Final
(Annex 13 SAR,               upon during the               Report, March
July 1995)                   August 1995                   2000)
mission)
Number of           23       Workshops on        23        Number of        23        80
workshops on PPP             Participatory                 workshops on
(PPP Methodology             Planning (number)             PPP (PPP         I         I
Training)                                                  methodologies)
Number of           207      Workshops on PMD   207        Number of        207       653
workshops on                 and PAO                       municipal
PDMIPAO                      management                    workshops        N.A.    28
Management and               (number)                      (PMDs/PAOs
Monitoring                                                 management,
implementation)
Number of           9        Workshops on PDM   9          Number of        9         12
workshops on plan            adjustment (number)           workshops to
adjustment                                                 adjust PMDs
Number of           30       Technical training  30        Number of        30        36
workshops on                 (workshops)                   workshops on
specific technical                                         project design
issue                                                      (Productive
Projects design
and
implementation).
Number of TA        450      Technical assistance  450     Number of        450       61
contracts (months)           to project preparation        technical
(person/month)               assistance       N. A.    419
contracts Final
design Projects
(Technical
Assistance
Productive
Projects design
and
implementation).
- 37 -



Number of           12        Gender perspective in  12     Number of         12       11
workshops focusing            participatory                 departmental
on women in                   planning (workshops)          workshops        N. A.    71
development issues                                          Number of
municipality     N. A.    6
workshops
Diffusion
Program
(Gender
Perspective)
- 38 -



Table 3:     Component HI - Institutional Strengthening
Progress Indicators  Planned  Key Performance    Planned  VPEPP's            Planned  Actual
for Monitoring                Indicators (agreed           Indicators (Final
(Annex 13 SAR,                upon during the              Report, March
july 1995)                    August 1995                  2000)
mission)
Thematic teams      54        Technical personnel   54     Not available     NO       NO
established,                  hired in central office
consultants hired in          SNDR (person/year)           Number of         54       61
center (SNDR)                                              consultants at
central level
(SNPP)
Consultants hired in   114    Technical personnel   114    Not available
Departments (SNDR)            hired in dept.offices
SNDR (person/year)           Number of         114      111
consultants at
departmental
level (SNPP).
Disbursements (US$  65        Not available       NO       Not available.    NO       NO
million) (FDC) (**)
Number of           62        Strengthening FDC    62      Not available     NO       NO
consultants hired in          dept.offices
center and                    (person/year)                Number of         62       48
departments (FDC)                                          consultants
(FDC)
Consultants hired   8         Strengthening SNPP   8       Not available     NO       NO
EEs trained (SNPP)   18       (person/year)
Number of        8         13
consultants for
municipality
strengthening
(SNPP).
Number of training    84      Municipalities      84       Number of         4        /
modules implemented           covered by SNPP's            training modules
(Municipalities)             training program              implemented
(number)                     Number of         84       81
Municipalities
covered
(Municipality
management)
- 39 -



Table 4:     Component IV - Rural Investments
Progress        Planned  Key Performance    Planned  VPEPP's Indicators  Planned  Actual
Indicators for            Indicators (agreed          (Final Report,
Monitoring                upon during the             March 2000)
(Annex 13 SAR,           August 1995
july 1995)                mission)
Number of       90        Productive         90       Number of           23       146
sub-projects              Infrastructure project      subprojects financed
financed (based          financed by FDC              (US$ 50,000 average
on average               (number)                     project) (Productive
investment of                                         infrastructure)
US$50,000)
(productive
infrastructure)
Number of        150      Support to         150      Number of           207      42
sub-projects             agricultural                 sub-projects financed
financed (based          production projects          (US$ 15,000)
on average               financed by FDC              (Agricultural
investment of            (number)                     Production Support)
US$15,000)
(Support to
Agricultural
Production)
Number of       225      Institutional       225      Number of           9        5
sub-projects              Strengthening               subprojects financed
financed (based           projects financed by        (US$ 10.000)
on average                FDC (number)                (Institutional
investment of                                         Strengthening -
US$10.000)                                            including human
(Institutional                                        resources training).
Strengthening-incl
uding local human
resources
development)
Pre-investment    750     Pre-investment     750,000  Number of           30       109
studies financed         studies financed by          pre-investment               (US$
(US$ thousand)            FDC (US$)                   studies financed             343,96
(thousands US$              2.77)
dollars)
(Pre-investment
Studies)
- 40 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal     Actual/Latest   Percentage of
Estimate        Estimate       Appraisal
Prolect Cost By component               US$ miHlion     US$ million
Rural Investment                                         4.60            4.73            103
Civil Works                                              0.09            0.01              7
Goods and Equipment                                      0.70            0.76            109
Consulting Services                                      2.30            2.45            106
Management Services                                      2.80            2.87            101
Training                                                 0.27            0.02              6
Incremental Operating Costs                              0.54            0.49             82
FDC administrative Costs                                0.30             0.33            109
PPF                                                      2.00            1.24             67
Unallocated                                              1.40
Total Baseline Cost                                     15.00           12.90
Total Project Costs                15.00           12.90
Total Financing Required                15.00            12.90
Annex 2b. Project Costs and Financing - Projects Costs by Procurement Arrangement
Projects Costs by Procurement Arrangement (In US$ million)
E  Expenditure            Procurement Method                     Procurement Method
Categories   |         AwDraisal Estimate                   Actual/ Latest Estimate
ICB    NCB   Other  NBF   Total   ICB    NCB   Other  NBF   Total
1 Works                  3,4    2,9    2,4    8,7              1,4    3,4    0,9    5,7
2 Goods          0,4    0,3    0,3              1,0    0,5             0,3    0,2    1,0
3 Services                       9,9    7,6    17,5            1,4    6,5    1,3    9,2
4 Misc.                          2,7    1,1    3,8                     1,8    0,2    2,0
Total            0,4    3,7    15,8   11,1   31,0    0,5    2,8    12,0    2,6    17,9
- 41 -



Annex 2c: Project Cost and Financing - Project Financing by Component
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Percentage of Appraisal
Apprais*all timate                        Estimate
______________  Bak   jGovt      CoY.       Bank      G0vt       CoF    Bank   Govt   CoF.
Rural Investment          4.40       1.10      9.10       4.70       0.90               106.8   81.8    0.0
Pre Investment Studies    0.80       0.10      0.30       0.36       0.07               45.0   70.0    0.0
Civil Works and Goods     1.00       0.10      0.10       0.77       0.21      0.05     77.0  210.0   50.0
Consulting Services       2.40       0.60      0.10       2.45       0.06      0.44    102.1   10.0  440.0
Management Services       3.50       0.80      2.40       2.87                 1.81     82.0    0.0    75.4
Training                  0.30       0.10                 0.02                 0.11      6.7    0.0    0.0
Salaries                             1.10                            1.19                0.0   108.2   0.0
Incremental Operating     0.60       0.10                 0.49       0.20      0.04     81.7  200.0   0.0
Costs
PPF                       2.00                            1.24                          62.0    0.0    0.0
TOTAL                     15.00      4.00      12.00      12.90      2.63      2.45     86.0   65.8   20.4
- 42 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
(In US$ currency, base year 1996 - for rural investments of the project)
Present Value of Flows|
Economic Analysis             Financial Analysis
Appraisal     Latest Estimate   Appraisal   Latest Estimate
Benefits                         20'873.265                     14'215.101
Costs                            7'187.694                      5'480.771
Net Benefits                     13'685.571                     8'734.330
NVP                              12'001.289                     7'700.686
IRR                              48 %                          46 %
- 43 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle             No. of Persons and Specialty              Performance Rating
..   .   (e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)  Implementation   Development
Month/Year    Count       Specialty                       Progress         Objective
Identification/Preparation
05/93                        4   3 Economists, I Consultant           S                 S
12/93                        6   3 Economists, 3 consultants          S                 S
02,03/94                     4   2 Economists, 2 Consultants          S                 S
Appraisal/Negotiation
04/94                        8   1 Economist, 1                       S                 S
Agriculturist, 4 consultants,
1 IFAD, 1 FAO
07/94                        8   1 Economists, 1 Agriculturist, 4     S                 S
consultants, I IFAD, 1 FAO
11/94                        5   2 Economists, 1 Agriculturist, 2     S                 S
Consultants, 1 COSUDE
02/95                        4   2 Economists, 1 COSUDE, 1            S                 S
IFAD
04/95                         1   1 Economist                         S                 S
08/95                        2   2 Economists                         S                 S
01,02/96                     2   2 Economists                         S                 S
Supervision
05/96                         2   1 Economists, 1 Rural               S                 S
Development. Especialist
09/96                         3  1 Economists, 1 Rural                S                 S
Development Esp., 1 COSUDE
02,03/97                      4  1 Economist, 1 Rural                 S                 S
Development Esp., I
Procurement Analist, 1
Consultant
09/97                         6  1 Economist, 1 Rural                 S                 S
Development Esp., 1
Procurement Analist, 2
Consultants
04,05/98                      4  1 Economist, 1 Rural                 S                 S
Development Esp., 1
Procurement Analist, 1
COSUTDE
10/98                         2   1 Economist, 1 Rural                S                 S
Development Esp., 1
Procurement Analist
ICR
03,04/00                     3   1 Rural Development Esp., 1          S                 S
Engineer, 1 Consultant
- 44 -



(b) Staff
I    Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks             US$ (7000)
Identification/Preparation              88,2                       261,9
Appraisal/Negotiation                   21,8                        74,2
Supervision                             60,3                       157,5
ICR                                      5,0                         8,5
Total                                  175,3                       502,1
- 45 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
Z Macro policies                           O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Z Sector Policies                          O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
 Physical                                 * H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
 Financial                                O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
 lnstitutional Development                * H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
Z Environmental                            O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Social
Z Poverty Reduction                 O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
Z Gender                            O H *SUOM O N O NA
Z Other (Please specify)            O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
Other is Indigenous people
Z Private sector development               0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
Z Public sector management                 0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
Z Other (Please specify)                   * H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
Other is Law Popular Participation being
institutionalized
46



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HlU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                 Rating
Z Lending                                            OHS OS OU OHU
 Supervision                                        OHS OS  OU  OHU
X Overall                                            OHS OS   Q U  Q HU
6.2 Borrower performance                             Rating
 Preparation                                        OHS OS  OU  O HU
 Government implementation performance              O HS O S   0  U  0 HU
 Implementation agency performance                  O HS OS  O  U  0 HU
F Overall                                            OHS OS  0 U  0 HU
- 47 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
COSUDE
1999               Evaluaci6n Externa de los Componentes del PDCR Apoyados por COSUDE.
Fausto Jordan, Ivan Cosslo. La Paz-Bolivia.
EMCON S.R.L.
Marzo 1998          Diagn6stico Municipal. La Paz-Bolivia.
FDC
Marzo 2000-03-20    Estimaci6n Interna del Retorno PDCR-1. La Paz-Bolivia.
MDSP-VPPFM
Febrero 1998        Diagn6stico de Comunidades del Proyecto. Rafael Rojas, Javier Quisbert. CEP
(Centro de Estudios y Proyectos). La Paz-Bolivia.
Abril 1998          Consulta a los Beneficiarios. Informe Principal de Consultoria. CEDETI. Santa
Cruz-Bolivia .
MDSP-VPEPP
Marzo 2000          Informe de Cierre del PDCR, La Paz-Bolivia.
Republica de Bolivia-AID
Agosto de 1995      Convenio de Credito del Proyecto Desarrollo de Comunidades Rurales.
SNDR/SNPP
1995                Manual de Planificaci6n Participativa Municipal.
1996                Guia de Capacitaci6n del Sistema de Bienes y Servicios para Gobiernos
Municipales.
1996               lnventario Nacional de Planes de Desarrollo Municipal.
1997                Lineamientos para ia Planificaci6n Participativa Municipal.
1997                Norma de la Planificaci6n Participativa Municipal.
1997                Sistema de Contabilidad Integrada para Gobiernos Municipales.
1997                Manual de Planificaci6n Participativa Municipal.
1998                Experiencias de ia Planificaci6n Participativa Municipal con Enfoque de Genero.
1998                Manual para la Formulaci6n de la POA Municipal.
1998                Sistema de Seguimiento y Evaluaci6n Municipal. 1. Cuaderno del Comite de
Vigilancia. 2.                   Cuademo de las Organizaciones Territoriales de Base. 3.
Documento Maestro.
1998                Manual de Planificaci6n Participativa Municipal en Areas Indigenas.
1998                Manual de Capacitaci6n en Administraci6n Tributaria Municipal.
1998                Manual de Procesos de Ingresos Municipales.
WORLD BANK
September 1991             Indigenous Peoples. The World Bank Operational Manual.
December 1991      Guideline for Poverty Assessment Summaries. Operational Directive. The World
Bank Operational Manual.
July, 1995          Staff Appraisal Report. Bolivia. Rural Communities Development Project. Natural
- 48 -



Resource Management an Rural Poverty Division, Country Department liI, Latin
American and the Caribbean Regional Office.
Octubrel 993-
Febrero 1996       Ayudas Memorias de las Misiones de Identificaci6n, Preparaci6n,
Pre-evaluaci6n, Evaluaci6n, Preparaci6n de Efectividad y Lanzamiento del
PDCR (9 misiones).
Mayo 1996-
Octubre 1998       Ayudas Memorias de las Misiones de Supervisi6n del PDCR (5 misiones).
Septiembre 1997    Ayuda Memoria de Evaluaci6n de Medio Temmino del PDCR.
Abril 1998         Documento Evaluativo de la Propuesta de Proyecto de Credito por el Monto
Equivalente a US$ 62.8 millones a la Republica de Bolivia para un Proyecto de
Inversi6n Rural Participativa.
October 1999        The Gender Dimension of Development. The World Bank Operational Manual.
- 49 -



