Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 14182-BO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BOLIVIA
RURAL COMMUNITIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
JULY 5, 1995
Natural Resources Management and Rural Poverty Division
Country Department III
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office






CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Boliviano (Bs)
Official Exchange Rate Effective April 1995
US$1.00  Bs 4.7
US$0.21 =Bs 1.00
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 metric ton (m ton)   =   2,205 pounds (lb)
I hectare (ha)      =      2.47 acres
1 kilometer (km)           0.62 miles (mi.)
1 meter (m)         =      3.28 feet (ft)
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
ANEC             -      National Association of Consulting Firms (Asociaci6n Nacional
de Empresas Consultoras)
CIAT             -      Tropical Agriculture Research Center (Centro de Investigaci6n
de Agricultura Tropical)
CORDES           -      Regional Development Corporation (Corporaci6n Regional de
Desarrollo)
COTESU           -      Swiss Technical Cooperation (Cooperaci6n T6cnica Suiza)
CV               -      Supervisory Committee (Comite de Vigilancia)
DCONG            -      Directorate of NGO Coordination
(Direcci6n Central de Organismos Non Gubernamentales)
EC               -      Cooperating Agency (Entidad Cooperativa) for FDC
EE               -      Executing Agency (Entidad Ejecutora) for SNDR and SNPP
FDC              -      Small-Farmer Development Fund (Fondo de Desarrollo
Campesino)
FDR              -      Regional Development Fund (Fondo de Desarrollo Regional)
FIS            -        Social Investment Fund (Fondo de Inversi6n Social)
FONAMA         -        National Environment Fund (Fondo Nacional de Medio
Ambiente)
GDP            -        Gross Domestic Product
GTZ            -        German Technical Cooperation
IBTA           -        Bolivian Institute for Tropical Agriculture
(Instituto Boliviano de Tecnologia Agropecuaria)
ICB            -        International Competitive Bidding
ICR            -        Implementation Completion Report
IFAD           -        International Fund for Agricultural Development
IPDS           -        Institutions for Social Development



aInstituciones Privadas para el Desarrollo Social)
LPP            -        Popular Participation Law (Ley de Participaci6n Popular)
MDH            -        Ministry of Human Development (Ministerio de Desarrollo
Humano)
PMD            -        Municipal Development Plan (Plan Municipal de Desarrollo)
KfW            -        Kreditanstallt fur Wiederaufbau
MDSMA          -        Ministry of Sustainable Development and Environment
(Ministerio de Desarrollo Sostenible y Medio Ambiente)
MTR            -        Mid-Term Review
MP             -        Ministry of the Presidency
NBF            -        Non-Bank Financing
NCB            -        National Competitive Bidding
NGO             -       Non-Governmental Organization
OTB            -        Grassroots Organization (Organizaci6n Territorial de Base)
PIDC           -        Investment Program for Small-Farner Development
(Programa de lnversi6n para el Desarrollo Campesino)
PPF            -        Project Preparation Facility
PPP            -        Participatory Planning Process
PAO            -        Annual Operative Plan (Plan Anual Operativo)
PRONASOL    -           National Solidarity Program (Mexico)
SA             -        Special Account
SAG            -        Sub-secretariat for Gender (Subsecretaria de Asuntos de
Genero)
SICOPRE        -        Integrated Accounting System (Sistema de Contabilidad
Integrada)
SNAG           -        National Secretary for Agriculture and Livestock
(Secretaria Nacional de Agricultura y Ganaderta)
SNEGG          -        National Secretariat for Ethnic, Gender and Youth Affairs
(Secretarfa Nacional de Etnia, Genero y Generaciones)
SNDR           -        National Secretariat of Rural Development
(Secretaria Nacional de Desarrollo Rural)
SNPP           -        National Secretariat for Popular Participation
(Secretarla Nacional de Participaci6n Popular)
SOE            -        Statement of Expenditures
SPS            -        Sub-Secretariat for Social Promotion (Subsecretarfa de
Promoci6n Social)
SPP            -        Sub-secretariat for Production Promotion (Subsecretaria de
Promocidn Productiva)
UDAPSO         -        Unit for Analysis of Social Policy (Unidad de An6lisis de
Polltica Social)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



BOLIVIA
RURAL COMMUNITIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY ...............................................
1. INTRODUCTION ...............................................1
2. BACKGROUND ..............................................1
A. THE MACRO-ECONOMIC SITUATIoN ..............................................1
B. THE RuRAL SECTOR .............................................2
C. RURALDEVELOPMENTPOLICY ..............................................S5
D. RURAL DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY ..............................................6
E. INSTITUTIONAL FRAMEWORK ..............................................8
3. IDA STRATEGY AND EXPERIENCE ..............................................                                           12
A. IDA ASSISTANCE STRATEGY ............................................. 12
B. BANK GROUP OPERATIONS ........................................................                                      13
C. RATIONALE FOR IDA INVOLVEMENT ..........................                                                             14
D. LESSONS FROM EXPERIENCE ..........................                                                                   14
E. ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES ..........................                                                                      16
4. THE PROJECT ..........................                                                                               16
A. OBJECTIVES AND SCOPE ....................................................................................................................... 16
B. PROJECT COMPONENTS ................. 17
5. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING .............................................                                           28
A. COST ESTIMATES .............................................                                                        28
B. PROPOSEDFINANCINGPLAN .............................................                                                 29
C. FINANCIAL IMPLICATIONS FOR GOVERNMENT .............................................                                 29
D. PROCUREMENT .............................................                                                            29
E. DISBURSEMENT .............................................                                                          34
F. AuDITING AND ACCOUNTS .............................................                                                 36
6. PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION .............................................                                 37
A. PROJECT MANAGEMENT .............................................                                                    37
B. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ..............................................                                               38
C. PROJECT MONITORING AND SUPERVISION .............................................                                    39
This report is based on the work of three World Bank missions visiting Bolivia in July and November 1994
and in February 1995. The first mission comprised Messrs./Mmes. I. Girardot-Berg, Chief of Mission,
P. Werbrouck, Task Manager, Susana Knaudt, Financial Analyst, Maurizio Guadagni, Natural Resources
Specialist, and four consultants: E. Finkel, A. del Castillo, L. Ortiz Lopez and Pietro Simoni (IFAD). The
second mission comprised Messrs. P. Werbrouck (Chief of Mission), M. van Nieuwkoop, Natural
Resources Economist, M. Guadagni, L. Ortiz Lopez and F. Gordan (COTESU). The appraisal mission
comprised Messrs. P. Werbrouck (Chief of Mission), M. van Nieuwkoop, and P. Simoni (IFAD).
Ms. G. Sakata assisted with the editing of the report. The Division Chief is Mr. Nicholas Krafll and the
Director is Mr. Yoshiaki Abe.



- 2 -
7. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS ............................................                                40
A. PROJECT BENEFITS ............................................                                          40
B. PROJECT RISKS .............................................                                             41
C. ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ....................... 42
D. IMPACT ON WOMEN ..................                                                                      43
E. POVERT       Y    CATEGORY AND SOCIAL IMPACT .....................................                      43
F. INDIGENOUS PEOPLES ....................................                                                 44
S. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION ....................................                                      45
Annexes
1. Participatory Planning Process .47
2. Rural Communities .52
3. Project Implementing Agencies .58
4. Executing Agencies .67
5. Gender Perspective .74
6. Municipal Strengthening .78
7. Training Program .80
8.  Technical Assistance and Consulting Services .86
9. Rural Investment Component .87
10.  Environmental Impact and Mitigation Measures ......................................                  95
11.  Project Cost Tables .....................................                                            98
12.  Disbursement Profile .....................................                                         102
13.  Project Implementation Plan .....................................                                  103
14.   Supervision Plan ..................................... 108
15.  List of Working Papers ...................................... 109
MAP
IBRD No. 26504



BOLIVIA
RURAL COMMUNITIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                Republic of Bolivia.
Implementing Agencies:   Ministry of Human Resources - Secretariat for Rural Development
(SNDR); Ministry of the Presidency - Small-Farmer Development
Fund (FDC); and the Ministry of Sustainable Development and
Environment - Secretariat for Popular Participation (SNPP).
Beneficiaries:           Rural Communities, Municipalities, Indigenous Peoples, Non-
Government Organizations, SNDR, FDC and SNPP.
Poverty Category:        Program of targeted interventions.
Amount:                  SDR 9.6 mnillion (US$15 rnillion equivalent).
Terms:                   Standard IDA terms, with 40 years maturity and 10 years grace.
Commitment Fee:          0.50 percent on undisbursed credit balances, beginning 60 days
after signing, less any waiver.
Financing Plan:          See para. 5.1.
Net Present Value:       Cost minimization principle.
Map:                     IBRD No. 26504
Project Identification
Number:                  BO-PA-6202






BOLIVIA
RURAL COMMUNITIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1. INTRODUCTION
1.1         In recent years participatory grassroots projects have increasingly become
the major thrust of Bolivia's rural development strategy. Experiences in the Mizque and
Zudanes provinces, where NGOs have executed projects with high participatory content,
have fostered project ownership by the beneficiary communities and investment
sustainability. Government intends to replicate these experiences on a national scale.
Within this context, it has since 1993 engaged in a decentralization effort allowing
Municipalities to determine their political, financial, and developmental course.
1.2         Through a series of administrative reforms, such as the creation of the
National Secretariat of Rural Development (Secretaria Nacional de Desarrollo Rural,
SNDR) and the issuance of the Popular Participation Law (Ley de Participaci6n Popular,
LPP), Government has started to tap the merits of local self-determination to promote
development. As an initial step, SNDR has implemented a pilot project in nine selected
provinces to test the participatory approach for rural development. This pilot operation
has been financed by an IDA Project Preparation Facility and Japanese Trust Funds. The
proposed project is based on the experience of the pilot project and other SNDR activities.
1.3         Project identification took place in December 1993. In February 1994,
Government requested IDA support for the proposed project. Project preparation
mnissions visited Bolivia in April and July 1994. Pre-appraisal took place in November
1994, appraisal in February 1995 and negotiations in June 1995. IFAD participated in the
project's preparation and appraisal missions. COTESU (Swiss Technical Cooperation)
participated in the project's pre-appraisal. Both organizations would participate in project
implementation as financing partners.
2. BACKGROUND
A. The Macro-Economic Situation
2.1         Faced with a severe economic crisis in de mid-1980s, Bolivia was one of
the first countries in Latin America to adopt a far reaching economic program aimed at
restoring price stability and restructuring the economy. The economic reform program
combined comprehensive structural reforms with tight monetary policy and a program to
reduce debt and debt service payments. This has resulted in restoring price stability and
economic growth--real GDP growth has been an annual four percent in recent years.
2.2          Bolivia's economy remains fragile. The 1994 fiscal deficit--3.2 percent of
GDP--was, however, significantly lower than the 1993 deficit. The external position
remains weak--although the 12-month current account deficit (after official transfers)



decreased to 5 percent of GDP in 1994. Moreover, Bolivia remains vulnerable to
exogenous shocks--most importantly changes in external aid and in international
commodity prices.
2.3          The modest economic growth achieved in the past five years has not
significantly reduced poverty levels. Over half of the population remains poor and the
poverty gap has widened. The modest growth level can in part be explained by a decade-
long decline in the net accumulation of capital stock. While private investment has
recovered it remains at a modest level of seven percent of GDP. Public investment has
been relatively high--about ten percent of GDP--yet to a large extend, resources have been
poorly allocated and invested inefficiently.
2.4          The new Government came into power in August 1993 and is committed
to macroeconomic stability and a set of reforms intended to accelerate growth and reduce
poverty. The Government has acted aggressively--and so far successfully-- to correct the
fiscal equilibrium which emerged in 1993. The inflation rate has declined from 10 percent
in 1993 to 8.5 percent at the end of 1994. While Government must continue to
consolidate macroeconomic stability, the most crucial challenge remains to reduce poverty
in light of the fact that approximately 70 percent of the total population lives under
conditions of poverty. This challenge is even more pronounced in the rural areas where
over 95 percent of the households are poor.
B. The Rural Sector
2.5          The vastness of Bolivia's territory (1.09 million kMn2), and the cultural
diversity of its population, encompassing several ethnic groups and languages, have
shaped a society marked by sharp contrasts particularly evident in the rural sector.
The Natural Resources Base.
2.6          National territory has three ecologically distinct regions: the Highland
Plateau (Altiplano) in the west, the inter-Andean Valleys in the center, and the flat tropical
Lowlands in the East. Highland conditions are especially severe with high risk of crop
failures due to drought, hail and frost. The climate of the Valleys is milder. Much of the
dense tropical forests of the humid tropical Lowlands have been cleared for agriculture or
livestock grazing.
2.7          Good agricultural land, found mainly in valley bottoms, lake shores and
alluvial plains, is scarce. In the Lowlands, large tracts suitable for livestock have
extremely low population densities. Of the total cultivable land area (about five million
ha), less than 40 percent is under crops in any given year. The balance is either left fallow
to restore fertility, or used as grasslands. Forests and woodlands comprise roughly half
the country's territory, and grasslands about one-third.



- 3 -
2.8          While Bolivia is a sparsely populated country, with 6.5 inhabitants per km2,
nearly 75 percent of the country's rural population live in the Highland Plateaus and the
Valleys, representing 38 percent of the land area. This concentration has led to over-
exploitation of natural resources, resulting in lost vegetative cover, accelerated soil
erosion and declining soil fertility.
2.9          Impoverished conditions and limited alternatives have induced many,
usually young, people of the rural Valleys and Highland Plateau to emigrate. Many move
to the urban centers seeking improved employment opportunities and access to better
public services. Others have resettled in the Lowlands. Still others have relocated,
permanently but more often temporarily, to the tropical Valleys to work in coca
production. As a result, while the rural population has stagnated (annual growth rate of
0.09 percent), the urban population has expanded at an annual rate of four percent; with
the share of the rural population falling from 59 percent of the total population in 1976 to
48 percent in 1992.
The Rural Economy
2.10         Agriculture is the primary economic activity for 80 percent of the rural
families. Nearly four-fifths of these farm famnilies, especially those located in the Andean
Ilighland Plateau and Valleys, engage in traditional farming. A capital-intensive sub-
sector thrives in the tropical Lowlands. The agricultural sector accounted for a fifth of
national GDP and employed 45 percent of the labor force in 1992. Legal agricultural
exports have fluctuated between US$160 million and US$230 million over the last few
years, representing between 20 and 25 percent of the country's export earnings.
2.11         Since 1987, real annual sectoral growth of 1.5 percent has originated
almost exclusively from the modem export-oriented Lowland sub-sector, whose expansion
is based on area increases for soybean production. In contrast, the traditional sub-sector
has not responded to the recent adjustments in relative prices and has had negligible
growth. Relatively high production and marketing costs, attributable to rudimentary
technologies, poor market opportunities and a persistent absence of support services
(especially roads and agricultural extension), have depressed the sub-sector's
performance.
2.12         Traditional agriculture, providing 65 percent of the gross value of legal
agricultural production, is conducted on small farms - all under five ha and most under
one ha. Maize, potatoes, barley, and quinoa are the important crops. In addition,
traditional farm families usually have a small herd of livestock, including llama, alpaca and
cows. Traditional farmers use rudimentary technology, rely on family labor and make
limited capital investments. As a result, for the past twenty years, crop yields have
stagnated at very low levels.
2.13         In the Highland Plateau, traditional farming is practiced under harsh natural
conditions, where frosts and droughts frequently threaten harvests. In the Valleys, where



the climate is more favorable, there is some crop intensification under irrigation. In the
tropical regions of the Valleys, small farmers produce coca. Throughout the sub-sector,
weak infrastructure aggravates the dispersion of its population, impeding market
development for produce, services and labor among sub-regions and with urban centers.
2.14        Having been largely by-passed by economic development and
modernization, traditional farmers and indigenous peoples are among the country's
poorest. Income derived from farm market sales does not cover the needs of most small
farm families. Consequently, many households diversify their activities to include cottage
industries, seasonal migration and petty commerce. Others send members to the cities to
work as day laborers or domestics. Despite these additional income sources, incidence of
rural poverty, measured in terms of satisfaction of basic needs', remains at 94 percent.
2.15        Modern agriculture, concentrated in the tropical Lowlands, is conducted by
a rural elite with relatively large farms, ranging from 50 ha to tens of thousands ha.
Production is geared towards agricultural and forest export commodities, mainly soybeans
and timber, and some import substitutes. These enterprises are highly mechanized, raise
livestock extensively and hold vast tracts of undeveloped land. In recent years, this sector
has shown considerable dynamism and growth.
Social Context
2.16        Vibrant and diverse indigenous cultures are fundamental characteristics of
the rural sector. In the Highland Plateau, most of the population pertain to the largest
indigenous group, the Aymara- and Quechua-speakers (2.5 million people). The Highland
Plateau also encompasses the Chipayas and the Urus. People of the Valleys are of diverse
ethnic origin, but generally speak Quechua. In the Lowlands, there are 26 indigenous
groups, speaking at least fifteen different languages and comprising between 80,000 to
150,000 people. The indigenous Lowland people are actively defending their territorial
claims against encroaching lumber companies and extensive livestock operations.
Throughout the country, fragmentation of traditional structures emanating from pressures
to survive in a rapidly changing national economic environment threaten the cultural
identity of nearly all the indigenous people.
2.17        Rural society, across the ethnic groups, is composed of, and revolves
around community organizations which carry out important communal social, economic
and religious functions2 Any important community issue is decided by consensus in the
assembly of heads of families of the community, ayllu, the community's highest decision-
making authority. In most respects, allegiance to the ayllu and the community far exceeds
that to any civil Government. The ayllu manages and distributes communal lands and
resolves disputes among members and between other communities. Through these
l Unidad de Anclisis de Politica Social, Mapa de Pobreza, UDAPSO, La Paz, 1994.
2 Participatory Planning and Socio-cultural Change in Rural Bolivia, World Bank,
document on project file, 1994.



- 5 -
organizations, the traditional rural community concepts - reciprocity, consensus and
redistribution - prevail.
2.18        While the role of rural women varies with their cultural origin and their
degree of urbanization,3 some generalizations can be made concerning their position in the
rural society. Women are solely responsible for domestic affairs, including family
nutrition, education and health. They provide child care, cultivate, process and prepare
basic foods, care for small animals and market farm produce. Agricultural and manual
labor is divided equally between the husband and wife. In addition, women make crafts
and textiles providing a significant source of household income.
2.19        According to the 1992 Census, nearly one-quarter of rural households are
headed by women. Households with women as heads are most prevalent in the Highland
Plateau. In Chuquisaca, Potosi and Oruro, because of the high rate of emigration of men,
more than one-third of poor rural households are headed by women. In the Tropics,
women head households are less common, with less than 10 percent of the poor rural
households headed by women. Female-headed households are among the poorest of the
rural households as family income of those households is only 54 percent of the average
income of households with both a male and female income earner.
C.   Rural Development Policy
2.20        In August 1993, upon assuming office, Government established five policy
objectives: (i) privatization of public enterprises to stimulate private investment and public
savings; (ii) employment generation; (iii) greater resource allocation to the public health
and education systems; (iv) modernization of the Executive Branch; and (v) greater citizen
participation in public decision-making through popular participation. Fundamental to
these policies is the principle that the Bolivian people are to become protagonists in their
own social and economic development which would eventually fully satisfy their basic
needs through secure access to adequate incomes and good social services.
2.21        The most important rural sector policy goal is higher productivity,
especially in the traditional sub-sector, through improved technologies, appropriate
application of modern inputs and increased productive infrastructure investment. In
addition, to introduce greater employment opportunities through the diversification of the
rural economy, the policy promotes efficient non-farm economic activities and encourages
urban-rural complementarities. Other important policy objectives are to ensure the
rational use of natural resources and that prices remain undistorted, so that they continue
to be efficient signals of market demands to producers.
2.22        Government proposes to address rural poverty alleviation and economic
development through the incorporation of hitherto marginalized rural and indigenous
communities into the country's political and economic processes and empower them
3 Ranaboldo, Claudia, Muier v Gest6n Ambiental en Bolivia, FONAMA, La Paz, 1993.



- 6 -
sufficiently to plan, implement and supervise their economic development. Government
policy is referenced within a framework of three principles: (i) popular participation;
(ii) respect for ethnic identities; and (iii) protection of the environment. The new approach
is predicated on the premise that rural development can only succeed when it respects and
is built upon the rural communities, their cultural identities and values.
D. Rural Development Strategy
2.23         To achieve the policy objectives, Government strategy is to: (i) fully
implement the participatory development process as outlined in the LPP; (ii) build the
capacity of public institutions, especially municipalities, and private organizations to
manage this process; (iii) identify, systematize, and prioritize local demand for rural
investments to improve productive capacity; and (iv) provide the funds, mainly through
matching grants, to respond to this demand while at the same time ensuring adequate
technical capacity to implement the investments.
Implementation of the Popular Participation Law
2.24         The LPP of April 1994, provides the legal rationale and impetus for the
introduction and application of the participatory planning process. The rural development
strategy supports the LPP by strengthening the rural communities so that they can define
and direct their own sustainable development. The implementation of the rural strategy
involves both public institutions and active non-governmental organizations (NGOs). The
participation of NGOs is a critical determinant of successful implementation because of
their extensive experience in working with rural communities.
2.25         The LPP organizes the rural sector into municipalities, so that every area,
including those previously not serviced by any local government, belongs to a
municipality. In doing so, the law not only created many new municipalities, but also
vastly expanded the jurisdiction of existing municipalities. Besides creating a new
administrative structure, the LPP explicitly recognizes traditional forms of organization
and representation (Art. 3, LPP). In this context, the Regulation of the LPP (Art. 26-29)
allows the formation of indigenous municipal districts within municipalities or a
conjunction of indigenous municipal districts among various municipalities. These
districts have the following characteristics: (i) their jurisdiction is related to ethnic
population and their social organization; (ii) election and representation are based on
traditional ways and means; and (iii) the maximum traditional authority assumes the
functions of deputy-mayor (sub-alcalde).
2.26         The LPP calls for the decentralization of political authority and more
equitable distribution of public revenues. It is a bold attempt to depart from a traditionally
highly-centralized government structure, where fiscal allocations are subject to the
discretion of national authorities, influenced by powerful interests. As a result, in the past,
90 percent of public funds went to the three major urban centers. Under the LPP,
allocations of funds from the national treasury for the municipalities (Co-participation



- 7 -
Funds) are to be based exclusively upon the number of inhabitants. In principle, the share
allocated to the rural municipalities would increase from less than 10 percent at present to
approximately 50 percent of Co-participation Funds. The LPP stipulates that no more
than 10 percent of these funds could be allocated to cover municipal administrative costs,
with the remaining resources being earmarked for new investment, co-financing and
maintenance costs. To receive the Co-participation funds, municipalities must submit
annual operative plans and detailed municipal budgets to the central government.
2.27         For most municipalities the availability of co-participation funds means a
considerable increase in revenue. Total co-participation funds available for distribution to
all 301 municipalities in 1995 are estimated at US$145 million. Since the 98 municipalities
included in the project area are relatively small in terms of population, co-participation
funds available to those municipalities are estimated at approximately US$20 million in
1995 (see Annex 6 for details). Given actual disbursements of FDC and FIS at around
US$50 million in 1994, it is clear that resources available to municipalities for financing
investments are significant, even taking into account administrative expenditures and
operation and maintenance costs to be paid from the municipal budget.
2.28         By virtue of the law, each community becomes a legal entity referred to as
a Territorial Base Organization (Organizaci6n Territorial de Base, OTB). The OTBs
select their official representative before the Municipal Council. Any grassroots entity,
including a traditional community group, such as an ayllu or tribe, or a rural union
(sindicato), or any individual, designated by the community, qualifies as a representative.
The OTB can negotiate loan/grant agreements and service contracts and administer funds.
The communities will also appoint a Supervisory Committee (Comite de Vigilancia--CV)
to control the activities of the Municipal Council.
2.29         LPP specifies new and additional obligations for various public, civic and
private institutions. The responsibility for health, education, irrigation and rural roads
infrastructure, as well as their maintenance are to be transferred from the central to the
municipal governments. Municipalities will also be responsible for property tax collection.
2.30         More importantly, LPP gives new responsibilities and authority to local
institutions with respect to their social and economic development, outlining a demand-
driven process for directing public development resources to the rural communities. This
process begins with rural community members identifying, through consensus, investments
necessary for their economic development. The communities draft a development plan,
which their OTB representative submits to the Municipal Development Council. The
Council coordinates and ranks funding solicitations of the various communities within its
jurisdiction, and, with the OTBs' input, designs the Municipal Development Plan (Plan
Municipal de Desarrollo, PMD).



- 8 -
Institutional Capacity Building
2.31         As part of its strategy, Government would strengthen those public
institutions, especially SNDR, involved in disseminating and supporting the Participatory
Planning Process (PPP). The PPP is a set of methodologies designed to facilitate
community organizations (OTBs) in recognizing and articulating their goals and needs into
development plans. Central to the PPP is the community diagnostic, a method relying on
group dynamics which allows community members to focus on their assets, visualize goals
and evaluate development requirements (see Annex 1).
2.32         To carry out the PPP the municipalities and the rural community
organizations must be able to: (i) prepare municipal development plans; (ii) galvanize a
consensus among members; (iii) present their plans to donor institutions for financing, and
(iv) supervise and be held financially accountable for the projects.
2.33        While the rural sector has historically been composed of effective
community organizations, few have had any experience in identifying, formulating and
prioritizing their development investment needs and presenting them in formats acceptable
for financing. Many rural organizations do not fully understand their new responsibilities
as defined in the LPP. Others are neither technically nor administratively ready to assume
these responsibilities.
2.34         Training programs would therefore be an important component of
institutional capacity building. Effective implementation of participatory rural
development requires training for: (i) municipalities; (ii) Executing Agencies (Entidades
Ejecutoras, EE); and (iii) OTBs. All are important to ensure that the participatory process
reaches the rural communities and that the communities are capable of responding to the
challenges presented by the process. The objective of the training program is to transmit
the precepts of Government's new rural development strategy to rural communities and
provide the technical, managerial and administrative skills for the strategy's effective
implementation. Training is described in Annex 7.
2.35        Government, with IDA support, has already conducted a pilot project in
nine provinces and has been verifying the validity and appropriateness of the PPP
methodology. As result of the findings of this pilot project, the PPP methodology is being
adjusted to the particular social, economic and cultural conditions of the communities.
Consequently, SNDR's regional representation would be strengthened by establishing new
offices and increasing staff in existing branches.
E. Institutional Framework
Public Institutions
2.36        The following institutions have mandates relevant to this project: (i) the
Ministry of Human Development (Ministerio de Desarrollo Humano, MHD) with the
National Secretariat for Rural Development, and the National Secretariat of Ethnic,



- 9 -
Gender, and Youth Affairs; and (ii) the Ministry of Sustainable Development and
Environment (Ministerio de Desarrollo Sostenible y Medio Ambiente, MDSMA) with its
National Secretariat for Popular Participation.
2.37         The National Secretariat for Rural Development (Secretaria Nacional
de Desarrollo Rural, SNDR) promotes integrated rural development through the
participation of grassroots community organizations. Its programs are highly targeted to
the rural poor. SNDR formulates rural development policies and facilitates the
implementation of the PPP through organization, training, and empowerment of local
institutions. In addition, it follows-up and facilitates the preparation and implementation
of local investment projects based on results generated in the participatory planning
process. In general terms, SNDR could be considered as government's outreach agency,
which intermediates between rural communities and state. Annex 3 describes the role of
SNDR in more detail.
2.38         The National Secretariat of Ethnic, Gender, and Youth Affairs
(Secretaria Nacional de Etnias, Genero y Generaciones, SNEGG) safeguards respect for
the diverse ethnic identities of indigenous people and their rights as collective units. While
its mandate is not limited to any specific region, current activities of SNEGG focus on the
territorial issues of the indigenous peoples in the Eastern Lowlands. In addition, SNEGG
deals with social, legal and economic issues related to the status of women and youth.
2.39        The National Secretariat for Popular Participation (Secretaria
Nacional de Participaci6n Popular, SNPP) developed the popular participation legislation
and is now designing procedures and regulations for the law's implementation. SNPP
would be responsible for the transfer of powers between the central and local
governments. Through its departmental offices, SNPP is assisting with creation and
institutional strengthening of municipalities, and formation and registration of OTBs.
2.40        The Regional Development Corporations (Corporaciones Regionales de
Desarrollo, CORDES) are important players in the planning process as a recent
Presidential Decree4 assigns to them a wide range of responsibilities concerning planning
of Departmental investments, and strengthening of municipalities. In general terms,
CORDES are expected to: (i) integrate municipal plans in a Departmental planning
perspective; and (ii) ensure that allocation of resources in the Departments is in line with
participatory planning at the micro-regional and sub-regional level. More specific relevant
responsibilities include: (i) developing and maintaining Departmental databases including
information on existing resources, development constraints, and investment opportunities;
(ii) strengthening municipal capacity to implement PPP efforts, prepare PAOs, and manage
natural resources; (iii) preparing and executing investment projects whose impact goes
beyond the municipal level; (iv) preparing and executing local investment projects which
are too complex to be handled by municipalities; (v) promoting and coordinating the
4 Decreto Supremo No. 23845. Reglamento Org6nico de las Corporaciones Regionales de
Desarrollo, 18 de agosto de 1994.



- 10-
implementation of environmental impact assessments of investment projects proposed by
municipal governments or other public and private agencies; and (vi) establishing
investment priorities from a Departmental perspective.
2.41        Coordination among Agencies. To coordinate the activities of the
different Secretariats involved in the implementation of the LPP, an Inter-secretarial
Committee was established on July 12, 1994, following "Resolucidn Biministerial
No. 013/94". To more specifically coordinate the involvement of the Ministries of Human
Development and Sustainable Development and Environment in the preparation of the
Rural Communities Development Project, an inter-ministerial coordination-ordination
program was established on July 15, 1994, following "Resolucd6n Biministerial
No. 07/94. A draft agreement, prepared by the committee, indicates that SNDR, SNPP
and the Regional Development Corporations (CORDES) agree that SNDR would take a
leading role to implement the LPP in 98 municipalities included in the target area of
project intervention, whereas the CORDES would have primary responsibility regarding
this task in the other 205 municipalities.
Funding Agencies
2.42        The Small-Farmer Development Fund (Fondo de Desarrollo
Campesino - FDC) is an autonomous public institution financing rural development
activities and investments. It was created in 1989 and operates under the Ministry of the
Presidency (MP). According to a new structure, FDC has a Board composed of four
Directors, appointed by the MP Minister and headed by a President nominated by the
President of the Republic. In addition, there is a General Manager, appointed by the FDC
Board, responsible for administration and operation. Within FDC, there are four divisions:
(i) Infrastructure and Services; (ii) Credit; (iii) Administration and Finance; and
(iv) Planning, Follow-up and Evaluation.
2.43        FDC is a financial intermediary, involved in project appraisal, approval,
disbursement, and technical follow-up. Within the Investment Program for Small-Farmer
Development (Programa de Inversi6n para el Desarrollo Campesino, PIDC), FDC
finances, on a grant basis, initiatives up to a maximum of US$250,000 per project in:
(i) basic infrastructure, including feeder roads, bridges, irrigation, markets, cottage
industries, and protective structures; (ii) agro-support services, such as technical
assistance and extension to farmers, revolving funds, and farm inputs; (iii) reclamation
projects, like sub-watershed management and agro-forestry projects; and (iv) institutional
strengthening for executing agencies and target communities. Beneficiary communities
contribute in labor, kind or cash between 10 and 30 percent of the project costs. FDC
channels finance through Executing Agencies (EEs), such as NGOs, cooperatives,
CORDES, farmer associations, OTBs and municipal administrations. EEs must meet FDC
eligibility criteria which include technical and financial capabilities and experience with the
beneficiary community and region.



- 11 -
2.44        From 1989 to 1992, FDC's performance has been troubled by low
disbursements, due to poor management, primarily in its credit operations. The
organization was restructured in 1993, the same year various donors, including the IDB
and several bilateral donors, made a new capital pledge amounting to US$33.7 million.
FDC's operations have considerably improved since then. Disbursement have reached
US$5 million in 1994, representing a threefold increase compared to 1993. A further
increase to US$10 million is expected in 1995. As per November 1994, FDC's investment
portfolio under the PIDC consisted of 201 projects in rural infrastructure (49 percent),
institutional strengthening (35 percent), and support to agricultural production
(16 percent). The technical preparation of project proposals, often with feasibility studies,
required prior to FDC proposal review still precludes many communities from accessing
FDC funds. The communities are neither technically nor financially equipped to prepare
these studies. In addition, the highly centralized sub-project approval and administration
procedures are inefficient. These deficiencies are being addressed through simplification
of FDC procedures and delegation of greater authority to the regional offices. These
measures, along with efforts to improve the capacity of executing agencies in project
preparation and procurement operations, are expected to substantially increase FDC local
investment portfolio and actual disbursements.
Executing Agenciess
2.45        Executing Agencies are all those public and private institutions, with legal
status, capable of assisting in the implementation of investment sub-projects. EEs would
accompany local communities through the participatory planning process from project
conceptualization to implementation. EEs would help communities to identify and rank
investment needs, formulate PMDs and prepare and present project proposals to the
appropriate funding agencies for financing.
2.46        Besides the CORDES, EEs would be primarily drawn from the large NGO
community and the more developed OTBs. The Bolivian NGO movement originates from
Catholic Church missionaries in the 60's. In the 70's, politically-oriented NGOs were
created to oppose the military governments. The economic crises associated with the
structural adjustment policies of the 80's, increased the number of NGOs working among
the poor urban and rural communities.
2.47        Today, more than 600 NGOs manage annually US$200 million in funds
from bilateral cooperation and the Bolivian Government. The NGO movement in Bolivia
is a precursor to the participatory strategy, as 24 NGOs already have Participatory
Planning experience6. Two examples of on-going NGO efforts in participatory planning,
dating back some ten years, are in the provinces of Mizque, with the NGO, CEDEAGRO,
5 Annex 3 describes the role of the rural institutions and Executing Agencies.
6 Soriano, R., Experiencias de Planificaci6n Regional en Bolivia: Relevamiento,
G-DRU - COTESU - MCTH, La Paz, 1994.



- 12 -
and Zudaniez, with PROAGRO. To benefit from this extensive experience, both provinces
were included in the SNDR pilot project.
2.48        Around 3857 NGOs are organized into three networks: UNITAS (Uni6n
Nacional de Institucionespara el Trabajo de Acci6n Social), ERBOL (Escuela
Radiof6nica de Bolivia) and AIPE (Asociaci6n de Institucionespara Educaci6n). These
are coordinated by a national NGO network. Among the NGOs, there is a sub-group of
80 NGOs referred to as Social Development Institutions (Instituciones para el Desarrollo
Social, IPDS). These NGOs have attempted to distinguish themselves by adopting
relatively rigid professional standards, including external audits. The IPDS seeks
sustainable development, instead of charitable activities.
2.49        There are 146 registered NGOs in the target area of project intervention.
Among these, 93 (63 percent) work in rural development, and, more than a third in
agricultural production, another third in marketing, and almost all (93 percent) conduct
training and extension activities.
2.50        Through the formation of OTBs, grassroots organizations play an
important role as the catalysts of the participatory planning process at the community
level. At the same time, the results of their efforts at the community level form the
building stones of development plans, integrated and prioritized by the OTBs at the
municipal level. With an average of approximately 40 communities per municipality, a
total of approximately 12,000 OTBs will be created under the LPP. Besides grassroots
organizations at the community level, matrix organizations, like the centrales inldigenas,
are expected to play an important role in the preservation of traditional forms of
representation and organization within the context of municipal structures. To define a
more even balance between traditional powers and new powers concentrated in the
municipalities, these matrix organizations would be expected to take a leading role in the
formation of indigenous municipal districts within and among municipalities.
3. BANK STRATEGY AND EXPERIENCE
A. IDA Assistance Strategy
3.1         As the first stage of structural adjustment has matured in Bolivia, the
strategy of economic reforms and social emergency programs has been replaced by a
"second generation" set of reforms to address the remaining constraints to growth. The
most recent Country Assistance Strategy presented to the Board on February 8, 1994,
defines the main components of the reforms which are designed to: (i) unbind the
productive and export potential of the country's most important natural resources--
hydrocarbons and minerals--by providing a legal and institutional framework which
7 Peres, Antonio, 385 ONGs en Bolivia (Catalogo), UNITAS. La Paz, 1990.



- 13 -
supports private investment, and by attracting private management and capital into these
sectors through the capitalization program; (ii) strengthen essential public institutions
which define and enforce policy by implementing programs such as civil service,
legal/judicial, and land administration reforms; (iii) alleviate poverty through income
enhancing and social projects, including in particular improving the coverage and the
quality of basic education; and (iv) improve the management of the country's natural
resources and protect the environment, in order to maintain growth in the long-term and
avoid degradation of renewable resources.
3.2         IDA's objectives for the rural sector is to support the Bolivian Government
in formulating a sector strategy, that is consistent with the above overall country goals and
assists with the implementation of new Government policies of sustainable development
and popular participation. The challenge of the new sector strategy is to formulate and
implement an integrated approach towards rural development which simultaneously seeks
to alleviate rural poverty, increase agricultural productivity and improve natural resource
management by taking into account the opportunities and limitations of each of Bolivia's
major agro-ecological zones. The two important pillars of the IDA sector strategy are:
(i) the proposed Rural Communities Development Project, that supports the direct
involvement of rural and indigenous peoples in the identification and execution of local
investments in support of the rural economy with a primary focus in the traditional
agricultural areas, but also including new community settlements of the Lowlands; and
(ii) the National Land Administration Project, designed to improve the legal and
regulatory framework for land, restructure the public agencies responsible for enforcement
and establish a legal cadastre to secure property rights in the areas of highest conflict and
potential (Lowlands). These new operations would complement ongoing projects, most
notably: the Agricultural Research and Technology Transfer Project; the Eastern
Lowlands Natural Resource Management and Agricultural Production Project, which
supports land use zoning for the region; the Agro-Export Development Project; and the
Environmental Technical Assistance and Biodiversity Protection Projects.
B. Bank Group Operations
3.3         Up to December 1994, IBRD and IDA lent to Bolivia a total amount of
US$1.29 billion of which about 50 percent (US$613.9 million) took place since 1987 and
95 percent was for investment lending. Since 1987 natural resources (agriculture,
livestock, forestry and environment) took up 14 percent or US$83.3 million of total
lending, balance of payments support under structural adjustment 16 percent, public
management five percent, infrastructure 38 percent, education and health 18 percent, and
industry and private sector development nine percent.
3.4         In the natural resources sector, there are four on-going operations: The
Eastem Lowlands Natural Resources Management and Agricultural Production Project
(FY90 - Cr. 2119-BO), Agricultural Technology Development Project (FY91 -



- 14 -
Cr. 2216-BO), Agricultural Export Development Project (FY92 - Cr. 2322-BO),
Environment Technical Assistance Project (FY93 - Cr. 2443-BO). Moreover, IDA is also
managing one GEF-funded Biodiversity Conservation Project.
C. Rationale for IDA Involvement
3.5         The project is fully consistent with three of the broad objectives of the
Bank strategy described in the CAS and presented to the Board on February 8, 1994:
strengthening of essential public institutions, alleviation of poverty, and better
management of the country's natural resources. IDA is intensively providing assistance in
the rural areas in the health, education, water supply and sanitation sectors. The proposed
project intends to strengthen the community structures which have to design, implement
and maintain these local projects. Institutional strengthening of municipalities,
communities and NGOs would increase the communities' absorption capacity and the
NGO's intermediation capacity. It would also considerably increase the effectiveness of
all donor-funded projects in the rural areas. This way, IDA would act as a catalyst to
accelerate disbursements and/or commitments of external funds in support of the rural
sector. The Bank's experience with the social investment fund (Fondo de Inversi6n
Social, FIS) and elsewhere in Latin America means that it is uniquely placed to play this
role.
D. Lessons from Experience
3.6         Past Experience: Past development efforts in Bolivia were highly
centralized, top-down and rarely met the real needs of the rural population. Experience
from the IDA-financed Omasoyos-Los Andes Development Project and the Ulla Ulla
Development Project shows that these centralized projects have been alien to the
beneficiaries, administratively complex, costly to maintain and can not be sustained.
Experience from pilot projects and isolated programs in Bolivia shows that successful
development efforts tend to be those administered at the local level by NGOs or other
groups close to the beneficiary communities. The experience of the past twenty years in
Bolivia clearly indicates that effective rural projects have: (i) been relatively small and
built upon existing traditional social structures; (ii) been designed, formulated and
executed with considerable beneficiary participation; and (iii) have sufficiently taken into
account the role of women in the household and the community, and have integrated
women in the project development and implementation.
3.7          The 1993 Agriculture Sector Review concluded that: (i) local participation
needed to be promoted to achieve greater relevance and efficiency in the design and
implementation of public expenditure in rural areas; (ii) Governments should decentralize
many of their functions to more local levels, and seek greater involvement of local
communities, particularly in the design and management of public infrastructure projects in
rural areas; and (iii) involvement of local communities should be sought through social and
administrative arrangements that encourage and reward people's participation in public
expenditure decisions.



- 15 -
3.8          Pilot Project. The pilot project, implemented in 1994 as part of the
preparation of the proposed project, taught the following lessons: (i) the mobilization of
local actors is easier than expected; (ii) OTBs in remote areas lack not only skills to
prepare project but also information on available resources; and (iii) the participative
planning methodology approach is valid but has to be adjusted from its initial bureaucratic
approach to a more practical method taking into account the level of education and culture
of the people.
3.9        Social Infrastructure Fund (FIS). Among the lessons learned through the
experiences of FIS and other funds in Bolivia are: (i) political interference can be
minimized through full transparency, accountability, and well-defined project eligibility and
evaluation criteria; (ii) simplified procurement procedures for small and widely dispersed
sub-projects can succeed, provided there are effective controls; (iii) allocation of resources
for project finance to be balanced with funds for project supervision; (iv) geographic
targeting is not sufficient for reaching the very poor because of the range of household
incomes in most geographic areas; (v) collaboration with line ministries is crucial to ensure
that investments are consistent with sector and Government priorities and sustainable; and
(vi) demand-driven approach among the poorer communities require promotional
activities and technical assistance.
3.10         Regional Experience in Demand-Driven Development: A recent Bank
Review of demand-driven development funds in Latin Americas revealed that, by
encouraging the active involvement of community groups, the projects were much more
likely to meet the community's needs than if they were chosen to reflect the priorities of a
government agency. Second, once the communities developed a sense of ownership of a
project, they were more willing and interested in sharing in its costs and ensuring its
maintenance. Third, experience indicated that once a community group was given
responsibility for implementing a project that it had helped to choose and prepare it had a
great interest in ensuring that the private contractor executing the project does so well and
honestly.
3.11         The experience of Mexico's National Solidarity Fund (PRONASOL) bears
this out. A major feature of PRONASOL's operations is the involvement of municipal
governments and community groups in identifying preparing and implementing small
social and economic projects. An evaluation of projects financed by PRONASOL
indicates that the sustainability of these projects is likely to be high when: (i) projects are
selected locally, which indicates that beneficiaries consider them to be of high priority; and
(ii) a sense of beneficiary ownership and knowledge of the projects has resulted in direct
participation, along with municipal governments, in project implementation. Moreover,
the report indicates that projects financed by PRONASOL's Municipal Fund and
8 Glaessner, Philip, Lee, Kye Woo, Sant'Anna, Anna Maria, and de St. Antoine, Jean-
Jacques, Poverty Alleviation and Social Development Funds: The Latin American
Experience, World Bank Discussion Papers 261, Washington, D.C., 1994.



- 16 -
implemented with the help of the communities had much lower costs than similar projects
implemented by line ministries.
E. Environmental Issues
3.12         Deforestation, soil erosion, water pollution and loss of natural habitat are
key environmental problems. Annually, an estimated 50-60,000 ha are deforested because
of farmer encroachment, road construction, migration and logging. Soil erosion, a
consequence of deforestation, and overuse of land, affects about 35 percent of the total
territory. Water pollution, caused by industrial waste discharge, especially from mines,
poses serious health hazards to a wide cross-section of the population. Bolivia is also
losing its unique flora and fauna resources, mainly as a consequence of deforestation,
contraband trade, and migration to the Lowlands. Indiscriminate land clearing, road
construction, poor management of land, water and forest resources threaten the
sustainability of agriculture, forestry and biodiversity. Key constraints to improved
environmental management include: (i) inadequate policy, legal and regulatory framework
for natural resources management; (ii) weak institutional structures, along with the
absence of clearly defined responsibilities for environmental protection and management;
and (iii) a lack of technical resource management capacity.
4. THE PROJECT
A. Objectives and Scope
4.1          Objectives. The overall project objectives are to: (a) alleviate rural
poverty by carrying out rural investments identified and formulated following a
participatory planning process; (b) enhance the institutional capacity of the Secretariat for
Rural Development (SNDR), the Small-Farmer Development Fund (FDC), and the
Secretariat for Popular Participation (SNPP) to carry out the project; (c) improve the
capacity of municipalities and rural communities to implement municipal development
plans (PMD); and (d) strengthen non-government organizations (NGOs) assisting
municipalities and rural communities in identifying, formulating and implementing rural
investments and managing their PMDs.
4.2          Specific objectives are to: (i) operationalize and institutionalize
participatory planning processes at the municipal and community level, following
principles laid down in the Popular Participation Law; (ii) empower grassroots
organizations to effectively take the planning of community development efforts in their
own hands; (iii) assist municipalities in the formulation and implementation of municipal
development plans; (iv) strengthen executing and co-operating agencies in sub-project
preparation, implementation, and administration; and (v) increase and improve FDC's
rural investment portfolio.



- 17 -
4.3          Scope. The capacity building components of the project would be
implemented in about 98 out of a total of 301 municipalities9. These municipalities have
been selected on the basis of: (i) incidence of poverty, (ii) development potential, and
(iii) existing institutional capacity. Each municipality includes on average 40 communities,
bringing the total number of communities included in the project area to approximately
4,000. Total population in the project area is estimated at approximately 1.1 million
people, of which 0.9 million live in rural areas. Most project beneficiaries would be
indigenous people. To enhance the opportunities for alternative development in coca
growing areas, Government has included all municipalities of the Chapare region into the
scope of the project. The rural investment component would be implemented in the whole
country.
B. Project Components
4.4          To achieve the above objectives, the project would: (i) identify and
formulate rural investments by financing the preparation of community projects and
municipal development plans; (ii) finance training of development agencies to introduce,
support and sustain participatory planning processes and to ensure effective
implementation of municipal development plans and community-generated investments;
(iii) finance institutional strengthening of the Secretariat for Rural Development (SNDR),
the Small-Farmer Development Fund (FDC), the Secretariat for Popular Participation
(SNPP) and municipalities; and (iv) finance pre-investment studies and rural community
investments through FDC. Total estimated project cost is US$31 million.
L     Rural Investment Identirication and Formulation (Base costs US$2.5 million)
4.5          This component would provide technical assistance to municipalities and
OTBs to: (i) carry out Municipal Development Plans following a Participatory Planning
Process in the target area of project intervention; (ii) register OTBs and establish
Supervisory Committees (CVs); (iii) form indigenous municipal districts; and (iv) prepare
rural investment sub-projects through identification, design and feasibility studies.
4.6          Workshops in Participatory Planning. Executing Agencies (EE) would
assist rural communities in the five steps of the PPP process: (i) preparation;
(ii) community diagnostic; (iii) municipal development plan; (iv) follow-up to the
development plans; and (v) sub-project preparation. The steps are described in Annex 1
and presented in Figure 1, below.
4.7          The first three steps have already been carried out in 1994 and 1995 under
the pilot project. In 94 municipalities, EEs conducted two workshops to: (i) explain the
Popular Participation Law and Government's rural development strategy; (ii) encourage
participation; (iii) assess the relative strengths of the local institutions; and (iv) initiate the
implementation of the planning process. Through the community diagnostic, the
9 Annex 2 gives an overview of the target area of project intervention.



- 18 -
communities evaluated their own resources, constraints and requirements to achieve their
economic potential. The outcome of these sessions were complemented with secondary-
source data to produce a "community profile". These profiles were used to prepare
community plans, which were consolidated in 94 draft Municipal Development Plans
(Plan Municipal de Desarrollo, PMD) during several workshops in each municipality.
Additional workshops would be held to include the municipalities of the Chapare region.
Figure 1: The PPP Cycle
EE Training
Training: SNDR trains
Executing Agencies
(EEs), to accompany
local organizations                        EE
in project preparation.
2. Communitv Diagnostic:
1. EEs conduct                             OTB                     Communities identify
Preriertory Workshops                                               development needs.
3. Municipalities, with OTB and
(OTB )        Municipality         OTB   community representaivesm
draft MunicinaL Development
Plan
4. Follow-up to the Municipal
Development Plan
5. Sub-Project Preiaraton
(i) Feasibility studies for
priority projects included
in the Municipal        feasibility                            feasibility
Davdlopmerdt                                Municipal
Pbme                                      Developmnt
Plan~ ~~~~~~~~~~ln(5yas
(u) Viable
proposals are
set to funding                 ty
agencies
for fnancing
Funding Agencies
(FDC/FIS/Other)



- 19 -
4.8         Assistance and Follow-up to the Municipal Development Plan. EEs
would continue to assist the municipalities with the formulation of annual implementation
plans (Plan Operativo Anual, PAO). This support is important because municipalities
must submit to the central government a PAO and a detailed municipal budget to gain
access to co-participation funds: As municipal elections will take place at the end of 1995,
EEs would help the newly-elected municipal councils to adjust their PMDs to reflect their
policies and strategies. To take into account changing social and economic conditions, the
PMDs could be annually adjusted. EEs would also assist the individual communities with
the implementation of their plans and sub-projects.
4.9          OTB Registration and CV establishment. To sustain the participatory
planning process, EEs would help OTBs to officially register. Registration would provide
OTBs with legal status and would facilitate their interactions with funding agencies, the
municipality and the financial sector. SNDR and EEs would help communities to establish
the Supervisory Committees and assist them in their operation.
4.10         Assistance to Form Indigenous Municipal Districts. Following strong
demands from indigenous communities, EEs would support municipalities in the creation
of indigenous municipal districts, which would include a consultation process resulting in
the definition of such districts from a functional perspective. Terms and conditions under
which such districts are formed are presently the sole responsibility of the municipalities.
To provide guidance in this area through the provision of basic norms and procedures, a
legal definition of the relation between municipalities and indigenous municipal districts is
urgently required. For this purpose draft legislation would be developed. To allow for the
effective participation of indigenous apex organizations in this process, the project would
also support the institutional strengthening of these organizations.
4.11         Sub-Project Identification and Preparation. Under the project, EEs
would assist municipalities and OTBs in selecting sub-projects, drafting sub-project
profiles, and identifying funding sources. Such assistance would be coordinated with the
municipality and the funding agencies. The profile would describe the sub-project's
objectives, beneficiaries and estimated costs. EEs would assist the rural communities to
present the sub-project profile to the office(s) of the potential funding agency(ies). On the
basis of the profile, the funding agencies would decide whether the sub-projects satisfy
their eligibility criteria. If the sub-project is acceptable, a Cooperating Agency (EC)
would be contracted to carry out technical studies for final evaluation (see para. 4.44).
4.12        Indigenous Community Sub-Projects. In order to allow local investment
funds to effectively respond to specific sub-project demands from indigenous communities
expressed in indigenous district development sub-plans, SNDR's Sub-secretariat for
Production Promotion would develop standard profiles for such sub-projects. COTESU
would finance studies to explore new areas of potential rural investments for the medium-
term future. Tentative subjects of such studies would be the recuperation of traditional
technologies and micro-enterprises involved in agro-processing.



- 20 -
Implementation
4.13         To implement the above program, SNDR, if required, would enter into
management service contracts with Executing Agencies (mainly NGOs) to: (i) organize
provincial, municipal and community workshops introducing and implementing the PPP
methodology; (ii) monitor and assist municipalities in implementation of their annual
operation plans; (iii) assist grassroots organizations in their legal registration; and
(iv) ensure the implementation of suitable sub-project design and/or feasibility studies and
their presentation to potential local funding agencies. These contracts would specify the
EEs' terms of reference, expected output and remuneration. Sample EE contracts and
terms of reference, acceptable to IDA, would be included in the Project Operational
Manual.
4.14         To participate in this program EEs would need to: (i) have at least three
years experience in institutional strengthening of OTBs, participative planning, design and
management of rural development and infrastructure projects, or rural development
training; (ii) employ at least three professionals of intermediate education level or higher;
(iii) have an established administrative system (bank certificates, accounting); (iv) be
legally established in an office. These eligibility criteria would be included in the Project
Operational Manual. Peace Corps (USA NGO) has shown interest in participating in this
program and SNDR is awaiting further proposals from Peace Corps.
4.15         Under this component the project would finance: (i) workshops, seminars
and conferences for municipalities, OTBs and indigenous apex organizations; (ii) EE
management service contracts to include organization of workshops and seminars, OTB
registration, establishment of CVs, design of indigenous municipal development plans,
PMD adjustment and PAO implementation monitoring; (iii) technical assistance for the
formulation of a legal framework governing the relation between municipalities and
indigenous municipal development districts; (iv) management service contracts to enable
indigenous organizations to hire legal assistance in areas where they lack experience; and
(v) consulting contracts to undertake studies related to the recuperation of traditional
technologies and micro-enterprises.
Expected Results
4.16         The activities financed under this project component would result in the
registration of OTBs, representing approximately 4,000 communities in 98 municipalities.
In each of these municipalities the project activities would result in a first PAO, firmly
based on a genuine participatory planning process. By financing sub-project preparation
studies for those communities unable to prepare them, the project would considerably
increase the sub-project pipeline, facilitate FDC disbursements and provide an immediate
follow-up to the participatory development process. For this purpose, EEs would help
prepare at least ten sub-project profiles per municipality. In addition, a total of at least
30 indigenous municipal districts and district development sub-plans would be prepared.
The experience gained in this process would form the base to formulate a draft regulation



- 21 -
which would legally define norms and procedures under which indigenous municipal
districts would be formed and operated.
H.   Training (Base Costs US$2.0 rnillion)
4.17        Through this component the project would finance training of public and
private organizations in participatory planning methodology, adjustment of PMs,
management and monitoring of PMDs and PAOs, and sub-project preparation and
implementation.
4.18        Training in PPP Methodology. To ensure nation-wide coverage of PPP
implementation, SNDR would train CORDES and EEs in PPP methodology to enable
them to monitor, implement and accompany participatory planning processes in an
additional 205 municipalities. SNDR would organize one national and nine Departmental
workshops to train CORDES and EEs in: (i) the general principles of the PPP; (ii) the
execution of community diagnostics; (iii) the prioritization and integration of community
development proposals in a comprehensive PMD; (iv) the formulation and preparation of
PAOs; and (v) the identification and prioritization of community investment projects. In
addition, three such workshops would be organized for indigenous matrix organizations to
enable them to coordinate and monitor the PPP in the indigenous municipal districts within
their jurisdiction.
4.19        Training in Adjustment of PMDs. Anticipating the need to adjust PMDs
after the municipal elections scheduled in 1995, SNDR would also organize nine
Departmental workshops to train EEs in PMD revision and adjustment in a participatory
context. Those EEs would subsequently train municipal governments and OTBs.
4.20        Training in PMDIPAO Management and Monitoring. EEs would train
municipal governments and OTBs in: (i) criteria for preparing investment profiles;
(ii) potential financing sources for local investments; (iii) eligibility criteria of potential
investment funds; (iv) procedures for contracting EEs preparing and implementing sub-
projects; (v) supervision of sub-project implementation; and (vi) adjustment of PAOs.
4.21        Technical Training in Sub-Project Preparation and Implementation.
The inability of many NGOs and local consulting firms to prepare and present sub-project
proposals in a format acceptable to funding agencies has delayed sub-project approvals
and rural investments. To improve sub-project preparation skills, SNDR would contract
firms to run workshops training EEs to design sub-projects, carry out feasibility studies
and prepare "bankable" sub-project proposals. The training would focus on projects in
support of agricultural production, rural infi-astructure, and natural resources management.
The contracted firm(s) would conduct 30 workshops, addressing: (i) standard sub-project
analytical methods; (ii) sub-project design and feasibility studies and their presentation;
and (iii) evaluation criteria of FDC/FIS and major donors for typical rural investments,
including irrigation and water control, feeder roads, and other productive infrastructure.



- 22 -
4.22        The project would also finance consultant services to provide technical and
managerial assistance to EEs, municipalities and OTBs in preparing final project designs.
This assistance is particularly envisaged for preparing relatively complex operations and
would be provided upon request of the beneficiaries concerned. Eligibility criteria
(specified in the Project Operational Manual) to receive technical assistance would
include: (i) a proven track record of the agency in the area of project intervention;
(ii) compatibility of the sub-project proposal with PMD and/or PAO; and (iii) agreement
between the OTB, as a representative of potential project beneficiaries, and the agency on
developing a particular project idea/profile into a final design.
4.23        Implementation. The above training programs would be implemented
either by SNDR or EEs contracted by SNDR. Terms of Reference of the above
mentioned training programs are presented in Annex 7. Terms of reference of Executing
Agencies to implement training in participatory planning have been agreed upon during
appraisal and would be included in the Project Operational Manual. Given the innovative
nature of the above training programs and SNDR's limited experience in managing them,
it has been agreed during negotiations that the content and the methodology of the
training programs would be included in the annual implementation plans to be
reviewed with IDA (para. 8.1).
4.24        The project would finance: (i) the organization of training sessions;
(ii) management service contracts related to the organization and conducting of training
sessions; (iii) consultant services for training and technical assistance to EEs; and
(iv) training expenses as defined in para. 5.20.
IIL   Institutional Strengthening (Base Costs US$7.6 million)
4.25        This component would strengthen: (i) SNDR, particularly its Departmental
network to support and monitor participatory planning and training; (ii) FDC at the
Departmental level to enable it to decentralize its operations; and (iii) SNPP to enable it to
carry out municipal strengthening.
4.26        SNDR Strengthening. To facilitate the implementation of the
participatory planning process at the municipal level and below, the project would enhance
SNDR's Departmental field capacity to: coordinate the implementation of the PPP in 98
municipalities, provide support to PPP implementation in the remaining 205 municipalities,
follow-up on the implementation of PMDs and PAOs by organizing EE training
workshops and assisting with sub-project preparation through technical assistance,
organize and supervise training activities, and monitor sub-project implementation
activities.
4.27        SNDR would strongly decentralize its activities into the regions so that the
Departmental offices become SNDR's main implementation units. In each Departmental
office, SNDR would establish a team of two-three participatory planning professionals and
project experts. These teams would have the necessary background on rural development



- 23 -
strategy, the fundamentals of PPP, teaching methodologies and materials, and project
preparation guidelines of the major local funding agencies. The teams would be
responsible for initiating, supervising and monitoring of all SNDR-financed EE activities.
SNDR would also provide the Departmental offices with logistical support.
4.28        To ensure smooth project implementation, incremental staff financed under
the project would strengthen SNDR's central office financial and administrative
management capacities. SNDR would attempt to integrate this additional staff into the
public service scheme (Programa de Servicio Civil). SNDR's central staff would operate
in the technical, training and administrative departments to provide professional guidance
to regional activities and facilitate inter-agency coordination at the national level.
4.29        The project would finance: (i) incremental high-level consultant positions
at the Departmental level and central levels (Annex 8); (ii) civil works to improve office
accommodation; (iii) office equipment and vehicles; (iv) staff training in organization,
management and technical matters; and (v) incremental operating costs as defined in
para. 5.20. Detailed terms of reference for incremental staff and consultants financed
under the project are included in the Project Operational Manual.
4.30        FDC Strengthening. FDC, in cooperation with its major donors (IDB
and GTZ) is undertaking a comprehensive overhaul of its procedures. The new
procedures would permit regional approval of small sub-projects (below a maximum
ceiling) and simplify legal, administrative, and disbursement procedures. During appraisal,
agreement has been reached on FDC's decentralization plan and how its implementation
would be monitored. The Mid-Term Review would evaluate the implementation of the
decentralized procedures. Adoption of the FDC decentralization plan would be a
condition of disbursement of the FDC institutional strengthening and investment
components (para. 8.3).
4.31        To accompany the above reforms, the project would strengthen FDC's
Departmental offices by financing one local professional in civil engineering or agronomy
and one administrative consultant for each Department during three years. This would
enable FDC to gradually decentralize its management system by delegating authority to
the Departmental offices to evaluate, approve, finance, and supervise small sub-projects.
To allow FDC to effectively respond to specific investment demands expressed by
indigenous communities, one additional professional specialized in ethnic affairs would be
financed in the second and third project year. Detailed Terms of Reference for the
consultants financed under the project have been agreed upon during appraisal and are to
be included in the Project Operational Manual. Moreover, the project would provide
vehicles and equipment to FDC's Departmental offices.
4.32        SNPP Strengthening. Strengthening municipalities in the areas of
administrative and financial management is SNPP's primary responsibility. SNPP has
already developed a series of training modules for this purpose. The project would
support SNPP implementing these modules in the project's 98 municipalities by financing



- 24 -
a team of four consultants for a period of two years. Detailed terms of reference for these
consultants would be included in the Project Operational Manual.
4.33         Strengthening of Municipalities. To allow municipal governments
effectively assume their new responsibilities under LPP, the central Government increased
the amount of public revenues allocated to municipalities through co-participation funds.
For most municipalities, and almost all of those included in the target area of project
intervention, the availability of co-participation funds means a considerable increase in
revenues. The increase in municipal budgets is even more significant given their weak
administrative and financial management capacity. Strengthening the municipality's
administrative and financial management capabilities is therefore a crucial factor for
successful LPP implementation.
4.34         Municipal Administration. Municipal employees would be trained in the use
of an integrated accounting system (Sistema de ContabilidadIntegrada, SICOPRE)
which would enable them to keep track of transactions in relation to the municipal budget.
After training, SICOPRE would be installed in all 98 municipalities included in the project
area. Besides accounting, attention would be paid to train municipal employees in the
preparation of the municipal budget (PAO). Personnel management would be another
module within SNPP's program to improve municipal administration. Within this module,
attention would be paid to, among other: (i) recruitment and selection procedures;
(ii) remuneration scales; (iii) tenrs of reference; (iv) personnel evaluation procedures;
(v) training; and (vi) internal control.
4.35         Finance. The specific objective of training activities in the area of finance is
to strengthen the capacity of municipalities to raise and administer local taxes. Municipal
employees would be trained in: (i) setting-up and maintaining tax registers; (ii) collecting
and administering property taxes, taxes on vehicles, etc.; and (iii) preparing and
maintaining statistics on tax collection.
4.36         To implement these activities the project would finance SNPP training
activities and EE services for training and follow-up. To increase the capacity of
indigenous municipal districts to assume larger responsibilities in administrative and
financial management, SNPP would also ensure that representatives of such districts
participate in the above mentioned training modules.
Expected Results of the Institutional Strengthening Component
4.37         Implementation of the institutional strengthening component is expected to
generate the following results: (i) CORDES and EEs would be able to implement the PPP
in an additional 205 municipalities; (ii) ninety-eight municipalities would be able to adjust
their PMDs and PAOs after the 1995 municipal elections; (iii) community investment
proposals would better reflect PPP efforts as training of municipalities, CVs, and OTBs
progresses; (iv) technical training of EEs involved in project preparation would improve
the quality of proposals submitted to funding agencies for evaluation, thereby reducing



- 25 -
processing time and costs; (v) decentralization efforts in FDC, coupled with the effects of
better quality project proposals, would reduce project processing time by fifty percent
from its current level of eight months; (vi) strengthening of SNDR would sustain and
institutionalize PPP efforts at the national level and ensure an institutional capacity to
facilitate implementation of these efforts in rural communities; (vii) SICOPRE would be
installed in 98 municipalities; and (viii) increased administrative and financial management
capacity in 98 municipalities and indigenous municipal districts indicated by effective and
full utilization of municipal co-participation funds.
IV.   Rural Investments (Base Costs US$13.2 million)
4.38         The project's investment component would provide funds to FDC to
finance sub-projects which meet the institutional objectives of the agency, have been
generated through a participatory planning process and are included in a municipal
development plan and/or annual operational plan. FDC would use its own eligibility
criteria and procedures to finance the investments and would use project resources for this
purpose. Beneficiary communities would contribute between 10 and 25 percent of total
investment costs, to be either paid in cash, in kind, or through provision of labor or in a
combination thereof The contribution would be in compliance with FDC's rules and
procedures are summarized below. Detailed FDC eligibility criteria and procedures are
described in Annex 9.
Sub-project Eligibility Criteria
4.39         Minimum eligibility criteria for sub-projects to be financed under the
project require that sub-projects: (i) are identified by rural communities through a
participatory process and included in the municipal development plan; (ii) are technically
feasible and have a minimum economic rate of return of 12 percent; (iii) include women as
participants and beneficiaries; (iv) have an environmental impact category II, III or IV'0 as
determined by the environmental laws; (v) can be constructed in less than one year; and
(vi) cost less than US$250,000. These criteria would be included in the Operational
Manual. Typical sub-projects would include basic infrastructure, production support,
institutional strengthening, and pre-investment studies.
4.40         Basic infrastructure sub-projects " include: (i) the rehabilitation and
improvement of one-blade access roads costing less than US$15,000 per km and linking
remote communities in production zones to rural markets and feeder roads; (ii) vehicle and
walking bridges costing less than US$150,000 in areas where the bridge solves an access
problem; (iii) small-scale irrigation schemes not exceeding a cost of US$2,500 per ha; and
(iv) markets, storage centers and artisanal workshops up to a maximum of US$50,000 for
' In case of category II sub-projects specific environmental mitigation measures would have
to be included in the sub-project design.
Basic infrastructure sub-projects would not be eligible for IFAD-financing.



- 26 -
municipalities and communities paying for operation and maintenance. Markets would not
cost more than US$100 per square meter roof-covered.
4.41         Production support sub-projects comprise: (i) technical assistance and
extension services (including advisory services and training) for farmers and livestock
holders in natural resources management, agro-forestry, watershed management,
technology transfer, and farm management; (ii) management and administrative support
for OTBs; and (iii) assistance to produce marketing. Costs per sub-project should not
exceed US$150 per sub-project beneficiary. Moreover, up to a maximum US$250,000 of
the IFAD contribution could be used to finance small specific experiments and research
activities including adaptive agricultural research in communities to experiment with new
varieties and crops, agricultural processing and other similar activities. The cost of each
sub-project in this category would not exceed US$25,000.
4.42         Institutional strengthening sub-projects cover institutional strengthening
of the beneficiary communities including training to interchange experiences between
communities, contracting of technical assistance to improve the management and
organization of the OTBs, organization of workshops and seminars on community-
development related subjects and provision of tools and equipment to carry out the agreed
activities. The IFAD component would also finance institutional strengthening of ECs
including: (i) seminars and specific training in agriculture, rural infrastructure and other
fields which may improve the ECs performance; (ii) technical assistance in organization
and working methods, micro-regional diagnostics and elaboration of sub-project final
design studies; and (iii) equipment to carry out studies.
4.43        Local Human Resources Development Sub-projects. One particular
type of sub-project would be local human resources development aiming at enhancing the
capacity of rural communities to more effectively participate in the PPP and sub-project
preparation through training of selected individuals. Training activities could consist of
short courses, workshops, formal education, etc. It is envisaged that existing training
centers, often managed by NGOs, would act as executing agency for this type of sub-
projects. To finance these sub-projects a total of US$700,000 would provided to FDC.
However, if demand for this type of projects is lower than expected these resources would
be used to finance other types of sub-projects.
4.44        Pre-investment studies carried out by consultants recruited by ECs or by
the ECs themselves. These pre-investment studies refer to technical and feasibility studies
done after the sub-project profiles have been accepted by FDC.
4.45         Other Studies. COTESU would finance studies allowing FDC to explore
potential new directions of its investment portfolio in the medium-term future. Tentative
subjects to be covered by these studies include provision of financial services to
municipalities and alternatives of savings generation in rural areas.



- 27 -
Eligibility Criteria for Beneficiaries
4.46            Beneficiaries include municipalities in the rural areas and OTBs.
Beneficiary Contributions
4.47            Table 1 summarizes the beneficiary contributions which could be provided
in cash, labor and materials.
Table 1 - Beneficiary Contributions
FDC             Beneficiary     Maximum       IDA        IFAD
Contribution    Contribution   Amount (USS)  Funded   Funded
(e/)           (%)
Basic Infrastructure
Road Improvements                 80              20                   250,000  yes        no
Bridges for vehicles              80              20                    150,000  yes       no
Walk Bridges                      80              20                   150,000  yes        no
Small Scale Irrigation            75              25                   250,000  yes        no
Markets                           75              25                    50,000  yes        no
Storage Centers                   80              20                    50,000  yes        no
Artisanal Workshops               80              20                    50,000  yes        no
Erosion Control                   80              20                   250,000  yes        no
Water Reservoirs                  75              25                   250,000  yes        no
Production Support
Extension & Training              80,65,50,30     20,35,50,70    150 per         yes       yes
declining       increasing    beneficiary
Agro-forestry                     80              20                    50,000  yes        yes
Experiments and Research          80              20                    25,000  no         yes
Institutional Strengthening
OTBs and Communities              90              10                    25,000  yes        yes
Cooperating Agencies              90              10                    25,000  no         yes
Pre-investment Studies            90               10            10% of invest-  yes       yes
ment costs
Expected Results of the Rural Investment Component
4.48            The rural investment component is expected to: (i) increase FDC's
investment portfolio by approximately 700 sub-projects and a total of US$15 million,
including a minimum of 60 projects which respond to demands expressed in indigenous
district development sub-plans; (ii) improve the quality of FDC's investment portfolio as
sub-projects would fully reflect beneficiary participation; and (iii) increase the number and
competence of ECs involved in sub-project preparation and implementation.



- 28 -
5.    PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
A. Cost Estimates
5.1          The total project cost is estimated at US$31 million equivalent, including
taxes and duties. Base costs are US$28 million and contingencies are US$3 million. The
foreign exchange component is US$1.9 million, or six percent of the project costs.
Project costs are estimated at April 1995 prices. The breakdown of costs by component is
shown in Table 3 and by type of expenditure in Table 4. Detailed costs tables are
presented in Annex 11. Physical contingencies are included at eight percent of investment
costs. Price contingencies (averaging three percent of the base costs) were calculated on
the basis of the following inflation rates assumed for local costs and foreign exchange:
Table 2 - Annual Estimated Inflation Rate (%)
1996          1997          1998
Local                        6.6            4.9           4.4
Foreign                       1.8           2.5           2.6
Exchange rate US$1 = Bs      4.9            5.1           5.2
Table 3 - Project Cost Summary
(US$ million)         %      % of
Local  Foreign   Total Foreign   Base
Exchange  Costs
Investment Identification and Formulation  3.2      0.0     3.2       1       12
Training                                   2.0      --    2.0         -       7
Institutional Strengthening
SNDR                                     3.5      0.6    4.1        15      15
FDC                                      1.0      0.3     1.3       21       4
SNPP and municipalities                  2.2       --    2.2        -        8
Subtotal Institutional Strengthening       6.7      0.9     7.6      11      27
Rural Investments                         12.4      0.8    13.2       6      47
Project Preparation Facility               2.0       -      2.0       -        7
TOTAL BASELINE COSTS                     26.3       1.7   28.0        6      100
Physical Contingencies                   2.0      0.1     2.1        6       8
Price Contingencies                      0.8      0.1     0.9        6       3
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                       29.1      1.9    31.0       6     111
* Including taxes of US$3.2 million.



- 29 -
B. Proposed Financing Plan
5.2         The project would be financed by an IDA Credit, a Swiss Government
(COTESU) Grant, the Bolivian Government, a credit from LFAD the Government intends
to request, unidentified donors and beneficiary counterpart funds. The estimated value of
the IDA Credit would be US$15 million or 48 percent of project costs. LFAD would
contribute about US$4.9 million or 16 percent of project costs. The Swiss Government
(COTESU) would contribute US$1.7 million or 5 percent of project costs. Contributions
by Government would amount to US$4 million or 13 percent of project costs.
Municipalities and local communities would contribute US$2.0 million or 7 percent of
project costs. Non-identified cofinanciers would contribute US$3.4 million or 11 percent
of projects costs.
Table 4 - Financing Plan
(US$ million)
IDA   IFAD   COTESU   GOB  Comm   Others  Total
unities
Rural Investments           4.4    4.7        --  1.1      1.9     2.5   14.6
Pre-lnvestment Studies      0.8    0.2        --  0.1      0.1      --    1.2
Civil Works and Goods       1.0     --        --  0.1       --    0.1      1.2
Consulting Services         2.4     --      0.1   0.6       --      --    3.1
Management Services         3.5              1.6   0.8      --    0.8      6.7
Training                    0.3     --        --  0.1       --      --    0.4
Salaries                     --      --       --   1.1      --      --     1.1
Incremental Operating Costs    0.6  --        --  0.1       --      --    0.7
PPF                         2.0                                            2.0
TOTAL                      15.0   4.9        1.7   4.0     2.0     3.4   31.0
C. Financial Implications for Government
5.3         Recurrent Costs: During implementation Government would contribute
US$4 rnillion of which US$3.2 million would be covered through recuperation of income
and sales taxes. At completion, the project is expected to generate annual incremental
costs, totaling approximately US$850,000 per year. This amount could be financed
through the central budget and by recovery of FDC's administrative costs from
municipalities and international donors.
D. Procurement
5.4         The Table below summarizes the project elements, with cost estimates, and
proposed procurement methods.



- 30 -
Table 5 - Procurement Methods
(US$ million)
Procurement Method
ICB    NCB   Other  NBF   Total
Civil Works, Goods and Equipment for               3.4   2.8(a)    2.4    8.6
municipalities and OTBs                           (2.4)   (2.0)          (4.4)
Small Civil Works (Implementing                           0. I*)          0.1
Agencies)                                                (0.1)           (0.1)
Equipment and Goods (Implementing        0.4       0.3    0.3              1.0
Agencies)                               (0.3)    (0.3)   (0.3)           (0.9)
Consulting Services                                        2.9    0.2    3.1
(2.5)          (2.5)
Management Services                                     7.0        7.4   14.4
(4.5)            (4.5)
Salaries                                                           1.1    1.1
Incremental Operating Costs                                0.7             0.7
(0.6)          (0.6)
PPF                                                        2.0            2.0
(2.0)          (2.0)
TOTAL                                    0.4       3.7   15.8   11.1   31.0
(0.3)    (2.7)  (12.0)         (15.0)
Note: Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by the IDA Credit
() Local shopping (US$0.8 million) and small civil works under lump sum fixed price contracts
( Small civil works under lump sum fixed price contracts
5.5         IDA would finance civil works, vehicles, equipment, training, service
contracts, consulting services and incremental operating costs. During negotiations, it
has been agreed that SNDR would use IDA standard bidding documents for
International Competitive Bidding procurement and bidding documents acceptable
to IDA for National Competitive Bidding (para. 8.1). In particular it has been agreed
that for procurement with IDA funds the Bolivian NCB procedures set forth in Supreme
Decree No. 23981 would be adjusted as follows: (i) the award of civil woks contracts
would be based exclusively on price and other factors such as time for completion;
(ii) except if IDA would otherwise agree, the bidding process would not be declared void
if only three bids or less have been submitted; (iii) any standards and technical
specifications (quoted in the bidding documents) which are at least substantially equivalent
to the national standards and technical specifications would be acceptable; (iv) foreign
bidders would be allowed to participate in NCB; (v) foreign bidders would not be required
to legalize any documentation related to their bids with Bolivian authorities as a
prerequisite of bidding; (vi) bidders who have requested to withdraw their bids prior to the
bid opening would be permitted to do so without any such penalty against such bidders--
the bids withdraws would be returned duly sealed to the bidders; (vii) no margin of
preference would be granted for any category of bidders; (viii) the auction procedure
(puja abierta) would not be used; (ix) in the event that a bidder whose bid was evaluated



- 31 -
as the bid with the lowest evaluated cost withdraws its bid, the contract may be awarded
to the second lowest responsive evaluated bid; (x) foreign bidders would not, as a
condition for submitting bids, be required to enter into a joint venture agreement with
local bidders; (xi) no other procurement rules or regulations of Government agencies of
any state-owned entity would apply without the prior review and consent of IDA.
5.6         SNDR, FDC and SNPP would carry out procurement for their own
institutional strengthening sub-components. SNDR and FDC are familiar with IDA
procurement procedures and would assist SNPP. This procurement experience has been
gained through the management of the PPF and Japanese Grant funds. The project
director and financial manager of SNDR have- undergone procurement training courses in
Bolivia. FDC staff has acquired general procurement skills through working with IDB,
KfW and other donors. SNDR, FDC and SNPP staff would further up-date their skiDls in
IDA-organized procurement courses.
Civil Works, Goods and Equipment for Municipalities and OTBs (Sub-Projects)
5.7         Procurement for community-based civil works, goods and equipment
totaling US$8.6 million (of which IDA would finance US$4.4 million) would follow
commercial practices in accordance with FDC operational guidelines acceptable to IDA
and in accordance with the special provisions mentioned in para 5.5 above. FDC's normal
procedure is that procurement for community-based projects would be done by the
Executing Agency, the municipality, or the OTB, depending on the size and kind of
contract. For all works contracts exceeding US$125,000, national competitive bidding
would apply. Works of US$125,000 or less per contract up to a maximum aggregate of
US$2 million would be procured under lump sum, fixed price contracts awarded on the
basis of quotations obtained from three qualified domestic contractors in response to a
written invitation. Goods for sub-projects shall not exceed US$50,000 per contract.
Goods for US$50,000 per contract or less and up to an aggregate amount of US$800,000
would be procured through national shopping.
5.8         Under the project, FDC's procedures for NCB would be modified. The
"two envelope" bid opening.would be replaced with a single public opening of both
technical and priced bids and announcement of the bid prices and discounts. The EC's
evaluation committee would carry out a post-qualification of the lowest responsive bidder
on the basis of minimum criteria mentioned in the bidding documents. If the lowest
responsive bidder would not qualify, the second-lowest responsive bidder would be
evaluated, etc. The present bracketing rule of discarding all proposals which are
15 percent below the FDC cost estimate would be abandoned. Adoption by FDC of
revised NCB procurement procedures acceptable to IIDA would be a condition of
disbursement of expenditure categories 1, 3(b), 4(c) and 8 of Table 6 (paras. 5.18
and 8.3).



- 32 -
Small Civil Works for Implementing Agencies.
5.9         Civil works (other than for community-based investments) expected not to
exceed US$25,000 equivalent per contract, and not to exceed US$100,000 in the
aggregate, would also be procured under lump sum, fixed price contracts awarded on the
basis of quotations obtained from three qualified domestic contractors in response to a
written invitation. The invitation shall include a detailed description of the works,
including basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of agreement
acceptable to IDA, and relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to
the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has
experience and resources to complete the contract successfully.
Goods and Equipment for Implementing Agencies.
5.10        Total costs of goods and equipment (other than for community-based
investments) is estimated at US$1 million. This amount includes vehicles, office
equipment, furniture and supplies for SNDR and FDC. Vehicles and computer equipment
estimated to cost more than US$125,000 per contract and worth about US$400,000
would be purchased through ICB. Other office equipment, furniture and supplies,
estimated to cost the equivalent of US$125,000 or less per contract, but more than the
equivalent of US$50,000, up to an aggregate amount of US$300,000 would be procured
through NCB. Goods and equipment, estimated to cost the equivalent of US$50,000 or
less, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to US$300,000 may be procured through price
comparison of at least three eligible suppliers.
Consulting and Management Services.
5.11        Consulting and Management Services under the project would amnount to
US$17.5 million (of which IDA would finance US$7.0 million). The services consist of:
(i) consulting assignments for individuals and firms providing direct technical assistance
and consulting services to SNDR, FDC and SNPP (US$3.1 million); and (ii) management
and technical assistance services by individuals, NGOs or firms to rural communities
(US$14.4 million). Consulting and management services would be procured in
accordance with the 1981 IDA Guidelines for the Use of Consultants.
5.12        Consulting assignments would amount to US$3.1 million (of which IDA
would finance US$2.5 million). Most assignments would be small and straightforward.
SNDR, FDC and SNPP would recruit individual consultants from a shortlist of at least
three candidates for each post. A sample letter of invitation, award criteria and a sample
contract, all acceptable to IDA, would be included in the Project Operational Manual.
5.13        Management Services by Executing Agencies would amount to
US$5 million (of which IDA would finance US$4.5 million). In order to give beneficiaries
a broad range of executing agencies from which to select, SNDR would advertise
nationally to develop a roster of potential sources of management services for community-



- 33 -
based sub-projects. These EEs would be recruited as follows: (i) SNDR would invite,
every year and through newspaper advertising, NGOs and other organizations to show
interest to participate in the project; (ii) on the basis of minimum criteria (outlined in para.
4.14), SNDR would establish a roster of organizations with appropriate capabilities;
(iii) for each assignment, beneficiaries would select at least three organizations included in
the roster to be invited to present technical and financial proposals for the services; and
(iv) SNDR would award contracts on the basis of criteria acceptable to IDA and taking
price into account. Award criteria and evaluation procedures would be included in the
Project Operational Manual. The establishment of a roster of executing agencies,
based on standard minimum criteria, would be a condition of project effectiveness
(para. 8.2).
5.14         Management Services by Cooperating Agencies are considered sub-
projects and would be procured by FDC in accordance with its own procedures,
acceptable to IDA. OTBs and municipalities normally select a EC and propose its
financing by FDC, which evaluates the capacity of the proposed EC in three steps. First,
FDC evaluates the EC's legal status: official organizational status and declaration of fully
empowered representative(s). Second, FDC's Departmental representative undertakes a
technical evaluation which requires at least one site visit and takes into consideration the
EC's capability to execute the contract satisfactorily, based on its experience, available
human resources and equipment, and its ties with the beneficiary community. The third
step is to examine whether the EC proposal fits within FDC's financial limits.
5.15         Review Procedures. The prior review arrangements proposed below
would ensure prior review by IDA of approximately 50 percent of the total value of IDA-
financed contracts.
5.16         Review of Procurement by Implementing Agencies. IDA would conduct a
prior review of: (i) all procurement exceeding US$125,000 per contract; (ii) procurement
for the first contracts for civil works (other than works procured under a sub-grant) and
for goods under NCB; (iii) consultant selection documentation (terms of reference,
shortlists, contract, etc.) for EE and EC management service contracts and consulting
services directly recruited by SNDR, FDC and SNPP with an estimated contract amount
of US$50,000 or more for firms and US$15,000 or more for individuals; (iv) terms of
reference for all other EE services/consulting services contracts; and (v) all contracts
based on a single-source or of critical nature.
5.17         Review of Procurement for Rural Investments. IDA would carry out a
prior review of all civil works contracts exceeding US$125,000 and a post-review of all
other procurement by ECs and communities. For this purpose, FDC would recruit
auditors who would not only examine financial implementation but also procurement
procedures, physical implementation and impact on the beneficiaries. These auditors
would carry out six-monthly audits on the basis of a sample not lower than 60 percent of
the IDA and IFAD-financed investments in the first project year, 50 percent in the second
and 40 percent in the last years. For convenience and to avoid overlaps, the same auditors



- 34 -
would carry out an ex-post review of the expenditures and investments financed by IDA,
IFAD, IDB and KfW. Terms of reference of these auditors, acceptable to IDA, would be
agreed upon with the other donors.
E. Disbursement
5.18         IDA credit of US$15 nillion is expected to be disbursed over a period of
3.5 years, beginning the second quarter of IDA FY96 through the end of IDA FY1999.
The project completion date would be December 31, 1998 and the closing date would be
June 30, 1999. The disbursement schedule is presented in Annex 12. The disbursement
pace is faster than the historical disbursement profile for Bolivia's agricultural projects
because of a US$2 million PPF to be refinanced and the expectation that quick disbursing
infrastructure sub-projects would make up a considerable proportion of the project's rural
investment component. The disbursement pace would depend on the quality of sub-
project preparation and FDC's administrative capacities.
Table 6 - Summary of Disbursement Schedule
Category                                    Amount                IDA
Allocated          Financed %
('000 US$)     Foreign      Local
1         Rural Investments (Sub-Grants)
a)       Pre-investment studies              800          100% of the amount
b)       Goods and Works                   3,800                   disbursed
2         Civil Works                            90           --           75
3         Goods and Equipment
a)      for SNDR                             400           85           85
b)      for FDC                              300           85           85
4         Consulting Services
a)       for SNDR                           1,400           100% until amount
b)       for SNPP                            100         reaches US$1,850,000
c)       for FDC                             800            and 80% thereafter
5         Management Services                 2,800          100           100
6         Training                              270          100           85
7         Incremental Operating Costs           540            85 % until amount
reaches US$350,000
and 70% thereafter
8         FDC's Administrative Costs            300                        100
9         PPF                                 2,000
10        Unallocated                         I.400
TOTAL                             15,000
5.19         Adoption by FDC of procurement arrangements and a
decentralization plan acceptable to IDA and the signing of an agreement between
FDC and MDSMA allowing FDC to carry out environmental assessments (para 7.9)
would be conditions of disbursement for categories 1, 3(b),4(c) and 8 of Table 6
(para. 8.4).



- 35 -
5.20        Rural investments would include civil works, goods, equipment, technical
assistance and management services for eligible beneficiaries. Training includes the cost of
the trainers' and trainees' fees, rental of conference rooms, per diem and transport of
trainees and materials required for the training activities. Consulting and management
services include contracts to carry out: (i) training; (ii) extension; (iii) follow-up on the
participatory planning; and (iv) pre-investment studies. Incremental operating
expenditures include expenditures for transport, office rental, materials and supplies,
incremental salaries, contract labor, utilities, building and equipment maintenance, field
materials and field allowances. FDC's administrative costs are maximum seven percent of
disbursements under category 1, rural investments, for services rendered by FDC in
providing sub-grants..
5.21        Documentation of Expenditures. Disbursements would be made on the
basis of full documentation for all expenditures made under contracts requiring prior
review by IDA and amendments to contracts raising the value of such contracts above the
prior review limits. These contracts are: (i) all contracts exceeding US$125,000; (ii) the
first contracts for civil works (other than works procured under a sub-grant) and for
goods under NCB; (iii) consultant and management service contracts directly procured by
SNDR, FDC and SNPP with an estimated contract amount of US$50,000 or more for
firms and US$15,000 or more for individuals; and (iv) all contracts based on single-source
or of a sensitive nature. For all other expenditures disbursements would be made against
Statements of Expenditure (SOE) for which supporting documents would be maintained
by SNDR or FDC and would be available for IDA staff review. Because of the large
volume of disbursements expected to be claimed under SOEs, special efforts would be
made for the selective review of SOE documentation by visiting IDA missions and
auditors.
Table 7: Documentation Requirements for Disbursements
Full Documentation        Statement of
Expenditures
All contracts             >US$125,000              <US$125,000
Civil Works               first contract<US$125,000   all other <US$125,000
Goods and Equipment      first contract<US$125,000   all other <US$125,000
Consulting and Management >US$50,000 for firms     all other
Services                 >US$ 15,000 for individuals
5.22        Special Account. Two Special Accounts in US dollars would be opened
at the Central Bank of Bolivia. Special Account "A" would be opened for SNDR and
SNPP expenditures. Special Account "B" would be opened for FDC and community-
based expenditures through FDC. Both accounts would have an authorized allocation of
each US$0.6 million and would cover four months of project expenditures. The
authorized allocation would be limited to US$300,000 each until the combined credit
withdrawals have reached US$5 million. Withdrawals from the Special Account "A"



- 36 -
would be done by SNDR, from Special Account "B" by FDC. IDA would replenish the
Special Account for the amount of withdrawals on account of eligible expenditures at the
request of the Borrower.
5.23        Retroactive Financing. Reimbursement of up to SDR960,000 (about
US$1.4 million equivalent) would be permitted for eligible expenditures made in
accordance with procurement procedures agreed under the project from January 1, 1995,
provided that the Credit is signed not later than December 31, 1995. If the Credit is
signed at a later date, the initial date for eligibility of expenditures for retroactive financing
would be modified so that the period covered by retroactive financing would be no more
than one year. Retroactive financing is recommended to ensure that training and the
institutional strengthening of SNDR and SNPP to enable further implementation of the
PPP would not be disrupted because of a financing gap between completion of the pilot
project and the effectiveness of the Credit.
F. Auditing and Accounts
5.24        The implementing agencies would maintain separate accounts for project
expenditures as well as a register of assets purchased with project funds. SNDR would
include SNPP project expenditures into its project accounts and records. FDC would
maintain separate accounts. SNDR would hire independent auditors satisfactory to IDA
to audit its own financial statements, the Special Account and SOEs. In addition, the
auditors would prepare a (long-form) report on project management. Copies of the
audited statements would be sent to IDA within six months of the end of the fiscal year.
With respect to SOEs, the auditor's reports would include an opinion (and comments and
recommendations, as necessary) on the methods employed in compiling the SOEs, their
accuracy, the relevance of supporting documents, their eligibility for financing under the
terms of the Credit agreement, the standards of record keeping and internal controls
related to the foregoing.
5.25        FDC accounts and SOEs would be audited through an annual audit
financed by all donors, including IDA. FDC would hire independent auditors who would
cover not only the financial aspects of FDC management as defined in the above paragraph
but also the physical implementation of the rural investment component as referred to in
para. 5.17. Detailed terms of reference for such combined financial and technical audit
would be included in the Operational Manual after agreement with other donors financing
rural investments through FDC. Audits of SNDR and FDC would be financed under the
Project. Auditing and accounting arrangements of SNDR and FDC have been
agreed upon during negotiations (para. 8.1).



- 37 -
6. PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION
A.   Project Management
6.1         SNDR would coordinate the implementation of the project through its
General Coordination Unit. SNDR would be directly responsible for the rural investment
identification and formulation and training components. SNDR, FDC and SNPP would
carry out their own institutional strengthening sub-components. FDC would implement
the rural investment component. SNPP would be responsible the municipal strengthening
sub-component.
6.2          The organization division of SNDR's Sub-secretariat for Social Promotion
would follow-up on PPP, municipal annual operational plan design, and PPP adjustment.
Its training division would design, implement and evaluate training activities. The project
would finance four consultants (to be reduced to two persons in the second year of the
project) at the national level to be responsible to prepare and monitor the training
contracts for PPP and the EEs. Terms of reference of consultants would be included in
the Project Operational Manual. SNDR's Sub-secretariat for Production Promotion
would be responsible for coordinating access by communities to sources of technical
expertise. The National Secretariat for Ethnic, Gender and Youth Affairs (SNEGG)
would provide conceptual support on indigenous people to SNDR. The Sub-secretariat
for Gender Affairs would be introduce and maintain gender related issues into the project.
6.3         The General Coordinating Unit is SNDR's administrative arm which would
monitor project procurement and disbursement procedures. In addition, this Unit
supervises SNDR's Departmental Offices and coordinates with relevant institutions,
especially FDC. The project would strengthen SNDR's administrative division with local
consultants (including a project administrator in charge of procurement and an
accountant). Terms of reference of the coordination unit's consultants have been agreed
upon during appraisal and are to be included in the Project Operational Manual.
6.4         SNDR's Departmental offices would have responsibility for administering
the PPP process, organizing/facilitating pre-investment studies, and would supervise the
service contracts in the field. On the basis of the consolidated needs of the municipalities,
the Departmental offices would prepare annual work programs and budgets for direct
SNDR services, as well as contracted services.
6.5         FDC would carry out the rural investment component. The Government
would transfer to FDC, on a grant basis, the proceeds allocated to the investment
component through a subsidiary agreement. This agreement would contain, inter alia,
FDC's obligations to finance eligible sub-projects and strengthen its institutional capacity,
basic procurement rules, environmental and monitoring aspects. The signature of the
project subsidiary agreement between the Government and FDC would be a
condition of project effectiveness (para. 8.2).



- 38 -
Figure 2 - Project Management Structure
_  ,       ~~~~Monitorirkg &  
_            ~~~~~Plmrngsn
Prowfidon        Promotion            \Adininisrto/
Subseretariat    Subsecrtariat\   Fiac/
Swt\ Section          .. . ..............
Deparbrenbl
enta                c~~~~~~~ffices
6.6           FDC would finance rural investments through sub-grant agreements. The
sub-grant agreements would require the beneficiaries to: (i) carry out sub-projects with
due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound administrative, technical,
engineering, financial, ecological and environmental standards; (ii) finance at least 10
percent (but up to 30 percent) of the sub-project costs in cash, kind, labor or by means of
any combination thereof, and (iii) mitigate any negative environmental impact of the sub-
project. The sub-grant agreement would suspend or terminate the rights of the
beneficiaries to use project funds if they would fail to comply with their obligations. The
signature of a sub-grant agreement, acceptable to IDA, would be a condition of
disbursement for each sub-project (para. 8.3).
6.7            SNPP would employ the services of individual consultants and specialized
consulting firms under management services agreements to carry out the institutional
strengthening of municipalities.
B. Project Implementation
6.8           Implementation Plan. The overall project implementation plan including
a training plan has been prepared during appraisal. This overall project implementation



- 39 -
plan and a detailed first year implementation plan has been agreed upon during
negotiations (para. 8.1). A draft plan is presented in Annex 13. By November 15 of
each year, SNDR, FDC, SNPP would present a project implementation plan for the
following year, satisfactory to IDA. SNDR would coordinate the preparation of such
plans with FDC and SNPP. During negotiations, agreement has been reached that
SNDR and FDC would prepare annual implementation plans satisfactory to IDA
(para. 8.1).
6.9         Operational Manual. SNDR, FDC and SNPP would prepare a common
detailed Project Operational Manual. This manual would contain: (i) eligibility criteria for
sub-projects, beneficiaries, Executing and Cooperating Agencies and a format of a sub-
grant agreement; (ii) project implementation plan and monitoring indicators; (iii) project
management, co-ordination and reporting aspects; (iv) procedures for procurement of civil
works, goods, consultants and management services and sample bidding documents; (v)
disbursement procedures; (vi) terms of reference of key consultants and sample consulting
and management service contracts; (vii) the training program; (viii) accounting systems
and audit aspects; and (ix) the environmental criteria to be used by FDC in carrying out
environmental assessments of sub-projects. The manual would be reviewed by IDA.
SNDR, FDC and SNPP's adoption of the Project Operational Manual, acceptable to
IDA, would be a condition of project effectiveness (para. 8.2).
C. Project Monitoring and Supervision
6.10        Project implementation progress would be monitored by SNDR's internal
monitoring unit. IDA and Government would monitor the project's progress during joint
supervision missions, a Mid-Term Review and an Implementation Completion Review.
Government would also organize a project launching workshop upon project
effectiveness. Project monitoring and supervision arrangements have been agreed
upon during negotiations (para. 8.1).
6.11        Monitoring: SNDR's Planning and Monitoring Unit would monitor
overall project progress and provide six-monthly reports (June 30 and December 3 1) to
the Minister of Human Development, the Minister of Sustainable Development and
Environment, the Minister of the Presidency and IDA. SNDR would integrate the FDC
and SNPP reports in the overall progress reports. The reports would contain information
on progress with: (i) the Participatory Planning Process and the EE's organization of
workshops and seminars in the field; (ii) training; (iii) institutional strengthening; and
(iv) feasibility studies and investments. The reports would also flag problems which need
the attention of the Ministries and/or IDA. The reports would be furnished to IDA no
later than two months after the completion of each semester. Progress would be measured
against a set of key monitoring indicators as presented in Annex 13.
6.12        Project Launching Workshop. Upon project effectiveness, Government
would organize a project launching workshop to which all project stakeholders in the
project would be invited. The workshop would explain and discuss: (i) the overall project



- 40 -
concept and content; (ii) project organization and implementation; (iii) procurement and
disbursement aspects; (iv) audit requirements; (v) project supervision and reviews;
(vi) communications with IDA; and (vii) other subjects of particular relevance.
6.13        Regular Supervision. Twice a year, the Government and IDA would
organize joint project supervision missions. Project supervision would essentially provide
implementation assistance. Before each mission, Government and IDA would agree on
the major subjects to be supervised, which would always include an evaluation of the
project's progress based on the monitoring indicators, compliance with legal covenants,
and procurement and financial management supervision. At the end of each mission,
Government and IDA would sign an Aide Memoire which would contain the major
agreements reached during the mission. Annex 14 provides more details on supervision.
6.14        Mid-Term Review (MTR). During the 24th month after the effectiveness
date, Government and IDA would carry out a Mid-Term Review. Three months before
such review would take place, Government and IDA would agree on detailed terms of
reference and staffing of the MTR team. In particular, the MTR would analyze: (i) PPP
field implementation and active participation of communities; (ii) identification and
formulation of rural investments; (iii) impact of the Executive Agency training on EE
performance; (iv) FDC's decentralization efforts and delegation of authority to the
Departmental offices; (v) FDC sub-project portfolio; (vi) SNPP's municipal strengthening
program; (vii) institutional strengthening and the increasing financing by Government of
SNDR's operating costs; and (viii) procurement, disbursement and financial aspects.
Following this review, the Government through SNDR would, within forty-five days of
the review, draw up an action plan, satisfactory to IDA, to make adjustments in project
implementation wherever necessary and promptly carry out the action plan. The Mid-
Term Review arrangements have been agreed upon during negotiations (para. 8.1).
6.15        Implementation Completion Report (ICR). Not later than six months
after the project closing date, the Government and IDA would carry out a joint project
completion review and produce an Implementation Review Report. Following this
review, the Government would present to IDA a plan for the future operation of the
project, furnish the plan to IDA for comments, and carry out the plan taking into account
IDA's comments thereon.
7. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Project Benerits
7.1         The proposed project would provide the initial support to a long-term
Government strategy generating participatory demand for rural investments as well as
their implementation through a major capacity building effort. Expected benefits of the
project would be: (i) an increase in the level and sustainability of small-scale rural
development investments; (ii) capacity enhancement of private and public development



- 41 -
institutions at the national, municipal and community levels; (iii) empowerment of local
grassroots organizations; and (iv) improvement in the effectiveness and efficiency of
funding agencies operating in the rural sector.
7.2         By responding more efficiently to the demand for rural investments,
improving the institutional capacity to prepare projects following the format of local
funding agencies, and assisting in the actual preparation of a considerable number of sub-
projects, the project would lift one of the major bottlenecks for the financing of rural
investments and significantly increase the investment pipeline of the funding agencies. As
the communities would have more ownership of the sub-projects, the commitment to
maintain the investments would also be higher. Experience in other countries and in the
region suggests that the sustainability of the investments financed under this project, given
the degree of beneficiary participation in selection and implementation, would be high.
7.3          The project would provide training in 98 municipalities, thereby covering
approximately 4,000 communities and at least one hundred private development
institutions. Their improved capacity to manage the PPP and the preparation of projects
would enable them to increasingly take the planning and implementation of development
efforts in their own hands. The project would benefit at least 200,000 rural families
mostly of indigenous origin.
7.4          The project would also improve the efficiency and effectiveness of the
funding agencies, in particular FDC. The decentralization of its operations could have a
significant impact on its accessibility and effectiveness in the rural areas. At the same
time, demand generation efforts are expected to increase the quality of project proposals
submitted to FDC, thereby decreasing project evaluation time and costs.
7.5         The project is expected to produce important additional benefits, such as:
(i) strengthened Government ability to formulate and evaluate social policy, particularly in
rural development, poverty alleviation and food security; (ii) development of partnership
and complementary among public services, NGOs, municipalities, and rural communities;
(iii) reinforcement of Government's initiatives to recognize the important role played by
women in rural economy; and (iv) increased capacity of municipalities in administrative
and financial management.
7.6          Productive investments would have important economic and financial
benefits. Cost-benefit analysis of some typical projects financed by FDC show financial
and economic rate of returns of more than 12 percent. For all investment and institutional
strengthening components the costs have been reduced to a minimum.
B. Project Risks
7.7         The project faces three risks. First, project implementation calls for the
involvement and support of numerous central and local government and private agencies,
most of which have weak management and poor coordination amongst them. Because of



- 42 -
the institutional weaknesses, PPP follow-up and sub-project design approval may become
overly complex and be based upon criteria unrelated to the project's technical merits.
Second, the implementation of the participatory planning process is ambitious and
difficult. The preparatory phases, financed under the pilot project, are relatively easy to
implement compared with the painstaking process of design and adjustment of the
municipal development plans and implementation. Third, there is a possibility that the
demand generated by the project might outstrip both Cooperating Agencies' capability to
transform this demand in bankable projects as well as FDC's disbursing capacities,
creating unsatisfied expectations among communities and reducing project impact.
7.8          The above risks would be mitigated as follows. First, the project itself
aims at strengthening the management capacity of the institutions involved. The project's
institutional building component would increase the administrative and managerial abilities
of SNDR, particularly in its regional offices, FDC and ECs. The experience of the pilot
project would facilitate coordination among government agencies. Most training activities
would be carried out by the local and/or international private sector and would focus on
management improvement. Strict adherence to the technical criteria for sub-project
eligibility by the funding agencies would provide transparency in the project selection
process and avoid concentration of sub-projects in specific Departments. Second, the
participatory process itself would be continuously modified to improve its effectiveness
and minimize implementation difficulties. IDA missions would review PPP
implementation during supervision. Third, the project design comprises three sub-
components to assist in sub-project preparation. While a technical training has been
designed to improve ECs' capabilities, a technical assistance sub-component would help to
solve the more urgent problems, while financing pre-investment studies would facilitate
sub-project preparation. The project would also assist FDC strengthening the presence
and authority of its Departmental offices to assure more rapid disbursements.
C. Environmental Impact
7.9         The project's environmental category is B. The project would contribute
to the implementation of various kinds of sub-projects, some with possible negative impact
on the environment and others with clear positive impact. The improvement of access
roads and the construction of small scale irrigation works, storage facilities, etc., could
create localized environmental problems. Sub-projects of integrated watershed
management, forestry, pasture management, etc., would generate positive environmental
impacts. The training and capacity-building components would include sustainable natural
resource management, thus generating a long-term benefits for the environment. Further,
by intervening in the poorest areas of the country, and promoting the development of
income generating activities, the project would reduce environmental abuses induced by
poverty, such as deforestation, abbreviated fallow periods and over-grazing, and would
limit rural exodus and environmental problems in urban slums. Environmental aspects of
all sub-projects would be carefully reviewed during feasibility studies and, when
appropriate, mitigation measures would be designed for implementation. A list of possible
environmental impacts and mitigation measures is given in Annex 10. During appraisal it



- 43 -
was verified that environmental assessment procedures of FDC are in line with IDA
requirements. Signing of an agreement between FDC and MDSMA, allowing FDC to
carry out environmental impact assessments under norms and guidelines of
MDSMA acceptable to IDA would be a condition of disbursement of disbursement
categories 1,3(b), 4(c) and 8 of Table 6, para. 5.18 (para. 8.3).
D. Impact on Women
7.10        Despite their dominant role in household affairs, cultural practices,
exacerbated by the high incidence of illiteracy, have prevented women from actively
participating in community decision-making. While women are permitted to attend
communal assemblies, their presence, with few exceptions, is figurative. In addition,
unlike men who receive documentation upon military conscription, most women do not
have proper identification papers, precluding them from, among other things, voting in
local or national elections.
7.11        The project would be an important vehicle to begin integrating women into
Bolivian political and civil affairs by increasing their active participation in the
implementation of the Popular Participation Law, particularly in the participatory planning
process and in the implementation of PMDs. By requiring that one of the community-
designated facilitators be a woman, the project would ensure that one woman is capable of
explaining to other women the PPP process and encouraging their participation.
7.12        Although SNDR aims to integrate a gender focus in all project activities,
specific activities have been defined to ensure such integration at the operational level.
These activities include: (i) evaluating the participatory planning process and the
Municipal Development Plans from a gender perspective; (ii) supporting the participation
of women in the registration of OTBs and the formation of Comites de Vigilancia;
(iii) supporting the implementation and adjustment of PMDs from a gender perspective;
and (iv) supporting the implementation of a training program focusing on gender issues.
7.13        A multi-institutional team consisting of specialists from SNDR's central
office, the central office of the Sub-Secretaria de Asuntos de Genero (SAG) and their
Departmental offices would implement this program in 14 pilot municipalities. The results
of the program would be integrated in SNDR's activities as defined under the project's
Rural Investment Identification and Formulation and Training components. The ultimate
aim of incorporating a gender perspective in the project activities is to increase the number
of sub-projects financed by FDC which particularly focus on women in development
issues. SNDR contracts with EEs would stipulate that opportunities to include women-
oriented sub-projects into the PMDs should be fully explored.
E. Poverty Category and Social Impact
7.14        The chief objective of the project is to increase rural household incomes
and alleviate poverty through sound and sustainable investments, identified by the



- 44 -
communities through a participatory planning process. The project would target poor
rural communities and improve the efficiency of public investment in the poorest rural
areas of the country. To sustain participation, the project would help build stable social-
organization structures within the rural communities. The project's main social impacts
would be to: (i) empower local communities; (ii) enhance community decision-making;
and (iii) improve dialogue and coordination between Government and rural communities.
7.15         The project would, through financial and technical assistance, increase
those investments which address the crucial constraints to rural development, including
social and productive infrastructure, such as roads, irrigation, health and education
facilities. Through the project, investments to increase rural productivity and diversify
production, such as extension services, technology transfers and formal and informal
education would expand. Effectiveness and sustainability of these investments would be
enhanced by the active participation of the poor communities in project formulation and
implementation.
F. Indigenous Peoples
7.16         It is estimated that over 90 percent of the project's potential beneficiaries
are of indigenous origin, the vast majority of them being either Quechua or Aymara.
However, a more careful analysis of the ethnic background of the project's potential
beneficiaries shows that the project area includes 18 different indigenous groups (see
Annex 2 for details). These groups are being represented by a variety of indigenous
organizations, most of them will actively participate in the project as OTBs.
7.17         Government's strategy to promote broad participation of the rural
population in local development planning would empower people at the local level to
influence and better control their physical, social and political environment. Involvement
in local planning and decision-making would integrate the hitherto largely segregated rural
population into the national state by facilitating their identification with national
institutions and the application of national legal and administrative regulations. To avoid
that these new powers erode the rural society's traditional forms of organization and
representation, and weaken social integration, the project would: (i) support the
formation of indigenous municipal districts; (ii) strengthen indigenous organizations;
(iii) finance the formulation of district development sub-plans; and (iv) support the
preparation of standard project profiles which reflect specific demands of indigenous
peoples expressed in district development sub-plans (see Annex 2 for details).



- 45 -
8. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION
8.1         Agreements Reached During Negotiations:
(a)   the content and the methodology of the training programs would be
included in the annual implementation plans to be reviewed with IDA
(para. 4.23);
(b)   use of IDA standard bidding documents for International Competitive
Bidding and bidding documents acceptable to IDA for National
Competitive Bidding (para. 5.5);
(c)   auditing and accounting arrangements of SNDR and FDC (para. 5.25);
(d)   the overall project implementation plan and a detailed first year
implementation plan (para. 6.8);
(e)   the preparation of annual implementation plans by SNDR and FDC
satisfactory to IDA (para.6.8);
(f)   project monitoring and supervision arrangements (para.6. 10); and
(g)   mid-term review arrangements (para. 6.14).
8.2         Conditions of Effectiveness:
(a)   the establishment of a roster of executing agencies, based on standard
minimum criteria (para. 5.13);
(b)   the signature of the project subsidiary agreement between the Government
and FDC (para. 6.5); and
(c)   SNDR, FDC and SNPP's adoption of the Project Operational Manual
acceptable to IDA (para. 6.9).
8.3         Conditions of Disbursement:
The following are conditions of disbursements for disbursement categories 1, 3(b),
4(c) and 8 of Table 6, para. 5.18:
(a)   adoption by FDC of procurement arrangements acceptable to IDA
(paras. 5.8 and 5.19);
(b)   adoption by FDC of a decentralization plan acceptable to IDA (paras. 4.30
and 5.19);



- 46 -
(c)   signing of an agreement between FDC and MDSMA, allowing FDC to
carry out environmental impact assessments under norms and guidelines of
MDSMA acceptable to IDA (para. 7.9); and
(d)   signature of a sub-grant agreement, acceptable to IDA, would be a
condition of disbursement for each sub-project (para 6.6).
Recommendation
8.4         Based on the above, the proposed project is suitable for an IDA Credit of
SDR9.6 million (US$15 million equivalent) to the Republic of Bolivia.



- 47 -
ANNEX 1
BOLIVIA
RURAL COMMUNITIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Participatory Planning Process
1.          This annex describes the objectives, methodology, and phasing of the
Participatory Planning Process (PPP).
Objectives
2.          Government seeks the active participation of the rural population in
planning, design, negotiation, execution and supervision of rural investments. The PPP is
designed to facilitate community and municipal organizations to be effective players in the
new development scheme, as outlined in the Popular Participation Law (Ley de
Participaci6n Popular, LPP). The PPP objectives are to: (i) contribute to the
decentralization of decision-taking; (ii) stimulate grassroots participation in local planning
and demand generation; (iii) help rural communities formulate Municipal Development
Plans (Plan Municipal de Desarrollo - PMD); and (iv) increase investment sustainability
by intensifying stakeholders' commitment in the implementation of rural investments.
Methodology
3.          The PPP methodology has been developed by SNDR, drawing on the
practical experiences of NGOs and benefiting from the procedures developed by the Latin
American Faculty for Social Sciences, COTESU, the GTZ's Goal-Oriented Project
Planning, and the Dutch technical cooperation. The methodology takes also into account
the lessons learned from the pilot project financed by an IDA PPF.
4.          The methodology consists of seven, two to five days provincial and
municipal workshops, and is given over the course of 13 months. At the workshops, the
Executing Agency helps the participants formulate PMDs. Workshop participants are
community delegates and representatives of development organizations.
5.          After each workshop, time is allotted for the community delegates to return
inform the community of the workshop proceedings, and receive community feedback. As
community decisions are taken by consensus, this process can be lengthy and tedious.
6.          The PPP costs an estimated US$40,000 per municipality. Exact duration
and cost of the process depend on: (i) maturity of the local organizations;
(ii) homogeneity of the rural communities; (iii) time availability of community members - a
function of cropping seasons and employment patterns; and (iv) EE capabilities and
commitment.



- 48 -
Description of the PPP Stages
7.           The PPP has five stages: (i) Preparatory Phase; (ii) Community
Diagnostic; (iii) Municipal Development Plan; (iv) Follow-up to the Plan; and (v) Sub-
project Preparation (see Figure 1).
Stage One: Preparatory Phase
8.          In the preparatory phase two provincial workshops are given over a two-
month period. SNDR and an Executing Agency (EE) identify and invite municipal
authorities, local and private development agencies, OTBs, church entities and NGOs to
two preparatory PPP workshops through radio, local newspapers and announcements.
9.           The first preparatory workshop introduces the participants to the PPP
concepts, explaining their purpose and methodology. For many participants, this is a first
opportunity to learn the PPP-principles, its cycle and the roles of the various social, civic
and technical organizations. During the workshop, SNDR and EE assess institutional
strengthening needs of the local organizations and identify individuals requiring training.
At the second preparatory workshop, the concepts presented in the first workshop are
made operational. The EE assigns detailed work plans with specific responsibilities and
time schedules to participants, and distributes special audio-visual aides and questionnaires
to the community-delegates to help them explain PPP to their community.
Stage Two: Community Diagnostic
10.         Purposes of the community diagnostic are to: (i) help the communities to
better perceive their economic and social strengths and weaknesses in view of formulating
achievable socio-economic goals; (ii) improve the dialogue and linkages between
communities and municipal authorities; and (iii) convey to communities their expanded
prerogatives and responsibilities related to their own development as described in the LPP.
11.         The community diagnostic stage consists of two workshops conducted
during a three-month period. Participants are community-delegates and local people
involved in development activities. During the first community diagnostic workshop,
participatory rural appraisal techniques are used to facilitate the community in the
identification of constraints, causes and solutions.
12.         The participatory rural appraisal'2 techniques include: (i) interviews;
(ii) participatory mapping exercises, which positions socio-economic information on a
map, creates consensus and facilitates communications; (iii) seasonal calendar, showing
rainfall patterns, crop sequencing, seasonal labor demand and availability; (iv) historical
12 Chambers, R. - Rural Appraisal: Rapid, Relaxed and Participatory, IDS (1992), and
World Bank - Egypt: Matruh Resources Management Project (Cr. 2504).



- 49 -
Figure 1 - Participatory Planning Process (PPP)
Executing Agency                Workshops                        Community
P       Preparation
E1
First Preparatory
A                                      Workshop
Preparation
A
T
0                                         2
R                                  Second Preparatory
Y                                      Workshop
Preparation                                             Internal Discussion
S
E
3                                              L
First Diagnostic                                     F
Workshop
Secondary InformationD
Analysis                                                  Digosi
G
N
4                                  0~~~~~~~
Second Diagnostic                                     s
Workshop                                          T
Secondary InformationI
Analysis                                ~~~~~~~~Internal Discussion  c
u
N                        ~~~~~~~~~~First PMD Workshop                           m
Internal Discussion
C   Sub-Project Profile 
C;
I      Preparation                                             Sub-Project Profile      R
PD                                                                 Preparation         :0
;AE6P
L V
0                     ~~~~~~~~~Second PMD Workso                               R
L                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Internal Discussion    0
0 
p                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Sub-Project Profile  E
PA                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~~~Preparation C
N L
TA                     ~~~~~~~Third PMD Workshop
R
NE
A
FeasibilityR
Studies                                                                         A
:PLAN  ADJUSTMENT:                                            T
Technical                                                                        o
Designs                                                                         N



- 50 -
profiles and time trends, concerning changes in social organization, income opportunities
and natural resource use; and (v) short, simple questionnaires, concerning socio-economic
situation to be completed by the whole community before the following workshop.
13.          The EEs complement the information collected from the workshops with
information from secondary sources--such as reports, maps, aerial photographs, and other
documents--to produce a first draft of a community profile. Such profile describes the
municipality's natural resources, social structure and economic base with an inventory of:
(a) natural and topographical conditions, including climate, rainfall, soil types, land use
and flora and fauna; (b) social data, including size and age structure of the population,
number of families, economic activity, migration, birth and death rate and social
organizations; (c) level and quality of basic public services, such as access to sewage,
running water and latrine, type of housing, health facilities and schools; (d) economic data
concerning land tenure, land use, availability of irrigation, area cultivated with specific
crops, use of tools, machinery, fertilizer and seeds, storage facilities, agricultural calendar,
participation of family labor, degree of product transformation, and share of harvest
marketed, consumed by the family and stored. In addition, specific information is included
on the extent of natural plantations, type and size of livestock herds, use of livestock
products, animal health and division of family labor in activities related to livestock; and
(e) available communication media, transportation means and energy sources.
14.          During the second diagnostic workshop, the community discusses possible
solutions to its socio-economic constraints on the basis of the profile, identifies desirable
community investments and formulates a community investment program which is
submitted to the municipality. The process starts with community members listing
investment ideas, and estimating their feasibility, costs and impacts. The delegates work
with the community to rank the sub-project ideas and to formulate an investment plan.
Stage Three: Municipal Development Plan (PMD)
15.          This stage is PPP's core activity. It is carried out during three workshops
over a period of four to six months. Between the workshops, internal community
discussions take place.
16.          During the PMD workshops, the community plans are consolidated into
one Municipal Pan which is: (i) agreeable to the communities; (ii) consistent with financial
realities, and (iii) suitable for funding from the various financial sources. To consolidate
the community plans, municipalities would apply sub-project eligibility and ranking
criteria. These criteria closely reflect those of the relevant funding agencies, as well as
Government goals. The criteria give greatest weight to sub-projects addressing
fundamental development bottlenecks and corresponding to the technical capabilities and
absorptive capacity of the beneficiary community.
17.          On the basis of the above process, the municipality drafts a PMD, which is
presented, discussed and negotiated with the various communities. With more detailed



- 51 -
cost estimates available, the sub-project portfolio is further adjusted to be consistent with
the available resources. The Plan is reviewed by CORDES to ensure compatibility with
Departmental and natioral policies and plans. The consultative process is completed with
the final plan.
Stage Four: Follow-up to the Municipal Development Plan
18.          To sustain the PPP process, the EE would continue to provide support to
the municipality in the implementation of the PMD. The implementation of the PMD,
which usually covers a period of five years, is guided by the formulation of the Annual
Operative Plan (Plan Operativo Anual, PAO).. Besides a detailed description of the
activities to be implemented in a given year, the PAO includes a detailed annual budget,
which on its turn clears the way for a municipality to receive Co-participation Funds from
the central government. In the process of formulating PAOs, the EE would assist the
municipalities to ensure budgetary items reflect the wishes of the communities. In addition
to the formulation of PAOs, the EE would also help the municipality make adjustments to
the PMD to take into account changing econormic and social conditions. It is envisaged
that after the 1995 municipal elections, there would be a considerable need to adjust
PMDs in those municipalities where PMDs were completed in 1994. Follow-up to the
PMD may also mean that EEs: (i) help the municipalities with the monitoring of key
progress indicators mentioned in the plan; (ii) identify training possibilities for community
and municipality members; and (iii) advise municipalities in management and
administrative matters of procurement.
Stage Five: Sub-Project Preparation
19.          The sub-project preparation consists of three components: (i) sub-project
profile is a description of the sub-project idea, its rationale and a first approximation of its
cost; (ii) feasibility study is an economic and financial evaluation of the sub-project's
viability--an additional technical assessment is necessary only for technically complex sub-
projects, such as irrigation systems; and (iii) sub-project detailed design is a detailed
description of the sub-project and its costs in a format suitable for presentation to funding
agencies.
20.          The preparation of sub-project profiles begins in parallel with the
preparation of the PMD, as the ranking process requires an approximation of the costs and
feasibility of various sub-project options. The final PMD contains a profile for every
proposed sub-project.
21.          Sub-project preparation is to be financed by the community itself, the
municipality, or the funding agencies. SNDR and funding agencies would contract EEs to
carry out sub-project preparation at various stages. The EE assures the quality of the sub-
project preparation and the interested community or municipality presents the sub-project
design to various funding sources.



- 52 -
ANNEX 2
BOLIVIA
RURAL COMMUNITIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Rural Communities
Rural Community Social Structure
1.           The present Andean rural community structure is based upon the pre-
Hispanic ayllu. During the colonial period, most ayllus where incorporated into the
Spanish large properties (hacienda). In 1953, with the Agrarian Reform, sindicatos, local
rural governments, were formed to transfer land from haciendas back to campesinos.
2.           Today, the sindicato is found throughout the Andean region, co-existing
with and complementing the ayllu. Sindicatos are part of a national network"3, a hierarchy
which up to the provincial level, facilitates certain activities among comnmnunities.
However, beyond the provincial level, the network serves national political interests and is
vaguely related to the individual rural sindicatos.
3.           Both sindicatos and ayllus require their members to be married and possess
land. The head of the sindicato, the secretary general, is equivalent to the jilacata, the
ayllu chief In many communities, the same individual holds both positions, acting as the
jilacata, in ceremonial and traditional events, and, as the secretary general, in
administrative and managerial affairs. The secretary general, along the with sindicato
officers, are elected by the community for a one-year term. The appointment of the
jilacata is based on a revolving principle used to encourage community participation.
4.           Participation in the asamblea is one of the most important obligations of
community members. At the asamblea, all significant decisions are taken through a
tedious and time-consuming consensus process. In addition, members must elect
community leaders, hold community office, assist in the execution of public works, and
pay fees. In return, they have access to communal resources (land, water, construction
facilities, etc.) and receive assistance from the community elders.
5.           Andean communities have developed particular forms of cooperation
between families and within the community. Families cooperate in major agricultural
activities (sowing, harvesting and construction) through a system of reciprocity, whereby
the support given by one family to another is recorded, and subsequently compensated by
the recipient with even greater assistance. Between two families, there are ritual kinships,
13 Sindicatos of the same area form a sub-central, with several sub-centrales constituting a
central. Centrales of a province formn a central provincial and these are grouped by
Department to form the federaci6n. Finally, the federaciones make up a national co-
federacion, which is a member of the national organization of labor unions (Co-federaci6n
de Obreros Bolivianos, COB).



- 53 -
which are permanent systems of mutual obligations of cooperation and assistance.
Assistance is provided in cash, kind and emotional and moral support. This system
expands the network of natural kinship, providing additional sources of social security in
moments of need and emergency. Within the community, members must participate in the
construction, repair and mnaintenance of communal infrastructure, such as irrigation,
schools and health posts.
6.           Within the rural community, members are distinguished by their wealth,
prestige and gender. Richer families, those possessing more land or involved in transport
services or commerce, exert their influence through ritual kinship and money lending and
control community and municipal decision-making. Men take nearly all communal
decisions. Women rarely hold managerial positions or actively participate in the
asamblea. Rural people regard the urban society with mistrust and resentment,
considering the urban people to be lacking in cultural and dignity.
7.           Andean reality is interpreted through myths dividing the world into three
interrelated spheres: the "above", the "below" and the world men inhabit. The invisible
beings of the "above" and "below" determine the course of events, govern the fate of men
and give significance to their existence. In the "above" live the Christian god and the
saints, as well as the sun, the moon, and the stars. The "below" is the realm of devils,
demons, the dead and ancestors. The dead and the ancestors are the guardians of the
fields, families and communities, possessed with powers over the weather. Outstanding
among these is the "Pachemama", associated with agricultural fertility.
8.           Ritual practice is an ubiquitous phenomenon in rural Andean life, providing
a religiously anchored grid for generating social integration and maintaining social order.
These practices are present as ceremonies, celebrations and festivities performed through-
out the year. Agricultural rituals are designed to ensure successful harvests. Rituals are
part of medical therapies, intended to compensate for previous failures responsible for the
illness.
Rural Communities and the Participatory Planning Process
9.           Government's strategy to promote broad participation of the rural
population in local development planning would empower people at the local level to
influence and better control their physical, social and political environment. Involvement in
local planning and decision-making would integrate the hitherto largely segregated rural
population into the national state by facilitating their identification with national
institutions and the application of national legal and administrative regulations. To avoid
that these new powers erode the rural society's mythological foundation, reduce the
importance of ritual practice and weaken social integration, a number of safeguards have
been build into the Participatory Planning Process and the activities financed under the
project. Based against the background that social integration of rural communities is also
subject to change without the framework of the Participatory Planning Process, these
safeguards and activities are as follows.



- 54 -
10.          The building stone of the Participatory Planning Process is effective
participation of the OTBs. As already indicated in Annex 1, OTBs are not newly
established organizations, but merely existing, traditional organizations, which have
received legal status under the Ley de Participaci6n Popular to legally represent
communities in the PPP. The latter ensures that existing local power structures, which
often are the guardians of rural society's social integration, are not by-passed and in effect
control the participation of rural communities in the PPP. It is within this context that the
project finances the legal formation and registration of OTBs under its Rural Investment
Identification and Formulation Program.
11.          In addition, the LPP explicitly recognizes traditional forms of organization
and representation (Art. 3, LPP). In this context, the Regulation of the LPP (Art. 26-29)
allows the formation of indigenous municipal districts within municipalities or a
conjunction of indigenous municipal districts among various municipalities. These
districts have the following characteristics: (i) their jurisdiction is related to ethnic
population and their social organization; (ii) election and representation are based on
traditional ways and means; and (iii) the maximum traditional authority assumes the
functions of deputy-mayor (sub-alcalde). Following strong demands from indigenous
communities, the project would support municipalities in the creation of indigenous
municipal districts, which would include the organization of a consultation process,
resulting in the definition of such districts from a functional perspective'4. Terms and
conditions under which such districts are formed are presently the sole responsibility of the
municipalities. To provide guidance in this area through the provision of basic norms and
procedures, a legal definition of the relation between municipalities and indigenous
municipal districts is also urgently required. For this purpose draft legislation would be
developed under the project. To allow for the effective participation of indigenous matrix
organizations in this process, the project would also support efforts aimed at strengthening
these organizations.
12.          The formulation of PMDs and the preparation and execution of Annual
Operative Plans would be closely monitored and adjusted where necessary by SNDR in
collaboration with SNEGG (Secretaria Nacional de Asuntos Etnicos, de Genero y
Generacionales). Effective participation of OTBs in the formulation and execution of
these plans would be an important monitoring indicator upon which subsequent
adjustments would be based.
13.          Terms of Reference of all personnel and local consultants financed under
the project would explicitly stipulate that candidates should command the most common
indigenous language spoken in their area of operation.
14 Actual deliniation of these districts could be covered by the National Land Institute through
the National Land Administration Project.



- 55 -
14.         Training of and technical assistance to EEs involved in sub-project
preparation would focus on those organizations which could demonstrate concrete
experience of working with indigenous organizations.
15.         Since the area of operation of regional indigenous organizations does not
necessarily coincide with municipal boundaries, sub-project proposals, focusing on the
strengthening of these organizations or activities with a regional impact, which directly
originate from these organizations would also be eligible for financing from resources
provided by the project to the Fondo de Desarrollo Campesino. The Secretaria Nacional
de Desarrollo Rural would play an active role in identifying and putting together such
proposals by the organizations concerned.
16.         The proposed training of human resources at the community level would
particularly focus on strengthening local capacity in managing the participatory planning
process and improve local capacity in the preparation of community investment projects.
The latter would eventually empower grassroots organizations to effectively take the
planning of community development efforts in their own hands under terms and conditions
decided upon by themselves.
17.         It is estimated that over 90 percent of the project's potential beneficiaries
are of indigenous origin, the vast majority being either Quecha or Aymara. However, a
more careful analysis of the ethnic background of the project's potential beneficiaries
learns that the project area includes a total of 18 different indigenous groups (see
Appendix 2 for details). These groups are being represented by a variety of indigenous
organizations, most of them actively participating in the project through their legal status
as OTB.



- 56 -
ANNEX 2
Appendix 1
Target Area of Project Intervention
Department         Province       No. of         P o p u I a t i o n    Poverty
Sections    Total      Rural    %    Class A
1. Beni           1. Vaca Diez*        3         84,651     13,491  16      II
2. Moxos            1          17,602    12,770  73      IV
3. Ballivan         4         47,420    24,040  51       III
2. Cochabamba     4. Mizque*           3         27,959    26,096  93       IV
5. Bolivar          1          7,081      6,661  94      V
6. Arque            2          18,249    17,953  98      V
7. Tapacari         1          19,202    18,964  99      V
8. Chapare          2         51,556    34,027  66       III
9. Carrasco         2         77,814    72,528  93       IV
10. Tiraque          1         31,315    29,713  95       IV
3. Chuquisaca     11. Zudanes*         4         30,982    28,191  91       IV
12. H.Siles          2         35,255    28,880  82       IV
13. Tomina           5         35,443    30,782  87       IV
14. B.Boeto          1          12,617    10,701  85      IV
4. La Paz         15. Ingavi*          4         78,059    56,425  72       III
16. Pacajes          6         43,351    39,764  92       IV
17. Caranavi         1         62,847    59,098  94       IV
18. Camacho          3         53,487    52,083  97       IV
5. Oruro          19. Carangas*(       5          16,856    14,440  86      IV
20. Sajama           2           7,891     5,992  76      IV
21. Totora           1           4,040     4,040  100    IV
22. Abaroa           3         23,551    22,890  97       IV
6. Pando         23. Madre Dios*       3          8,095      7,625  94      IV
24. N. Suarez        4          18,447     7,536  41      III
7. Potosi        25. Linares*          2         52,535    50,301  96       IV
26. Charcas          2         31,233    30,206  97       V
27. Chayanta         4         73,128    67,711  93       V
28. Bilbao           1          10,045     9,596  96      V
29. Ibanez           2         23,512    21,796  93       V
8. Santa Cruz    30. Cordillera*       7         88,626    51,617  58       III
31. Ichiulo          3         49,448    41,008  83       III
32. Sara             2         29,607    17,029  58       II
33. N.Chaves         3         61,008    53,511  88       IV
34. Guarayos         3         20,902      8,861  42      IV
9. Tarija        35. O'Connor*         1         17,763    16,109  91       IV
36. Aviles           2          16,210    15,299  94      IV
37. Mendez           2         29,868    27,528  92       IV
TOTAL                               98       1,387,171  1,035,262  75
Notes: *   Pilot Project
I  Carangas consists of three Provinces (North, Center y South)
A   Poverty Classification is based on the percentage of population whose basic needs are
unsatisfied: I = 0 - 14 %, II= 14 -28 %, m = 28 -42 %, V = 42 - 56 %, V = 56 - 70 %



- 57 -
ANNEX 2
Appendix 2
Indigenous Groups in Project Area
Department    No. of municipalities in     Indigenous groups      Type of organization of
......I.................. project area  included in project area  indigenous group
..................................... .................................... ... .....................................................................I......   ............................................................. ...................... .............. .......  ..............
Beni                       8             Chacobo, Moro,            Vaca Diez
Kavineiio, Chimane       Cirabo
(Araona), Moxenio        Jose Ballivian
Cochabamba                 8             Quechua                   Sindical, Avllus
Chuquisaca                12             Quechua, Criollo,         Sindical, Ayllus,
Guarani                  Belisario Bueto,
Capitinias
La Paz                    14             Andina Ayrnara            Federaci6n de Ayllus
Quechua                  Federaci6n de Mallkus
Ayllus, Sindical
Oruro                     11             Andina Aymara             Sindical, Avllus,
Quechua                  Carangas "C", Sud
Carangas, Nor Carangas
Abaroa, Fasor, Sajarna
S. de Totora
Pando                      7             Yaminawa                  N. Suarez
Esse-Ejja                Cirabo
Toromona                 Madre de Dios
Potosi                    11             Andina Quechua            Charcas, Ayllus
Chayanta, Sindical
J. Ma. Linares, A. de
Ibafiez, Gral. Bilbao
Santa Cruz               18              Chiquitano, Guarani      lchilo, Fed. de
Guarayo, Siriono         Colonizadores
Ayoreo, Migrantes        Sarah, Comunal,
Multiples                Cordillera, Capitanias
Kaipependi,
Kairowaycho, Izozog
Kaami, Kaaguazu
APG/COPNAG, N.
Chavez, Ceec, Cicol
Tarija                    5              Chapaco                  Sindical
Criollo                  Aviles
Guarani                  Mendez
Tapieti                   B. O'Connor
Gran Chaco
Ocweta



- 58 -
ANNEX 3
BOLIVIA
RURAL COMMUNITIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Implementing Agencies
A. National Secretariat for Rural Development
1.          SNDR, the project's main implementing agency, was created following a
major restructuring of the Executive power, after the present Bolivian Government came
into power in August 1993. A Presidential Decree'5 issued in October 1993 established
SNDR within the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Human Development (Ministerio de
Desarrollo Humano), thereby effectively transforming and transferring the National
Directorate for Community Development (Direcci6n Nacional de Desarrollo de las
Coniunidades) from the Ministry of Agriculture and Peasant Affairs (Ministerio de
Agriculturay Asuntos Campesinos). SNDR was established after the approval of the
Popular Participation Law (LPP) on May 31, 1994. Prior to this date it was called
National Secretariat for Rural and Provincial Development.
2.           Status within Government. SNDR is one of the nine National
Secretariats within the MDH. The other Secretariats are: (i) Education; (ii) Health;
(iii) Urban Affairs; (iv) Ethnic Affairs and Gender Issues; (v) Sport; (vi) Culture; and
(vii) Social Investments. With the approval of the LPP in April 1994, municipalities have
become the central players of the Executive Power in the rural areas, and the mandate of
SNDR has changed accordingly. The Presidential Decree of May 1994 defines SNDR's
mission as: "to promote integrated development of rural areas with the participation of
grassroots organizations (OTBs)". More specifically the current functions of SNDR are:
(i) propose, plan, administer, execute, supervise, and evaluate the rural development
policies of Government; (ii) promote the development of technologies which have the
potential to increase production and productivity of the rural economy and facilitate the
preparation and implementation of infrastructure projects in direct support of agricultural
production; (iii) facilitate and support corresponding institutions in the implementation of
social programs and basic infrastructure; (iv) maintain relations with grassroots
organizations to facilitate the implementation of development programs; (v) strengthen
and empower rural communities and grassroots organizations; and (vi) promote the
participation of grassroots organizations in the development process.
3.          Internal Organization. SNDR is headed by a National Secretary
(Secretaria Nacional), who directly reports to the Minister of MDH. SNDR consists of
two Sub-Secretariats (Sub-Secretarias): Productive Promotion (Promoci6n Productiva)
and Social Promotion (Promoci6n Social). Legal and Financial and Administrative Affairs
5 Decreto Supremo No. 23660, 12 Octubre de 1993, "Reglamento de la Ley de Ministerios
del Poder Ejecutivo ".



- 59 -
are handled by the Department of General Coordination (Coordinaci6n General). The
National Secretary is further supported by the Offices of Public Relations, Planning and
Monitoring, and Internal Audit. Apart from the central office, SNDR has nine
Departmental offices, which typically consist of one coordinator, 6 professional and 4
support staff Total staff of SNDR as per November 1994 was 186, of which 97 were
posted in the Departmental offices. Figure 1 below presents SNDR's organizational chart.
Figure 1 - SNDR Organizational Chart
Ministry of Hunian
Development
SNDR
Coordination
Commtte                             Public Relations
Commnittee
I  _   I                       I ld~~~~~~~~~~onitoring & I
Internal Auditing 
Social                  P o  t  
Promotion                Promotion                          & Finance
Subsecretariat            Subsecretariat
|  Training  organ zaiiond  Technical  Gender & Env  Pro ect             <     D
I   Section  Sec(ion      Section     Section    [  \ \ / /    rA i\o
| Technical |
I Scctions 1
4.             SNDR's Operations. SNDR can be described as a young organization
which, in the process of defining its role and establishing itself, has done a remarkable job
in establishing itself as the intellectual leader and the front-runner organization in the
implementation of the Popular Participation Law and the Participatory Planning Process



- 60 -
(PPP). It designed the PPP methodology which has now been adopted as a model to
formulate municipal development plans. Effective formulation of such plans, based on a
genuine participatory process, is regarded as key to the successful implementation of the
Popular Participation Law. SNDR has been assigned to extend this model nationwide by
giving it a leading role in training all parties involved in the PPP. Based on the developed
PPP methodology, SNDR coordinated and facilitated the formulation of municipal
development plans in 94 municipalities. Nine months after the approval of the Popular
Participation Law, in December 1994, SNDR was able to present these plans to the
President of the Republic. Since early 1994 the operations of SNDR have been supported
by technical assistance financed under a pilot project as part of the preparation of the
Rural Communities Development Project.
5.          Relationship with Other Organizations. Most closely related to
SNDR's functions and operations are: (i) the Small-Farmers Development Fund (FDC),
(ii) the National Secretariat for Popular Participation (SNPP); and (iii) the Regional
Development Corporations (CORDES). SNDR sets the policy and rural development
framework in which FDC operates. Consequently, municipalities and rural communities
considered by SNDR as target areas for project intervention are automatically also
considered by FDC as guiding principles to geographically target its investment programs.
With the privatization of a large number of activities originally carried out by the
CORDES, these organizations are increasingly being involved in the implementation of the
Popular Participation Law. In order to better define the division of responsibilities
between SNDR and the CORDES, it has been agreed in a draft convenio that SNDR
would take a leading role in the implementation of the Popular Participation Law in
98 municipalities, selected as the target area of project intervention. CORDES would
have primary responsibility concerning this subject in the remaining municipalities.
6.          SNDR Strengthening. After the initial efforts to build up institutional
capacity in SNDR to develop and manage the PPP process, the next step is to enable
SNDR to follow-up on the implementation of municipal development plans (MDP).
Consequently, strengthening of SNDR, which in the pilot project primarily has taken place
at the central level to ensure intellectual leadership in the development of methodologies,
will increasingly shift to the Departmental offices to facilitate the implementation of
MDPs. Under the proposed Project technical assistance at the central level would be
reduced and focus mainly on training of a range of subjects related to the PPP in order to
achieve coverage at the national level. Technical assistance to the Departmental offices
would increase threefold as compared to the situation under the pilot project.
B.    National Secretariat for Popular Participation
7.          SNPP was created shortly after the approval of the LPP in April 1994. In
general terms, SNPP is responsible for LPP's implementation and institutionalization.
More specifically, SNPP: (i) establishes mechanisms to more closely relate the
administration of municipalities to the principles of popular participation; (ii) elaborates
programs for municipal strengthening in the areas of planning, budgeting, accounting, and



- 61 -
project preparation and management; and (iii) controls and monitors the use of co-
participation funds made available under the LPP. Given this mandate, SNPP is an
obvious candidate to coordinate the implementation of the proposed project activities in
the area of municipal strengthening, as presented in more detail in Annex 4.
8.             SNPP is one of the three National Secretariats in the Ministry of
Sustainable Development and Environment (Ministerio de Desarrollo SostenibleyMedio
Ambiente, MDSMA) besides the ones for Planning and Natural Resources and
Environment. SNPP consists of two Sub-Secretariats, which are responsible for OTBs
and municipal strengthening respectively (see Figure 2 for details).
Figure 2 - SNPP Organizational Chart
Ministry of Sustainable
Development and Environment
Nabonal Secretariat of   Nabonal Secretariat of   Natonal Secretariat of
|  Planning   1  Popuar Participation  Natural Resources and
Plannin                                          Environment
Sub-Secretariat
Sub-Secretariat OTBs
Municipal Strengthening
Directorate    Directorate    Directorate    Directorate    Directorate    Directorate  Directorate
OTB          OTB       Economics      Legal       Municipal     Public     Dm.
support    registration   and Finance  Affairs       Adm.        Affairs     Adm.
9.             To implement the project's activities aimed at strengthening the target 98
municipalities in administrative and financial management, SNPP would enter into service
contracts with selected EEs. To ensure consistency and compatibility of administrative
and financial management systems across municipalities, SNPP would train selected EEs
in the methodology and approach developed for this purpose. In addition, SNPP would
follow-up and monitor the implementation of the municipal strengthening program. For
this purpose, the project would finance four consultants in SNPP for a period of two
years.



- 62 -
C.    Small-Farmer Development Fund
10.          The Small-Farmer Development Fund (FDC) was created by presidential
decree on March 23, 1989 as a response to farmers' demands for Government support to
their activities, in view of the closure of the State-run Agrarian Bank. It was set up as a
non-profit, independent financing agency to support small, non commercial agricultural
and productive rural activities. The head of FDC was given ministerial status and reported
to the President. FDC's capital base was to come from Treasury contributions, and from
grants, loans and other non-reimbursable contributions by foreign governments and
multilateral organizations. FDC's mandate was not only to provide grants16 (PIDC), but
was also to extend credit directly to small farmer groups. This caused serious credit-
recovery problems at FDC, which contributed to subsequent Presidential Decrees
regulating its activities.
11.         Internal Organization. FDC's organizational structure is based on a
technical advisory division at headquarters and regional program officers in each of the
nine Departments in the country. The total number of staff is 65. The Executive
President reports to the Minister of the Presidency. The General Manager is FDC's chief
operating officer. FDC's operative body is divided in four Directorates: Infra-structure
and Services, Credit, Administration and Finance; and Planning, Follow-up and
Evaluation. The PIDC is located under the Infrastructure and Services Directorate.
12.         FDC suffers from a lack of qualified personnel particularly at the
Departmental levels. Consequently, decisions are made only at headquarters. This
centralized decision meeting coupled with complex legal procedures, has negatively
affected FDC's ability to respond adequately to its clients. FDC has now recently
established criteria to decentralize approval and administrative authority to the regional
offices (see Appendix l). Consequently, the project would contribute to multilateral
efforts to strengthen FDC by financing the acquisition of nine vehicles (one per regional
office) and the hiring of 20 consultants. IDA would finance, during three years, a civil
engineer and administrator for each of the nine Departments and one agronomist and a
lawyer at the central office. The terms of reference of the consultants have been agreed
upon during appraisal and would be included in the Project Implementation Manual.
13.          Functions and Operations. FDC's funds are channeled through its credit
and PIDC arms. The PIDC program is designed to provide prompt response to simple
constraints in the rural productive process. Accordingly, rather than funding complex and
costly projects, it seeks to finance large numbers of small-scale projects with high
beneficiary participation.
16 Programa de Inversiones para el Desarrollo Campesino, PIDC (Investment Program for
Small Farmer Development).



- 63 -
14.            Sources of Funds. Between March 23, 1989 and December, 1993, FDC
raised a total US$33.7 million from bilateral donors and the Inter-American Development
Bank (US$12.5 million) for the financing of the PIDC.
Table 1 - FDC Equity Structure
L_______________________________   (In USS 'OOOs)
FY1992        FY1993          FY1994
Subscribed Capital                          6,521.74      6,521.74         6,521.74
Unpaid Portion                              5,277.74       5,194.57        5,194.57
Paid-in Capital                             1,244.00       1,327.17        1,327.17
Grants Pending Application
German Technical Cooperation                  320.04        133.82            14.41
Swiss Technical Cooperation                   180.22        144.80            0.00
Dutch Technical Cooperation                 1,618.70        892.78         1,768.89
Belgium                                     2,068.04       2,832.61          318.46
Operational Results                        (340.87))        308.79         (962.87)
Less:                                                _________
Grants from Holland                           659.56                          96.00
Revaluation Adjustments                        43.70         38.82            38.08
TOTAL                                       4,386.87      5,601.15         1,762.80
Source: FDC
15.            Project Financing. Up to the end of 1994, FDC disbursements amounted
to US$12.8 million of which US$5.4 million were for credit operations and US$7.4
million for PIDC. FDC has had disbursement problems in 1994. There were
administrative problems to access BID and KfW funds, the Board of Directors had been
disbanded so that no new grants (above US$80,000) could be approved, and the transfer
of functions from the CORDES (which carried out 60 percent of the FDC projects) to the
municipalities through the Popular Participation Law created implementation problems.
Table 2 - FDC - Disbursements  eryear and pr component (US$'000l
PIDC        CREDIT       TOTAL           Admin.      Admin. Costs/
Costs       Disbursements
1990                                   750             750         NIA.               N/A.
1991                       132        1,000          1,132         N/A.               N/A.
1992                     1,194         524           1,718          826               43%
1993                     1,505         676           2,181          996                51%
1994                     4,524       2,500           7,024          936               22%
1995                    10,000       5,900          15,900        1,418                9%
TOTAL (1990-1994)       17,165        8,654         25,819_
16.            Financial Performance. FDC's balance sheet does not include resources
that are received by FDC for the PIDC, which are kept in contingency accounts. FDC has
requested the Banking Superintendency to determine a better way to classify the bulk of
its financial sources within the balance sheet. Administrative expenses, on the other hand,
include those for the PIDC. Consequently the reported results reflect only part of FDC's
main line of activity, namely grants. The 1992 and 1993 results show a big increase in
administrative expenses - mainly salary increases- and an extraordinary increment in
uncollectible accounts.



- 64 -
Table 3 - FDC Operating Results
(US$'00s)
FY1991       FY1992         FY1993        FY1994
Financial income (income less expenses)  190.87      372.83         303.41       860.77
Charge for uncollectible accounts      (20.87)      (620.87)     (1,239.38)    (1,037.66)
Administrative expenses               (387.61)      (784.35)     (1,053.18)    (1,418.46)
OtherlItems                               .43        (6.09)           5.38        10.48
Operational Loss                    (217.17( (217.17) |744.92|    (539.44)
ExtraordinaryLncome-Net    L        308,575.65       418.04        1,007.37     1,161.44
Net result for the Year/Period (Loss)   91.52       (620.22)     (1,720.79)     (962.87)
Source: FDC
FDC Reform Process and Institutional Arrangements
17.           During the period of September 1990-April 4, 1993, a number of
fraudulent activities involving misuse of funds, forging of operations, and other illegal acts
allegedly took place at FDC. Since the new management team was put in place in 1993,
reform efforts have been successful in improving internal control and auditing procedures,
as well as in streamlining operations. FDC management has also made an effort to
improve performance at all levels. It is expected that Board restructuring and the
proposed management decentralization plan enhance FDC responsiveness to client needs.
FDC Institutional Strengthening
18.           Under the project FDC would complete a comprehensive overhaul of its
procedures. New procedures would permit regional approval of small sub-projects (below
a maximum ceiling) and simplify legal, administrative, and disbursement procedures.
During appraisal, agreement has been reached on FDC's decentralization plan and how its
implementation would be monitored. The plan is included in the Project Implementation
Manual and attached to this Annex in Appendix 1. The Mid-Term Review would evaluate
the implementation of the decentralized procedures. To accompany the above reforms,
the project would strengthen FDC's Departmental offices by financing one local
professional in civil engineering or agronomy and one administrative consultant for each
Department during three years. In addition, the project would finance an agronomist and
one legal consultant in FDC central office. This would also enable FDC to gradually
decentralize its management system by delegating authority to the Departmental offices to
evaluate, approve, finance, and supervise small sub-projects. Detailed terms of reference
for the consultants financed under the project have been agreed upon during appraisal and
are to be included in the Project Implementation Manual. Moreover, the project would
provide vehicles and equipment to FDC's Departmental offices.



FDC's Decentralization Plan
Funciones       Situaci6n Actual                Gesti6n 1995                                  Gestion 1996                             Gesti6n 1997
Delegaci6n Parcial                           Delegaci6n Integral                    Fase de Consolidacion y
Ajustes
1. Evaluaci6n     Cada uno de los      La evaluaci6n tenica se hace a nivel   Idem                                                Idem
T&enica de        proyectos debe ser    departamental en los rubros profesionales
Proyectos         evaluado por un      del OP y OP adjunto. Se solicita el apoyo
tenico de la central   del tecnico de la central en casos que el
proyecto este fuera del area profesional de
los funcionarios del FDC departamental,
casos especificos y para los proyectos
encima de:
USS 25,000 para l.B.                   Se aumnentan los topes:                             Se awnentan los topes:
USS 5,000 para A.P.                    USS 40,000 para I.B.                                USS 50,000 para I.B.
USS 3,500 para F.I.                    USS 10,000 para A.P.                                USS 20,000 para A.P.
USS 5,000 para F.I                                 USS 8,000 para F.l.
Fecha de                               Tres meses despues de la contrataci6n de    Luego de I ailo de prueba con los topes definidos  Luego del alto de prueba con los
Implementaci6n                         los OPs adjuntos. El plazo es previsto para   anteriornente y/o si una evaluaci6n de los OP's lo pennite  topes definidos anteriormente y/o   CT,
su entrenamiento y capacitaci6n                                                            si una evaluaci6n de los OP's lo    Ci
penute
2. Aprobaci6n de    Todos los proyectos   La central incremnenta en niwnero y en  Se incrementa el tope para sub-proyectos a USS 5,000.  Se incrementa el tope para sub-
proyectos y de    se aprueben a nivel    innbitos de trabajo los proyectos marco para  A nivel departamental se tiene tn Comite de  proyectos hasta US$ 7,500.
financiamniento   central. Existen 3   qua las oficinas departamentales aprueben    Financiamiento capacitado para aprobar proyectos que se
proyectos en F.l. con  localmente proyectos dentro de estos  encuentran en los planes de desarrollo seccionales. Los  Se incrementan los topes de
tope USS2,000 por    marcos, hasta un limite establecido en los    representantes de la SNDR y los municipios de los  aprobaci6n en funci6n de la
sub-proyecto        proyectos marco para sub-proyectos      proyectos correspondientes, adetmas un miembro del  capacidad demostrada en cada
(rnaximo USS3,000). Se dispone de      Comite de Financianilento de la Central. El Conute  oficina departamental.
proyectos marco en los componentes de  aprueba entre los limnites definidos:
I.B., A.P. y F.I.                      USS 25,000 para I.B.                                USS 30,000 para I.B.
USS 5,000 para A.P.                                USS 8,000 par A.P.
USS 2,500 para F.I.                                USS 4,000 para F.l.
Fecha de                               Actividad continua desde ahora          Cuatro meses despues de la contrataci6n de los tecnicos    Luego de I alfo de prueba y de
Implementaci6n                                                                 previstos incluidos los administradores, el sistema  una evaluaci6n del desempeflo de
funciona completamente.                            la oficina departamental.
rfrT
:jX,
X



FDC's Decentralization Plan
(cont.)
Funciones        Situaci6n Actual                   Gesti6n 1995                                      Gesti6n 1996                                  Gesti6n 1997
Delegaci6n Parcial                               Delegaci6n Integral                        Fase de Consolidacion y
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _A_ _u ste se
3. Administraci6n    Todo centralizado,   La oficina departamental maneja ya no una    La oficina departamental tiene un manejo administrativo    Idem
manejo de caja chica   caja chica sino una cuenta corriente para  integral de los proyectos aprobados localmente. El manejo
por el O.P.           cubrir gastos operativos y pago de los     se hace a traves de un administrador.
proyectos que corresponden a los proyectos
marco.
Fecha de                                  A los dos meses de contratar el             Paralelamente al financiamiento del Comite de
hnplementaci6n                            administrador departamnental y cuando se    fmnanciamiento departamental
tenga el apoyo logistico (Secretaria,
equipamento)
4. Legal            Todos los contratos    La oficina departamental es asesorada por    Idem                                                  Idem
se elaboran y se      un abogado local que elabora los contratos y
firman en la central    que son ratificados en la central. Los OPs
reciben un porder especifico para firmar la
protocolizaci6n de los contratos.
Fecha de                                  A partir de junio de 1995
Implementaci6n    I     _I_                                                          I                                                       I_
O.P.:   Official del Programa
I.B.:   Infraestructura Basica
A.P.:   Apoyo a la Producci6n
F.I.:    Fortelacimiento Institucional
Id" (
:SX



- 67 -
ANNEX 4
BOLWIA
RURAL COMMUNITMES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Executing Agencies
Need for Expertise
1.           This Annex identifies: (i) the project's technical and managerial expertise
requirements; (ii) potential technical sources; (iii) major issues concerning such expertise;
and (iv) project responses to these issues.
2.           Each sub-project phase requires specific technical expertise of the various
local organizations. Table 1 juxtaposes the organizational levels--OTB, municipality, EE,
and sub-contractor--with the technical expertise required for each phase--demand
identification and formulation, sub-projects preparation, implementation, evaluation and,
operation. In addition, communities and municipalities require a minimum of managerial
and administrative skills to contract technical expertise to implement their development
plans.
Table 1 - The Needs for Technical Expertise in Sub-Project Phases
Phase             Steps         Levels where the technical expertise is required
Community Municipality  Executing    Sub-
(OTB)               Agency (EE)  contractor
ppp            Preparatory          _
Diagnostic               *          *      
PMD Development          *          O      
Sub-Project Profile     O
Feasibility Study                               O
Technical Design                                O     
Implementation Execution                            0 O        *
Monitoring               *
Evaluation                              .
Legend: * = Principal Source of Expertise; O = Secondary Source of Expertise
3.           An Executing Agency (EE) can fill technical gaps and provide the needed
capabilities to the local organizations. A qualified EE has sound managerial and
administrative skills and a strong linkage with the rural communities. The EE can directly
provide the required technical knowledge or contract a sub-contractor as a technical
source.



- 68 -
Available Expertise
4.           Sources of expertise include NGOs, Church entities, public institutions, and
private consulting firms.
Non-Governmental Organizations (NGO)17
5.           The Bolivian NGO movement started in the 60's with the Catholic Church.
In the 70's, politically-oriented NGOs were created to oppose the military dictatorships.
The economic crises associated with the structural adjustment policies of the 80's,
increased the number of NGOs working among the poor urban and rural communities.
6.           Today, more than 600 NGOs manage annually US$200 nillion in funds
from bilateral cooperation and the Bolivian Government. The NGO movement in Bolivia
is a precursor to the participatory strategy, as 24 NGOs already have Participatory
Planning experience". Two examples of on-going NGO efforts in participatory planning,
dating back some ten years, are in the provinces of Mizque, with the NGO CEDEAGRO,
and Zudafiez, with PROAGRO.
7.           Around 38519 NGOs are organized into three networks: UNITAS (Uni6n
Nacional de Institucionespara el Trabajo de Acci6n Social), ERBOL (Escuela
Radiof6nica de Bolivia) and AIPE (Asociaci6n de Instituciones Para Educaci6n). These
are coordinated by the national Coordinadora de Redes. Among the NGOs, there is a
sub-group of 80 NGOs referred to as Institutions for Social Development (Ins!ituciones
para el Desarrollo Social, IPDS). These NGOs have attempted to distinguish themselves
by imposing upon themselves relatively rigid professional standards, including external
audits. The IPDS seek sustainable development, instead of charitable activities.
8.           To manage the NGO movement, Government established a Directorate of
NGO Coordination (Directorio Central de Organizaciones Non-Gobernamentales,
DCONG) in the Ministry of Human Development and a NGO registry. The registry
contains information the activities of nearly 300 national and 75 foreign registered NGOs.
9.           There are 146 registered NGOs in the target area of project intervention.
Among these, 93 work in rural development, more than a third in agricultural production,
another third in marketing, and 93 percent provide training and extension.
17 An NGO is a private non-profit organization, national or foreign, religious or not, which
implements developments or charity activity with Govemment or foreign cooperation fimds
in the national territory (Supreme decree 2409. La Paz, 1990).
18 Experiencias de Planificaci6n Regional en Bolivia: Relevamiento - R. Soriano, G-DRU -
COTESU - MCTH (1994).
'9 Source: "385 ONGs en Bolivia (Cat6logo) ". Peres Antonio y Coordinadora de Redes.
UNITAS. La Paz (1990).



- 69 -
10.         The advantages of relying upon NGOs as sources of technical expertise are
based upon their: (i) focus on the very poor; (ii) proximity to the communities;
(iii) capacity to reach the rural poor in remote areas; (iv) capacity to promote local
participation; and (v) capacity to operate at low cost. For these reasons and because of
the ineffectiveness of many public agencies in rural areas, NGOs have become crucial in
the country's rural development programs.
11.         The main weaknesses associated with NGOs as sources of technical
expertise are their: (i) limited technical capacity; (ii) lack of broad programming;
(iii) limited sustainability of the organization and their projects; and (iv) narrow
geographic scope. While some NGOs are efficient organizations with extensive
knowledge of rural Bolivia, others are extremely weak both in terms of management and
technical skills. The need to distinguish the efficient from the weaker NGOs complicates
Government collaboration with them.
Churches
12.         Although they are not always officially registered as NGOs, various
churches and their institutions--principally the Catholic Church--are active in Bolivia. The
most active and prominent organizations are: CARITAS and "Social Works for Rural
Roads" (Obras Sociales de Caminos de Acceso Rural) which cover the whole country.
Religious organizations tend to focus on charitable social assistance programs, promoting
handicraft, health, extension, formal and informal education projects. Most projects are
financed by funds from the Church and Governments of the industrial countries.
Public Institutions
13.         The following is a brief description of four major public institutional
sources of technical expertise.
14.         Departmental Development Corporations (CORDES). The
Development Corporation (CORDES), public Departmental development institutions,
were originally part of the national Bolivian Development Corporation (Corporaci6n
Boliviana de Fomento - CBF), an immense institution, managing numerous public-owned
industries. In the '70s, CBF was broken into nine Departmental corporations, each
responsible for productive investments as well as basic infrastructure. CORDES play an
important role rural development. In 1994, CORDES were executing 80 FDC-funded
sub-projects, representing more than half of the total 1994 FDC portfolio.
15.         As a result of the privatization of public investments throughout Bolivia,
CORDES' role in implementation and their involvement in regional and sub-regional
planning and supporting municipalities would increase. Decreto Supremo No 23845
(August 18, 1994) divides the responsibilities of the CORDES into four major areas:
(i) general; (ii) planning; (iii) Departmental investments; and (iv) strengthening of
municipalities.



- 70 -
16.          General responsibilities of the CORDES include to: (i) formulate
Departmental development plans which integrate and articulate development plans defined
at the municipal, regional, and national level; (ii) present Departmental development plans
to MDSMA in conjunction with recommendations concerning required policy changes
which are necessary to facilitate their implementation; and (iii) ensure that the
Departmental allocation of resources is in line with PMDs.
17.          CORDES's concrete responsibilities in the area of planning, relevant to the
project are to: (i) establish, manage, and maintain databases containing information on
characteristics, use, potential and limitations of natural resources in the Departments;
(ii) support the efforts of municipalities to establish their own capacity to manage the PPP,
formulate local investment projects; and define PAOs; (iii) establish mechanisms to
facilitate and integrate the financing of projects; (iv) make a program of Departmental
investments and a projection of required resources to finance these investments; (v) enter
into contracts with third parties to prepare and implement projects which have an impact
beyond municipal boundaries; (vi) on request of municipalities, enter into contracts with
third parties to prepare and execute projects which exceed the technical and/or financial
management capacity of municipalities; (vii) participate in the preparation, actualization,
and implementation of the national territorial regulatory plan (Plait Nacional de
Ordenamiento Territorial) and present Departmental land use plans to MDSMA; and
(viii) promote and ensure that municipal governments and other public and private entities
conduct environmental impact assessments as part of ex-ante evaluations of investment
projects.
18.          With respect to the responsibilities of CORDES regarding Departmental
investments, the decree indicates two issues which have relevance for the project. lFirst,
CORDES have a leading role in defining investment priorities based on the Departmental
development plan. Second, CORDES, as the representing bodies of the Executive Power,
would monitor the implementation of investment projects by municipal governments.
19.         In the area of municipal strengthening, CORDES would: (i) provide
support in the formulation of PAOs and the preparation of annual budgets; (ii) assist the
municipalities in the utilization of Co-participation Funds in such a way that municipal
administrative costs do not exceed ten percent of the resources made available under this
arrangement; (iii) assist in the maintenance of infrastructure, particularly secondary roads
and micro-irrigation systems; (iv) assist in the formation of inter-community collaboration
arrangements, particularly in municipalities having less than 5,000 inhabitants; (v) assist
municipalities in the establishment of their own capacity to manage the PPP and to
promote the sustainable use of natural resources; (vi) provide technical assistance to
municipalities in contracting basic services; and (vii) assist municipalities in identifying,
formulating and administrating projects.
20.          Bolivian Institute of Agricultural Technology (IBTA) is an agricultural
research and pre-extension institute under the Secretariat of Agriculture. It has five



- 71 -
research stations in the Highland Plateau and Valleys and employs about 120 scientists and
technical specialists researching: (i) cereals (42 technical specialists); (ii) pulses
(11 specialists); (iii) tubercles (51 specialists), (iv) livestock (15 specialists); and
(v) special projects (cultivation systems and small ruminants). With the support of the
IDA financed Agriculture Technology Development Project, IBTA is overcoming a long
and difficult period of inefficiency. With its functions clarified, it is anticipated that IBTA
would play a central role in agricultural technology generation.
21.          Tropical Agricultural Research Center (CIAT) is a Santa Cruz-based
agricultural research institution, under the Secretariat of Agriculture, which specializes in
tropical agriculture. Its annual budget in recent years was US$3 million.
22.          National Road Service (SNC), under the Transport Ministry, is
responsible for construction and maintenance of major roads (troncales). Presently SNC
carries out maintenance and sub-contracts road construction to international companies.
About a fifth of SNC's budget is financed by user tolls, the remainder is from the National
Treasury. Of the 4,500 employees, about 10 percent are technical personnel.
23.          Prefectures are the central Government's Departmental representatives in
charge of construction of rural social infrastructure, including government buildings,
squares and water and sanitation infrastructures. Their financial sources are: the National
Treasury, Social Investment Fund (FIS), FDC and the Regional Development Fund
(FDR). Their human resources are 1,558 technical staff and 3,571 non-professional
workers.
Private Consulting Firms
24.          There are 49 consulting firms associated with ANEC, the association of
private consulting firms (Asociaci6n Nacional Empresas Consultoras, ANEC). To
participate in public bidding, a private firm needs to be an ANEC-member. Among its
members, ANEC counts 495 technical experts and 286 administrative personnel. Of the
member firms, 17 are involved with agricultural development. While technically
competent, these firms are oriented toward the design and implementation of relatively
large-scale projects, having little contact with small farmers in remote rural areas.



- 72 -
Issues
25.          The discussion on the adequacy of technical and managerial expertise in
Bolivia for the execution of the project raises a number of issues:
(a)     Information on National Supply of Technical Expertise. There would be
strong demand for technical and managerial expertise, especially from the
weaker rural municipalities. However, information on national technical
expertise sources is insufficient to assess the adequacy of supply to satisfy the
demand that would be generated by PPP.
(b)     Expertise in Participatory Planning Process. Only 24 NGOs (less than ten
percent of all NGOs) have experience in this methodology.
(c)     Managerial Expertise. Most municipalities lack the required managerial and
administrative skills and knowledge to perform the responsibilities as laid out in
the LPP.
(d)     Funding Agencies' Policies. Many EEs do not know the policies or
procedures for sub-project proposal presentation to the funding agencies. As a
result, funding agencies frequently receive sub-project proposals which are
unacceptable because they are: (i) beyond the institutional terms of reference;
(ii) poorly presented; or (iii) lack required information. Faulty proposal
presentation delays the appraisal process and limits sub-project approval. Lack
of knowledge of funding agencies' policies is regarded as a greater limitation
to project approval than is lack of expertise in sub-project design.
(e)     Expertise in Rural Areas. In certain rural areas, Cochabamba, Chuquisaca
and La Paz, there is a myriad of technically sound institutions with strong
relationships with the rural communities. In others, especially Pando and the
Beni, coverage is extremely weak. Private consulting firms in Bolivia are
technically competent in design of agricultural and infrastructure projects.
However, the reluctance of many qualified technicians to work in the remote
rural areas limits the possibilities of financing rural investments.
Project's Response
26.          The project would mitigate the above problems by: (i) better organizing
and classifying available information regarding technical supply to better identify local
needs and improve the efficiency of existing expertise; (ii) providing training at various
levels to address the most widespread deficiencies in technical or managerial expertise; and
(iii) financing EEs and project preparation activities in remote areas. The project would
address each issue as described below:



- 73 -
(a)   Organization and Dissemination of Available Information. SNDR is
assessing the national supply of technical expertise. The results of this
institutional diagnostic are to be available by the end of 1994. To increase the
efficiency of existing institutions, SNDR would organize a committee to share
and coordinate information on rural development and appropriate technologies
among public and private institutions.
(b)   Participatory Planning Process Techniques. The experience developed by
SNDR and some NGOs would be used to train EEs, municipalities and OTBs.
This training would focus on learning-by-doing techniques, including inviting
trainees to participate in actual PPP sessions (Annex 7).
(c)   Managerial Expertise. Municipalities, OTBs and EEs have limited
administrative and financial management expertise. The project, through
SNPP and specialized training firms, would finance training for local
organizations in administration, accounting and financial and personnel
management (Annexes 5 and 6).
(d)   Funding Agency's Policies. The project would finance training to develop
sub-project design skills. Sub-project ideas need to be developed into a
technical design which can be easily appraised by the funding agencies. EEs
would either design the project directly or would sub-contract the design to
specialized institutions having the required technical knowledge. The project
would train EEs to prepare or supervise the preparation of the technical design
of sub-projects in conformity with financial source norms (Annex 7).
(e)   Expertise in Rural Areas. To encourage EE establishment in remote areas,
the project would contract EEs in specific rural areas for PPP support and sub-
project preparation. In addition, the funding agencies would need to consider
and compensate the private firms the additional costs inherent in working for
prolonged periods of time in remote rural areas.



- 74 -
ANNEX 5
BOLIIA
RURAL COMMUNITES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Gender Perspective
Existing Situation
1.          While the role of rural women varies with their cultural origin and their
degree of urbanization,20 some generalizations can be made concerning their position in
the rural society. Women are solely responsible for domestic affairs, including family
nutrition, education and health. They provide child care, cultivate, process and prepare
basic foods, care for small animals and market farm produce. Agricultural and manual
labor is divided equally between the husband and wife. In addition, women make crafts
and textiles providing a significant source of household income.
2.          According to the 1992 Census, nearly one-quarter of rural households are
headed by women. Households with women as heads are most prevalent in the Highland
Plateau. In Chuquisaca, Potosi and Oruro, because of the high rate of emigration of men,
more than one-third of poor rural households are headed by women. In the Tropics,
women head households are less common, with less than 10 percent of the poor rural
households headed by women. Female-headed households are among the poorest of the
rural households as family income of those households is only 54 percent of the average
income of households with both a male and female income earner.
3.          Although there still exists a significant gender bias in education levels, over
the years important progress has been made in reducing differences between men and
women. The incidence of illiteracy is still higher in rural areas compared to urban areas,
but in both areas significant progress has been made for both men and women between
1976 and 1992 (Table 1). This progress appears even more significant as illiteracy
percentages are specified for different age groups, which indicate that the gap between
men and women between 15-24 years old has reduced from 15.7 to 4.7 percentage points
between 1976 and 1992. In general terms the data suggest three major conclusions:
(i) illiteracy is concentrated in rural areas among women in the older age category;
(ii) illiteracy percentages of women in 1992 are at similar levels of men in 1976; and
(iii) reduction of illiteracy percentages is most notable in the younger age categories.
Reduction seems to have been relatively slow among women in urban areas.
4.          Despite their dominant role in household affairs, cultural practices,
exacerbated by the high incidence of illiteracy, have prevented women from actively
participating in community decision-making. While women are permnitted to attend
20 Ranaboldo, Claudia, Muier v Gestion Ambiental en Bolivia, FONAMA, La Paz, 1993.



- 75 -
communal assemblies, their presence, with few exceptions, is figurative. In addition,
unlike men who receive documentation upon military conscription, most women do not
have proper identification papers, precluding them from, among other things, voting in
local or national elections.
Table 1 - Illiteracy (%) in Bolivia 1976-1992
Women                           Men
1976           1992           1976            1992
Rural                     68.5%          49.9%          37.3%           23.1 %
Urban                     23.3%          15.5%           6.2%            3.8%
15-24 years              24.2%            8.4%           8.5%            3.7%
25-44 years              50.3%           22.9%          21.2%            7.7%
over 45 years            74.9%           58.3%          48.5%           28.8%
Source: Sub-Secretaria de Genero
Integration of Gender Focus in Project Activities
5.          The project would be an important vehicle to begin to integrate women
into Bolivian political and civil affairs by increasing their active participation in the
implementation of the Popular Participation Law, particularly in the participatory planning
process and in the implementation of PMDs. Although SNDR aims to integrate a gender
focus in all project activities, a number of specific activities have been defined under the
project to ensure such integration at the operational level. These activities include:
(i) evaluation of the participatory planning process and the PMDs from a gender
perspective; (ii) support to the participation of women in the registration of OTBs and the
formation of Comites de Vigilanlcia; (iii) support to the implementation and adjustment of
PMDs from a gender perspective; and (iv) support to the implementation of a training
program focusing on gender issues.
6.          A multi-institutional team consisting of three experts from SNDR's central
office, three experts from the central office of the Sub-Secretaria Nacional de Asunltos de
Genero (SAG) and seven experts of its Departmental offices would implement this
program in 14 pilot municipalities. The results of the program would be integrated in
SNDR's activities as defined under the project's Rural Investment Identification and
Formulation component and the Training of Public and Private Organizations component.
The ultimate aim of incorporating a gender perspective in the project activities is to
increase the number of sub-projects financed by FDC which particularly focus on women
in development issues.
7.           The evaluation of the participatory planning process and the PMDs would
include: (i) formulation of criteria for gender-based evaluation; (ii) evaluation of
participatory planning process in 14 pilot municipalities and incorporation of results in
evaluation methodology to be followed in the remaining 84 municipalities; (iii) evaluation
of proposed investments in the PMDs to ensure that "women-oriented" projects, such as



- 76 -
improved technology for basic food crop cultivation, agro-processing and textiles, are
considered in the community's investment program; and (iv) adjustment of participatory
planning manual based on results of the evaluation.
8.           Support to the participation of women in the registration of OTBs and the
formation of Comites de Vigilancia would include: (i) registration of OTBs and formation
of Comites de Vigilancia in 14 pilot municipalities; (ii) coordination with other
departments of the registration of OTBs and formation of Comites de Vigilancia, based on
the lessons learnt in the 14 pilot municipalities; and (iii) adjustment of corresponding
manuals for registration of OTBs and formation of Comites de Vigilancia to ensure
participation of women in these processes.
9.           Support to the implementation and adjustment of PMDs from a gender
perspective would include: (i) execution of additional diagnosis in 14 pilot municipalities,
based upon which PMDs would be adjusted and the methodology for adjustment in the
other 84 municipalities would be defined; (ii) ensure including of gender perspective in
Terms of Reference of contracts for Executing Agencies; and (iii) support to the
preparation of sub-project proposals following project eligibility criteria with respect to
gender of local investment funds.
10.         Support to the implementation of a training program focusing on gender
issues would include: (i) training in gender issues of personnel of institutions involved in
rural development; (ii) preparation and diffusion of didactic material on gender issues in
rural development; (iii) incorporation of gender issues in the curricula of projects focusing
on human resources development; (iv) incorporation of a gender perspective in the
proposed training programs aiming at OTBs; and (v) incorporation of a gender
perspective in the proposed technical training for project formulation, preparation, and
management (as described in Annex 7).
Gender Perspective and Sub-project Eligibility Criteria
11.         According to existing sub-project eligibility criteria FDC would not finance
sub-projects with a negative impact on women. In order to determine sub-project's
potential impact on women, FDC takes into account a number of indicators during sub-
project identification and preparation, implementation, and ex-post evaluation.
12.         To indicate women's involvement in sub-project identification and
preparation, FDC looks to find answers on the following questions21: Did women
participate in the identification of community needs which the sub-project seeks to
address? How were women consulted during sub-project preparation? How would the
project change women's access to and control over productive resources? Have women
been considered as a special category of sub-project beneficiaries? What disadvantages
21 Translation from FDC's "Guia de Presentacion de Proyectos ", Financiamiento No
Reembolsable.



- 77 -
and specific problems could the sub-project pose to women? What is the experience of
the proposed executing agency with respect to the integration of women in the process of
development? Do the sub-project objectives indicate that men and women would benefit
equally from the sub-project? Does the sub-project provide equal opportunities to men
and women to participate? How does the sub-project promote the participation of women
and how would it improve her social position? Do women have time to participate in
meetings and seminars associated with the project? How has the existing division of labor
and responsibilities between men and women been taken into consideration in sub-project
objectives and methodology?
13.         In order to determine the involvement of women in sub-project
implementation FDC seeks to answer the following questions during supervision: Does
the sub-project implementation strategy takes into account the traditional roles of men and
women in the activities which would be implemented under the sub-project? Does the
sub-project implementation strategy takes into account how constraints related to
available time, language, education, and religion could affect the participation of women?
Does implementation of the sub-project imply that women have to provide additional labor
besides their existing tasks? How does sub-project implementation strengthen the position
of women in the community? How does sub-project implementation change the position
of women within households? How does sub-project implementation make use of specific
skills traditionally provided by women? Has the contribution of women in sub-project
implementation been quantified? Do women benefit from training activities, technical
assistance and other extension activities related to sub-project implementation? Do sub-
project monitoring indicators include variables which are gender specific? Are women
represented in sub-project management/administration? Have women organized
themselves in order to participate in the sub-project? What are the specific responsibilities
of men and women in sub-project implementation? How do women participate in the
decision-making process related to sub-project implementation? Have women been
trained in sub-project administration and organizational procedures?
14.         In order to determine the impact of sub-projects on women, FDC seeks to
answer the following question during ex-post evaluation: What economic and social
aspects related to the project have benefited women directly? What immediate effects has
the project on the position of women and their participation in community affairs? How
have women participated in the different phases of the project cycle (design, management,
planning, implementation, evaluation)?



- 78 -
ANNEX 6
BOLIVIA
RURAL COMMUNITIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Municipal Strengthening
Background
1.          The approval of the LPP drastically changed the concept of the
municipality as being primarily an urban center. Rural areas, whose administration used to
be the exclusive responsibility of Departmental Governments assisted by Corporaciones
Regionales de Desarrollo (CORDES), were added to the jurisdiction of existing
municipalities or included in new municipalities. On average, a municipality consists of
40 communities, each legally represented by an OTB. OTBs directly supervise and
control the implementation of municipal activities at the community level. They indirectly
monitor and control municipal activities through a Comite de Vigilancia, which supervises
the municipal budget.
2.          Besides the creation of a new administrative structure, the LPP provides
the legal framework for: (i) a major decentralization of political authority; (ii) a more
equitable allocation of public revenues by the central Government; and (iii) increased local
authority in local revenue raising. Consequently, ownership of physical infrastructure,
including hospitals, primary and secondary schools, cultural and sport facilities, secondary
roads; and micro-irrigation systems has been transferred to municipal Governments.
Municipal Governments are now financially responsible for the administration and
maintenance of existing physical infrastructure and supervise their operation. More
importantly, new investments in these areas have to be financed from the municipal
budget.
3.          To allow municipal governments effectively assume their new
responsibilities, the central Government increased the amount of public revenues allocated
to municipalities, by making available so-called co-participation funds. These funds are
allocated on a per capita basis. Actual disbursements only occur when an Annual
Operative Plan (PAO) exists. Besides co-participation funds, municipalities are entitled to
raise own revenues from land taxes and urban property taxes would directly benefit the
municipal budget.
Justification of Project Activities
4.          For most municipalities, and almost all of those included in the target area
of project interventions, the availability of co-participation funds means a considerable
increase in revenues. Total co-participation funds available for distribution to all



- 79 -
301 municipalities in 1995 are estimated at US$145 million. Since the 98 municipalities
included in the project area are relatively small in terms of population, co-participation
funds available to those municipalities are estimated at approximately US$20 million in
1995. Given actual disbursements of the two major Bolivian investment funds (FDC and
FIS) at around US$50 million in 1994, it is clear that resources available to municipalities
for financing investments are significant, even if administrative expenditures and operation
and maintenance costs to be paid from the municipal budget are taken into consideration.
5.           The increase in municipal budgets is even more significant given the lack of
adequate administrative and financial management capacity in most municipalities.
Consequently, municipalities have difficulties spending co-participation funds following
established accounting rules and are unable to effectively raise local revenues. The latter
is, among others, illustrated by the fact that allocated co-participation funds account for
over 95 percent of the budgets of the 98 municipalities included in the project area.
Strengthening the administrative and financial management capacity and capabilities of the
municipalities is therefore a crucial factor for successful implementation of the LPP.
Project Activities
6.           Strengthening the municipalities in these areas is the primary responsibility
of the Secretaria Nacional de Participaci6n Popular (SNPP). For this purpose SNPP has
developed a series of modules to train representatives of municipalities in administration,
and financial management. The project would support SNPP in the implementation of
these modules in the 98 municipalities included in the project area. More specifically, the
project would finance a management unit of four consultants in SNPP, training activities
for trainers to be implemented by SNPP, and service contracts between SNPP and
CORDES and other EEs to actually implement the municipal strengthening activities.
7.           Municipal Administration. Municipal employees would be trained in the
use of an integrated accounting system (Sistema de Contabilidad Integrada, SICOPRE)
which would enable them to keep track of transactions in relation to the municipal budget.
After training, SICOPRE would be installed in all 98 municipalities included in the project
area. Besides accounting, attention would be paid to train municipal employees in the
preparation of the municipal budget (PAO). Personnel management would be another
module within SNPP's program to improve municipal administration. Within this module,
attention would be paid to, among others: (i) recruitment and selection procedures;
(ii) remuneration scales; (iii) terms of reference; (iv) personnel evaluation procedures;
(v) training; and (vi) internal control.
8.           Finance. The specific objective of training activities in the area of finance is
to strengthen the capacity of municipalities to raise and administer local taxes. Municipal
employees would be trained in: (i) setting-up and maintaining tax registers; (ii) collection
and administration of urban property taxes, taxes on vehicles, etc.; and (iii) preparation
and maintenance of statistics on tax collection.



- 80 -
ANNEX 7
BOLIVIA
RURAL COMMUNITIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Training Program
1.          Effective implementation of participatory rural development requires
training for: (i) public institutions; (ii) Executing Agencies; and (iii) OTBs. All are
important agents to ensure that the participatory process reaches the rural communities
and that the communities are capable of responding. The objective of the training
program is to create an increasingly wide network of communicators to transmit the
precepts of Government's new rural development strategy and the technical, managerial
and administrative skills for the strategy's effective implementation in 98 municipalities,
covering 4,000 rural communities.
Purpose
2.          The training program would strengthen the training capacities of SNDR
and other relevant institutions, establishing a network of trainers. This network would
develop a cadre of community facilitators and EEs, which would bring the participatory
planning process to the rural communities and assist the communities through the process.
Specifically, the training program would include the: (i) establishment a central multi-
disciplinary team in SNDR, composed of a SNDR staff and representatives of relevant
institutions; (ii) creation of training capacity in SNDR's nine Departmental offices; and
(iii) the development and implementation of training modules for EEs, municipalities,
community leaders and farmer-experts, in selected subjects relevant to the PPP..
Network of Trainers
3.          First priority would be given to the establishment of a multi-disciplinary
team within central SNDR, composed of selected technicians from SNDR and relevant
public institutions, including: IBTA, SNAG, SAG, SPP, Energy, SNC, Natural
Resources, and others. The team members would be professionally qualified and well-
informned concerning Government's rural development strategy. During training, members
would learn how Government intends to bring the PPP to the rural communities and the
specific role each institution plays. Training would also be a forum for coordinating the
institutional activities, especially with respect to establishing and training the nine multi-
disciplinary Departmental teams.



- 81 -
Training Program
500 Rural Communities
AA/
4.  In ordr oepad'l  va,  t1khe   , NDcentl tam, wudvs,
Municipalities   i
Workshops iand Seminars
VSNDR
Nletwork of Trainers
4.           In order to expand its coverage, the SNDR central team would visit, train
and set-up sirnilar multi-disciplinary technical teams in each Department. This phase
would require the central team to temporarily reside in each Department to identify and
notify relevant technicians of the various public and private institutions of upcotning
seminars and workshops. The central team would conduct in each Department workshops
to: (a) explain Government's rural development strategy, including the LPP; (b) introduce
the concepts of the PPP; (c) explain the role of the Departmental teams in the training of
EEs and community facilitators; and (e) provide instruction in teaching methods and
didactic materials.
Terms of Reference of Training Modules
5.           Terms of Reference have been prepared for the following Training
Modules: (i) PPP Methodology Training; (ii) Strengthening of Community Institutions;
(iii) Adjustment of Municipal Development Plans (PMDs); (iv) PAO Management and
Project Identification; (v) Project Preparation and Implementation; and (vi) Development
of Human Resources.



- 82 -
6.    PPP Methodology Training
(a)   Objective: Train CORDES and SNDR Departmental personnel in PPP
methodology, in order to achieve its implementation in all 301
municipalities.
(b)   Target Audience: Nine CORDES and SNDR Departmental offices 22.
(c)   Activities: 18 four-day Departmental workshops with 30 participants each;
nine to be organized in 1995 and nine in 1996. One national workshop in
1995 to evaluate results and adjust training module.
(d)   Training Content and Methodology: Subjects to be covered in the training
module include: (i) general principles of the PPP; (ii) community
diagnostic; (iii) prioritization of community proposals at the municipal
level; (iv) formulation of a PMD; and (v) preparation of a PAO and
investment plans. Training methodology consists of lectures, case studies,
and group discussions.
(e)   Output: Nine CORDES and SNDR have sufficient methodological
background and managerial capacity to effectively manage the
implementation of the PPP in 210 municipalities.
(f)    Costs: 18 Departmental workshops @ US$3,000/workshop, one national
workshop @US$12,000/workshop, didactic materials US$15,000. Total
costs of the module are: US$81,000.
(g)   Implementing Agency: SNDR Central Office.
7.    Adjustment of Municipal Development Plans (PMDs)
(a)   Objective: Train EEs the required methodology to adjust PMDs in
98 municipalities included in the target area of project intervention.
(b)   Target Audience: Unidentified number of EEs, and representatives of
98 municipalities.
(c)   Activities: Nine Departmental workshops of 30 participants each to be
organized in 1996.
22 To enable indigenous matrix organizations to coordinate and monitor the participatory
planning process in the indigenous municipal districts within their jurisdiction an additional
three PPP methodology training workshops would be organized.



- 83 -
(d)   Training Content and Methodology: Subjects to be included in the training
module are: (i) general principles of plan adjustment; (ii) revision and
analysis of existing PMDs; (iii) formulation of hypothesis governing plan
adjustment; (iv) operational criteria to ensure participation of all relevant
stakeholders in the adjustment process; and (v) formulation of a workplan
to efficiently implement the adjustment process. Training methodology
includes lectures, group discussions and case studies.
(e)   Output: A sufficient number of capable EEs to carry out the adjustment of
PMDs in 98 municipalities.
(f)    Costs: Nine Departmental workshops @ US$3,000/workshop. Didactic
materials US$15,000. Total costs of the module are: US$42,000.
(g)   Implementing Agency: SNDR.
8.    PMD/PAO Management and Monitoring
(a)   Objective: (i) train EEs in the formulation and implementation monitoring
of PAOs, and project preparation (sub-module 1); and (ii) train municipal
governments, CVs and OTBs in the formulation of PAOs, implementation
monitoring of PAOs, and project preparation (sub-module 2).
(b)   Target Audience: EEs in 98 municipalities (training of trainers);
98 municipal governments, CVs and at approximately 940 OTBs.
(c)   Activities: To achieve objective (i): nine Departmental workshops in 1995
to implement sub-module one and nine Departmental workshops in 1996 to
implement sub-module two. To achieve objective (ii): 98 municipal
workshops in 1995 to implement sub-module one and 98 municipal
workshops in 1996 to implement sub-module two. Implementation of sub-
modules 2 would be integrated in the contracts of EEs for adjustment of
PMDs.
(d)   Training Content and Methodology: Subjects to be included in sub-module
one are: (i) analysis of project demand included in PMD; (ii) identification
of potential sources of finance; (iii) eligibility criteria to access potential
sources of finance; (iv) general criteria governing the preparation of project
profiles; (v) procurement; and (vi) legal requirements enabling an
organization to operate as an EE for particular funding agencies. Subjects
to be included in sub-module two are: (i) monitoring procedures governing
project implementation; (ii) organizational aspects of project
implementation monitoring, including the division of responsibilities
between the municipal government, OTBs and CVs; (iii) formulation and
adjustment of PAOs; and (iv) follow-up on contractual arrangements for



- 84 -
project preparation including budget, administration, etc. Training
methodology includes lectures, group discussions and case studies.
(e)   Output: (i) a sufficient number of capable EEs to train municipal
governments, OTBs, and CVs in PAO management and sub-project
preparation; and (ii) local capacity to handle PAO management and sub-
project preparation independently.
(f)    Costs: To achieve objective (i): 18 Departmental workshops @
US$3,000/workshop. Didactic materials US$15,000. To achieve
objective (ii): 188 workshops at the municipal level
@US$4,000/workshop. Total costs are: US$821,000.
(g)   Implementing Agency: To achieve objective (i): SNDR. To achieve
objective (ii): trained EEs.
9.    Sub-project Preparation and Implementation
(a)   Objective: Train EEs in sub-project preparation and implementation with
the aim to expand the base of eligible EEs funding agencies can draw upon.
(b)   Target Audience: 100 EEs (NGOs, consultant firms, etc.).
(c)   Activities: 30 Departmental workshops to be organized in 1995-1997.
(d)   Training Content and Methodology: The training consists of four sub-
modules focusing on: (i) technical aspects related to environmental
projects; (ii) technical aspects related to agricultural production projects;
(iii) technical aspects related to physical infrastructure projects; and
(iv) technical aspects related to social infrastructure projects. Sub-project
management and administration would be included in all modules. Training
methodology includes lectures, group discussions, working groups and
case studies.
(e)   Output: 100 EEs capable to prepare and implement local investment
projects.
(f)    Costs: Total costs are estimated at US$640,000.
(g)   Implementing Agency: Depending on the subject; specialized agencies
enter into a service contract with SNDR.



- 85 -
Action Plan
10.          SNDR would bear overall responsibility for the execution of the training
program. It would identify and evaluate the needs for institutional strengthening at all
levels, including within grassroots organizations, public and private administrative bodies,
private organizations, and within SNDR, which would coordinate training activities with
relevant institutions, especially with the Secretariat of Popular Participation.
(a)    SNDR would be primarily responsible for the preparation of didactic
methodologies and materials. When desirable, SNDR would contract a private firm for
support. The methods and materials would aim at generating and ensuring full
participation, including rural women, in the distinct phases of the PPP.
(b)   Many of the training methods have been applied with success in several
rural communities of Bolivia. But, because of the cultural diversity and varying levels of
economic development in rural sector, SNDR would continuously verify and adjust the
methodologies to ensure they are suited to the particular conditions of the communities.
Given Bolivia's linguistic and cultural diversity, unique teaching materials (in local
language) are needed to complement these training programs. Promotional materials and
teaching aids, such as radio programs, workshop guides, questionnaires, planning cards,
etc., as well as innovative employment of non-conventional communication methods, such
as puppets, graphics and audio-visual aids.



- 86 -
ANNEX 8
BOLIVIA
RURAL COMMUNITIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Technical Assistance and Consulting Services
CONSULTANTS TO BE FINANCED UNDER THE PROJECT
Organization       Position                        Year 1 Year 2 Year 3
SNDR               Management Consultant                  1       1       1
National Level     Training Consultant                    1       1       1
Expert Technical Training             1
Expert Participatory Planning         1       1       1
Planning and Monitoring Consultant    2       1       1
Consultant Social Organization        1       1       1
Expert Monitoring PMD                 1       1       1
Expert Adjustment of PMDs             1       1       1
Expert Ethnic Affairs                 1       1       1
Consultant Administration             2       2       2
Consultant Technical Promotion        1       1       1
Consultant Social Promotion           1       1       1
Expert Investment Planning            1
SNDR
Regional Level     Management Consultants Level A         6       6       6
Management Consultants Level B        3       3       3
Management Consultants Level C        2       2       2
Technical Assistant Level I          12      12      12
Technical Assistant Level II          8       8       8
TOTAL SNDR                                              46       43      43
FDC                Agronomist                             1       1       1
National Level     Lawyer                                 1       1       1
Expert Ethnic  Affairs                        1       1
FDC                Program Officers                       9       9       9
Regional Level     Administration/Procurement             9       9       9
Disbursement Officers
TOTAL FDC                                               20       21      21
SNPP               Expert Public Administration           1       1
National Level     Expert Tax Administration              1       1
Expert Public Finance                 1       1
Expert Municipal Management           1       1
TOTAL SNPP                                                4       4
TOTAL PROJECT                                            70      68      64



- 87 -
ANNEX 9
BOLIVIA
RURAL COMMUNITIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Rural Investment Component
1.           This Annex describes briefly the sub-project cycle, eligibility criteria for
sub-projects and beneficiaries, procurement and disbursement procedures. All procedures
are or would become part of the FDC Operations Manual.
The Sub-project Cycle
2.           The processing procedures for eligible sub-projects consist of: promotion,
identification, preparation, appraisal, approval, implementation, monitoring, acceptance of
works (for infrastructure projects), operation, and ex post evaluation.
3.           Promotion. FDC would participate in the training of NGOs and other
executing entities (EE) to explain its programs and procedures. Moreover, FDC together
with the EEs would inform municipalities and OTBs on: (i) the eligibility criteria for sub-
projects; (ii) the processing steps for eligible sub-projects identified in their corresponding
Development Plans, including sample documentation and approximate times of
processing; and (iii) execution and supervision mechanisms applied by FDC.
4.           Identirication. Under the project, FDC would process sub-projects
included in municipal development plans, which may include eligible OTB development
proposals and proposals from eligible executing agencies. All proposals should
demonstrate community participation and consensus in the prioritization and identification
of the sub-project. Proposals involving the use of resources that span outside the
geographical coverage of the OTB or the municipality and where conflict may arise,
should include the participation and agreement of the community(ies) affected by the
proposed sub-project.
5.           Preparation. The primary responsibility for sub-project preparation lies
with the executing agency (which would include municipalities and OTBs). The
preparation process may take one of three possible courses: (i) the sub-project is duly
prepared according to FDC requirements and guidelines and requires no further work
prior to appraisal by FDC; (ii) the sub-project profile complies with general eligibility
criteria but requires FDC follow-up and feasibility studies; in such case, the executing
agency would apply for financial assistance from FDC to contract out these studies to
FDC-accredited professionals subject to prior assessment by the program officer on the
compliance with basic eligibility criteria; and (iii) the sub-project profile does not meet
sub-project eligibility criteria, requiring the executing agency to redesign it with guidance
from the FDC program officer.



- 88 -
6.           Appraisal. The FDC program officer, seconded by specialists
(consultants, CORDES staff or other), appraises the sub-project, including an
environmental analysis. Any sub-project deemed unfeasible or not compatible with
environmental standards may be rejected. The executing agency may then consider
redesigning the sub-project and submit it again to FDC.
7.           Approval. Sub-projects of up to US$80,000 are approved by the Finance
Committee. Approval criteria includes economic returns, social impact, environmental
impact and multiplier effect. Some sub-projects require further environmental analysis.
Sub-projects of more than US$80,000 require ratification by FDC's Board of Directors.
Approved sub-projects are then included in FDC's annual operating plan.
8.          Implementation. The responsibility for sub-project implementation lies
with the Co-operating Agency. Sub-project implementation rules include: (a) FDC signs
a contract with the EC; (b) the EC enters into contract with the target community (if the
target community is not an OTB eligible to act as EC); (c) the EC follows FDC bidding
procedures; (d) the target community approves the hiring of external consultants/sub-
contractors by the EC (for training and extension projects); (e) where applicable, the EC
would enter into a contract with the construction contractor or supplier of goods or
services submitting the successful bid; and (f) the EC would ensure proper project
supervision as per its contractual obligations in (a).
9.           Disbursement. FDC would make payments to ECs or directly to
contractors and/or beneficiaries. Advances to ECs, contractors or communities are paid
upon provision of a Bank Guarantee or against SOEs. The low technical and
administrative capacity of many ECs, together with the weakness of FDC's Departmental
offices, are two major causes of slow FDC disbursement. Most grassroots organizations
have little experience in bidding procedures and have difficulties in providing Bank
Guarantees, which is required by Bolivian law before the disbursement of any advance.
FDC plans to set up a COTESU financed Guarantee Fund for ECs and beneficiaries to
avoid this complex Bank Guarantee procedure.
10.          Monitoring. The monitoring of the sub-project is shared by the executing
agency, the beneficiary community and the FDC program officer in a pre-determined
written arrangement. FDC has a planning, monitoring, and evaluation system detailing the
specific instruments and the responsibilities of each. The implementation of this system
requires a remarkable effort of the Departmental offices, which would be strengthened
under the project.
11.         Acceptance of Works. The responsibility for certifying due and proper
fulfillment of conditions of the sub-project is shared by the EC, the beneficiary community
and the program officer (if applicable, with the assistance of specialists at FDC
headquarters and regional offices). All three parties issue an approval and formal
certification of due and proper project sub-project performance.



- 89 -
12.         Operation, Maintenance and Ex-post Evaluation. The beneficiary
community is primary responsible for sub-project operation. However, the EC would
maintain a presence throughout the initial phase to ensure due and proper sub-project
operation, provision of technical assistance services, maintenance and ex-post evaluation.
Sub-project Eligibility Criteria
13.         Under the project, the eligibility of sub-projects would be evaluated by
FDC in accordance with its own procedures and would include the following criteria:
(i)   sub-projects must be identified by rural communities through a
participatory process and be included in the municipal development plan;
(ii)  the technical feasibility of all the sub-project phases - from investment to
operation- has to be attained;
(iii) sub-projects must have a minimum Economic Internal Rate of Return of
12 percent;
(iv)   participation of women is included in the proposal;
(v)   sub-project design has to show the needed flexibility to answer future
problems and to generate a multiplier effect;
(vi)  the environmental impact of the sub-project is to be evaluated and where
necessary, environmental impact mitigation measures are to be proposed; and
(vii)  construction must take less than one year and not exceed US$250,000.
14.         The economic evaluation of sub-projects is done on the basis of sub-project
prototypes (proyecto tipo). FDC has estimated basic parameters for every sub-project
prototype. These parameters are then adjusted to the actual sub-project, such as the
number of beneficiaries and unit costs.
15.         Typical sub-project would include basic infrastructure sub-projects,
production support sub-projects and institutional strengthening sub-projects. Basic
infrastructure sub-projects would not be eligible for financing by IFAD.
Basic Infrastructure Sub-projects
16.         Access Roads. The project would finance the rehabilitation and
improvement of access roads linking remote communities in production zones to rural
markets and feeder roads. Eligible access roads would be one-blade roads of a to 6 m
wide (4 m in the hilly regions, 6 m in the Lowlands and highland plateaus) and
complement the existing system of feeder roads of the National Road Service (Servicio
Nacional Caminos, SNC). Construction of new roads and improvement of roads in
environmentally sensitive areas such as forests, national parks and protected areas
would not be financed. Costs should not exceed US$15,000 per km.
17.         Bridges. The project would only finance bridges in areas where such
investment solves an access problem, where the bridge complements a road access and



- 90 -
where the bridges would not create significant environmental problems . Vehicle bridges
should not be more than 50 meters long and four meters wide, cost less than US$3,000
per meter (for vehicles) and US$1,000 per meter (for walkers)--total maximum FDC
contribution would be US$150,000.
18.         Small-Scale Irrigation. The project would finance small-scale irrigation
schemes not exceeding US$250,000 per sub-project and US$2,500 per ha. Additional
requirements would be that the beneficiary community owns the land and has access to
roads for produce marketing.
19.         Markets, Storage Centers and Artisanal Workshops. The project
would finance infrastructure for markets, storage centers and artisanal workshops under
the following rules: the land on which to build would legally belong to the beneficiaries;
internal rules of the beneficiary communities provide systems to pay for operation and
maintenance; markets would not cost more than US$100 per m2 covered; and (iv) FDC's
maximum contribution would be US$50,000.
Production Support Sub-projects
20.         Rural Technical Assistance and Extension Services. The project would
finance the demand from communities for rural extension services including the equipment
and tools needed for the services. Services would include: technical assistance and
training for farmers, livestock holders, natural resources management, agro-forestry,
technology transfer, and assistance to produce marketing. Costs per sub-project should
not exceed US$150 per sub-project beneficiary.
21.         Revolving Funds for Agricultural Inputs. This type of FDC sub-
projects would not be eligible for financing under the project.
22.         Rural Experimental Activities. Maximum US$250,000 of the IFAD
contribution could be used to finance small specific experiments and research activities
including adaptive agricultural research in communities to experiment with new varieties
and crops, agricultural processing and other similar activities. Each sub-project would not
exceed US$25,000.
Institutional Strengthening Sub-projects
23.         Institutional Strengthening of the Beneficiary Community. The
project would finance training of beneficiary communities through courses, seminars,
workshops to interchange experiences between communities, contracting of technical
assistance to improve the management and organization of the OTBs, and provision of
tools and equipment to carry out the agreed activities. Under the IFAD component, FDC
would also finance the instutional strengthening of co-operating agencies.



- 91 -
Pre-Investment Studies
24.          The project would finance pre-investment studies carried out by consulting
firms recruited by ECs or by the ECs themselves. These pre-investment studies refer to
studies done after the sub-project profiles have been accepted.
Local Human Resources Development
25.          Following demands expressed in PMDs the objective is to increase the
capacity of rural communities to more effectively participate in the PPP and sub-project
preparation by training selected individuals. Training activities could consist of short
courses, workshops, formal education, etc. It is envisaged that existing training centers,
often managed by NGOs, would act as executing agency for this type of projects. Since
demand is expected to be fragmented, SNDR would act as an intermediary by putting
together requests from various PMDs and inviting executing agencies to prepare concrete
proposals to be considered for financing by FDC. For this purpose a total of US$700,000
would provided to FDC. However, if demand for this type of projects is lower than
expected these resources would be used to finance other types of sub-projects.
Eligibility Criteria for Beneficiaries
26.          Beneficiaries include municipalities and OTBs. Peasant families associated
in communities or productive groups of at least ten families, mostly working in agriculture
with traditional technologies, with a limited access to resources and services and in the
process of becoming an OTB would be able to make requests for assistance from FDC.
Beneficiary Contributions
27.          Table 1 (below) summarizes the beneficiary contributions which could be
provided in cash, labor and materials or in a combination thereof.



- 92 -
Table 1 - Benericiary Contributions
FDC            Beneficiary     Maximum    IDA         IFAD
Contribution    Contribution  Amount (USS)  Funded   Funded
(/0)         (%)
Basic Infrastructure
Road Inprovements                80             20                  250,000  yes       no
Bridges for vehicles             80             20                  150,000  yes       no
Walk Bridges                     80             20                  150,000  yes       no
Small Scale Irrigation          75              25                  250,000  yes       no
Markets                         75              25                   50,000  yes       no
Storage Centers                 80              20                   50,000  yes       no
Artesanal Workshops              80             20                   50,000  yes       no
Erosion Control                  80             20                  250,000  yes       no
Water Reservoirs                 75             25                  250,000  yes       no
Production Support
Extension & Training             80,65,50,30    20,35,50,70          150 per  yes      yes
declining      increasing        beneficiary
Agro-forestry                    80             20                   50,000  yes       yes
Experiments and Research         80             20                   25,000  no        yes
Institutional Strengthening
OTBs and Communities            90              10                   25,000  yes       yes
Co-operating Agencies           90              10                   25,000  no        yes
Pre-investment Studies           90             10            10% of invest-  yes      yes
ment costs
Procurement Procedures
28.            Works and Goods. FDC's procurement procedures for sub-project goods
and works are as follows:
(a)     Contracts costing less than US$20,000. ECs and communities would
procure goods and works through direct invitation of at least three
suppliers;
(b)    Contracts costing between US$20,000 and 50,000. ECs and communities
launch local competitive bidding. The invitation is to be advertised in the
press. Minimum time period for bid submission from appearance of
advertisement is 20 days. If local competitive bidding would be
unsuccessful because of lack of offers, the EC and community would be
allowed to proceed to direct invitation of three suppliers/contractors;
(c)    Contracts costing between US$50,000 and 250.000. ECs and communities
launch national competitive bidding (NCB). The invitation is advertised in
the national press. Minimum time period for bid submission from
appearance of advertisement is 20 days.
(d)    Works by communities. Where no contractors are available, the project
would finance works carried out by the communities themselves on the
basis of statements of expenses up to a maximum of US$50,000.



- 93 -
(e)    Works under direct management. The project would finance works carried
out under direct oversight of the ECs and municipalities up to a maximum
of US$80,000 per project. Above such amount, a contractor, recruited
through NCB, has to carry out the works.
29.          Under the project, FDC's procedures for NCB would be modified as
follows. The "two envelope" bid opening (i.e., all technical envelops are opened first and,
after review, price envelopes of qualified/responsive bids are opened in the second round)
would be replaced with a public bid opening and announcement of the bid prices and
discounts. The EC's evaluation committee (on which FDC has a veto-powered vote)
would carry out a post-qualification of the lowest responsive bidder on the basis of
minimum criteria mentioned in the bidding documents. If the lowest responsive bidder
would not qualify, the second-lowest responsive bidder would be evaluated, etc. The
present bracketing rule of discarding all proposals which are 15 percent below the FDC
cost estimate would be abandoned.
30.          Co-operating Agencies (CE). The communities and/or municipalities
normally select a CE and proposes its financing by FDC, which evaluates the capacity of
the proposed CE in three steps. First, FDC evaluates the CE's legal status: official
organizational status and declaration of fully empowered representative(s). Second,
FDC's Departmental representative undertakes a technical evaluation which requires at
least one site visit and takes into consideration the CE's capability to execute the contract
satisfactorily, based on its experience, available human resources and equipment, and its
ties with the beneficiary community. The third step is the financial evaluation of the CE's
proposal to examine whether it fits within FDC's financial limits.
31.          A CE which is eligible to implement one type of sub-project, for instance
rural infrastructure, is not necessarily eligible to implement sub-project of a different kind.
Eligibility criteria for different sub-project categories are as follows:
(a)   Road Infrastructure: (i) minimum of two years of experience in the field;
(ii) availability of at least one specialist with a minimum of three years of experience in the
field; and (iii) availability of a minimum amount of engineering and topographic
equipment.
(b)   Irrigation: (i) minimum of two years of experience in the field;
(ii) availability of at least one specialist with a minimum two years of experience in the
field; (iii) one completed project covering at least 10 ha; (iv) availability of a minimum
amount of engineering and topographic equipment; and (v) availability of technical
assistance for the management of the irrigation system.
(c)   Natural Resource Management. Extension and Agro-Processing:
(i) minimum of two years of experience with the community or in very similar conditions;
(ii) minimum of two years of experience in supervision of similar projects; (iii) availability



- 94 -
of at least one specialist with a minimum two years of experience the field; and (iv) access
to sources of technology.
(d)   Institutional Strengthening: (i) submit evidence of sources of funds
covering at least 50 percent of operative costs; (ii) availability of at least one specialist
with a minimum two years of experience in the field and able to speak the local language.
(e)   Pre-Investment Studies: above criteria for the different project categories
also apply for pre-investment studies for the respective types of sub-project.
32.          Consulting Services. Consultants recruited to carry out more complex
irrigation studies and work supervision are to be recruited in accordance with IDA-
acceptable guidelines for recruitment of consultants. A two-stage procedure is being
adopted, with the technical and financial proposals submitted separately in sealed
envelopes. The technical evaluation is carried out first and counts for 40 percent in the
ranking. The price evaluation counts for 60 percent of the ranking. The cost of
engineering services for sub-project preparation should not exceed 10 percent of the costs
of the works.
Disbursement Procedures
33.         In accordance with the law, FDC does not make any advance payments to
contractors without requiring a bank guarantee. This requirement delays sub-project
disbursements. COTESU has shown interest in financing a small guarantee fund to
diminish the number of occasions in which a bank guarantee is required. IDA funds would
not be used to provide sub-project advances to contractors or EEs without the required
bank guarantee. Payments for works carried out by beneficiaries and/or under direct
management by municipalities and EEs are to be done on the basis of statement of
expenditures to be controlled by regular audits.



- 95 -
ANNEX 10
BOLIVIA
RURAL COMMUNITIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Environmental Impact and Mitigation Measures
1.          Overall, the project would have a positive environmental impact. Sub-
projects to improve integrated watershed management, forestry, pasture management,
agricultural practices, etc., would generate a positive environmental impact. The training
and capacity-building components would include sustainable natural resource
management, thus generating a long-term benefits for the environment. The project,
however, would implement sub-projects which may have some limited negative impact on
the environment. Rural infrastructure such as improvements of access roads, small scale
irrigation works, processing and marketing facilities, etc. could create localized
environmental problems. The project would neither finance sub-projects related to
opening of new roads, nor to road improvement in sensitive forest areas. The project
would not finance sub-projects involving resettlement.
2.          The Bolivian Environment Law (Ley 1333) requires that all sub-projects be
carefully reviewed for environmental impact during feasibility studies and, when
appropriate, mitigation measures be designed for implementation. The law makes a
distinction between four categories of environmental impact. For Category I projects with
strong environmental impact, a full environmental assessment has to be carried out. Such
projects include activities with a wide national impact, important modifications in the
characteristics of the environment, localization close to protected areas, forest zones and
human settlements likely to be affected, resettlement of people, introduction of changes in
the social, cultural and economic conditions of the people. Category II projects require a
specific environmental analysis of those activities which may harm the environment.
Category III projects may need to be conceptually reviewed to mitigate some particular
minor environmental impact. Category IV projects have no impact on the environment
and need not to be analyzed.
3.          For each sub-project, EEs would complete an environmental evaluation
form (Ficha Ambiental) which describes the sub-project's environmental impact. FDC's
environmental unit would review the form and give it a provisional environmental
category. FDC would send this information in bulk to the Ministry of Sustainable
Development and Environment, responsible for the screening and which would review
FDC's assessment on a sample basis. Under this project, no sub-projects of Category I
would be financed.
4.          Access Roads. The project would finance rehabilitation and spot
improvement of existing roads, where the environmental problems have been tackled in
the initial design. Building of new access roads would not be financed. Special



- 96 -
environmental mitigation measures would be taken to avoid environmental damage during
improvement of the roads. The table below describes possible impact, likelihood of the
occurrence and the proposed mitigation measures.
Table 1 - Environmental Impact of Access Road Sub-Projects
Impact        1    Likelihood of    1             Mitigation Measures
Occurrence        I
Natural Environment
Borrow-pits in the   Likely: but with labor  Include in contract the necessity to re-vegetate
vicinity of roads    intense construction    borrow pits and practice soil stabilization in areas
methods, the pits are   with steep slopes (valleys)
shallow and small
Soil erosion through    Likely if appropriate  Take water speed reduction measures (interception
water run-off        procedures are not      ditch-cascade flow slowdown units); provide
followed                adequate side drainage and dispersion of drains by
means of culverts in appropriate areas. Correct
camber placement to improve local run-off.
Opening of           None                    No financing of such roads
environmental
sensitive production
areas.
Increased            Likely                  Extension services to train farmers in application
agrochemical                                 and storage of chemicals
application for crops
Deforestation to     Likely                  Extension services and training to improve natural
increment agricultural                       resources management
production
Human and Social Environment
Involuntary settlement None: no new roads    The participatory planning would resolve this
or resettlement      would be financed       problem in advance
Encroachment of      None: no new roads
historical-cultural  would be financed
areas
5.            Small-Scale Irrigation. The project would only finance small-scale
irrigation not exceeding 100 ha or US$250,000. Such small-scale irrigation works include
the construction or improvement of canals, the damming of small water currents to allow
water storage, and construction of land terraces. Such small works mostly do not have a
significant environmental impact. However, they may cause lack of water downstream,
water quality degradation because of chemicals used in the more intensive irrigated
agriculture, and changes in the local water table. On Table 2 the likelihood of occurrence
and eventual mitigation measures are highlighted.



- 97 -
Table 2 - Environmental Impact of Micro-Irrigation Sub-Project
Impact               Likelihood of             Mitigation Measures
Occurrence
Natural Environment
Disruption of river hydrology  Few:              Sub-projects are small (max. 100 Ha, average
40 Ha)
Reduction of downstream flood    Likely          The effect is positive as conserving water in
flows and consequent reduction                   rainy season would improve downstream flows
of water in low lying areas                      in dry season
Changes in the local water table   Likely       Modification and relocation of drinking water
holes could be envisaged
Waterlogging and salinity     Common in         Include drainage networks where necessary.
problems                      highlands; not     Control of water quality at feasibility.
common in valleys.
Water quality degradation     Likely but minimal  Sub-projects are small;
through chemicals             impact             Extension services to train farmers in
application and storage of chemicals
Encroachment into forest or   None              Irrigable areas have been already under rain-
swamp land                                      fed cultivation
Soil erosion                  Localized erosion   Proper construction procedures for terraces
during            would be introduced
construction
Free-ranging livestock causing    Very likely    Perimeter fencing allowed in sub-project
damage to dikes, canal and crops                 design; education and awareness training of
herders
Change in wildlife and bio-   Not important     Minimal improvement of vegetation.
diversity
Water borne disease           Not likely in the
highlands and
valleys for the low
temperatures
Human and Social Environment
Impediments to movement-      Very little        The participatory planning would resolve this
transportation                                   problem in advance
Involuntarv settlement or     None
resettlement
Conflict with existing water users  Likely, but not  The participatory planning would resolve this
important because   problem in advance drinking water holes may
of small-scale    be relocated
Encroachment of historical-   None
cultural areas
6.            Processing and Market Facilities. Environmental problems related to
these kinds of sub-projects are mainly health and sanitation related: water supply, refuse
collection, sewerage, and clean-up facilities. Poor hygiene and lack of water supply often
turn out into food contamination and health hazards. Some kind of processing could
produce polluting sewerage, while others might cause other hazards such as borrow-pits.
In all these cases, FDC would impose mitigation measures.



- 98 -
ANNEX 11
BOLIVIA
RURAL COMMUNITIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Cost Tables
Table 1: Project Cost Summary by component
%     % Total
(USS Million)       Foreign   Base
Local  Foreign   Total  Exchange  Costs
Rural Investment Identification and Formulation           3.2     0.0      3.3         1      12
Training                                                  2.0       -      2.0         -       7
Institutional Strengthening
SNDR Strengthening                                      3.5     0.6      4.1       15       15
FDC Strengthening                                       1.0     0.3      1.3       21        4
Municipalities                                          2.2       -      2.2         -       8
Subtotal Institutional Strengthening                      6.7     0.9      7.5        11      27
Rural Investments                                        12.4     0.8    13.2         6       47
Project Preparation Facility
Institutional Strengthening                            0.7        -      0.7         -       2
Pilot Project                                           1.4       -      1.4         -       5
Subtotal Project Preparation Facility                     2.0       -      2.0         -       7
otal BASELINE COSTS                                     26.3      1.7    28.0         6      100
Physical Contingencies                                 2.1      0.1      2.2        6        8
Price Contngencies                                     0.8      0.0      0.8        6        3
otal PROJECT COSTS                                      29.2      1.9    31.0         6      111



99 -
Table 2 - Project Cost Summary by Expenditure Account
%     % Total
(US$ Million)       Foreign   Base
Local  Foreign   Total  Exchange  Costs
Investment Costs
Civil Works                                       0.1        -      0.1        -        -
Vehicles & Equipment                              0.3      0.6      0.9       72        3
Training                                          0.5        -      0.5        -        2
Service Contracts                                 7.1        -     7.1         -       25
Consultants                                       2.8        -     2.8         -       10
Rural Investments
RI Civil Works                                  5.7       -      5.7         -       20
RI Equipment                                    1.2     0.8      2.0        40        7
RI Service Contracts                            4.5       -      4.5         -       16
RI Pre-lnvestment Service Contracts             0.9       -      0.9         -        3
Subtotal Rural Investments                       12.3      0.8    13.1         6       47
PPF financed investment costs                     1.7        -      1.7        -        6
Total Investment Costs                             24.6      1.4    26.1         6       93
Recurrent Costs
Incremental Salaries                              1.0        -      1.0        -        4
Other Incremental Recurrent Costs                 0.4      0.3     0.7        40        2
PPF financed incremental costs                    0.3        -     0.3         -        1
Total Recurrent Costs                               1.7      0.3      2.0       14        7
Total BASELINE COSTS                               26.3      1.7    28.0         6      100
Physical Contingencies                            2.1      0.1      2.2        6        8
Price Contingencies                               0.8      0.0     0.8         6        3
Total PROJECT COSTS                                29.2      1.9    31.0         6      111



- 100 -
Table 3 - Project Components by Year - Investment/Operating Costs
(US$ Million)
Totals Including Contingencies
1996    1997    1998    Total
Rural Investment Identification and Formulation
Investment Costs                                                 1.9     1.2      0.5     3.6
Subtotal Rural Investment Identification and Formulation           1.9     1.2      0.5     3.6
Training
Investment Costs                                                 0.9     0.8      0.5     2.2
Subtotal Training                                                  0.9     0.8      0.5     2.2
Institutional Strengthening
SNDR Strengthening
Investment Costs                                               1.2     0.7      0.7     2.6
Recurrent Costs                                                0.6     0.6      0.6     1.8
Subtotal SNDR Strengthening                                      1.8     1.3      1.3     4.5
FDC Strengthening
Investment Costs                                               0.6     0.5      0.3     1.4
Municipalities
Investment Costs                                               1.3     1.1        -     2.4
Subtotal Institutional Strengthening                               3.7     2.9      1.7     8.3
Rural Investments
Investment Costs                                                 5.0     4.9     5.1    15.0
Subtotal Rural Investments                                         5.0     4.9      5.1    15.0
Project Preparation Facility
Institutional Strengthening
Investment Costs                                               0.7       -       -      0.7
Pilot Project
Investment Costs                                               1.1       -       -      1.1
Recurrent Costs                                                0.3       -       -      0.3
Subtotal Pilot Project                                           1.4       -       -      1.4
Subtotal Project Preparation Facility                              2.0       -        -     2.0
Total PROJECT COSTS                                               13.5      9.9     7.7    31.0
Total Investment Costs                                          12.6     9.3      7.0    28.9
Total Recurrent Costs                                            0.9     0.6      0.6     2.1



- 101 -
Table 4 - Components by Financiers
(USS Million)
GOB   Communities  IFAD   COTESU  Others   IDA            Total
Amount   Amount   Amount Amount Amount Amount Amount
Rural Investment Identification and Formnulation            0.5            -        -        -      0.7      2.4      3.6
Training                                                    0.3            -        -        -      0.2       1.7      2.2
Institutional Strengthening
SNDR Strengthening                                        1.5            -        -      0.2        -      2.8      4.5
FDC Strengthening                                         0.1            -        -        -        -      1.2       1.3
Municipalities                                            0.4            -        -      1.5        -      0.5      2.4
Subtotal InstituUonal Strengthening                         2.0            -        -      1.7         -      4.5      8.2
Rural Investments                                           1.2          2.0      4.9        -      2.5      4.4      15.0
Project Preparation Facility
Institutional Strengthening                                 -            -        -                 -      0.7      0.7
Pilot Project                                               -                     -                 -      1.3       1.3
Subtotal Project Preparaton Facility                      _                -        -        -        -       2.0      2.0
otal DIsbursement                                          4.0          2.0       4.9      1.7      3.4     15.0     31.0
Table 5 - Disbursement Accounts by Financiers
(US$ million)
IDA   IFAD   COTESU  GOB  Comm   Others  Total
unities
Civil Works
Community-based                            3.3           --             --      0.5         0.9          1.8          6.5
Other                                      0.1                                    --                                  0.1
Goods and Equipment
Community-based                            1.1           --             --      0.1         0.3          0.6          2.1
Other                                      0.9          --              --      0.1            --           --        1.1
Consultants                                  2.4           --             --      0.6            --        0.1          3.1
Management Contracts
Rural Investment                             --       4.7            0.1        0.5         0.7          0.1          6.0
Pre-investment                             0.8        0.2               --      0.1         0.1                       1.2
Other                                      3.5                        1.6       0.8            --        0.8          6.7
Training                                     0.3           --             --      0.1            --           --        0.4
Salaries                                       --          --                     1.1            --           --        1.1
Incremental Operating Costs                  0.6          --              --     0.1             --           --        0.7
PPF                                          2.0          --              _         _            --           --        2.0
TOTAL                                      15.0    4.9                  1.7   4.0              2.0         3.4    31.0



- 102 -
ANNEX 12
BOLIVIA
RURAL COMMUNITIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Disbursement Profile
Estimated Schedule ofDisbursement (USS million)
IDA FY and       Disbursement by        Cumulative         Cumulative           Standard      Cumulative Standard
Semester            Semester         Disbursement     Disbursement as %     Disbursement       Disbursement
of Credit         Profile (%)
1996 1                    2.2                 2.2                15                   3                 0.5
II                   1.2                3.4                23                  10                 1.5
1997 1                    2.0                 5.4                36                  14                 2.1
11                   2.1                7.5                50                  18                 2.7
1998 1                    2.8                10.3                69                 34                  5.1
II                   2.2               12.5                83                  42                 6.3
1999 1                    1.4                13.9                93                 50                  7.5
11                   1.1               15.0               100                  66                 9.9
2000 1                                                                               74                11.1
11                                                                             78                11.7
2001 1                                                                               86                12.9
II                                                                             94                14.1
2002 I                                                                               98                14.7
T o T A L                    15.0                                                      100                 15.0
- Credit effectiveness, completion and closing dates assumed to be October 31, 1995, December
31, 1998, and June 30, 1999 respectively.
- Standard disbursement profile derived from OPD, August, 1993 and refers to Bolivian
agricultural projects only.
- The Credit comprises a PPF of USS 2 million.
16
14                                                                            X--
12                                                                    X--
.2  10                                                     X--
8
a~ 6
4
1996           1997           1998          1999           2000           2001           2002
C}  Project Profile    - x          Standard Profile



BOLIVIA
RURAL COMMUNITIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Implementation Plan
Component I - Rural Investment Identification and Formulation
Sub-component  Implem. | Starting &                               Development Impact Indicators    | Progress Indicators for    Pilot  | Year    Year   Year
Activity            Agency tending dates' !_                                                                               Monitoring                    Project            I             2           3
Municipal                EEs             Mar. '94             Number of participants to PPP                            Number of PMD                                   94              4
Development                            ' Mar. '95             workshops.                                              .produced
Plan (PD2    .               .          .           Use of PMD for PAO
.............. .. .............................................................................................................................................................................................. ..................................................... ............ ........
OTB                      EEs            Dec. '94              Official activities undertaken by                        Number of municipalities                        31             67
Registration                            Mar. '96              registered OTBs                                          covered
EEs                                 Number of sub-project applications   :Number of OTB                                                  1,600          1,600           800.
.presented by registered OTBs                            registered                                                         .
.................. .................................................. .................................  .... ............... .... ....... .    ......................................................... ......  .............. ................................. ............. ....... ..... ........
Support to              I EEs          . Jan. '95             Transfer of funds from the National    Number of PAOs                                                                  94             75 :.
Annual                                  Dec. '96              Treasury                                                :produced
Operative Plans                                                                                                        Number of project                             250            470.    375
(PAO)                                                                                                                  profiles produced
PPP Adjustment EEs                      Apr. '95              Use of PMD as basis for PAO                              Number of PMD                                                  94.
.Jun. '97                   .                                                   adjusted
............ I................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. .....................  ........    ...........
Follow-up                SNDR    Oct. '95                     Number of sub-project applications    Number of covered                                                                94.           32    32
:Dec. '98            . presented by OTBs                                        municipalities
...........................................   .........................  ...................................   . .  ..........................   ......................................................................... .  .......    ................................
Incorporation of: SNDR/  Mar. '96                             Increased number of project proposals Evaluation of PMDs and                                             12            223
gender in PPP    SNAG   I Mar. '98                            focusing on women issues                                 PAOs                                 .                             .             .
*See attached Gantt Chart.
23 80 municipalities through Contract "PPP Adjustment and Support to PAO Implementation                                                                                                        >
z
rri
X-



Component II - Training of Public and Private Institutions
Sub-component   Implem.   Starting &      Development Impact      Progress Indicators for    Pilot  Year Year Year
Activity      Agency  ending dates*        Indicators               Monitoring        Project   1     2      3
PPP Methodology   SNDR    Jan '95        Institutionalization of PPP  Number of workshops on    14     9
Training                    Dec. '96                              PPP
PMD/PAO           SNDR    Jan.' 95       Increased institutional  Number of workshops on        40   103    64
Management and              Dec.' 96     capacity to manage       PMD/PAO Management
Monitoring                 .             PMD/PAOs                 and Monitoring
PMD Adjustment   SNDR    Jan.' 96        Increased municipal      Number of workshops on               9
Dec.' 96     capacity to adjust PMDs    plan adjustment
Sub-Project       SNDR    Jan.' 95       Additional 100 EEs capable Number of workshops on       6    12    12
Preparation and             Dec.' 97     to prepare and implement  specific technical issues
Implementation                           local investment projects
Technical assistance    C    Jan. '95    Increase in number &     Number of TA contracts        54   132   132   132
on sub-project              Jun. 98      quality of sub-project   (months)
preparation                              designs                                                                          4
Gender Issues     SNDR/  Jan.' 95        Incorporation of gender    Number of workshops          3     9
SAG      Dec.' 97     perspective in PPP       focusing on women in
development issues                        _
See attached Gantt Chart.



Component m - Institutional Strengthening
Sub-component Implem.  Starting &      Development Impact      Progress Indicators for    Pilot   Year   Year   Year
Activity    Agency  ending dates*        Indicators              Monitoring       Project   1       2      3
SNDR           SNDR   Mar. '94       Improved consistency of  Thematic teams              15      15     12      12
Dec. '98    Government's rural policy  established, consultants
hired in center
Decentralization and    Consultants hired in         21     31      31     31
strengthening of        Departments
departmental offices
FDC            FDC      Oct. '95     Reduced period to        Disbursements              10.0   15.0   20.0   20.0
Dec. '98    evaluate, approve,       (US$ million)
administer, and supervise
sub-projects
Decentralization and    Number of consultants               20      21     21
strengthening of        hired in center and                                        c
departmental offices    departments                     _
SNPP           SNPP    Oct. '95     Improved capacity to     Consultants hired                    4       4
Dec. '97    coordinate municipal     EEs trained                          9      9
strengthening efforts
Municipalities   EEs    Oct. '95     Increased capacity of   Number of training                  42      42
Dec. '97    municipalities in        modules implemented
administrative and financial
management
See attached Gantt Chart.



Component IV - Rural Investments
Sub-component                  Implem.  Starting &                       Development Impact                           Progress Indicators for                    Pilot    Year   Year  Year
Activity                  Agency            ending                         Indicators                                   Monitoring                       Project            1           2          3
dates*
Productive Infrastructure  FDC,    Apr. ' 96                             Improvement in transport,                     Number of sub-projects                                               30    30              30
EEs           Dec. '98            increase in area effectively                  financed ( based on average
under irrigation, improved                    investment of US$50,000)
marketing outlets
...................................................................  .............    ...................  .......................w ..........................................  ....   ......................  ......  ...........  ............  ........  .........
Support to Agricultural                                      "           Increase in agricultural                      Number of sub-projects                                               50.   50.    50
Production                                                               productivity & food security   financed (based on average
investment of US$15,000)
. ......... .................................................... ......................... .............................................................................................................. .......... . ...................................... ................................
Institutional                                                "           Increase in institutional                     Number of sub-projects                                               75         75         75
Strengthening                                                            capacity of grassroots                        financed (based on average
(including local human                                                   organizations to prepare and   investment of US$ 10,000)
resources development                                                    implement projects
...............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Pre-[nvestment studies                                                   Increase number of sub-                       Pre-investment studies                                             200. 250.  300
_  project proposals                           financed (US$ thousand)                                    .                        ._c
See attached Gantt Chart.



Project Implementation Bar Chart
Pilot Phase                                        Project
IDA Fiscal Year            1995               1996              1997       [       1998               1999
Calendar Year      1994             1995  I           1996               1997               1998          1999
Quarter   2   3   4   1   2   3 14    1   2   3   4    1   2   3   4   1   2   3   4   1   2
Appraisal                                      _   _____J__                              -  __          -  __  __ _
Negotiations                                                                            * t       ___ _ _
Board Approval         ____=_=_= ___=_=                                                                                = -__=___=   =_= =    = =
Effectiveness__-
Rural Investment Identification and Formulation
Participatory Planning
Preparation                                                                                 I ____-r__==_--                   ------
Self-Diagnostic                               _______!___________
Municipal Development Plan       __________     _   __
OTB Registration     ________ _ _ _ _  _
Support to PAO                               _________
Plan Adjustment   __ _ __     _______
Follow-up---                                                                    _ _                     _ _ _ _ =                  _            I
TRAINING-_____-_____
Training of Puhlic & Private Institutions
T'raining on PPP
Training oni PMD/PAO Management and Implementation
Training on I'lan Adjustment
Technical Training
INSTITUTIONAL STRENGT HENING
National Secretariat for Rural Developnient (SNDR)  ______
National Secretariat for Popular Participation
Municipalities   --I_____i__T|_|
Small-Farmer Development Fund (FDC)
RURAL INVESTMIENTS             _____I                                                                                   IIII
Productive Infrastruicture
Support to Agricultural Production                   |_|_I
Institutional Strengthening (incl. Iocal human resources)    _| |__|r___|
Pre-Investment Studies
Technical Assistance on Project Preparation                                                       I
Completion                      -
Closing



- 108 -
ANNEX 14
BOLIVIA
RURAL COMMUNITIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Supervision Plan
MONTH             DURATION             ACTIVITY                    SKILLS REQUIRED
(SW)
Effectiveness - 1 month          3      Mission preparing            Task Manager
effectiveness               Natural Resources Economist
Effectiveness +3 months          3      Regular Supervision          Task Manager
Mission                     Procurement Specialist
Effectiveness +6 months          6      Regular Supervision          Task Manager
Mission                     Sociologist/Institutional Specialist
Civil Engineer
Effectiveness +12 months         8      First Year                   Task Manager
Implementation Review       Financial Analyst
Sociologist
Natural Resources Economist
Effectiveness +18 months         2      Regular Supervision Mission   Task Manager
Procurement Specialist
Civil Engineer
Effectiveness + 24 months        8      Mid-Term Review              Task Manager
Financial Analyst
Natural Resources Economist
Sociologist/Institutional Specialist
Civil Engineer
Effectiveness + 30 months        6      Regular Supervision          Task Manager
Mission                     Natural Resources Economist
._______________________________________ ____________________________ Sociologist/Institutional Specialist
Effectiveness + 36 months        6      End of Project Supervision   Task Manager
Mission                     Financial Analyst
Natural Resource Economist
Sociologist/Institutional Specialist
Civil Engineer
Effectiveness + 42 months        4      Implementation               Task Manager
Completion                  Consultants
Review
Total Mission Time               46
Supervision at headquarters
Task Manager                     24
Procurement                       5
Total Supervision Time           75



-109 -
ANNEX 15
BOLIVIA
RURAL COMMUNITIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
List of Working Papers
Working Papers of the Secretaria Nacional de Desarrollo Rural (SNDR):
(a) Apoyo a la Ejecuci6n de Planes Participativas de Desarrollo, Ministerio de
Desarrollo Humano, La Paz, 1994.
(b) Apoyo a la Produccion, Ministerio de Desarrollo Humano, La Paz, 1994.
(c) Base para la Estrategia del Proyecto de Desarrollo de Comunidades Rurales
del Banco Mundial, Ministerio de Desarrollo Humano, La Paz, 1994.
(d) Disefio de Criterios de Elegibilidady Criterios de Priorizaci6n, Ministerio de
Desarrollo Humano, La Paz, 1994.
(e) Estrategia de Desarrollo Rural, Ministerio de Desarrollo Rural, March 1994.
(f) Estructura Temdtica de la Base de Datos Disenada para Procesar la
Informaci6n del Diagnostico, Ministerio de Desarrollo Humano, La Paz,
1994.
(g) Financiamiento de Estudios de Factibilidady Disenio Final, Ministerio de
Desarrollo Humano, La Paz, 1994.
(h) Guia Rdpida para la Planificaci6n de las Provincias del Primer Ano,
Ministerio de Desarrollo Rural, La Paz, 1994.
(i) Infraestructura Rural Bdsica Pilota, Ministerio de Desarrollo Humano,
La Paz, 1994.
(j) Instrumentos Requeridos en el Proceso de Planificacidn, Ministerio de
Desarrollo Humano, La Paz, 1994.
(k) Matriz del Proceso de Planifcaci6n Participativa de la Demanda,
Ministerio de Desarrollo Humano, La Paz, 1994.
(1) Normas para el Financiamiento de Programas y Proyectos, Ministerio de
Desarrollo Humano, La Paz, March 1994.
(m)Planificacion Participativa, Ministerio de Desarrollo Humano, La Paz, 1994.



- 110 -
(n) Program a de Capacitaci6n Integral, Ministerio de Desarrollo Humano,
La Paz, 1994.
(o) Propuesta MitolOgica para la Planificaci6n de la Oferta del Estado en el
Proyecto de Comanidades Rurales en Bolivia, Ministerio de Desarrollo
Rural, La Paz, 1994.
(p) Propuesta para la Fase Preparatoria y Proyecto Piloto, Ministerio de
Desarrollo Humano, La Paz, February 1994.
(q) Proyecto de Desarrollo de Comunidades Rurales, Ministerio de Desarrollo
Humano, La Paz, September 1994.
2.          Participatory Planning and Socio-Economic Change in Rural Bolivia,
World Bank Working Paper, September 1994.
3.          Rural Micro-Enterprises and Basic Transformations Component. World
Bank, Working Paper, June 1994.
4.          Environmental Resource Management Component of the Rural
Communities and Infrastructure Development Project, World Bank, Working Paper,
July 1994.
5.          Componente de Extensi6n, World Bank, Working Paper, June 1994
World Bank.
6.          Componente Micro-Riego, World Bank, Working Paper, April 1994.



IBRD 26504
68,                 66"                  64'                 62"                  60                      10
-10   BRAZIL ,<                            -                                          B O L I V I A
B R A Z I9LRURAL COMMUNITIES
r  1z  4                                        DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
7_f P.6NXLS   i'~                     ,si PROVINCES COVERED BY THE PROJECT
1' ,  o-  <   '   t                                  5    JPROVINCES COVERED                12 -
Kq 20  \  fs  to T  _  _Sa                                          *    NATIONAL CAPITAL
12"                   iT             2                                          -  \.5DEPARTMENT CAPITALS
If                                     ,---  PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
g   /    ' 1                ;         -<,                 - -      DEPARTMENT BOUNDARIES
z    g   z  }         v       9              X  e                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
uji ~ ~    ~       ~       ~~~~~~~~ ~~ N P  E'  N!                                        The boundaries, colors,
CL                                                                                      N11- -.    denominations and any  14 -
7--          -     I                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~other information shaeon 1
-1J4    I C   ,                 I -  !     ;   )        ----      C          '\              9      on this mop do not
/                   r''\                           \      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~imply, on the port of
,         /    (i                                            \ .,   The World Bonh Group,
f                   7 ;/                 7 i   f  Trinidra   I            \ /               aony judgment on the legal
Trinidad  -   ~   I.,F                            status of any territory,
-    >'i             -k  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~corny endorsement
N '~'    X  2 '  '  /  >(i)~ ~~ ~~ ~~~ 0   4   '   ,  or acceptonce of such
z,, J , )* a \ 4 \ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~boundaries
/-t            - r;3                                I f >l    \  1  ! B R A Z I L  16
16'                 /
1 ~~~~~~~~~6 G                      A B  \ )G2\>A;  ;,j/l.
A ,W                    N                                      ^ i f A u \hj' A   N -, -> i-- 
N          %>- X^ kt ;!4rJ4bi    4-, |N  ~-  
C  *  - -  -~ .        -, f    _ -           \/  >-,   >  -  (i) s-   s   g   S m hs.   C  R   U   Z 
t.8xrwRsO<g-&~   NN                                                                                I
<~~"x                       ~           y-'----t AlS- vr_---
?~~~~h                                                                -- -r-vzsvtAt_ 
K.      -< t                 gIf-   ''t   51                      !                                    't   20'
-20"                                       7 )
<->                                                          PARAGUAY J7
N  'St\<                  )P #iTA4RIJA   !                                    60-
-2 2                     V-- -2  'i J         ~       /       /                     22-                      .  G eP,O 10Vedlhb
2 2,                 \                             K             PERU                      B R A Z I L
C   H   I L E           .                                                                     LL*F-zc C.'F~-b~ 
A  R G   E N   T I N   AAS.e 
-24=      0   50   100 1250 200 250                                                  4'           CHILEI       \PARAGUAY
L-  I   I     I                                                                            -. R,
KILOMETERS                                                                            S~ig,
68'                 6 6                  6A4                 62'                       A RGENTINA     e. ,
JUNE 1995









x VQ   : qdtjs;L
C>I-~ 2   <                          fl4oe
I, 1-1  LI L.                -  .... .           I
Jgi ' I         iJJ  



