CREDIT NUMBER 2772-BO
Development Credit Agreement
(Rural Communities Development Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated Au1/    , 1995


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2772-BO
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated     AI%        )       , 1995, between REPUBLIC OF
BOLIVIA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B) the Borrower intends to request from the International Fund for Agricultural
DeveJopment a loan to assist the Borrower in financing Part D of the Project on the terms
and conditions to be set forth in a loan agreement;
(C) the Republic of Switzerland (Swiss) has agreed to make a grant (the Swiss
Grant) to the Borrower in an aggregate principal amount equivalent to $1,700,000 to assist
in financing Parts C.1, C.2 and C.4 of the Project on terms and conditions to be set forth
in a grant agreement (the Swiss Grant Agreement); and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing,
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth
below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)    The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
(b)    The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise
agree, no withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in
the territories of any country which is not a member of the Association
or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, such territories; or
(b) for the purpose of any payment to persons or entities, or for any
import of goods, if such payment or import, to the knowledge of the
Association, is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security
Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations.".


﻿-2-
(c) In Section 6.02, subparagraph (h) is relettered as subparagraph (i) and a new
subparagraph (h) is added to read:
"(h) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which any further
withdrawals under the Credit would be inconsistent with the provisions
of Article III, Section 3 of the Association's Articles of Agreement.".
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)    "BCB" means the Borrower's Central Bank (Banco Central de Bolivia);
(b)    "Cooperating Entity" means a legal entity which meets the eligibility
criteria set forth in the Operational Manual and which signs on behalf of an Eligible
Municipality or Eligible OTB, as the case may be, a Subgrant Agreement for purposes
of assisting such Eligible Municipality or Eligible OTB in the carrying out of an Eligible
Subproject "I" or an Eligible Subproject "II";
(c)    "CORDES"     means   the   Regional  Devclopment    Corporations
(Corporaciones Regionales de Desarrollo) of the Borrower;
(d)    "CV" means a Supervisory Committee (Comit6!e Vigilancia) established
in accordance with Law No. 1551;
(e)    "Decree No. 22154" means Decreto Supremo No. 22154 of the Borrower,
dated March 15, 1989 which created FDC, as such Decree has been amended to the date
of this Agreement;
(f)    "Eligible Municipality" means a Municipality which has met the eligibility
criteria set forth in the Operational Manual to carry out an Eligible Subproject;
(g)    "Eligible OTB" means the OTB which has met the eligibility criteria set
forth in the Operational Manual to carry out an Eligible Subproject;
(h)    "Eligible Subproject 'I'" means a specific project which meets the
eligibility criteria set forth in the Operational Manual, consisting of the carrying out of
feasibility studies of potential Eligible Subprojects "II", all for the benefit of an Eligible
Municipality or Eligible OTB;
(i)    "Eligible Subproject 'II"' means a specific project which meets the
eligibility criteria set forth in the Operational Manual, consisting, inter alia, of the
rehabilitation of access roads or construction of bridges or construction of small-scale
irrigation schemes or construction of outdoor markets, storage centers and craft
workshops, including the acquisition and utilization of goods required therefor and
provision of technical assistance and training, all for the benefit of an Eligible
Municipality or Eligible OTB;


﻿-3-
(j)    "Executing Entity" means a non-governmental organization or a legal
entity (other than a non-governmental organization) included in the list referred to in
Section 7.01 (c) of this Agreement, as such list may be amended with the agreement of
the Association;
(k)    "FDC" means the Small-Farmer Development Fund (Fondo de Desarrollo
Campesino) established pursuant to Decree No. 22154;
(1)    "Indigenous Municipal Districts" means the municipal district to be
established in accordance with paragraph III of Article 17 of Law No. 1551;
(m)    "Law No. 1551" means Ley No. 1551 of the Borrower dated April 20,
1994, published in the Official Gazette (Gaceta Oficial) on April 24, 1994 which
provides, inter alia, for the promotion and consolidation of the participatory planning
process of indigenous groups and rural and urban communities in Bolivia, and such term
includes the regulations to such Law set forth in Supreme Decrees Nos. 23813, 23845 and
23858 of the Borrower (pecreto Suprero No. 23813, Decreto Supremo No. 23845 and
Decreto Supremo No. 23858) dated June 30, 1994 , August 18, 1994 and September 9,
1994, respectively, as such Law and Decrees have been amended to the date of this
Agreement;
(n)    "Management Service Agreement" means any of the agreements referred
to in Section 3.08 of this Agreement;
(0)    "MDSMA" means the Ministry of Sustainable Development and
Environment (Ministerio de Desarrollo Sostenible y Medio Ambiente) of the Borrower;
(p)    "Municipality" means an entity with legal personality established pursuant
to Law No. 696 (Ley No. 696 of the Borrower dated January 10, 1985);
(q)    "Municipal Development Plan" means a Municipality's development plan
covering an implementation period of more than one year which, may include, inter alia,
the design of Eligible Subprojects, construction or rehabilitation of infrastructure,
acquisition of goods and provision of technical assistance for the benefit of the respective
Municipality and the population living in the area under the jurisdiction of such
Municipality;
(r)    "Operational Manual" means the Borrower's manual, satisfactory to the
Association, which sets forth, inter alia: (i) the eligibility criteria for Eligible
Municipalities, Eligible OTBs, Eligible Subprojects "I" and Eligible Subprojects "II"; (ii)
the monitoring indicators for the Project; (iii) the disbursement and procurement
procedures for the Project; (iv) the terms of reference of the consultants to be hired under
the Project; (v) the training program to be carried out under the Project; (vi) a model
Management Service Agreement; (vii) the Municipalities included in the Project Area;
(viii) the environmental criteria to be used by FDC in carrying out the environmental
assessments of Eligible Subprojects "II"; (ix) the eligibility criteria for Executing Entities;
(x) the eligibility criteria for Cooperating Entities; and (xi) a model Subgrant Agreement;


﻿-4-
(s)    "OTB" means an indigeaous group or a rural or an urban community
(Organizaciones Territoriales de Base) established in accordance with Law No. 1551;
(t)    "Project Area" means the area under the jurisdiction of the Municipalities
listed in the Operational Manual, as such area may be amended from time to time by the
Borrower with the agreement of the Association;
(u)    "Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation advance
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to a Letter of Agreement dated
February 11, 1994, countersigned by the Borrower's representative on February 24, 1994,
as amended to the date of this Agreement;
(v)    "SNDR" means the National Secretariat of Rural Development (Secretaria
Nacional de Desarrollo Rural) of the Borrower;
(w)    "SNPP" means the National Secretariat for Popular Participation
(Secretaria Nacional de Participaci6n Popular) of the Borrower;
(x)    " Special Account 'A"' means the account referred to in Section 2.02
(b)(i) of this Agreement;
(y)    "Special Account 'B"' means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b)
(ii) of this Agreement;
(z)    "Special Accounts" means collectively the Special Account "A" and the
Special Account "B";
(aa)   "Subgrant" means a grant made or to be made by FDC out of the
proceeds of the Credit to an Eligible Municipality or an Eligible OTB for the financing
of an Eligible Subproject "I" or an Eligible Subproject "II";
(bb)   "Subgrant Agreement" means any of the agreements referred to in Section
3.01 (b)(ii) of this Agreement;
(cc)   "Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreement referred to in Section 3.02
of this Agreement; and
(dd)   "Supreme Decree No. 23981" means Decreto SuDremo No. 23981 of the
Borrower dated March 20, 1995 which established basic procurement norms (for goods
and services) applicable to the public sector in Bolivia, and such term includes Supreme
Resolution No. 215475 of the Borrower (Resoluci6n Suprema No. 215475) dated March
20, 1995.


﻿-5-
ARTICLE HI
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in
various currencies equivalent to nine million six hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 9,600,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the
following amounts to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit: (i) amounts paid (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be paid) by FDC on account of withdrawals made by
FDC for the benefit of an Eligible Municipality or an Eligible OTB under a Subgrant to
meet the reasonable costs of goods and services required for an Eligible Subproject "I"
or an Eligible Subproject "II" (under Part D of the Project), as the case may be, in respect
of which the withdrawal from the Credit Account is requested; and (ii) expenditures made
(or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of
goods and services required for Parts A, B and C of the Project.
(b)    The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in
Dollars in BCB: (i) a special deposit account (the Special Account "A") for purposes of
depositing the corresponding proceeds of the Credit for Parts A, B, C.1, C.2 , C.4 and C.5
(a) of the Project; and (ii) a special deposit account (the Special Account "B") for
purposes of depositing the corresponding proceeds of the Credit for Parts C.3, C.5 (b) and
D of the Project, both on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association. Deposits
into, and payments out of, the Special Accounts shall be made in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(c)    Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required to
repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding
as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the
authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1999 or such later date as the
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such
later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set
by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of
one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)    The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the
rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at such other rates


﻿-6-
as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set
as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next payment date in that year
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)    The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the Association
shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the
territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or
currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions
of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the
rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Sectiqn 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable
semiannually on May I and November I in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each May
1 and November 1 commencing November 1, 2005 and ending May 1, 2035. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on May 1, 2015 shall be one percent
(1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%)
of such principal amount.
(b)    Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for five
consecutive years; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank
lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the
Executive Directors of the Association and after due tonsideration by them of the
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments
under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been
repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise such modification to
. include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount
of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment
of the Association, such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)    If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b)
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated
significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph
(a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.


﻿-7-
ARTICLE m
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end:
(a)    shall: (i) carry out Parts A, B, C.1 and C.5 (a) of the Project through
SNDR; and (ii) carry out Parts C.2 and C.4 of the Project through SNPP, all with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, technical,
financial, ecological and environmental practices, and in accordance with the Operational
Manual, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for such Parts of the Project;
(b)    shall cause FDC under the Subsidiary Agreement, to carry out: (i) Parts
C.3 and C.5 (b) of the Project; and (ii) Part D of the Project pursuant to subgrant
agreements (the Subgrant Agreements) to be entered into between FDC and the
corresponding Eligible Municipality or Eligible OTB or with a Cooperating Entity, as the
case may be, under procedures, terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association,
including those referred to in Schedule 5 to this Agreement, all with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, technical, financial,
engineering, ecological and environmental practices, and in accordance with the
Operational Manual, and shall take or cause to be taken all action, including the provision
of funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable FDC
to carry out Parts C.3, C.5(b) and D of the Project, and shall not take or permit to be
taken any action which would prevent or interfere with the carrying out of Parts C.3,
C.5(b) and D of the Project; and
(c)    except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall and
shall cause FDC not to amend, abrogate, suspend, waive or fail to enforce the Operational
Manual or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall transfer to FDC, on a grant basis, the portion
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated to Parts C.3, C.5 (b) and D of the Project, under
a subsidiary agreement (the Subsidiary Agreement) to be entered into between the
Borrower and FDC under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
(b)    Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not
amend, assign, abrogate, suspend, terminate or fail to enforce the Subsidiary Agreement
or any provision thereof.
Section 3.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
Section 3.04. Without limitation upon the provisions of Article IX of the General
Conditions, the Borrower shall:


﻿(a)    prepare and furnish to the Association not later than six months after the
Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, a plan for
the future operation of the Project;
(b)    afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with
the Borrower on said plan; and
(c)    thereafter, carry out or cause to be carried out, said plan with due
diligence and efficiency and in accordance with appropriate practices, taking into account
the Association's comments thereon.
Section 3.05. Without limitation to the provisions of Section 9.05 of the General
Conditions, the Borrower, through SNDR, shall not later than November 15 of each year
during Project implementation, starting in 1996, prepare and furnish to the Association
a plan, satisfactory to the Association, with respect to the activities to be carried out under
the Project during the calendar year following thc date of presentation of such plan.
Section 3.06. (a) Without limitation to the provisions of Section 9.06 of the
General Conditions, the Borrower, through SNDR, shall not later than June 30 and
December 31 of each year during Project implementation, starting in 1996, prepare a
semiannual report of such scope and in such detail as the Association may reasonably
request with respect to the progress made by the Borrower and FDC in carrying out the
Parts of the Project under their responsibility during the calendar semester in question.
(b)    The Borrower shall not later than two months after the conclusion of each
calendar semester furnish to the Association the corresponding report.
Section 3.07. Without limitation to the provisions of Section 9.01 of the General
Conditions, the Borrower, through SNDR, shall review jointly with the Association on the
twenty-fourth month after the Effective Date, the progress made by the Borrower and
FDC in: (a) carrying out the Parts of the Project under their responsibility; and (b)
achieving the objectives of the Project. Such review shall, inter alia, focus on discussing
the plan and the corresponding reports referred to in Sections 3.05 and 3.06 of this
Agreement, respectively. As part of such review the Association may require that the
Borrower, through SNDR, prepare an action plan, satisfactory to the Association, to make
adjustments in Project implementation. If so, the Borrower, through SNDR, shall furnish
such action plan to the Association not later than forty-five days after the conclusion of
such review and shall thereafter carry out, or cause to be carried out, such action plan in
accordance with its terms.
Section 3.08. Without limitation to Section 3.01 of this Agreement and for
purposes of carrying out Parts A, B, C.1, C.2 and C.4 of the Project in case the execution
of any such Part of the Project requires the participation of an Executing Entity, the
Borrower shall enter into a management service agreement (the Management Service
Agreement) with the corresponding Executing Entity under terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association which shall include, inter alia, the obligation of such


﻿-9-
Executing Entity to assist the Borrower in the carrying out of such Part or Parts of the
Project.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records
and separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices
the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of Parts A, B, C.1, C.2, C.4 and C.5
(a) of the Project of the departments or agencies if the Borrower responsible for carrying
out such Parts of the Project.
(b)    The Borrower shall:
(i)     have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of
this Section including those for the Special Accounts for each
fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)    furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case
not later than six months after the end of each such year, a
certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have
reasonably requested; and
(iii)   furnish to the Association such other information concerning
said records, accounts and the audit thereof as the Association
shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c)    For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)     maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting
such expenditures;
(ii)    retain, until at least one year after the Association has received
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal
from the Credit Account or payment out of the respective
Special Accounts was made, all records (contracts, orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such
expenditures;
(iii)   enable the Association's representatives to examine such
records; and


﻿- 10 -
(iv)    ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during
such fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to
support the related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall cause FDC under the Subsidiary Agreement
to maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting
practices the operations and financial condition of FDC, including separate accounts for
Parts C.3, C.5 (b) and D of the Project.
(b)    The Borrower shall cause FDC under the Subsidiary Agreement to:
(i)     have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related
statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)    furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case
not later than six months after the end of each such year: (A)
certified copies of its financial statements for such year as so
audited; and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have
reasonably requested; and
(iii)   furnish to the Association such other information concerning
such records, accounts, financial statements and the audit
thereof as the Association shall from time to time reasonably
request.
ARTICLE V
Other Covenants
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall cause FDC under the Subsidiary Agreement to
carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in accordance with sound administrative,
financial, technical, ecological, environmental and engineering practices under the
supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in
adequate numbers.


﻿- 11 -
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Association
Section 6.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the
following additional events are specified:
(a)    that FDC shall have failed to comply with any of its obligations under the
Subsidiary Agreement;
(b)    that the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have
taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of FDC or for the suspension of
its operations;
(c)    that Decree No. 22154 shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated,
repealed, waived or not enforced in such manner so as to affect, in the opinion of the
Association, the ability of FDC to carry out Parts C.3, C.5 (b) and D of the Project;
(d)    that Law No. 1551 shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated,
repealed, waived or not enforced in such manner so as to affect, in the opinion of the
Association, the ability of the Borrower to carry out Parts A, B, C.1, C.2, C.5 (a) and C.4
of the Project;
(e)    that Supreme Decree No. 23981 shall have been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed, waived or not enforced in such a manner so as to affect, in the
opinion of the Association, the procurement of goods and services in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement;
(f)    that the Swiss Grant Agreement shall have failed to become effective by
December 31, 1996, or such later date as the Association may agree, provided, however,
that the provisions of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower establishes to the
satisfaction of the Association that adequate funds for the Project are available to the
Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of
the Borrower under this Agreement; and
(g)    (i)  Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) The right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of any
loan or grant (including the Swiss Grant) made to the
Borrower for the financing of the Project shall have been
suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole or in part,
pursuant to the terms of the agreements providing therefor,
or
(B) any such loan shall have become due and payable prior to the
agreed maturity thereof.


﻿- 12 -
(ii)  Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower
establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that:
(A) such suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is
not caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of
its obligations under any loan agreement or grant agreement
(including the Swiss Grant Agreement) as the case may be;
and
(B) adequate funds for the Project are available to the Borrower
from other sources on terms and conditions consistent with
the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 6.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the
following additional events are specified:
(a)    the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 6.01 of this Agreement
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall have
been given by the Association to the Borrower;
(b)    any event specified in paragraphs (b) or (c) or (d) or (e) of Section 6.01
of this Agreement shall occur; and
(c)    the event specified in paragraph (g) (i) (B) of Section 6.01 of this
Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (g) (ii) of that Section.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01
(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)    that the Operational Manual has been approved by the Borrower, through
SNDR, and FDC in a manner satisfactory to the Association;
(b)    that the Subsidiary Agreement has been signed by the Borrower and FDC;
and
(c)    that a list of Executing Entities (selected by the Borrower in accordance
with the eligibility criteria set forth in the Operational Manual) has been furnished to the
Association.
Section 7.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or
opinions to be furnished to the Association, namely, that the Subsidiary Agreement has


﻿- 13 -
been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and FDC and is legally binding upon the
Borrower and FDC in accordance with its terms.
Section 7.03. The date OV tMbU 1 R q< is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VIII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 8.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Ministerio de Hacienda
Palacio de Comunicaciones Piso 19
Av. Mariscal Santa Cruz, esq. Calle Oruro s/n
Casilla Postal No. 9917
La Paz, Bolivia
Cable address:         Telex:
FINANZA                2617 (FINANZA BV)
La Paz, Bolivia


﻿- 14-
For the Association:
International Development
Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:               Telex:
INDEVAS                248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.        82987 (FTCC)
64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
By /C "e'~                 /,vi C'~
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By           -     '41      4//
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1. The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category and
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit                % of
Allocated           Expenditures
(Expressed in            to be
Category                  SDR Equivalent)          Financed
(1) Subgrants for:
(a) Eligible Subprojects "I"     510,000)            100% of the
amounts disbursed
(b) Eligible Subprojects "I"    2,410,000)
(2) Works                              60,000            75% of local
expenditures
(3) Goods:
(a) for SNDR                 250,000)
85%
(b) for FDC                  190,000)
(4) Consultants'
Services:
(a) for SNDR                 890,000)           100% until
withdrawals under
(b) for SNPP                  60,000)           this Category (4) have
reached anaggregate
amount equivalent
(c) for FDC                  510,000)           to SDRI,175,000; and
80% thereafter
(5) Management                       1,780,000           100%
Service
Agreements' fees
for SNDR and SNPP


﻿- 16 -
(6) Training                           170,000           100% of
foreign
expenditures
and 85% of
local
expenditures
(7) Incremental Operating Costs        340,000           85% until
for Part C.1                                        withdrawals
of the Project                                      under this
Category have
reached an
aggregate
amount
equivalent to
SDR220,000;
and 70%
thereafter
(8) FDC's Administrative               200,000           100%
Costs
(9) Refunding of                     1,270,000           Amounts due
Project                                             pursuant to
Preparation                                          Section 2.02 (c)
Advance                                             of this
Agreement
(10) Unallocated                       960,000
TOTAL
2. For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)    the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the territory
of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)    the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;


﻿- 17 -
(c)     the term "Training" means the cost of trainers' and trainees' fees, rental of
conference rooms, per diem and transport of trainees and materials required for the
training activities to be carried out under the Project;
(d)     the term "Incremental Operating Costs" means expenditures related, inter
alia, to office rent, office material and supplies, salaries of incremental staff to be hired
under the Project, utilities, maintenance of equipment and buildings, field materials and
field allowances and transportation cost; and
(e)     the term "FDC Administrative Costs" means the expenditures related to the
7% fee to be paid out of the proceeds of the Credit to FDC in connection with the
provision of each Subgrant.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall be made
in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement,
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed SDR960,000, may be made
in respect of the Categories 2, 3(a), 4(a), 4(b), 5, 6 and 7 set forth in paragraph I of this
Schedule on account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after
December 31, 1994;
(b)     payments made for expenditures under Part C.3 of the Project unless FDC
has: (i) approved and furnished to the Association a plan, satisfactory to the Association,
to decentralize its operations and procedures; (ii) entered into an agreement with
MDSMA, satisfactory to the Association, under which FDC will carry out environmental
impact assessments of Eligible Subprojects "II" in accordance with the environmental
criteria acceptable to the Association; and (iii) adopted procurement guidelines satisfactory
to the Association; and
(c)     payments made: (i) under a Subgrant (under Part D of the Project); and (ii)
under Category 8 (set forth in paragraph 1 of this Schedule) with respect to the fee to be
paid to FDC for the Subgrant mentioned in (i) herein unless: (i) FDC has met the
conditions referred to in (b) above; and (ii) the corresponding Subgrant Agreement has
been entered into between the parties referred to in Section 3.01 (b)(ii) of this Agreement.
4.   The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under: (a) contracts for goods to
be awarded under: (i) Part C. 1 (a) of Section I of Schedule 3 to this Agreement with the
exception of the first contract to be awarded under such Part; and (ii) Part C.2 of Section
I of Schedule 3 to this Agreement; (b) contracts for works to be awarded under: (i) Part
C.3 (a) of Section I of Schedule 3 to this Agreement with the exception of the first
contract to be awarded under such Part; and (ii) Part C.3 (b) of Section I of Schedule 3
to this Agreement; (c) contracts for the employment of consulting firms costing less than
$50,000 equivalent; and (d) contracts for the employment of individual consultants costing
less than $15,000 equivalent, all under such terms and conditions as the Association shall
specify by notice to the Borrower.


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (a) to alleviate rural poverty through the carrying
out of Eligible Subprojects "I" and Eligible Subprojects "II" in accordance with the
participatory planning process set forth in Law No. 1551; and (b) to strengthen, inter alia:
(i) Municipalities in order to improve their capacity to prepare and implement Municipal
Development Plans; (ii) OTBs in order to assist Municipalities in the preparation and
implementation of Municipal Development Plans; (iii) SNDR, SNPP and FDC in order
to improve their institutional capacity to carry out the Parts of the Project under their
responsibility; and (iv) Executing Entities in order to improve their capacity to assist the
Borrower and Eligible Municipalities and Eligible OTBs in: (A) carrying out Parts A, B.3
and C.4 of the Project; and (B) identifying and designing Eligible Subprojects "I" and
Eligible Subprojects "II".
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof as
the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such
objectives:
Part A:     Technical Assistance to Identify and Formulate Eligible Subproiects "I" and
Eligible Subprojects "II"
1.  Provision of technical assistance to Municipalities and CVs within the Project Area
to carry out their respective Municipal Development Plans in accordance with the
participatory planning process set forth in Law No. 1551.
2.   Provision of technical assistance to rural communities and indigenous groups within
the Project Area to enable them: (a) to take the necessary actions to become OTBs; and
(b) to establish CVs.
3.   Provision of technical assistance to Municipalities and OTBs within the Project Area
to identify and design Eligible Subprojects "I" and Eligible Subprojects "II".
4.   Provision of technical assistance to rural communities and indigenous groups within
the Project Area to enable them to take the necessary actions to become Indigenous
Municipal Districts.
Part B: Training
1.  Provision of training to CORDES and Executing Entities to assist the rural
communities and Municipalities in the participatory planning process set forth by Law No.
1551.
2.   Provision of training to Executing Entities to assist Municipalities in modifying their
respective Municipal Development Plans.


﻿- 19 -
3.   Provision of training to: (a) Municipalities within the Project Area to manage and
monitor their respective Municipal Development Plans; and (b) Eligible Municipalities and
Eligible OTBs to identify, design, implement and supervise their respective Eligible
Subprojects "I" and Eligible Subprojects "II".
4.   Provision of training to Executing Entities to assist Eligible Municipalities and
Eligible OTBs in identifying, designing and implementing Eligible Subprojects "I" and
Eligible Subprojects "II".
Part C: Institutional Strengthening
1.  Strengthening of SNDR's institutional capacity to carry out Parts A and B of the
Project.
2. Strengthening of SNPP's institutional capacity to carry out Part C.4 of the Project.
3.   Strengthening of FDC's institutional capacity to evaluate, approve, finance and
supervise Eligible Subprojects "I" and Eligible Subprojects "II" in accordance with the
plan referred to in paragraph 3 (b)(i) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
4.   Strengthening of Municipalities' institutional capacity to improve their administrative
and financial functions.
5.  Provision of technical assistance: (a) to the Borrower; and (b) to FDC, to carry out
the audits referred to in Article IV of this Agreement.
Part D: Rural Investments
Financing of Eligible Subprojects "I" and Eligible Subprojects "II".
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1998.


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     General
Goods and works (including those goods and works financed by Subgrants under
Part D of the Project) shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of
the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the
Bank in January 1995 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section, as
applicable.
Part B:     International Competitive Bidding
1. Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods (other than the
goods financed by Subgrants under Part D of the Project) shall be procured under
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and
paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2. The following provisions shall apply to the goods to be procured under contracts
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.1.
(a)    Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods (other than office equipment
and office furniture and supplies and the goods financed by Subgrants under Part D of the
Project) shall be grouped into bid packages estimated to cost more than the equivalent of
$125,000.
(b)    Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix
2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures
1. National Competitive Bidding
(a)    Goods (other than the goods financed by Subgrants under Part D of the
Project) estimated to cost the equivalent of $125,000 or less but more than the equivalent
of $50,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $300,000, may be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and
3.4 of the Guidelines.


﻿- 21 -
(b)    Works financed by Subgrants under Part D of the Project estimated to cost
more than the equivalent of $125,000 per contract, shall be procured under contracts
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.   National Shopping
(a)    Goods (other than the goods financed by Subgrants under Part D of the
Project) estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or less per contract, up to an
aggregate amount equivalent to $300,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on
the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs
3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
(b)    Goods financed by Subgrants under Part D of the Project, up to an
aggregate amount equivalent to $800,000, shall be procured under contracts awarded on
the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs
3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.   Procurement of Small Works
(a)    Works (other than the works financed by Subgrants under Part D of the
Project) not to exceed $100,000 in the aggregate shall be procured under lump sum, fixed
price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three qualified domestic
contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation shall include a detailed
description of the works, including basic specifications, the required completion date, a
basic form of agreement acceptable to the Association, and relevant drawings, where
applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price
quotation for the required work, and who has the experience and resources to successfully
complete the contract.
(b)    Works financed by Subgrants under Part D of the Project estimated to cost
the equivalent of $125,000 or less per contract, and not to exceed $2,000,000 in the
aggregate, shall be procured under lump sum, fixed price contracts awarded on the basis
of quotations obtained from three qualified domestic contractors in response to a written
invitation. The invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic
specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the
Association, and relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the
contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the
experience and resources to successfully complete the contract.
Part D :    Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.  Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review and
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph I of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with


﻿- 22 -
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the
provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.   Prior Review
With respect to: (a) each contract to be awarded under Parts B and C. 1 (b) of this
Section; and (b) the first contract to be awarded under Parts C.1(a) and C.3(a) of this
Section, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appewdix 1 to the Guidelines
shall apply.
3.   Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Part E:      Bidding Documents for National Competitive Bidding
All procurement of goods and works to which national competitive bidding applies
shall be carried out using standard bidding documents acceptable to the Association.
Section II.  Emplovment of Consultants
1.  Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers
and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the
Consultants Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts shall be
based on the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by the Association,
with such modifications as shall have been agreed by the Association. Where no relevant
standard contract documents have been issued by the Association, the Borrower shall use
other standard forms agreed with the Association.
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I of this Section, the provisions of the
Consultants Guidelines requiring prior Association review or approval of budgets, short
lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts
shall not apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to cost
less than $50,000 equivalent each; or (b) contracts for the employment of individuals
estimated to cost less than $15,000 equivalent each. However, this exception to prior
Association review shall not apply to: (a) the terms of reference for such contracts; (b)
single-source selection of consulting firms; (c) assignments of a critical nature, as
reasonably determined by the Association; (d) amendments to contracts for the
employment of consulting firms raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above;
or (e) amendments to contracts for the employment of individual consultants raising the
contract value to $15,000 equivalent or above.
Section III.  Special Provisions for National Competitive Bidding
In addition and without limitation to any other provision set forth in this Schedule
or the Guidelines, the procedures set forth in Supreme Decree No. 23981 shall expressly


﻿- 23 -
govern all procurement of goods and works referred to in Part C. 1 of Section I of this
Schedule, provided that:
1.  The award of civil works contracts will be based exclusively on price and other
factors such as time for completion.
2.   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the bidding process shall not be
declared void if only three bids or less have been submitted.
3.   Any standards and technical specifications (quoted in the bidding documents) which
are at least substantially equivalent to the national standards and technical specifications
shall be acceptable.
4.   Foreign bidders shall be allowed to participate in national competitive bidding.
5.   Foreign bidders shall not be required to legalize any documentation related to their
bids with Bolivian authorities as a prerequisite of bidding.
6.   Bidders who have requested to withdraw their bids prior to bid opening shall be
permitted to do so without any penalty against such bidders. The bids withdrawn shall be
returned duly sealed to the bidders.
7.  No margin of preference shall be granted for any particular category of bidders.
8.   The auction procedure (PuJa Abierta) shall not be used.
9.  In the event that a bidder whose bid was evaluated as the bid with the lowest
evaluated cost withdraws its bid, the contract may be awarded to the second lowest
responsive evaluated bid.
10. Foreign bidders shall not, as a condition for submitting bids, be required to enter into
a joint venture agreement with local bidders.
11. No other procurement rules or regulations of the Borrower's agencies or of any
state-owned entity shall apply without the prior review and consent of the Association.


﻿- 24 -
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.  For th. purposes of this Schedule:
(a)    the term: (i) "eligible Categories for Special Account 'A"' means Categories
(2), (3)(a), (4)(a) and (b), (5), (6) and (7); (ii) "eligible Categories for Special Account
'B"' means Categories (1), (3)(b), (4Xc) and (8), all set forth in the table in paragraph 1
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and (iii) "eligible Categories" means collectively the
terms referred to in (i) and (ii) herein;
(b)    the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the respective eligible Categories
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(c)    the term "Authorized Allocation 'A"' means an amount equivalent to
$600,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited in the Special Account
"A" pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the
Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation "A" shall be limited to an
amount equivalent to $300,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals [from the
Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions] shall be equal to
or exceed the equivalent of $5,000,000; and
(d)     the term "Authorized Allocation 'B"' means an amount equivalent to
$600,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited in the Special Account
"B" pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the
Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation "B" shall be limited to an
amount equivalent to $300,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals [from the
Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions] shall be equal to
or exceed the equivalent of $5,000,000.
2.  Payments out of the Special Accounts shall be made exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.  After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special
Account "A" and Special Account "B" have been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation "A" and the Authorized Allocation "B", as the case may be, and
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Accounts shall be made as follows:
(a)    For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation "A" and the Authorized
Allocation "B", as the case may be, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association a
request or requests for a deposit or deposits into the respective Special Account of an
amount or amounts which do not exceed the respective aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation "A" and the Authorized Allocation "B". On the basis of such


﻿- 25 -
request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit into the respective Special Accounts such amount or amounts
as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b) (i)      For replenishment of the Special Accounts, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Association requests for deposits into the respective Special
Accounts at such intervals as the Association shall specify.
(ii)    Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence required
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or payments
in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each
such request, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the respective
Special Accounts such amount as the Borrower shall have requested
and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence
to have been paid out of the respective Special Accounts for eligible
expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account
under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the respective Special Accounts, the
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association shall
not be required to make further deposits into the respective Special Accounts:
(a) if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a)
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b) if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within the period
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit
of the records and accounts for the Special Accounts;
(c) if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its intention
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the
Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d) once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project,


﻿- 26 -
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation "A" and the
Authorized Allocation "B", as the case may be.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn
amount of the Credit allocated to the respective eligible Categories shall follow such
procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the respective Speciai
Accounts as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.
6.  (a) If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out of
the respective Special Accounts: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not
eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B)
deposit into the respective Special Accounts (or, if the Association shall so request, refund
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further
deposit by the Association into the respective Special Accounts shall be made until the
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may
be.
(b) If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount
outstanding in any of the Special Accounts will not be required to cover further payments
for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association,
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c) The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the Association
all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the respective Special Accounts.
(d) Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of
this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or for
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.


﻿- 27 -
SCHEDULE 5
Procedures and Terms and Conditions of Subgrants
1.  Each Subgrant will finance up to 90% of the cost of each Eligible Subproject "I" and
of each Eligible Subproject "II".
2.   Each Subgrant shall be made pursuant to a Subgrant Agreement, whereby FDC shall
obtain rights adequate to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Association,
including the right to:
(a) require: (i) the Eligible Municipality or Eligible OTB to carry out and operate
the respective Eligible Subproject "I" or Eligible Subproject "II"; or (ii) the Cooperating
Entity to assist the Eligible Municipality or Eligible OTB in the carrying out and
operation of the respective Eligible Subproject "I" or Eligible Subproject "II", all with due
diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound administrative, technical,
engineering, financial, ecological and environmental standards and to provide the
necessary information to FDC to enable FDC to comply with its obligation as provided
in Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(b) require that: (i) the goods and services to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this
Agreement; and (ii) such goods and services shall be used exclusively in the carrying out
of the respective Eligible Subproject "I" or Eligible Subproject "II";
(c) inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the Association, if the
Association shall so request, the goods and works included in the respective Eligible
Subproject "I" or Eligible Subproject "II", and any relevant records ard documents;
(d) require the Eligible Municipality or Eligible OTB to finance at least 10% of
the total cost of the corresponding Eligible Subproject "I" or Eligible Subproject "II",
such financing to be made either: (i) in cash; (ii) in kind; (iii) through the provision of
labor; or (iv) by means of any combination thereof;
(e) require the Eligible Municipality or Eligible OTB to take all such action as
shall be necessary to acquire as when needed all such land and rights in respect of land
as shall be required for carrying out the Eligible Subproject "II" and shall furnish to the
Association, promptly upon its request, evidence satisfactory to the Association that such
land and rights in respect of land are available for purposes related to the Eligible
Subproject "II";
(f) require the Eligible Municipality or Eligible OTB to: (i) prepare and furnish
to FDC an action plan, satisfactory to the Association, to mitigate any potential negative
environmental impact resulting from the carrying out of the corresponding environmental
assessment of the Eligible Subproject "II" by FDC in accordance with environmental
criteria acceptable to the Association; and (ii) carry out the action plan referred to in (i)
herein in accordance with its terms; and


﻿- 28 -
(g) suspend or terminate the right of the Eligible Municipality or Eligible OTB to
benefit from the proceeds of the Credit upon failure by such municipality or OTB to
comply with any of its obligations under the corresponding Subgrant Agreement.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
- Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


