Document ol
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 22229
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(TF-28960)
ONA
GRANT
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$6.9 MILLION
TO THE REPUBLIC OF
BELARUS
FOR AN
OZONE DEPLETING SUBSTANCES PHASEOUT PROJECT
03/30/2001
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective April 12, 2001)
Currency Unit = Special Drawing Rights (SDR)
1 SDR = US$ 1.269
US$ 1 = SDR 0.788
FISCAL YEAR
January 1  -   December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
Vice President:   Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:    Luca Barbone
Sector Director:    Kevin M. Cleaver
Task Team Leader:    Karin J. Shepardson



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BELARUS
OZONE DEPLETING SUBSTANCES PHASEOUT PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                        1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                       1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry             2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                 14
6. Sustainability                                                                     16
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                      18
8. Lessons Leamed                                                                    22
9. Partner Comments                                                                   24
10. Additional Information                                                           24
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                  25
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                  26
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                  28
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                  29
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                  30
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                     31
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                 32
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P044729                                     = Project Name: ODS PHASEOUT (GEF)
Team Leader: Karin Shepardson                              TL Unit: ECSSD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                         Report Date: June 22, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: ODS PHASEOUT (GEF)                              L/C/TF Number: TF-28960
CountrvIDepartment: BELARUS                                               Region: Europe and Central
Asia Region
Sector/subsector: VP - Pollution Control / Waste Management
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:  01/31/96                                 Effective:  08/11/97
Appraisal:  12/02/96                                   MTR:
Approval:  05/01/97                                 Closing.  08/29/2000          12/29/2000
Borrower/Implementing Agency:  Government of Belarus,'Ministry of Natural Resources and Enviromnental
Protection
Other Partners:  Beneficiary Enterprises
STAFF                Current                                     At Appraisal
Vice President:      Johannes F. Linn                           Johannes Linn
Country Manager:     Luca Barbone                                Basil G. Kavalsky
Sector Manager:      Jane E. Holt                                Geoffrey Fox
Team Leader at ICR:   Karin Shepardson                           Karin Shepardson
ICR Primary Author:   Karin Shepardson; Paola Meta;
Elena Klochan
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: SU
BankPerformance: S
Borrower Performance: HS
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry:                         S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No
This project did not have a QAG assessment.



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.] Original Objective:
The projecfs main objective was to assist Belarus with the rapid phaseout of ODS consumption in
a manner consistent with international efforts and within internationally agreed timeframes. The
project was designed to help provide assistance to high consumption enterprises in Belarus to
enable them to make the transition to non-ODS materials before supplies diminish. The project
would also provide needed technical assistance and institutional strengthening to an Ozone Office
established on July 1, 1996 in the Ministry of Natural Resources and Environmental Protection
(MNREP).
The project objectives were quite simple and "technical" in nature as compared to other Bank
projects- but very similar to other GEF ODS Phaseout Projects within the ECA region. Policy
reforms in the ODS Phaseout Project were limited to adoption of environment laws and treaties
concerning ODS production consumption, custom controls, and adoption of rules to alter
enterprise and consumer behavior. The project was an outcome of Bank ESW recommendations
and therefore it matched our country dialogue in the environment sector. The project was
approved at a time in the country dialogue when a complex project would not have been
acceptable - and it became the only Bank project to be approved in Belarus for the following five
year period due to concerns with Belarus' macroeconomic framework, most importantly the
multiple exchange rate policy. A Forestry Loan under implementation at the time of the ODS
Phaseout Project approval experienced problems particularly related to a lack of government
committment to policy reforms, and the government had recently cancelled preparation of several
other Bank loans midstream. Overall, there was not a very high level of confidence or trust
between the Bank and the governnent, and there was a lack of experience to demonstrate the
government's capacity to implement and follow-through on a Bank project. Thus the good
implementation performance of this project provides an important milestone for future
cooperation between the Bank and the government.
3.2 Revised Objective:
N/A - The objective was not revised during the course of the the project.
3.3 Original Components:
The project was comprised of an investment component in technology conversion and a technical
assistance and training component in support of Belarus' ODS Phaseout Country Program. The
technology conversion components consisted of one sub-project in the household refrigeration
manufacturing sector; one sub-project in the industrial/commercial refrigeration servicing sector;
and four sub-projects in the solvent sector. The technical assistance and training subcomponent
consisted of a national training workshop to assess alternatives for phasing out halon systems; and
an institutional strengthening component aimed at enhancing government's capacity to meet
Montreal Protocol obligations.
Refrigeration Manufacturing ($4.3 million) - This sub-project was designed to complete a large
refrigerator manufacturer (Atlant's), conversion to non-ODS materials. It specifically helped
finance conversion CFC-I 1 to a cyclopentane substitute in its refrigeration foaming line.
Additionally, it financed equipment and training for the enterprise's refrigeration servicing business
which dominates the local market. An estimated 282 tons/year of ODS used in manufacturing and
-2 -



62 tons/years from servicing requirements were targeted for phaseout.
Commercial Refrigeration Servicing ($1.5 million) - This sub-project was designed to support
training and investment in equipment to establish a national capacity for recovering, recycling, and
reclaming refrigerants in the industrial, commercial, and transportation refrigeration servicing
sector. It also provided funds to retrofit refrigeration units to operate with non-ODS materials.
A national servicing network lead by the enterprise Beltoprogress was the key executing
organization. An estimated 256 tons/year consumed in servicing of ODS was targeted for
phase-out.
Solvent Sector ($0.7 million) - Four enterprise based sub-projects in the electronics and consumer
products manufacturing businesses (Belva, Minsk Comaputer, Kamerton, and Tsvetotron) were
targeted for conversion to non-ODS technologies. Three sub-projects subsequently substituted
CFC- 1 13 solvent with high purity water and acid-alkaline techniques for cleaning electronic
components. Two sub-projects converted the used of trichloroethane (TCA) in circuit board
manufacturing to a non-ODS alkaline process. An estimated 15 tons/year of CFC-1 13 and 75
tons/year of TCA was targeted for phaseout.
Technical Assistance and Trainina sub-components
Two technical assistance sub-components provided technical knowledge and training regarding
ODS conversion in the fire protection sector (US $30,000) and institutional strengthening to
Government authorities concerned with ODS issues (IUS $154,000). Funds supported a national
workshop on fire protection and alternatives for conversion to non-ODS materials, focusing
specifically on halons. The institutional strengthening component provided support to the
government's Ozone Office and their role in carrying out the objectives of the Belarus ODS
Phaseout Country Program.
The design of the project components matched the key recommendations of the ODS Phaseout
Country Program for Belarus and targeted the largest ODS consumers. Lessons learned from
earlier ODS Phaseout Projects were taken into consideration in this project's design, particularly
with regard to the need to include refrigeration servicing and halon sectors. Flexibility in the TA
and training sub-components allowed for cross-fertilization among otherODS phaseout projects
across the ECA region by supporting periodic inter-regional exchanges (initially hosted by
Hungary) on outreach and public awareness efforts in areas with relatively less worldwide
experience like refrigeration servicing and halons substitution schemes. The project incorporated
additional financial risk prevention measures (routine financial viability monitoring of enterprises
and a design that anticipated some enterprise failures) primarily because of bankruptcy
experiences in ODS projects of other countries where the macroeconomic risks were assessed to
be lower than Belarus.
3.4 Revised Components:
No project components were revised; however some of the project savings were used to expand the impact
of the refrigeration servicing sub-project and to expand the technical assistance component to publish
training and public awareness materials related to the sub-projects.
- 3 -



Savings under the servicing equipment sub-project at Beltorg progess allowed Belarus to increase the
amount of spare parts and refrigeration technician toolkits available to technicians trained under the
project as well as to purchase additional servicing equipment for milk coolers in the agricultural sector.
The latter investment proved to be particularly valuable to sustain operation of coolers in dairy farms. The
specific requirements of the milk coolers were not captured in the original ODS Country Program, and
were therefore not included in the phaseout proposals presented for GEF support. During subsequent
project supervision, however the dependence of these milk coolers ODS supplies and need for special
conversion and retrofit were identified. Since the Govemment could not afford to replace these coolers with
new equipment, they have been coverted to "transitional substances" allowed under the Montreal Protocol
for a limited timeframe, but ineligible for GEF financing. To assist the Government to meet long term
ODS phaseout of refrigerants in these milk coolers, and to ensure the continued operation of equipment
critical to the country's milk production, the project allocated US$ 48,000 of savings to purchase GEF
eligible equipment for the servicing organizations covering the agricultural dairy sector.
Additional activities funded under the technical assistance component included: (1) development of
consumer education brochures to encourage people to service refrigerators using properly trained
technicians bearing a "Green Card" (the Green Card certifies technicians who have been trained in ODS
recovery and reclaim from refrigerators); (2) development of an educational pamphlet for technicians on
servicing issues; (3) development of a manual for servicing technicians; and (4) development of a
refrigeration energy efficiency program to be carried out through the servicing centers.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
N/A. This project did not undergo a quality at entry review, however it was considered to be well
prepared and it met all of the Bank's project processing service standards. The government easily
and efficiently met the project's policy conditionality which was the ratification of the London
Anmmendment of the Montreal Protocol. The most difficult preparation hurdle were efforts to
establish a procurement and financial management specialist in the Ozone Office. Although
preparation funds were allocated to fund these two positions, they went unspent in the PDF-B
(GEF preparation grant) because of legal contracting difficulties (government Ministry could not
legally hire contract staff; were required to assess social taxes; and required to currency hand-over
requirements due to the multiple exchange rates). The Bank did not agree to grant funds being
allocated for social taxes; and did not agree to higher than normal salaries to compensate for
currency losses from mandatory government exchange rates (equivalent to a direct transfer of
grant funds to the central government). These difficulties persisted into the first year of the
project until they were ultimately resolved at a high level and on an exceptional basis for World
Bank projects. Early project implementation did suffer from these positions being vacant for such
a long period- and the issue was extensively discussed between the Bank and the government on a
regular basis to try to find an acceptable solution for both sides.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objeetive:
Achievement of Project Objective.
The project was completed successfully with an overall highly satisfactory rating for
implementation performance. The investment activities were completed by the end of July, one
month in advance of the August 29, 2000 closing date. A short extension of the project to
December 29, 2000 was granted to complete the final audit of project accounts, which was
- 4 -



delivered to the Bank at the end of November 2000. Project objectives were fully achieved, and
100% of the amount targeted for phaseout under this project was achieved.
This was the only ODS Phaseout project in the ECA region to be implemented within its
appraised three year project implementation period. This success was achieved mainly due to the
high implementation capacity of the Ministry Ozone Office and beneficiary enterprises. Another
significant factor in ensuring smooth and timely implementation was the continuity of the task
team on the Bank side, which provided the MNREP and the enterprises with a source of
consistent and undisrupted support. Resident mission staff training on project procurement and
disbursement functions during project implementation (one of only 2 projects in the country) also
provided timely and useful support to the client, particularly in the later part of the project
implementation.
The largest implementation challenge for the project concerned financial difficulties at several
solvent consuming enterprises, which thus risked cancellation of their sub-projects and
contributed to project implementation delays for these sub-projects. Ultimately, all sub-projects
were implemented once enterprises improved their financial situation and demonstrated an ablity
to provide necessary counterpart funds.
Consistency of the Project with the ODS Phaseout Country Program
The Belarus ODS Phaseout Country Program (CP) was completed in 1994, and was the
Government's planning document underlying the desigrn of this project. Formal Government
approval of the Country Program was a pre-requisite ifor GEF funding. The CP discussed the
potential for ODS phaseout in Belarus from two aspects: 1) government strategy; and 2) actions
by individual enterprises in the foam, refrigeration ancl solvent sectors.
The Belarussian Government broadly followed the proposals outlined in the CP. An Ozone
Office (00) was set up to oversee project implementation, assist in drafting legislation and
administer ODS import licenses. Legislation was adopted to require attainment of a license issued
by the 00 by any organisation wishing to import any ozone depleting substances. Public
Awareness Raising Campaigns (PARCs) were successfully implemented and the 00 drafted and
facilitated the adoption of the key legal instruments for ODS control that are currently in force
(Order #120; 02/06/1997 of the Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment and the Decree
of the Council of Ministers # 1038; 08/08/1997). Order # 120 defined the procedure of moving
ODS through the customs border of the Republic of Belarus and made it possible to establish
control over their import and export while Decree #1038 introduced duties on ODS import and
mandated licensing of activities related to ODS production, storage, industrial consumption,
recycling and disposal. A comprehensive law on the protection of the ozone layer is currently
awaiting approval by Parliament; and when passed, will complete the establishment of legal and
institutional conditions enabling Belarus to meet its international commitments for the protection
of the ozone layer. An inter-ministerial agency on ODS phaseout was established to oversee the
process of developing the Country Program, and continues to play an important role in promoting
cooperation between different government agencies (e.g. Ministries of Environment and
Economy, the State Customs Committee).
- 5 -



Some proposals outlined in the CP were not carried out, or were modified. In particular, the
proposal to license refrigeration technicians was modified. Instead legislation was adopted to
require users to be registered and to make annual reports on their ODS use. This was later
strengthened by an additional decree to require all refrigeration service companies to show
capacity for, and evidence of, refrigerant recycling as a precondition for renewal of their annual
trading licence. The high percentage of servicing technicians who received project-financed
training coupled with a requirement for companies to demonstrate recycling, make it highly
unlikely that anyone will deliberately vent refrigerant to atmosphere (the prevention of which
would be the objective of a technician licensing scheme). Legislation designed to stop the
activities of a small number of untrained technicians is likely to be expensive and difficult to
police. Thus the refrigeration technician licensing scheme envisioned in the CP is not being
pursued. The market price of ODS substances also doubled in a year and will continue to rise as
the available supplies diminish- establishing strong economic incentives for compliance.
In summary, all sub-projects recommended for GEF investment in the Country Program for ODS
phaseout have been implemented. The one area that received little attention in the CP, but which
remains the sole ODS use sector in Bealrus is the fire protection sector. The CP assumed that
halon substitutes exist or would exist by the time of implementation and that curtailing their use
could be achieved by disseminating information about substitutes through a workshop.
Unfortunately, convenient substitutes have not been developed during this time and thus the fire
fighting services in Belarus are currently and remain dependent on halons. All developed
countries face this problem and have solved it by setting up halon banks which enable halon
collection from installations where it is not required to be re-used in locations where there is no
effective alternative (aircraft, hospitals, fine art museums etc.). The low consumption needs and
shrinking base of essential halon users makes this a long term strategy. With hindsight, the
Belarussian government probably should and would have sought assistance for a halon bank had
this option been considered the only solution. The most urgent problem is that halon is vented
from installations being subjected to the mandatory five year re-filling requirement. Provision of a
halon recycling equipment could have prevented this significant discharge.
4.2 Outputs by components:
It should be noted that each participating enterprise prepared its own sub-project completion
reports which are included in the project files.
1. Domestic Refrigeration Manufacturing Conversion and Domestic Refrigeration
Recovery and Recycling Scheme - Atlant Enterprise - HS
The GEF financed part of this project consisted of two parts: 1) the partial financing of a door
foaming line using cyclopentane to replace CFC- 11; and 2) the provision of refrigerant recycling
and recovery machines and toolkits to Atlant' s service network to establish a recovery, recycling,
and reuse (3R) scheme for the domestic refrigeration sector. All ODS substances used at this
enterprise were phased out by the project. This project component was rated highly satisfactory.
Atlant is a very sound company whose business position has been marginally improved by the new
line. The refrigerator doors now produced with ozone free chemicals have allowed the company
- 6 -



to market their products with an ozone-friendly "green" label (particularly important in western
european markets). Exposure to the state-of-the-art foaming technology has improved the
knowledge and professionalism of technicians at all levels. The improved product quality has
increased the company's competitiveness and enabled it to increase exports to western european
markets at a time when traditional CIS markets were weakening.
Refrigerant recovery from refrigerator repair established under the project has proceeded well. In
2000, 3,105 kgs of CFC-12 were recovered and re-used by Atlant's service network. Atlant's
refrigeration servicing networks did not purchase any new CFC- 12 in 2000, and thus the recovery
scheme objectives had been fully met. About 30% of the demand for refrigerant to charge
repaired refrigerators had been met by recycled product. The rest was met by a Russian S- 10
substitute for CFC- 12.
Secondary benefits from the sub-project have been considerable. Health and safety of workers at
the Atlant plant has improved by reducing CFC- 1I vapours in the door foaming workshop; and by
introducing a new door design which eliminated a riveted construction that had been responsible
for health problems reported in around 100 female workers over the last 15 years. The pneumatic
riveter machines used previously had caused female operators (with weaker bone structures) to
experience repetitive stress fractures of the wrist. Atlant had earlier (1995) financed conversion
of its body foaming line to cyclopentane and experienced none of the benefits described above. If
the Project not been implemented, Atlant reportedly would have likely continued using
HCFC-141b, a transitional low- ODS fluid allowed under Montreal Protocol rules.
Some minor (resolvable) technical problems were encountered after commissioning of the new
equipment, however they were eventually addressed by the suppliers. The time taken to
implement the sub-project (1997 to 1999) was considered excessive by the enterprise who felt
that the World Bank's procedures were cumbersome and slow. Atlant was accustomed to
competitive bidding for its own procurement and felt it did not gain anything using the Bank's
methods. The implementation time for Bank procurement of this type of equipment package was
however not considered excessive by World Bank standards and was very close to the two-year
schedule estimated for the LIB packaged goods at appraisal.
2. Beltorgprogress - Refrigeration Recovery, Recycling, and Reclamation Scheme (3R) and
Techncian Training Program - HS
The Beltorprogress sub-project consisted of the establishment of a scheme for Refrigerant
Recovery Recycling and Reclamation (3R). This involved provision of technician training,
servicing equipment, recycling and reclaim and equipment, and equipment for testing refrigerant
purity. This project sub-component was rated highly satisfactory.
The total numbers of refrigeration technicians trained under this sub-project exceeded the
expected number by more than 10%. The initial performance of the 3R scheme itself was highly
successful, even in its first three months of operation (at the time of the ICR mission). In the first
three months of operation - 2,200 kgs of CFC-12 was recycled from Beltorprogress' five Oblast
level servicing depots. This amount equals about 7 tons per year, or more than 10% of
- 7-



Beltorprogress' 1999 purchase of CFC- 12 for servicing. This result is excellent as compared to
projections for this early stage, and the startup performance was better than similar schemes in
other ECA's GEF ODS Phaseout projects. The original project document estimated financial
viability of the recycling and recovery scheme at about 20% of the service use recycled. At the
time of the ICR mission, a further 400 kgs were expected from the railroad refrigeration servicing
depot and about 2,400 kgs from Belcoopsoyuz, the agricultural equipment service organisation.
Once these amounts are received and processed, the 20% recovery rate targeted by the project
design would be exceeded.
Prospects for sustainability of this sub-component are excellent. The cessation of CFC- 12 supplies
to the Republic of Belarus effective since January 1, 2000 immediately raised the local price of
CFC- 12 from $US 2 to SUS 4. The price was expected to continue to rise to at least the price of
a Russian made CFC-12 substitute ($US 7/kg) possibly even higher as supplies of virgin CFC-12
dry up (Russian production ceased in December 2000). Recycled refrigerants are clearly the
cheapest alternative for servicing existing CFC- 12 refrigeration systems. Thus, field service
technicians have benefited financially from recovering refrigerant. They are paid $US 0.5 per kg
recovered, and on average they have boosted their $US 60/week average wages by approximately
$US 10-15 per week (to $70-75/week).
Both management and technicians who received training were pleased with the results of the
training course. The training reviewed basic service skills while teaching the use of new
equipment, refrigerant recovery and system retrofit. The training equipment has been transferred
to the Agricultural Training Institute at Sennista (Minsk region) who will use it as part of its
refrigeration courses.
As the first company from the former Soviet trade equipment service network to have a GEF
funded 3R project, the demonstration value has and will be very great. Similar projects in Ukraine
have already used Beltorprogress' help in procurement, and the experience of preparing this
project has helped consultants preparing 15 3R projects in the Russian Federation. The objective
of setting up a viable 3R scheme has been met. Over the next three years, the bulk of Belarus'
256 ton servicing demand is likely to disappear through the retrofit activities that this project has
encouraged. The 3R scheme will reduce the direct economic cost of this transition to the country.
The training scheme will reduce indirect costs by ensuring that service technicians are trained in
refrigerant retrofit techniques. Preventable system failures resulting from retrofitting to non-ODS
fluids will also be minimized.
Solvent Sector Enterprise Conversion Components
3. Minsk Instrument Building Company (formally Belvar) - S
This sub-project involved the provision of a wave soldering line, washing machine, water
de-ionizer and a wastewater treatment unit to a company whose principle product is television
tuners. This project component was rated satisfactory.
The phaseout objective was fully achieved. Prospects for sustainability are good. The old
- 8 -



washing equipment was physically destroyed. Certificates attesting to the destruction were
provided by the chief engineer, and the Ozone Office confirmed that destruction had taken place.
Belvar's production levels as a company are a fraction of what they once were but the enterprise
showed significant improvement in 1999. Higher operating costs of the new technology, was
largely offset by the higher quality products achieved. The company reported significant
commercial benefits as a result of the higher quality achieved by the new equipment. Previously
Belarus' two TV producers had sourced their tuners abroad, buying from Belvar only when they
lacked foreign currency. Now they are sourcing all tuners from Belvar.
A secondary benefit was the improvement of health and safety conditions in the workplace. With
the old technology, Belvar staff were exposed to CFC-1 13 vapours whereas the new process uses
no volatiles. Having witnessed the improvement in conditions in the soldering workshop, other
workshop staff pressed management to consider ways of improving conditions throughout the
plant. Implementing the project had a very positive effect on staff morale. The delivery of modem
equipment provided a psychological boost that improved staff morale at a time when production
was dropping and the future looked uncertain.
4. Minsk Computer (MPOVT) - S
This sub-project involved the partial funding of a fluxless wave soldering machines to replace a
process that required washing of PCBs with CFC- 1 13. It also financed an aqueous cleaning
process to replace trichloroethane (TCA) used in a photoresist process; a water de-ionizer; and a
wastewater treatment unit. This project component was rated satisfactory.
Thus MPVOT's use of ODS has been eliminated and ithe sub-projects objectives fully met. A main
secondary benefit was a significant increase in product quality which improved competitiveness
of the company's main product, telephone exchanges. At the same time, an increase in energy
and water treatment related operating costs partially off-set these gains. Health and safety
improved with the elimination of CFC-1 13 and TCA vapours in the workplace. A fire hazard
associated with TCA use was also eliminated. A new joint venture agreement and a 70%
production increase reported for 1999 indicate improvement in MPVOTs business position which
should ensure sustainability in the medium term. The old washing equipment was physically
destroyed. Certificates were provided by the chief engineer, and the Ozone Office confirmed that
destruction had taken place. The enterprise felt it would have phased out ODS consumption
themselves if the project had not been implemented, but it would have taken longer. Phaseout of
the the TCA was the most costly and the most likely expenditure to have been deferred.
The main problems in sub-project implementation were related to a lack of funds. MPVOTs
financial position was marginal and the project was delayed for a long period because of concerns
related to the company's financial viability and ability to provide counterpart funds. Despite
MPVOTs poor financial state - the Bank decided to proceed, based on strong indications that this
state-owned enterprise would continue to operate and would continue to use CFCs for the
foreseeable future. Installation supervision was left out of their wave soldering machine contract
at the enterprise's request to help make the overall package more affordable. As a result, the
enterprise's engineers had to disassemble and re-assemble machinery and program the control
-9-



software themselves. This led to some initial difficulties, but all the equipment is working well
today.
5. Tsvetotron Enterprise - S
This subproject assisted Tsvetron, a manufacturer of printed circuit boards, to phase out 3.2 MT
of methylchloroform (TCA) used in the photoresist development processing of the circuit boards.
The conversion consisted of new photoresist development equipment using an alkaline solution
base; the acquisition of photoresist stripping equipment; and the modernization of the surface
preparation machine. Additionally, the enterprise had to upgrade its ventilation and power supply
systems, and upgrade its wastewater treatment facilities. Tsvetotron workers also received
training in the use and maintenance of the new equipment. This project component was rated
satisfactory.
Tsvetotron was late in completing its sub-project and experienced several years of delay. The
enterprise installed the new equipment in March, 2000 and decomissioned and destructed the old
equipment in June, 2000. Delays in converting to ODS-free technology resulted in a longer than
expected ODS consumption. Nonetheless, on the date of last consumption of TCA, the enterprise
was in full compliance with the country program. As with all other ODS consumers, Tsvetotron
was issued an import license from the MNREP, which was revoked in 2000 once the sub-project
was completed. Despite problems and setbacks, the company is happy with the final outcome of
the project.
The investment improved the competitiveness of Tvetotron's product, and the procurement
process exposed staff to a wide range of technologies in the PCB manufacturing industry.
Increased worker morale and safety were secondary benefits of the technology conversion.
Workers are no longer exposed to the hazardous fumes released by the TCA. Management and
workers have increased their level of environmental awareness as a result of these improvements,
and have begun a program to implement energy efficiency measures at the plant. Staff have
benefited from training in operating the new production equipment and have seen the company's
prospects improve dramatically as a result of the investments.
Most of the problems and project delays in this sub-project's implementation stemmed from the
poor financial performance of the enterprise. Tsvetotron was subjected to close scrutiny by a
Bank until it secured contracts and improved its financial position to a point were the Bank team
was comfortable with the future sustainability of the GEF investment. Additionally, the enterprise
proposed changes to the agreed procurement plan, that were not initally substantiated by technical
analysis and required further research by the firm and a technical review by the Bank. Eventually,
the proposed changes in equipment procurement were accepted by the Bank in light of product
shifts necessary to convert from defense-oriented production to more consumer oriented
products.
The conversion encountered some technical problems because the upgrade was carried out in two
phases. First, an alkaline stripping processing was introduced, while the ODS based photoresist
developing process was retained. Once the firm acquired the new soda-based photoresist
- 10-



developing machine, the full conversion was completed. This two-step upgrade yielded a higher
than normal rate of defective products, which impacted the company's sales during that period.
Additionally, after some time, adjustments were required in the wastewater system requiring the
installation of a new filters to bring effluent water quality up to national standards. The enterprise
experienced an increase in energy related operating costs, which were offset by the higher quality
and increased quantities of production.
This sub-project had a lower than expected enterprise contribution because of the devaluation of
local expenditures (currency devaluation and exchange rate changes) and because of the ability of
Tsvetotron to locate and purchase suitable second-hand equipment to complete its part of the
sub-project. Some of the existing equipment, such as the surface preparation machines, were
upgraded instead of buying new ones.
6. Kamerton - S
This sub-project financed the phase out 2.4 MT of CFC- 1 13 used in cleaning and polishing
processes at a plant manufacturing silicon wafer components for the electronic and semiconductor
industry. The technology replacement uses a multi-stage acid-alkaline water based washing
process. The sub-project led to the phaseout of all OD)S consumption and was rated satisfactory.
This was the first solvent investment to be completed under the project, and the learning curve
was very steep for both the beneficiary enterprise and the Ozone Office. The project was
eventually completed 15 months behind schedule in March 1999, but still within the deadline set
for ODS phaseout at the plant. The implementation delay resulted in ODS use longer than
expected, but this was offset by the enterprise's introduction of ODS-free pre-cleaning
techniques, which helped meet the firm's phaseout targets.
A critical factor in encouraging enterprises to quickly phaseout ODS consumption was the
passage and enforcement of new regulations on import licensing, export bans, and ODS
consumption taxes. Kamerton received a license to import ODS which was revoked by the
Ministry of Natural Resources and Environmental Protection (MNREP) upon completion of the
project. After installation and trial runs of the new equipment in January 1999, the enterprise
decommissioned and destroyed the old equipment in March 1999.
Kamerton reported many secondary benefits from the ODS project. Worker morale is higher
from more exposure to current technologies and other international business partners encountered
during the procurement process, and from training on the new equipment. Awareness of
environmental issues at the plant has increased, and some work-related health hazards reduced
(elimination of CFC-1 13 hazardous fumes). Lastly, Kamerton, already an ISO 90001 certified
firm, initiated procedures for an independent ISO 14001 certification due to the improved
environmental management practices introduced in the plant by the ODS conversion investment.
As with all solvent sub-projects, the project resulted in incremental operating expenses rather than
savings, because the aqueous-based cleaning system requires multiple steps and produces
wastewater which must be treated before discharge. Initially, the firm was not sure that the new
- 11 -



cleaning system would yield the desired level of cleanliness for the wafers; however these doubts
were dispelled after installation of the new equipment. The quality of the finished product is fully
satisfactory and has allowed the enterprise to compete on western markets. Kamerton is now part
of a joint-venture with a Gernan firmn which purchases the silicon wafers as components for its
electronic products. The increased water consumption has been counter-balanced by several cost
reduction measures, such as reorganization of its production lines to better match market
demands, and introduction of a plant-wide energy saving program. The firn also adequately
managed to additional enviromnental issues stemming from the technology change (release of
ammonia, alkali, and peroxide in the water), minimizing any potentially negative impact of the
technology conversion.
7. Fire Protection - S
This small technical assistance sub-component financed a national workshop of stakeholders in the
fire protection sector to discuss technology options for conversion of halon-based fire protection
systems. The sub-project was rated satisfactory. The workshop was useful and well-attended
however occurred later than originally planned. One of the main conclusions of the workshop
was that Belarus needs to develop a system to collect, recyle, and recover halon equipment. The
cost of this was outside of the current project's scope and a halon recycling system has not yet
been established with national funds. Although this component met expectations, in hindsight,
more consideration should have been given to an investment proposal for the halon sub-sector.
Since the GEF requires that investments be articulated in the ODS Phaseout Country Programme,
this would have been the appropriate stage to initially evaluated the feasibility of this type of
investment in Belarus. Unfortunately the timing of project preparation co-oincided with a period
of greater optimism at the international level (GEF Scientific and Technical Advisory Panel for
example) that drop-in halon substitutes were very near to development. Projects developed later
acknowledged the critical role that halon recycling schemes could play in preventing halon
releases in the interim period.
8. Institutional - HS
The institutional Strengthening sub-component provided resources to the Ozone Office to
administer the project and other aspects of the ODS Phaseout country program implementation.
It financed office equipment and supplies; ozone monitoring equipment for customs staff and
Ozone Office staff inspections; consultants in procurement and accounting; staff training;
regulatory program development support; and outreach and public awareness materials. The
sub-component was rated as highly satisfactory largely because of success at implementing public
awareness and outreach activities; for the diligent and pro-active role of the Ministry and Ozone
Office staff; and the high capacity that the Ozone Office reached in the second half of the project
period.
Specific outreach and public awareness activities included a booklet- Protecting the Ozone Layer:
Belarus' Viewpoint, 1997; a video on ozone layer protection, 1997; a workshop at Atlant
enterprise -Measures Taken By Belarus To Protect The Ozone Layer, 1998; a workshop at the
Academy of Sciences on Ozone Layer Protection Problems, 1998; support needed for regular
- 12-



reports for the mass media (TV, radio and newspapers); an informational bulletin titled, Some
Problems of Ozone Layer Protection, V. Minchenya and N.Kryzhanovsky, 1999; an educational
manual for service technicians focused on the protection of the ozone layer Refrigerants and Oils
for Refrigeration Equipment, V. Minchenya, 2001; a consumer educational brochure What you
Should Know About Refrigerants, V. Minchenya, N. Kiryzhanovsky and G. Chernyak, 2001; and a
workshop on problems of control over ODS trade and possible solutions, 2000.
Staff training included courses targeted at project implementation, such as a 1-month Bank
endorsed
international procurement course; participation in periodic gatherings of a regional network of
ODS phaseout
project implementation units; and on support for some staff to attend Montreal Protocol technical
meetings.
Project implementation was also supported by two project financed local consultants - one for
procurement
and one for accounting. All other staff in the Ozone Office were supported by standard
government salaries.
The Bank's supervision reviews of the Ozone Office's project records, financial records and
procurement documentation found them to be in good order - and all audits were unqualified and
accepted by the Bank. The Bank supervision team performed about four post-reviews of
procurement documents in the second half of the project period and found them to be in
compliance with Bank procedures. Overall, the Belarus Ozone Office implementation capacity
grew strong and staff became a resource for support to other Ozone Offices in the region, most
notably, Ukraine. The Ozone Office has also performed well in terms of Montreal Protocol
reporting and compliance activities. The country introduced licensing of activities related to ODS
production, storage, industrial consumption, recycling and disposal (Decree of the Council of
Ministers #1038, August 8, 1997) and a ban on import: and export of especially hazardous ODs in
accordance with the London Amendment to the Montreal Protocol (Decree of the Council of
Ministers #1741, November 13, 1998).    A comprehensive Ozone Layer Protection Law is
pending parliamentary approval.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
A net present value calculation was not performed for this project, as it would have been difficult
to include in the NPV for the global environmental benefits, which represent the majority of the
returns generated by this project.
Each investment sub-project was measured for cost-effectiveness and could only be funded up to
the cost-effectiveness thresholds of the Montreal Protocol. Since all targeted phaseout was
achieved- the cost-effectiveness values recalculated for the project's final costs are:
Original Estimate    Final Estimate
Atlant Household Refrigeration        $9.60/ kg ODP            $10.1 1/kg ODP
Beltorgprogress                $6.25/kg ODP        $5.27/kg ODP
Belvar                          $53.25/kg ODP      $51.35/kg ODP
Minsk Computer                  $20.8/kg ODP       $20.08/kg ODP
- 13-



$37.17/kg ODP        $35.88/kg ODP
Tsvetotron                         $38.5/kg ODP         $14.70/kg ODP
Kamerton                           $27.85/kg ODP        $27.36/kg ODP
4.4 Financial rate of return:
A financial rate of return was not calculated for this project as a whole. However extensive
financial analyses were performed for each beneficiary enterprise at appraisal and a quarterly
reporting and monitoring system was established for supervision. Records of these reviews and
the initial financial assessments has been included in the project files. The system established for
monitoring the financial performance of enterprises (involved conversion of soviet style accounts
to western style accounts) provided the team with a useful tool during supervision. It also
increased enterprise awareness of the importance of transparent financial accounts for investors.
Due to a particular concern with multiple exchange rates in Belarus - an additional sensitivity
analysis was performed for varying inflation and exchange rates at the time of project appraisal.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
Institutional Strengthening of the Ministry Natural Resources and Environmental Protection
Performance Assessment
Overall, Ozone Office implementation capacity in Minsk grew to a high level. In the first year of project
life, the Ozone Office struggled to learn Bank procedures and and policy needed to implement the project.
Subsequently, under a strategy of targeted supervision support by the Bank team, training courses in Bank
procurement, and participation in regional ozone layer protection seminars - the Ozone Office developed a
full set of skills and professional qualifications that made it one of the most efficient ODS implementation
units in the region. In addition to the project specific functions, the project staff also took on an important
role within the MNIREP providing policy advice and details concerning on Montreal Protocol compliance
monitoring. The staff were called on to support other offices in the region, especially Kiev, as they were
several years behind Belarus' schedule.
As a result of intense policy and regulatory activity by the MNREP to support and strengthen the GEF
funded ODS phaseout, the Ozone Office was instrumental in drafting several pieces of regulation. Among
these, the Ozone Layer Protection Law now pending parliamentary approval, a system of
licensing the activities related to ODS production, storage, industrial consumption, recycling and
disposal (Decree of the Council of Ministers #1038, August 8, 1997), and a ban on import and
export of especially hazardous ODs in accordance with the London Amendment to the Montreal
Protocol (Decree of the Council of Ministers #1741, November 13, 1998). These last two pieces
of legislation have contributed in large part to the cessation of import of the most hazardous ODS
and to the timely transition to their alternative substitutes. Lastly, the Ozone Office promoted a series
of public awareness activities on ODS phaseout, which increased the overall institutional impact of the
project in several groups of Belarussian society.
Enterprise Institutional Development
Another important result of the project was the development of procurement skills and environmental safety
concerns at the enterprise level. Beneficiary enterprises were exposed to Bank procurement practices, and
in spite of the delays and sometimes seemingly cumbersome requirements, they overall favored the adoption
of Bank procurement for the project. They believe Bank procurement procedures assisted them in locating
- 14 -



the most attractive suppliers in terms of quality and price, and further reinforced their preference for
commercially based procurement practices versus central government specified procurement.
Additionally, the attention to environmental issues at the enterprise level encouraged many companies to
seek and achieve ISO 9001 rating (quality control standards) and to request independent audits for ISO
14001 certification (environmental management standards). The strengthening of management and
operational capacity at enterprise participants under the. project was one of the secondary benefits of the
ODS Phaseout Project.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Two key factors outside the control of the government that affected the project were the financial
viability and committment of the beneficiary enterprises; and the procedures of the World Bank.
The financial viability of individual enterprises was assessed during project appraisal and
monitored by the Bank team throughout supervision using a locally based accountant who helped
convert data from Russian/former soviet accounts to western style statements on a routine basis.
Project implementation delays occurred for two sub-projects where the financial viability issues
were the most difficult. In the case of Belvar (later re-named Minsk Instrument Building
Company), this enterprise was at a very difficult point at project appraisal, and was almost
dropped from the project. A decision was made instead to continue monitoring Belvar's
restructuring efforts (including its participation in an ongoing U.K. Know-How business
restructuring support program), allow it more time to demonstrate its viability, and ensure that the
project agreements could accommodate its drop-out if necessary. The enterprise shifted product
lines; cut costs, and eventually turn a profit during the project period. The enterprise's relatively
small ODS conversion investment was cleared for procurement only after the results of the
restructuring efforts were demonstrated.
Minsk Computer's financial condition was marginal but accepted as viable for the medium-term at
project appraisal, but deteriorated further over the course of project implementation. Concern
over the enterprise's ability to meet counterpart funding requirements and its overall financial
viability delayed the processing of its procurement documents for more than a year. During this
period the enterprise sought clearances for a lower cost alternative ODS conversion design, based
on retrofitting of existing equipment, and moved forward on its own. Additionally, the company
sought from central government agencies (Ministry of Industry and Ministry of Environment) to
help them meet their counterpart financing commitrnents. The Bank eventually agreed to finance
this conversion sub-project based on grounds that the enterprise was likely to exist beyond 5 years
and would continue to require this technology conversion for their core business.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The government adopted legislation supporting the project. Specialists within the Ozone Office worked
routinely on the legislative and regulatory issue, and continue to do so today. The project funds did not
directly support these efforts, with the exception of helping to produce public awareness materials used in
the public outreach process. Excellent support from all levels of government (other Ministries, regional
offices, Parliament, and the Presidents office) was demonstrated and the timing of this support
complemented the project investments. An inter-agency working group was established and operated
effectively to implement ODS Phaseout Country Program Objectives.
- 15-



The government staffed the ozone office, with the exception of procurement and accounting local
consultants who were hired almost a year after the project became effective. There were problems with the
Ministry's legal structure that did not allow hiring two local consultants to manage core World
Bank-specific functions (procurement and accounting/financial management) beginning during project
preparation (the preparation grant was originally partially intended for this purpose and eventually this
portion was cancelled). The problems stemmed from requirements for handling social taxes; multiple
exchange rates in the country that devalued the grant financed salary (thus no one would accept the
position); and processing of local based payments. All of the key issues related to hiring consultant staff
were issues within the control of the government, and eventually resolved.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Since the implementing agency was within a goverment Ministry, there is not a large distinction between
the implementing agency control and govemement control. The beneficiary enterprises were required to
coordinate all project activities with the Ozone Office and therefore the efficiency of transactions at the
implementing agency were critical to the project. The processing of procurement and disbursement
transactions improved substantially once dedicated staff were retained to oversee these functions.
Non-contract (government) staffing of the Ozone Office were maintained at the appropriate levels with high
staff continuity throughout the project implementation period.
The government staff were always effective in its communications with and support of Bank missions- and
the Minister of Natural Resources and Environrnent personally participated in discussions with every
World Bank mission.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
The total project cost variations were not substantial and remained largely within the estimated
procurement contracts and anticipated 10% contingency (detailed tables in Annex 2). Greater variations
occurred in enterprise counterpart funds because of local currency devaluation over the project
implementation period. Foreign exchange was held in an SDR account and therefore not subject to the
same local currency fluctuations. The SDR did devalue during the project period resulting in a net loss of
grant funds, however this did not affect the project needs. Specific sub-project issues that affected cost
variations like the re-design of the Tsvetotron sub-project investments are discussed in the technical
sub-project description (section 2).
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The project sustainability rating was considered highly likely based on the fact that legislative controls were
established during the course of the project to control and restrict the use of ozone depleting substances;
and subsequently reinforcing market signals from supply limitations effectively took hold. The ODS
restrictions are now well rooted in the legislative base of the country - and an awareness raising campaign
was effective in changing the behavior of end users. The introduction of legislation in Belarus and
financial penalties set by this legislation served to critically enforce accelerated enterprise conversion to
non-ODS chemicals even before ODS supply prices started to increase (Belarus' environmental
enforcement capacity is strong and is based on its centralized economic structure).
Economic pricing signals stemming from successful international efforts to phaseout-out and control ODS
supplies, subsequently strengthened compliance with ODS legislation; and in the long-run will serve as a
more sustainable compliance tool than legislative controls in Belarus. Project superivison missions
monitored the market prices of legal ODS substances through interviews with enterprises and compared
information from neighboring countries with similar projects (a common Bank team worked with Russia
and Ukraine) thus documenting the changes in ODS prices. Despite Belarus's ecomony being largely
- 16-



centralized, all enterprises under the project were responsive to market signals of ODS pricing.
The refrigeration servicing sub-projects (Beltoprogress - commercial; and Atlant- household) were key
elements for long-term sustainability of the phaseout efforts. These sub-projects address "residual" or
remaining ODS consumption demand (for example household or industrial refrigerators needing servicing
in the future). The Montreal protocol acknowledged the economic impact and technical difficulty in
converting all equipment over to non-ODS chemicals, and therefore retained provisions to allow for the
collection, recycling, and re-use of "contaminated or used" ODS chemicals under controlled conditions that
minimize ventilation to the atmosphere. Within the context of a declining world wide production of ODS,
the capacity for a country to collect and clean ODS chemicals in an ecologically safe manner represents an
economic and social safety against the high costs of replacement chemicals for older equipment still
operating with a useful life. Most ODS chemicals being recycled originate from equipment discarded or
under servicing that would have at the start of the project (in a context of unlimited supplies and cheap
prices) been easiest to discard by venting to the atmosphere. These sub-projects purchased special
equipment to equip technicians with tools to reclaim or capture refrigerant freons (ODS substances); built
up capacity at regional servicing centers to clean the reclaimed refrigerant; supported self-sustaining
financing schemes from the sales of recycled materials,; and provided training to refrigerant servicing
technicians on the techniques and rationale for these changes. The technician training program reached
more than twice the number of technicians than originally planned. It remains in place and continues to
train technicians through a vocational technical school in Minsk.
Sustainability of the project and its objectives were reinforced by the project implementation structure
selected. Project implementation was set up within a newly established department within the Ministry Of
Environment and Nature Protection called the Ozone Office rather than in a stand alone project
implementation unit (PIU), management entity, or project intermediary. While this created some early
challenges on how to execute Bank required procurement and disbursement procedures - in the end it
resulted in a much higher level of Ministry/Government ownership of the program. The procurement and
accounting functions were the only two functions contracted and paid for by the GEF grant funds- while all
other staff were Ministry civil servants. The Ministry's legal structure and role in executing the project
created some problems in contracting these two positions (related to taxation and applicability of the
governments social benefits policies) which were eventually resolved. After these contracting issues were
resolved- about one year into the project - overall project implementation accelerated and eventually
compensated for the slow start of the the project.
Government support the Ozone Office was continuous and maintained at an adequate level including staff
assigned to tasks not directly supported by the project. The Ozone Office staff had excellent access to
higher level administrators to be able to smoothly and timely process needed legislation changes and resolve
administrative issues. The Ozone Office remains in place today, is an integral part of the Ministry
Structure, and continues to be active in inspection and enforcement of ozone depleting substances related
legislation. Their staff continue to participate in inteniational meetings of the Montreal Protocol.
Following a Fall, 2000 ratification of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, their
mandate was recently expanded to support Belarus' future role in climate change issues.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Refrigeration servicing training course was transferred to a vocational/ technical school in Minsk where the
majority of refrigeration technicians in the country receive their education. This training program which
addresses the proper use and handling of ODS refrigerants has been integrated in the curriculum and will
serve to educate future generations of technicians that were not already trained under the project.
- 17 -



All of the benficiary enterprises under the project are operating production lines today free of ozone
depleting substances and in most cases are more environmentally friendly in other respects (energy savings
or other water treatment improvements). The new technologies introduced have served to improve the
product quality and thus have improved the market value of products. This coupled with the increased
prices of ODS supplies makes it highly unlikely that an enterprise would want to revert back to an ODS
dependent technology.
The Ozone Office today remains an integral part of the Ministry of Natural Resources and Environmental
Protection as described above.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank performance during project preparation was satisfactory and a diverse Bank team
(including a refrigeration teacher; mechanical and chemical engineers; financial analyst;
accountant; economist, and environmental specialist) were able to effectively provide the
government and beneficiary enterprises with project development support. The team had a good
knowledge of other GEF and Montreal Protocol Projects in the ECA region and other parts of the
world, and lessons learned, particularly the need for improved monitoring of enterprise financial
viability in more risky transitional economies were incorporated into the project design. The
project design anticipated the possibility of bankruptcy of a beneficiary enterprise and modeled an
agreement that was flexible enough to accomodate this possibility without a major re-design effort
(although this was never used).
The project concept was supported by the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) to Belarus
at the time and action to address ODS phaseout was recommended in 1993 World Bank
Economic and Sector Work (report 1 1926-BY). Support from the Danish government and a
GEF preparation grant helped the government prepare the project. Project processing was
smooth and proceeded on a timeline within World Bank business standards. Resident Mission
and Bank Country Department (Director, Resident Rep., local staff, and country economist)
support and communication with the project team was strong. The project was closely monitored
as many other lending operations at the time in Belarus were being frozen or dropped because of
deteriorating macroeconomic conditions. The team successfully argued to continue processing
the project and to keep it free from macroeconomic conditionality (unification of the exchange
rate), a recommendation sought by some within the Bank. An energy efficiency project under
active preparation about the same time made project appriasal conditional on full unification of
the exchange rate; and subsequently all lending operations in the country were frozen for 4 years
because of the government's failure to achieve this conditionality. The country dialogue was
coordinated closely with the IMF and the project contributed to shared knowledge of the business
conditions at enterprises.
7.2 Supervision:
The Bank's supervision performance was satisfactory and included regular semi-annual supervison
missions to work with the government and beneficiary enterprises as appropriate to help resolve
project implementation issues.
- 18-



The World Bank processing of procurement packages experienced delays, especially in the first
years, because of the need to contract specialists for the Bank's technical review of specifications;
and initially because the enterprise and Ozone Office had little experience with procurement.
Problems with the Ministry's ability to hire a procurement consultant delayed bringing on board
this staff person who was critically needed at the earliest of stages. Procurement processing
improved as the project progressed and eventually post-reviews were adopted and cleared with a
very high acceptance rate from the Bank. The capacity of the resident mission staff team member
on procurement also increased during the project leading to better local support for pre-screening
documents. Enterprise feedback on procurement varied and included impressions that the Bank
could have provided the PIU with more support; complaints of cumbersome procedures, and
reports that Bank procurement was a useful to learrn more about the market and access a better
price.
Some delays also occurred on the Word Bank loan department side, with particular delays in
processing of letters of credits. The lines of communication between the client and the loan
department were not always clear and the Bank task team was not always copied on these
communications. Training of the resident mission based team member on disbursement issues and
her direct follow-up with accounting seemed to help improve the system. Some beneficiary
enterprises reported feeling vulnerable to supplier complaints about slowness in the processing of
payments when payment processing was the Ozone Office and the World Bank's responsibility.
Supervision missions were well staffed to address any outstanding issues, and included a local
accountant who assisted both the Ozone Office Accountant with review of her work, and helped
on the financial monitoring of beneficiary enterprises. Regular (almost daily) E-mail
correspondence was maintained between the Bank and the Ozone Office to help assist process
and resolved issues. The working relationship between the Bank and the Ozone Office staff were
quite good. The project monthly progress reporting was difficult in the earlier stages of the
project- and became better when a standardized format was developed by the Bank for the Ozone
Office. Less frequent reporting was adopted later in project implementation. The project always
had favorable proactivity and realism ratings, and the project supervision forms regularly reported
on the development impact- in this case, on the progress toward ODS phaseout through it's
interventions. Although the country held a risky country rating for most of the project's life- the
project itself was never considered to be at risk.
Most members of the Bank project supervision team also worked on similar projects in Russia and
Ukraine which helped to transfer lessons learned and helped to exchange views with the client in a
knoweldgable regional context. Two key technical consultants of the Bank were particularly
active in the regional dialogue and helped bring in excellent knowledge exchanges. The wider
Bank team also also helped, for example by encouraging the development of an Eastern Europe -
Forrner Soviet Union knowledge exchange with several workshops hosted by Ozone Offices in
Central Europe. The Belarus Ozone Office staff participated in these and very much appreciated
the oportunities for inter-regional exchanges and subsequent public awareness efforts were very
much a reflection of these exchanges.
7.3 Overall Bankperformance:
The overall Bank performance was satisfactory. The World Bank team continuity was high and
- 19-



almost unchanged throughout the project period. The team had the correct mix of skills which
included a mixture of locally based staff and consultants (accounting); international consultants
(engineer, refrigeration teacher, chemist, financial analyst); and Bank staff (environmental
economist; operations specialist; procurement specialist). The resident mission team member
took on an increasing level of responsibility as the project progressed and later worked on a
similar Ukraine project because of her experience gained through on the job training and core
operational skills gained under this project. Many supervision task management functions were
delegated over time to a junior Bank team member after initial start-up issues had been addressed
to save on supervision costs and to provide more direct day to day support to the routine project
supervision issues. The team leader however always maintained oversight and review of key
decisions and correspondence. Although some delays occurred on the procurement and
disbursement processing side- these two areas both improved substantially as the project
progressed due to specific efforts of the Bank team to help build better capacity. Bank team
efforts to maintain strong regular supervision communications with the client in the later part of
the project helped ensure that the project got back on track in terms of the original project
completion schedule.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The government's performance on preparation was highly satisactory. Government committment was
demonstrated at each stage by highly engaged counterparts, and efficient processing of baseline
committments required as eligibility requirements for international assistance through the GEF (established
an inter-agency committee on ODS; adopted a Country Program; and ratified the London Ammendment of
the Montreal Protocol). Beneficiary enterprises also demonstrated strong interest and committment and
provided the necessary baseline financing for the project. The early preparation activities involved
preparation of an ODS Phaseout Country Program which required government endorsement and the
establishment of an Inter-agency working group for ODS issues. The government worked effectively with
Danish government funded consultants to prepare and approve these documents. The Inter-Agency
working group became effective during the preparation period and is still an active working body today.
Consultations were held with various business groups who were the primary ODS consumption
stakeholders. More detailed preparation activities, particularly initial the enterprise financial viability
assessments, were supported by a GEF preparation grant. The government worked closely with the
enterprises and the Bank on this. Preparation funds also supported the start-up of the Ozone Office and
procurement of initial computer and office supply equipment. The most difficult issue to resolve during the
preparation phase was the advance contracting of a procurement and accounting specialists for the Ozone
Office. An international procurement adviser was hired to help prepare all initial procurement documents,
however missed out on the opportunity to do this with the Ozone Office procurement staff who could not be
hired. The beneficiary enterprises were also effective and cooperative during the preparation stage of the
project where they were just becoming familiar with the World Bank and the GEF procedures. All
requested information about industrial processed and financial information was provided in an efficient and
cooperative manner. Counterpart funding committments were agreed at the enterprise level and it was
understood that they would be required to enter into sub-grant agreements to formalize these committments.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
The government's implementation performace was also highly satisfactory. While government
implementation of the project provided some barriers in terms of the difficulties of hiring local consultants
(subjected to civil service rules), it predominantly was an advantage for the project in terms of generating
- 20 -



strong government ownership for the ODS Phaseout agenda. Overall, the associated policy and legal
framework for ODS Phaseout would have been much more difficult to achieve if a separate legal entity
outside of the Ministry had implemented the project. The Ministry of Natural Resources and
Environmental Protection played a commendable role in supporting the Ozone Office's mandate and
functions. Inter-governmental coordination was carried out in an effective manner with such government
partners as Customs and Trade; the Ministry of Economy; Ministry of Finance; Parliament; and the
Ministry of Industry. A mandated government exchange rate, and associated hard currency handover
requirements created some problems and delays for local currency transactions from the special account in
the first year of implementation. This issue was eventually resolved at a high level (both within the Bank
and the govermnent) for this project and one other Bank project under implementation in Belarus. The
government quickly met all project processing requirernents including ratification of the London
Ammendment of the Montreal Protocol (GEF requirement); authorization of a team for negotiations; and
issuing a legal opinion after signing the grant agreement. As a result; the project was declared effective
with no delays. The government provided all support necessary to help ensure that the project was
implemented on schedule and the government team extended extra efforts to achieve this.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
The Ozone Office within the Ministry of Natural Resources and Environmental Protection was the key
implementing agency of the project and acted as the defacto core project implementation unit. They were
comprised of all civil servants with the exception of a procurement consultant and accounting consultant
who were hired after the first year of project implementation. The core Ozone Office staff remained
constant throughout the project preparation and implernentation period and expanded in size by several
staff over the course of the project as their associated rnonitoring, inspection, and policy and legislative
functions were more fully established. The Ozone Office was able to effectively call in more senior
Ministy Officials to help resolve any implementation issues that developed. Although a Deputy Minister
held the primary responsibility for attending Montreal Protocol International meetings, the communication
of infornation back to the Ozone Office was excellent in terms of staff awareness of the international
process. The Ozone Office staff worked with World Bank staff during all missions and actively
participated in discussions with beneficiary enterprises. Their working relations with beneficiary
enterprises continued to be effective even when Bank missions were not present, despite the sometimes
conflicting inspection role that they performed.
The Ministry of Environment and the Ozone Office were effective in launching a public relations campaign
for the Ozone Depleting Substance phaseout which included regular press (television and radio)
conferences/ interviews with Bank missions; publication of brochures; and production of an educational
video. Public awareness materials were also specifically produced to help process the proposed changes to
the policy and legal framework for ODS Phaseout (incorporating the international obligations into national
laws).
The capacity of the Ozone Office was weakest on the procurement and financial management functions
because these were not typical Ministy functions. Ozone Office staff did however get trained in these
aspects and carried them out during the first year before the two local consultants were hired to perform
these functions. The management and technical capacity of the Ozone Office was strong, and the assigned
staff had the necessary skills to carry out their functions. The project implementation capacity of the
Ozone Office staff eventally became so strong that they were used to help train the Ozone office in Ukraine
which had a later start up date. The Belarus Ozone Office also developed an effective working relationship
/ information exchange channels with other Ozone OfFices in Central Europe, Russia, and Ukraine.
The Ozone Office maintained effectively the flow of project information including the process of
- 21 -



establishing sub-grant agreements with each beneficiary enterprise. They performed regular project
reporting which was weak at their start-up and became very effective later in the project period.
7.7 Overall Borrowerpedri-mance:
The overall government performance rating is highly satisfactory, and the government team maintained a
high level of continuity throughout the project period. Early in project implementation the goverment team
struggled to stay on top of and learn the Bank's procedures- however later in the project they were able to
demonstrate their proficiency not only in Belarus but also by training ODS colleagues in Ukraine. The
Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment dedicated a substantial effort to the complementary
legislative and enforcement side of the project, and provided the project with excellent support. The
Ministry was also instrumental in one sub-project in helping to negotiate a financing package for
counterpart funds that involved contributions from the government's Environment fund (managed by the
Ministry). The Ozone Office in Belarus is still very active and operating today, and works with the
customs department to monitor the import/export laws and other stakeholders to ensure that Belarus
remains in compliance with its international committments under the Montreal Protocol. Many government
civil servants dedicated their time and talents to help this project achieve its phaseout objectives in an
efficient manner, and worked hard to prove that Belarus could effectively implement a World Bank
financed project.
8. Lessons Learned
A number of lessons were learned through implementation of this project:
-   Team continuity on the Bank, the government, and the enterprise project teams helped to
maintain a good working relationship and to build a common understanding of the project
objectives. It also helped to establish a dialogue about future cooperation on environment
issues. Several project enterprises are currently participating in an IDF Grant program to help
build capacity for environmental certification (ISO 14000).
' The financial viability of beneficiary enterprises is difficult to predict, even with criteria aimed
to assess whether or not a company would be in business in a reltively short five year time
horizon. However a good monitoring system such as the one established under the project
helped maintain a dialogue about the importance of enterprise viability to an investor
throughout the project. The details collected through the monitoring system provided the
basis for regular, frank exchanges on the challenges that business were facing in the Belarus
economy.
*   The experience with combining the ODS phaseout investments with legislative controls to
discourage the use of ODS (a consumption tax) proved to be effective and resulted in a
cooperative relationship between the Ministry of Natural Resources and Environmental
Protection and the participating enterprises.
*   Implementation of the project from a unit within the Ministry and reliance on civil servant staff
helped to ensure that the ODS Phaseout agenda would continue to be supported after the
project ended (contributed to the project's sustainability). It also helped to ensure good
complementarity/ collaboration between the investments and the legislative / environmental
- 22 -



enforcement side. The Ozone Office did not suffer from being seen as separate or any more
privledged than other civil servant staff in the Ministry, and were paid their normal salaries to
perform project related duties.
*  Establishment of procurement and financial management capacity at the start of the project is
critical for starting off implementation quickly. However, it proved difficult in this project
because of restrictions placed on civil servant staff. This was the one key drawback of the
project implementation arrangements and it was difficult to anticipate in advance the length of
time it would take to resolve these issues.
*   Good procurement support on the supervision missions helped the project recover from a
slow start start in this area. Full integration of the procurement specialist into the project
supervision team (including enterprise site visits) helped the client build and develop their own
capacity, and established a good working relationship between the Bank and the Ozone Office
that helped resolve issues at later stages.
*   The project had a clear and detailed procurement plan- unlike earlier projects in Belarus where
implementation problems stemmed from a lack of clarity (or too much flexibility) in this area.
The project made only small deviations from the original procurement plan.
*   Knowledge of and predictability of the ODS rmarket helped to build support for the
refrigeration servicing initiatives, and helped the regulators decide on which enforcement
methods would be most appropriate at any given point in time.
3  The information transfer between this project and two other FSU projects (Ukraine and
Russia) was excellent and helped provide a more cohesive regional program. The information
transfer between the Belarus Project and the Central European ODS Phaseout projects was
also excellent due to their participation in information exchange workshops. The Belarus
project in a sense helped provide a bridge of information back to the other two FSU ODS
Phaseout projects mananged by the Bank, who could not for various reasons attend.
Information exchanges were particularly useful on policy issues like the introduction of ODS
import/export regulations.
*   It was important for the Bank team to include staff working on similar projects in the region
to help exchange knowledge and gain information about the local ODS market. It also helped
to address very technical isues like refrigeration servicing specifications by creating a critical
mass of knowledge.
*   Both the domestic and commercial refrigeration servicing schemes benefited by utilizing well
organized existing structures for the basis of thle project design. Atlant was by far the
dominant player for the home refrigeration servicing sector in Belarus and therefore could
reach a large number of customers quickly and efficiently through their existing business
operations. Similarly- Beltorgprogress was also a servicing organization with exisiting
networks throughout the country which were "tready made" for introduction of a refrigeration
recovery, recylcling, and servicing program. Similar programs in other countries have
- 23 -



struggled and lacked an existing centralized organization that could help roll out the program
to reach a large number of consumers.
*  Task delegation to a more junior level staff person helped provide the project with more
dedicated supervision time that was important near the end to ensure that the project was
completed on time. This helped both to contain supervsion costs, and to provide the project
with more individualized attention.
*  Time spent training of resident mission staff (deputy team leader) through targeted courses
and through time spent with the project team in headquarters to learn the Washington based
side of supervision, was very valuable not only in helping with the later half of project
supervision, but also in building long term capacity in the resident mission.
*  Despite an unfavorable macro-economic environment - a project of this nature is well worth
pursuing, and helped to maintain the Bank's dialogue in the country during a period of
no-lending. Because of this unique situation, the project had the full support and attention of
the Bank management as necessary. Global environment issues are an area where
international cooperation is needed irregardless of a country's economic framework. The
project was well implemented, and helped to establish a good World Bank project
implementation track record in a country where poor performance in this area had affected the
country dialogue.
e  Many other secondary benefits came from project investments in addition to the ODS
phaseout benefits that were targeted including improvements in worker health and safety;
local environmental improvements; and awareness raising of best practices for environmental
control. Each enterprise was asked to prepare their own assessment of the project which
details these secondary benefits in more depth. Most enterprises reported product quality
improvements from the investments.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The following letter was sent to the Bank in response to their review of the Draft ICR. All of the editorial
comments recommended in this letter have been incorporated into the final text of the ICR as suggested.
MINISTRY OF NATURAL RESOURCES AND ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION
REPUBLIC OF BELARUS
June 12, 2001
- 24 -



Our ref.:15-6/2285
World Bank Resident Mission
Belarus
Re: Comments On Implementation Completion Report On ODS Phaseout Project
Ministry of Natural Resources and Environmental Protection has thoroughly studied the
ICR for the ODS Phaseout Project (TF-28960, US$ 6.9 million) provided by the World Bank and
is satisfied with its objectiveness and completeness.
The project resulted in phasing out about 700 tons of ODS at six large enterprises that used
ODS in manufacturing and servicing of refrigeration equipment and as solvents for the cleaning of
electronic components.
Financial assistance and the hard work of highly skilled World Bank experts allowed
Belarus both to phase out a significant amount of ODS, procure high-tech equipment and benefit
from valuable experience of using ODS-free substances and technologies and training personnel.
We are especially thankful to the management, experts and consultants of the World Bank
and its local Resident Mission for valuable assistanice in project implementation and preparation of
the final report.
Unfortunately, there is a number of problems that we did not manage to solve.
At present, we are mostly concerned with two issues. One of them is phasing out the
residual amount of CFC-12 in commercial/trade and agricultural refrigeration equipment.
Another problem relates to phasing out the residual amount of halons in halon-based fire
protection systems.
On the whole, the service use of the residual amount of CFC-12 in about 60,000 pieces of
equipment in commercial and agricultural sector is about 500 tons. The equipment has been in
service for over 10 years and has been already worn out. Recovery, recycling and re-use of
utilized refrigerants cannot provide for the service of equipment. It is necessary to set up
production of new equipment that will use ozone friendly refrigerants.
Also at the present moment there are 241 tons of halons in halon-based fire-fighting
equipment, of which 200.5 tons of halon 2402 (C2F4Br2) and 40.5 tons of halon 1301 (CF3Br).
Their ozone depleting potential is considerably higher than that of CFC- 12.
In accordance with existing regulations halon containers should be periodically (once every
five years) inspected and re-charged. Since there are no funds in Belarus for halons recovery and
recycling, utilized halons are usually discharged into the atmosphere when halon containers are
- 25 -



inspected and re-charged. The requirement of halons for automatic fire-fighting equipment and
special-purpose systems is from 110 to 120 tons per year. It means that from 110 to 120 tons of
halons are discharged into the air every year. To prevent emissions, halons should be recovered,
recycled and re-used. But Belarus does not have the appropriate equipment for that.
We would like to hope for continued cooperation and assistance from the part of
international financial organizations to solve existing problems as at present Belarus experiences
certain economic difficulties which do not allow it to deal with the problems alone. Belarus needs
assistance in financing production of new ozone friendly commercial/trade and agricultural
refrigeration equipment as well as procurement and introduction of equipment for halons recovery
and recycling and their re-use.
At the same time we would like to see the following clarifications incorporated in the
report.
Part 4. Achievement of Objectives and Outputs. In section "Consistency Of The Project
With The ODS Phaseout Country Program" (page 5), Paragraph 2 after "Public Awareness
Raising Campaigns (PARCs) were successfully implemented ..." should read: " ...and the 00
drafted and facilitated the adoption of the key legal instruments for ODS control that are currently
in force (Order #120; 02/06/1997 of the Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment and the
Decree of the Council of Ministers #1038; 08/08/1997). Order #120 defined the procedure of
moving ODS through the customs border of the Republic of Belarus and made it possible to
establish control over their import and export while Decree #1038 introduced duties on ODS
import and mandated licensing of activities related to ODS production, storage, industrial
consumption, recycling and disposal. A comprehensive law on the protection of the ozone layer is
currently awaiting approval by Parliament; and when passed, will complete the establishment of
legal and institutional conditions enabling Belarus to meet its international commitments for the
protection of the ozone layer." The last sentence of this paragraph is unchanged.
Part 4.2. In section 2 "Beltorgprogress - Refrigeration Recovery, Recycling and
Reclamation Scheme (3R) and Technician Training Program (page 7). In paragraph 3,
replace "The cessation of CFC-12 export from Russia in July, 2000..." by "The cessation of
CFC-12 supplies to the Republic of Belarus effective since January 1, 2000 ....".
8. Institutional (page 12). In the second paragraph, it should be N. Kryzhanovsky instead
of K. Kryzhanovsky and V. Minchenya instead of M. Minchenya. After Some Problems of Ozone
Layer Protection, V. Minchenya and N. Kryzhanovsky, 1999; add "an educational manual for
service technicians focused on the protection of the ozone layer Refrigerants and Oils for
Refrigeration Equipment, V. Minchenya, 2001; a consumer educational brochure What You
Should Know About Refrigerants, V. Minchenya, N. Kryzhanovsky and G. Chernyak, 2001;...".
In Paragraph 2 on page 13, replace the last two sentences with "The country introduced
licensing of activities related to ODS production, storage, industrial consumption, recycling and
disposal (Decree of the Council of Ministers #1038, August 8, 1997) and a ban on import and
export of especially hazardous ODs in accordance with the London Amendment to the Montreal
- 26 -



Protocol (Decree of the Council of Ministers #1741, November 13, 1998).  A comprehensive
Ozone Layer Protection Law is pending parliamentary approval."
In 4.5 on page 14, paragraph 2, revise the second sentence in the following way: "Among
these, the Ozone Layer Protection Law now pending parliamentary approval, a system of
licensing the activities related to ODS production, storage, industrial consumption, recycling and
disposal (Decree of the Council of Ministers #1038, August 8, 1997), and a ban on import and
export of especially hazardous ODs in accordance with the London Amendment to the Montreal
Protocol (Decree of the Council of Ministers #1741, November 13, 1998). These last two pieces
of legislation have contributed in large part to the cessation of import of the most hazardous ODS
and to the timely transition to their alternative substitutes.
A. Apatsky
Deputy Minister
(b) Cofinanciers:
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
10. Additional Information
- 27-



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome I Impact Indicators:
i:uS520. 0. -000: XIndicatorlMatnix  :70000Projected in l6ast PSR          ActuallLatest Estimate
- Reduction of refrigerant consumption by    Fully phased out                 Target met
600 tons.
- Reduction of solvent consumption by 90    Fully phased out                  Target met.
tons.
- Training of 100 refrigerator service  All expected technicians trained      More than 200 technicians were trained.
technicians.                                                                  Many technicians requested training at their
own expense. The training center moved to
a vocational school to ensure continuity of
program at the end of the project.
Output Indicators:
'lndica ^   tort0,lziMatuixi00    P0-0S0000000 .<00 rojece in l0ast$       Actu'allLatest Estimate
Training/ policy support for implementation of Fully achieved- the project supported training complete at tme of last PSR
the ODS Phaseout Country Program.      for Ozone Office staff; informational
exchanges with other countries; and public
awareness materials on new legislation
introduced to implement the Country
Program.
Retrofitting I Substitution of technologies that All technical sub-projects financing retrofits  complete at time of last PSR
consume ODS                           or substitutions were implemented
Training refrigerant servicing technicians in  More than double the number of technicians The refrigeration technician training program
recycling and materials handling      were trained and the training program  is ongoing at a vocational technical school
continues to be offered through a local  and therefore there continues to be additional
vocational technical school.          trained technicians at the cost of the
govemment.
Training for fire protecton sector in the use  A national workshop to discuss altematives  complete at time of last PSR
of non-ODS technologies               to halon for fire protection was conducted
with fire protection officials.
End of project
- 28 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal   ActuallLatest   Percentage of
Estimate      Estimate       Appraisal
Project Cost By Component             US$ million    US$ million
Atlant- Household Refrigeration Sub-Project          10.30          10.86         105.64
Beltoprogress Refrigeration Servicing Sub-Project     1.76           1.48          84.34
Belvar - Solvent Enterpnrse                           0.31           0.30          96.44
Minsk Computer - Solvent enterpnrse                   0.89           0.86          96.52
Tsvetotron - Solvent Enterprise                       1.89           0.72          38.17
Kamerton - Solvent Enterprise                         0.19           0.19          97.89
Technical Assistance- Halon Workshop                  0.03           0.02          53.33
Technical Assistance - Ozone Office                   0.35           0.32          90.99
Total Baseline Cost                                  15.72          14.75
Total Project Costs             15.72           14.75
Total Financing Required              15.72          14.75
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure Category      ICB           NCB         Other                    Total Cost
1. Works                     0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                     0.40          0.00          7.00         7.30         14.70
(0.40)       (0.00)        (6.00)        (0.00)       (6.40)
3. Services                  0.00          0.00          0.20         0.30         0.50
Technical Assistance and     (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.20)        (0.00)       (0.20)
Training
4. Miscellaneous             0.00          0.00          0.30         0.20         0.50
Operating                    (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.30)        (0.00)       (0.30)
Costs/Processing Fees
5. Miscellaneous             0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous             0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
Total                      0.40          0.00         7.50          7.80        15.70
(0.40)       (0.00)        (6.50)        (0.00)       (6.90)
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category      ICB           NCB        Mthod2         N.B.F.    Total Cost
- 29 -



1. Works                         0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)
2. Goods                         0.48           0.00           6.31           7.66          14.45
(0.48)         (0.00)         (5.99)         (0.00)        (6.47)
3. Services                      0.00           0.00           0.15           0.00           0.15
Technical Assistance and        (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.15)         (0.00)        (0.15)
Training
4. Miscellaneous                 0.00           0.00           0.17           0.00           0.17
Operating                       (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.17)         (0.00)        (0.17)
Costs/Processing Fees
5. Miscellaneous                 0.00           0.00                          0.00           0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                 0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)
Total                         0.48           0.00           6.63           7.66          14.77
(0.48)         (0.00)         (6.31)         (0.00)        (6.79)
" Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2' Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
(i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
pe,rentgeof Appraisal
Appraisal Egtiinate  ActuLtest Jfjt           ) Perentage
Bank      Govt.     CoF.       Bank       Got       CoF.    Bank~ :Govt.  CoF.
Atlant                    4.32      0.00       5.98      4.32       0.00      6.57    100.0   0.0   109.9
Beltoprogress             1.48      0.00       0.28      1.45       0.00      0.03     98.0    0.0    10.7
Belvar                    0.26      0.00       0.05      0.27       0.00      0.03    103.8   0.0   60.0
Minsk Computer            0.26      0.00       0.63      0.26       0.00      0.60    100.0   0.0   95.2
Tsvetotron                0.12      0.00       1.77      0.09       0.00      0.63     75.0    0.0   35.6
Kamerton                  0.07      0.00       0.12      0.06       0.00      0.13     85.7   0.0   108.3
Halon Workshop            0.03      0.00       0.00      0.02       0.00      0.00     66.7    0.0    0.0
Ozone Office              0.15      0.00       0.00      0.17       0.00      0.00     113.3   0.0    0.0
Sub-grant processing fee  0.20      0.00       0.00      0.15       0.00      0.00     75.0    0.0    0.0
- 30 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
Economic costs and benefits of the project were evaluated on the basis of GEF's incremental cost analysis,
and by applying the Montreal Protocol's cost-effectiveness thresholds to individual sub-projects. Baseline
activities were defined as that portion of the project's activities that would have occurred in Belarus has not
signed the Montreal Protocol or the London Ammendment. Activities required to phase out ODS because
of Belarus's participation in international phaseout efforts were designated as the globally incremental costs
of the project.
The GEF was designated to help finance Ozone Depletilng Substances Phaseout Projects
countries-in-transition which needed international assistance to do so but which were not eligible for funds
under the Montreal Protocol Financing Instrument. It was also agreed that GEF ODS Phaseout projects
should follow the policies and procedures of the Montreal Protocol as they were established (many policies
and procedures of the Montreal Protocol evolved over time including during the course of preparing this
project). One key set of guidelines from the Montreal Protocol Instrument adopted was the use of
cost-effectiveness thresholds for individual types of investments. These cost-effectiveness thresholds
represents the maximum price per ton to phaseout a substance that the international community was willing
to pay. These thresholds were developed to ensure that only cost-effective investments were undertaken. In
some sub-projects they also established an appropriate cost-sharing between the GEF and beneficiary
enterprises.
These Montreal Protocol cost-effectiveness thresholds existed only for investment sub-projects at the time
the Belarus project was prepared. None existed for technical assistance components or the refrigeration
servicing component. Therefore six (6) investment sub-projects used and reported their cost effectiveness
calcualtions in the project documentation.
- 31 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty              Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation   Development
Month/Year   Count            Specialty                       Progress       Objective
Identification/Preparation
1995 - 1996                 2   Economist/ Engineer                  S               S
1   Procurement Specialist
I   Financial Analyst
I   Refrigeration Teacher
2   Management consultants
I   Administrative Assistant
Appraisal/Negotiation
December 1996               2   Economist/ Engineer                  S               S
- February 1997             1   Lawyer
I   Resident Respresentative
1   Administrative Assistant
1   Financial Analyst
1   Local Accountant
1   Project analyst
Supervision
June 1997                   2   Economist/Engineer                  HS              HS
- December 2000             1   Local Accountant
1   Refrigeration Teacher
Procurement Specialist
I   Project Analyst
1   Project Officer
ICR
October 2000 -              1    Economist/Engineer
June 2001
Karin Shepardson            1    Project Analyst
Paola Meta                  I    Project Officer
Elena Klochan               I    Refrigeration Teacher
David Gibson
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                    Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks              US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation                 66                         330
Appraisal/Negotiation
Supervision                                60                          196
ICR                                        10                          31
Total                                     136
- 32 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N-=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
 Macro policies                            O H  OSUO*M  O N  O NA
@ Sector Policies                           * H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
Z Physical                                 O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
3 Financial                                 O H OSUOM O N O NA
I1 Institutional Development                0 H  * SU O M  0 N  0 NA
f Environmental                            * H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
Social
0 Poverty Reduction                  O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
E Gender                             O H OSUOM O N * NA
1 Other (Please specify)             O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
Sustained operations of infrastructure
critical to public safety of public health, such as in
the case of halon chargedfire suppression systems,
or of medical, commercial and agricultural
refrigeration infrastructire.
0 Private sector development                O H  O SUO M  O N  O NA
O Public sector management                  O H  0 SU O M  O N  O NA
O Other (Please specify)                    O H  O SU O M  O N  * NA
- 33 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                  Rating
Z Lending                                             OHS*S OU OHU
I Supervision                                         OHS OS  OU  OHU
El Overall                                            OHS OS   O  U  Q HU
6.2 Borrower performance                              Rating
O Preparation                                         O HS O S   O  U  O HU
O Government implementation performance               0 HS 0 S   0  U  0 HU
Implementation agency performance                  0 HS 0 S  0  U  0 HU
O Overall                                             OHS OS O U O HU
- 34 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Belarus ODS Phaseout Country Programme
Beneficiary Enterprise Project Appraisal Assessments
Benenficiary Enterprise Financial Assessments
Exchange Rate Sensivity Analysis
Beneficiary Enterprises Project Completion Reports
Environmental Reviews for each investment sub-project
Sub-grant Agreements with each beneficiary enterprise
Equipment disposal and destruction certificates
- 35 -



- 36 -



