GLOBAL
ENVIRONMENT
FACILITY
Republic of Belarus
Ozone Depleting Substances Phaseout Project
Project Document
April 1997
llU d
THE WORLD BANK



)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



Report No. 16089-BY
Republic of Belarus
Ozone Depleting Substances Phaseout Project
Project Document
April 1997
Natural Resources Management Division
Country Department IV
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$ 1.00 = 0.72 Special Drawing Rights (SDR)
(February 25,1997)
UNITS AND MEASURES
Ton = Metric Ton = 1000kg
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
CFC         Chlorofluorocarbons
CTC         Carbon tetrachloride
ECA         Europe and Central Asia Region
FA          Financial Agent
FSU         Former Soviet Union
GEF         Global Environment Facility
GET         Global Environment Trust Fund
HCFC        Hydrochlorofluorocarbons
ICB         International Competitive Bidding
IS          International Shopping
LIB         Limited International Bidding
MFMP        Multilateral Fund of the Montreal Protocol
MNREP       Ministry of Natural Resources and Environmental Protection
NGOs        Non-Governmental Organizations
NS          National Shopping
ODS         Ozone Depleting Substances
OECD        Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
OORG        Ozone Operations Resource Group
PPA         Project Preparation Advance
SA          Special Account
SDR         Special Drawing Rights
TCA         Methyl chloroform
VAT         Value Added Tax



Table of Contents
PART I: PROTECT SUMMARY
I.   BACKGROUND ............................................1
II.   ODS PHASEOUT STRATEGY ............................................ 2
III.  PROJECT OBJECTIVES ............................................2
IV.  PROJECT DESCRIPTION ............................................2
V.   PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING ..........................................5
VI.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS ................ 5
VII. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY ............................................7
VIII. LESSONS FROM PREVIOUS BANK EXPERIENCE.             7
IX.  RATIONALE FOR BANK AND GEF INVOLVEMENT.             8
X. MONITORING AND EVALUATION                 .9
XI. PARTICIPATORY APPROACH .10
XII. PROJECT BENEFITS .10
XIII. PROJECT RISKS AND MITIGATION MEASURES .11
XIV. ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS .12
XV. AGREEMENTS REACHED PRIOR TO NEGOTIATIONS . 12
XVI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AT NEGOTIATIONS .12
XVII. CONDITIONS OF GRANT EFFECTIVENESS .13
XVIII. CONDITIONS OF DISBURSEMENT   .        .13
Schedule A - Summary of Sub-project Data and Costs
Schedule B - Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Schedule C - Timetable of Key Project Processing Events
Schedule D - Status of Bank Group Operations in Belarus



PART II: TECHNICAL ANNEXES
ANNEX I: Project Implementation Plan
ANNEX II: Sub-project Descriptions
ANNEX III: Belarus Executive Orders for the Project



REPUBLIC OF BELARUS
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENTAL FACILITY OZONE DEPLETING SUBSTANCES
PHASEOUT PROJECT
GRANT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
GRANTEE:                  Republic of Belarus
BENEFICIARY:              Ministry of Natural Resources and Environmental Protection (MNREP)
and enterprises using Ozone Depleting Substances (ODS)
AMOUNT:                   US $6.9 Million equivalent
TERMS:                    Grant
PROJECT OBJECTIVES:       The project's main objective is to assist Belarus with the rapid
phaseout of ODS consumption in a manner consistent with
international  efforts  and  within  internationally  agreed
timeframes.  Assistance to high consumption enterprises in
Belarus would enable them to make the transition to non-ODS
materials before supplies diminish.  The project would also
provide  needed  technical  assistance   and  institutional
strengthening to an Ozone Office in the Ministry of Natural
Resources and Environmental Protection.
FINANCING PLAN:
US $ milhon
GEF Grarnt                                             6.9
Equity/Commercial Loans                                8.8
Total                                               15.7
ECONOMIC RATE
OF RETURN:                Not applicable
PEER REVIEW:              Varadarajan Atur, Naimeh Hadjitarkhani
GEF OORG
REVIEWERS:                Lambert Kuijpers, G.M.F. Jeffs, Brian Baxter, Joe Felty
Vice President: Johannes F. Linn
EC4 Director: Basil G. Kavalsky
EC4 Division Chief: Geoffrey B. Fox
Team Leader: Karin J. Shepardson






PART I: Project Summary






REPUBLIC OF BELARUS
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY OZONE DEPLETING
SUBSTANCES PHASEOUT PROJECT
I. BACKGROUND
1.          General recognition of upper atmosphere ozone depletion has led to a
substantial international effort to phaseout Ozone Depleting Substances (ODS). The ozone
layer forms a thin shield in the stratosphere protecting biological systems from the sun's
harmful rays. Ozone layer thinning can cause impacts such as increased skin cancer, eye
cataracts, decreased plant productivity, and deterioration of the marine food chain. In the mid-
1980's it was found that chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs) and other chemicals used in refrigeration,
foams, aerosol sprays, fire protection, and solvent cleaning are destroying the ozone layer.
ODS includes CFCs, halons, several halogenated solvents, the agricultural fumigant methyl
bromide, and a class of transitional chemicals known as hydrochlorofluorocarbons (HCFCs).
2.         International efforts to phase out ODS consumption are based on the 1987
Montreal Protocol, ratified by all developed and most developing countries. Belarus ratified
the Montreal Protocol in October 1988, as a part of the Former Soviet Union (FSU). Based on its
ratification status as a developed country under the Montreal Protocol, Belarus' obligations for
ODS phaseout are in accordance with the developed country phaseout schedule. Belarus is
also expected to assume obligations to contribute to the Multilateral Fund of the Montreal
Protocol (MFMP). Since the 1987 Montreal Protocol, it has been further recognized that ozone
depletion is occurring more rapidly than first anticipated. This has led to two protocol
amendments which added materials and accelerated phaseout schedules. The first, in June,
1990 (London Amendment) added methyl chloroform (TCA) and carbon tetrachloride (CTC),
as well as tightening the phaseout schedule. The Copenhagen Amendment, in November,
1992, added HCFCs and methyl bromide as regulated substances, as well as further
accelerating phaseout. Belarus ratified the London Amendment in March, 1996, but has not
ratified the Copenhagen Amendment. Due to the current economic situation, Belarus has not
been able to meet the most accelerated phaseout dates under the Copenhagen Amendment.
However, with the financial assistance of the Global Environment Facility (GEF), it would have
the necessary resources to target phaseout under the London Amendment schedule (anuary,
2000).
3.          No ODS material is produced in Belarus. It is dependent on supplies from
major producers in Russia, currently scheduled to discontinue production by year 2000, under
the terms of Russia's Phaseout Program as accepted by the Parties to the Montreal Protocol.
GEF assistance to ODS-consuming enterprises in Belarus would allow them to make the
transition to non-ODS materials in a gradual, planned manner and avoid a later crisis when
supplies are cut off. Early reduction of ODS consumption would also reduce demand for ODS
materials from black market suppliers. In 1994, Belarus consumed 1,043 tons of ODS, as
compared with 2,773 tons in 1986. Earlier reductions during this period can be attributed to the
conversion of aerosol manufacturers to hydrocarbon propellants, while more recent declines
reflect difficult economic conditions and limited phaseout investments in the refrigeration
sector. The refrigeration sector remains the dominant consumer of ODS, accounting for



-2 -
approximately 80% of use. The solvent sector accounts for 13% of consumption, while fire
protection accounts for 2%. Residual aerosol sector use, largely for medical applications,
accounts for the remainder.  Fifty four enterprises, service organizations, and agencies
spanning all four sectors have been identified as ODS consumers in Belarus. Six consumers,
dominant in their respective sectors, have proposed sub-projects for GEF assistance. The sub-
projects have been developed to phase out ODS in the entire country in line with GEF
Operational Strategy. The enterprise Atlant, as the largest beneficiary of grant funds under the
project, is the only manufacturer of household refrigeration equipment in Belarus (750,000
units per year) and the largest single consumer of ODS (344 tons).
II. ODS PHASEOUT STRATEGY
4.           Belarus' formal ODS Phaseout Country Program was completed in May, 1995, using
bilateral assistance from the Danish government. The ODS Phaseout Country Program (Decree
#115 of the Cabinet of Ministers of the Republic of Belarus), and the national phaseout strategy it
recommends, have been formally adopted by the Government (Annex 3) and accepted by Parties to
the Montreal Protocol as evidence of the country's commitment. To achieve the goals of the ODS
Phaseout Country Program, substantial investment in replacement facilities and technology is
required for conversion from ODS use. A series of investments to achieve this goal have been
prepared using Danish bilateral assistance and resources from a GEF Project Preparation Advance
(PPA). Because of its limited financial and technical capacity, Belarus has requested GEF assistance
for a one-time project to implement the proposed investments within the framework of its ODS
Phaseout Country Program and National Strategyl.
5.           The ODS Phaseout Country Program adopted by the Government calls for the
complete phaseout of ODS consumption by the end of 1997, based on receiving international
financial assistance in mid-1995. Assuming such financial assistance would now be committed by
mid-1997, phaseout would still be achieved within the London Amendment schedule (anuary
2000), but slower than the Copenhagen Amendment schedule (anuary 1996). On this basis, realistic
phaseout dates by principal consuming sectors are as follows: refrigeration manufacturing - July
1999; refrigeration servicing - December 1999; solvents - December 1998; and fire protection -
December 1999.
IIL PROJECT OBJECTIVES
6.           The project's main objective is to assist Belarus with the rapid phaseout of ODS
consumption in a manner consistent with international efforts and within internationally
agreed timeframes. Assistance to high consumption enterprises in Belarus would enable them
to make the transition to non-ODS materials before supplies diminish. The project would also
provide needed technical assistance and institutional strengthening to an Ozone Office
established on July 1, 1996 (Annex 3) in the Ministry of Natural Resources and Environmental
Protection (MNREP).
As a developed country signatory to the Montreal Protocol, Belarus is not eligible for assistance from the Montreal Protocol Multilateral Fund, but
is eligible for Global Environment Facility (GEF) financial assistance through the Global Environmental Trust Fund (GET).



-3 -
IV. PROJECT DESCRIPTION
7.           The project targets priority consumption phaseout activities in the refrigeration
and solvent sectors. It also provides modest technical assistance at both the institutional and
enterprise levels to facilitate implementation of the ODS Phaseout Country Program, and
technology transfer for phaseout in the fire protection sector. It is structured as a framework
project consisting of a series of six enterprise-specific technology conversion investment sub-
projects and two technical assistance sub-components.
Technology Conversion Investment Sub-projects
8.           The technology conversion component consists of one sub-project in the
household refrigeration manufacturing sector, one sub-project in the industrial/commercial
refrigeration servicing sector, and four sub-projects in the solvent sector as follows:
(a)    Refrigeration Manufacturing (US $4.3 million): This sub-project would complete
the conversion of the enterprise Atlant (one of Eastern Europe's household
refrigerator manufacturers) to non-ODS materials. The grant would finance
Atlant's refrigeration foaming line conversion from CFC-11 to cyclopentane. In
addition, infrastructure and training would be provided to Atlant's refrigeration
servicing which handles most of the country's household refrigeration servicing
requirements. The project would phase out an estimated 282 tons/year of ODS
by the end of 1999 with an additional long-term phaseout of 62 tons/year in the
service sector. This represents 100% of the ODS consumption in the foam
insulating and household refrigeration sectors;
(b)    Refrigeration Servicing (US $1.5 million): It is proposed to initiate training and
infrastructure investments to recover, recycle, and reclaim refrigerants from the
industrial, commercial and transportation refrigeration servicing sector, and to
provide funds for handling and retrofitting requirements associated with the
substitute materials. The sub-project would be undertaken by a local technical
institute involved in ODS Phaseout Country Program implementation (BSRC
"Ecology")  and   an   industrial  refrigeration   servicing   organization
(Beltorgprogress). Support to this sub-project, which builds servicing capacity
in each Oblast and all non-domestic refrigeration sectors, is essential to ensure
country-wide phaseout of ODS in one step. The sub-project is expected to
eliminate 256 tons/year of  ODS consumption for commercial/industrial
refrigeration servicing by 1999, or approximately 86% of the total consumption
for this sector; and
(c)    Solvents (US $0.7 million): Four sub-projects involving major solvent users
in the electronics industry are proposed. Three sub-projects (Belvar, Minsk
Computer, Kamerton) would replace CFC-113 solvent used for cleaning of
electronic components, with various proven technologies including "no-clean"
high  purity  water and  acid-alkaline techniques.   A  fourth  sub-project
(Tsvetotron) and a subcomponent of the Minsk Computer subproject, would



-4-
replace TCA with an alkaline process for circuit board manufacturing. The four
solvent sub-projects would eliminate 15 tons/year of CFC-113 (36% of the
country's consumption), and 75 tons/year of TCA (86% of the country's
consumption).
Technical Assistance and Training
9.          The technical assistance component consists of two sub-components which
address the transfer of technology and training for conversion in the fire protection sector and
institutional strengthening as follows:
(a)   Fire Protection Technology Transfer (US $30,000): This sub-component would
provide a modest program of technology transfer and training using a sectoral
workshop to describe alternatives to halon-based (an ODS substance) fire
protection systems. The workshop would be delivered by BSRC "Ecology" with
the assistance of a foreign expert, and is aimed at introducing the major users in
the sector to current techniLal options as they undertake phaseout; and
(b)   Institutional Strengthening (US $154,000):  This  sub-component would
provide resources to MNREP for operation of the Ozone Office, established
within the Ministry to administer the project and other aspects of the ODS
Phaseout Country Program's implementation. It would provide computing and
communications equipment, accounting support, staff training, and consulting
support for key technical issues. Support for the Ozone Office, including its
longer-term regulatory functions, is essential to ensure country-wide phaseout
of ODS in one step.
10.         The project, which received GEF Council endorsement in April, 1996, would be
processed under a single grant. The Danish Government has provided resources to assist
Belarus to prepare the project to a level acceptable for GEF approval.  This has been
supplemented by a GEF PPA to fund enterprise viability assessments, early establishment of
the Ozone Office, and upstream procurement and project management training for the Ozone
Office and beneficiary enterprises. Preparation to date includes detailed technology and
institutional strengthening proposals, associated cost analyses, enterprise procurement and
implementation plans, and financial viability assessments of the beneficiary enterprises. Sub-
projects have been reviewed and approved by the Ozone Operations Resource Group (OORG),
comprised of internationally-recognized experts in ODS technology and established to provide
technical advice on Montreal Protocol projects. A new TCA component was added to the Minsk
Computer subproject at appraisal, and has subsequently received, and been cleared by, an OORG
review. Any disbursements under the Minsk Computer subproject would be subject to receipt of
the final OORG clearance. All ODS-consuming enterprises in Belarus identified through the ODS
Phaseout Country Program and by MNREP, were given the opportunity to prepare project
proposals for consideration for funding under this project. The project includes all enterprise
proposals which met Montreal Protocol eligibility criteria and which were approved by the OORG
technical reviewers.
11.         The continued participation of enterprises has been subject to their cooperation and
to the satisfactory conclusions of enterprise viability assessments which considered income



-5-
statements, balance sheets, presence of markets, business plans, prospects for maintaining a positive
cash flow, organizational structure, and technical capabilities. The ability of an enterprise to meet
counterpart funding requirements was also addressed during the viability assessments. Viability
assessments focused on a short-term horizon of five years. Prediction of enterprise viability in
Belarus' rapidly changing and transitional economic environment is difficult at best. Given the
objective of the project to phaseout ODS consumption by internationally agreed dates, the decision
to support an enterprise utimately relies on the question of whether it is expected to be operating
within the targeted phaseout period. If an enterprise discontinues operations because of financial or
other factors, then the project goals would be achieved without an investment of grant funds. All
enterprises were retained based on the appraisal review of viability, however the transitional
business environment in Belarus would require ongoing monitoring of the financial conditions of
each enterprise. Detailed viability assessment reports already completed would provide the
baseline for biannual reviews of financial performance during project supervision missions. In
addition, a local consultant would periodically monitor developments in the business climate that
may affect the beneficiary enterprises.
V. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
12.          The estimated total cost of the project is US $15.7 million which includes goods
and services, technical assistance, training, physical and price contingencies, sub-grant
processing charges for local implementation and financial intermediaries, and net present value
of incremental operating cost increases. GEF funding has been reduced since GEF Council
approval from US $7.4 to US $6.9 million in line with GEF ozone policies. The project would be
financed by a US $6.9 million GEF grant (44%) and US $8.8 million in contributions from the
beneficiary enterprises (56%). All costs were confirmed at appraisal, are incremental in nature,
and are calculated in accordance with the "Indicative List of Eligible Incremental Costs"
adopted by the parties to the Montreal Protocol. Also consistent with GEF guidelines, the
grant amount limits eligible assistance for enterprises with export markets to Organization for
Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) countries. Proceeds of the GEF grant would not
be usedfor transfer payments such as duties and taxes (para. 35j).
13.          Cost-effectiveness ratios are at or below the thresholds recommended under the
Montreal Protocol2, with the exception of two solvent sector sub-projects. The GEF Operational
Policy recommends using the Montreal Protocol unit phaseout costs as a benchmark for setting
grant allocations, however, leaves flexibility for justification of higher unit costs. In particular,
Montreal Protocol thresholds are not defined for country-wide programs designed to phase out
ODS consumption in all relevant sectors in one step. Therefore, inclusion (and acceptance by GEF
Council in April 1996) of two solvent sector sub-projects with higher cost-effectiveness ratios in this
project represents Belarus' effort to comprehensively phaseout ODS consumption under a one-time
project that covers most or all of the country's needs, consistent with the GEF Strategy of short-term
interventions. The total grant allocations for the four solvent sub-projects are also relatively small
(maximum $260,000), consistent with achieving the maximum benefit at a low cost.
2 Sector and Subsector Cost Effective threaholds approved by the Executive Committee of the Multilateral Fund of the Montreal Protocol.



-6 -
14.          The ability of enterprises to meet their counterpart funding requirement was
evaluated as part of the viability assessment The enterprise Atlant is the largest beneficiary of grant
funds, with the largest counterpart funding requirement of US $6.2 million. This privatized
enterprise is competitively exporting goods to international markets. It operates at near full
capacity, and has been profitable since 1993. Projections show that Atlant would generate adequate
cash flow to meet its counterpart funding requirements. A similar analysis was conducted for each
beneficiary enterprise, and no major concerns were identified. The project is structured so that
weaker enterprises have low counterpart funding requirements. The addition of the TCA
subcomponent for Minsk Computer has increased their counterpart funding requirement. All
enterprises will be monitored closely by the Bank during project supervision as part of the ongoing
review of enterprise financial viability.  The cost of project feasibility and preparation studies,
inclusive of preparation of the Country Program, has totalled US $410,000, representing a US
$210,000 GEF PPA and US $200,000 in bilateral assistance from the Government of Denmark.
VI. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS
15.          The Government has assigned MNREP as executing agency for the project and
overall implementation of the ODS Phaseout Country Program. Within MNREP, project
implementation responsibility has been assigned to the Ozone Office which was established in July,
1996. Financial support toward the establishment of the Ozone Office has been provided by
MNREP and through a GEF PPA. The Ozone Office would receive subsequent support under the
project grant The Office is staffed by three full time staff recruited from and paid for by MNREP
and BSRC "Ecology", and two independent full-time local staff specializing in accounting and
procurement who would be funded under the project. The MNREP and Ecology staff have
previously been involved with development of the Country Program. As a permanent structure
within the Ministry, the Ozone Office has overall responsibility for ODS matters including: (a)-acting
as secretariat to the Interagency Commission which oversees the ODS Phaseout Country Program;
(b) coordinating implementation and updating the Country Program; (c) communicating with the
Executive Commnittee of the Montreal Protocol; (d) collecting and reporting consumption, trade and
recycling information to the Government and international bodies; and (e) preparing legislative and
regulatory initiatives such as ODS import licensing, sector specific bans and sanctions for non-
compliance with phaseout schedules. Formal agreement on the maintenance of the office for the purposes
of project implementation was reached at negotiations (para. 35j).
16.           Project-specific responsibilities of the Ozone Office as a project implementation unit include:
(a) appointment of, communication with, and supervision of an international Financial Agent (FA) who
would administer disbursementsfor the project; (b) set-up and management of a project accounting system; (c)
appointment and supervision of an international procurement agent to provide procurement guidance to
beneficiary enterprises in accordance with World Bank guidelines; (d) making arrangementsfor annual audits;
(e) coordination of environmental approvals required for sub-project implementation; Q) monitoring of
beneficiary enterprise financial performance on a quarterly basis; and (g) submission of progress reports
(initially monthly and to become quarterly at the direction of the Bank) and a completion report to the Bank
(para. 35d). An implementation plan for the project which was discussed at appraisal and agreed at
negotiations is presented in Technical Annex 1 (para 34b).
17.          An international procurement consultant was hired using the PPA funds to help
establish the Ozone Office and to provide training in procurement, disbursement, project



-7 -
accounting, and admninistration. The consultant worked with both the beneficiary enterprises and
Ozone Office staff to prepare procurement packages, update sub-project implementation plans, and
initiate procurement activities to an advanced stage (ie. preparation of bidding documents and "no
objection" requests). The consultant also participated m project appraisal and provided support for
several weeks beyond appraisal to help address any outstanding issues. A final procurement plan
was agreed at appraisal, and is presented in Schedule B (para. 34a).
18.           Afinancial agent (foreign bank) acceptable to the World Bank, would be appointed to handle
the management and disbursement offunds including: (a) holding and managing a Special Account (SA) for
projectfunds on behalf of the Ozone Office; (b) administering project disbursements through the World Bank
and the SA, including payments under approved contracts, and funding allocation to technical assistance
components; and (c) monitoring all sub-project expenditures. The Ozone Office would be responsible for
paying anyfees related to thefinancial agent's servicesfrom the sub-grant processing charges (para. 35c).
19.        The need for an international procurement agent during project implementation has
been minimized through the use of an international procurement specialist during project
preparation and by including the procurement specialist in project appraisal. The Ozone Office would
have a full time local procurement specialist to process procurement requests and to act as an intermediary
between the Bank and beneficiary enterprises. A budget would be set aside to contract with an international
procurement specialist as required throughout project implementation. The World Bank resident mission
would also provide back-up procurement advice on request and inform project staff of any World Bank
procurement training courses in the region (para. 35a).
20.           The project would be covered under a grant agreement between the Bank as GEF
Implementing Agency and the Government, represented by MNREP, which defines the overall
framework by which GEF grant funds can be disbursed to enterprise-specific sub-projects. Individual
sub-projects would be covered by Sub-grant Agreements between the MNREP and the participating
enterprises (para. 35e). Both the grant agreement and sub-grant agreements would be patterned
after those utilized for the Ozone Project's Trust Fund. The draft grant agreement and guidelines for
preparing sub-grant agreements were introduced at appraisal. Sub-projects have been approved in
accordance with the Bank's trustee obligations to GEF.
VIL PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
21.           The project would help the Government of Belarus to phaseout ODS substances
by compensating enterprises for incremental costs incurred during the process of technology
conversion. Technology conversion would allow beneficiary enterprises to be competitive both
in the domestic and export markets. Sustainability has been evaluated from an enterprise
viability perspective. Enterprises have been informed from the outset of project preparation
that support for project proposals would be dependent on positive results. Sustainability of
specific sub-projects has been assured through the evaluation of proposed technologies and
their cost effectiveness in relation to other alternatives, during the project preparation work and
its review by OORG.
22.           The Government has shown its committment to the project by accepting the ODS
Phaseout Country Program, committing funds for the operation of the Ozone Office under MNREP,



-8 -
and issuing a parliamentary order for a VAT and tax exemption needed for GEF grant funds.
MNREP has also recently drafted legislation to impose regulatory control on the import, export, and
re-sale of ODS materials, and anticipates adoption of the program in early 1997. The adoption of this
regulatory program was made a condition of grant effectiveness at appraisal, based on the strong linkages
of such a program to the success of the refrigeration servicing sub-project (paras. 35i and 36a).
Assistance under the project for the Ozone Office would enable the Government to provide a
sound institutional and policy framework including finalizing and implementing ODS
legislation. Atlant has already converted more than 50% of its production lines to use non-ODS
materials to remain competitive internationally. International market pressures to convert to
non-ODS technologies, coupled with diminishing supplies of ODS materials, provide a
sustainable framework for the enterprise investments.
VIII. LESSONS FROM PREVIOUS BANK EXPERIENCE
23.          Although the proposed project would be the seventh GEF-funded ODS
phaseout project to be initiated in the transitional economies of Central and Eastern Europe
(ECA), direct Bank experience and associated lessons are still limited because most have
recently been initiated. Experience and lessons learned will be re-assessed and exchanged
periodically during implementation through contact with other project teams. One lesson
recently learned from an ECA project in a similar economic environment is the need to share
the risk of supporting non-viable enterprises with the government. As one of the Multilateral
Fund Implementing Agencies, the Bank is now implementing ODS phaseout projects in twenty
six countries, from which a number of lessons have been learned, including: (a) the importance
of a national phaseout policy or ODS Phaseout Country Program as a basis for assuring
commitment and ownership by the client country; (b) the value of strong
enterprise/government linkages to achieve phaseout objectives; and (c) the need for
institutional strengthening and training for local implementation units and financial
intermediaries. Additional lessons have been learned from World Bank and GEF projects in
Belarus and other FSU countries, including the importance of: (a) identifying a consistent
committed counterpart team with sufficient authority and implementation experience to move
the project forward; (b) coordination among key interested parties at the federal, regional and
enterprise levels; (c) early detailed attention to procurement and other implementation issues;
and (d) involvement of local consultants and institutes in the process.
24.          The design, preparation and structure of the project incorporates these lessons in a
number of ways. The project grant agreement seeks government responsibilityfor recovery of equipment
allocated to an enterprise if the investment is lost through enterprise insolvency during the project
implementation timeframe (para. 35k). Also,funds may be withdrawn from an enterprise sub-project at the
Bank's discretion at any time during implementation. Withdrawnfunds would be eligiblefor reallocation to
an alternative Belarus ODS phaseout activity with the approval of the World Bank and GEF Council as
necessary (para. 351). Project preparation work has involved the development of a well defined ODS
Phaseout Country Program, identification of a range of key phaseout sub-projects, and provision of
technical and procurement assistance to beneficiary enterprises during the preparation period.
Technical assistance has been provided under the project to strengthen institutional capacity within
the government implementing agency and the enterprises. Project processing procedures would
parallel those used for Multilateral Fund projects, including the utilization of the technical review
capability established for these projects.



- 9 -
IX. RATIONALE FOR BANK AND GEF INVOLVEMENT
25.          Funding to Belarus for this project on stratospheric ozone protection has been
allocated by the GEF on the basis that Belarus:
(a)   is eligible for GEF assistance;
(b)   is classified as a developed country and is not eligible for funding
from the MFMP;
(c)    has accepted the FSU ratification of the Vienna Convention and Montreal Protocol;
(d)   has completed and is undertaking implementation of a Country
Program;
(e)    has ratified the London Amendment; and
(f)    has regularly informed the Parties to the Montreal Protocol of
progress toward achieving the phaseout schedule proposed in the
ODS Phaseout Country Program.
26.          The proposed project is consistent with the GEF Guidelines for ODS phaseout which
have been carefully developed to reflect Montreal Protocol policies and procedures, thus ensuring
consistency of approach between GEF and Montreal Protocol projects. These guidelines endorse
working with a range of enterprise-specific sub-projects that offer substantive ODS phaseout gains,
and for which the beneficiary enterprise would not be able to obtain sufficient financing from
commercial sources. Within these sub-projects, grant funding is limited to eligible incremental
investment costs, with the enterprises responsible for financing the balance from their own
resources or loans. GEF support for ODS phaseout activities in the FSU is based on the recognition
of a need to mitigate any additional economic burden which efforts to achieve phaseout would
impose on economies in transition.
27.          The project is consistent with the Bank's assistance to the environment sector and
with its Country Assistance Strategy for Belarus. The project provides for the strengthening of
much needed institutional capacity for environmental management and supports the development
of a market-oriented economy by focusing financial assistance on enterprises requiring technological
change to remain competitive under international environmental standards. Finally, it establishes a
key role for the Bank in mobilizing multilateral grant funds in support of a key global
environmental priority.
X. MONITORING AND EVALUATION
28.          The completion date for the grant is February 29, 2000. The Ozone Office would have
overall responsibilityfor monitoring project progress (para. 35g). It would prepare monthly progress reports
summarizing project implementation, procurement, and disbursement, and would highlight issues andfollow-



- 10-
up actions to ensure that the project remains on schedule. The reporting requirement may be revised to a
quarterly basis when significant progress has been made, at the discretion of the Bank. Ozone Office
responsibilities would also include monitoring and enforcement of safety regulations and procedures as agreed
prior to sub-project implementation. The Ozone Office would be responsible for arranging an annualfinancial
audit (in accordance with the World Bank's Financial Reporting and Auditing Handbook, IBRD, January,
1995) and preparation of a Implementation Completion Report within six months of the end of project
implementation (para. 35f). The Ozone Office would also be responsible for collecting financial data from
beneficiary enterprises on a quarterly basis, by submitting updates of balance sheets and income statements
with World Bank progress reports, and alerting the Bank to other factors that might relate to enterprise
performance. Sub-grant agreements would require enterprises to submit annually audited financial
statements, and to agree to periodic monitoring of financial performance (para. 35f). In the case of loss of
financial viability of a beneficiary enterprise, the World Bank may determine, in agreement with the
Government, to discontinue implementation of the subproject (para. 351). Supervision by a Bank team
would take place on a semi-annual basis following submission of the first progress report of the
Ozone Office.  Supervision missions would include the Bank team  leader (or an authorized
representative), and a financial or ODS technical specialist as needed. Proposed project performance
monitoring indicators would be included in the progress reports, and are presented in Annex 1.
29.           Monitoring ODS phaseout and consumption in Belarus as required for reporting to
the Parties of the Montreal Protocol has in the past been, and would continue to be, carried out by
the Institute Ecology, which is subordinate to MNREP. This would include data reporting to the
Vienna Convention/Montreal Protocol Ozone Secretariat in line with requirements of the
Convention and the Protocol. The status of ODS consumption would be reported to the Bank and GEF
when required (para. 35g). During negotiations it was agreed that a disposition plan for retiring ODS
dedicated equipment would be included in the sub-grant agreement for each sub-project to help ensure that
project objectives are met. It was also agreed that at least two sub-grant agreements, satisfactory to the Bank,
would be prepared prior to grant effectiveness (paras. 35e,36b,37b).
XI. PARTICIPATORY APPROACH
30.           As part of the Country Program development, MNREP undertook consultations
with a broad spectrum of enterprises and interested parties: other ministries (including Industry,
Economics, and Finance), NGOs, industry associations and others. Enterprises were given the
opportunity to participate in the project as long as they could provide the necessary data for project
staff to evaluate their financial viability, technological capabilities and eligibility for financial
assistance.
XII. PROJECT BENEFITS
31.           The project would contribute to global efforts to reduce damage to health and to
the environment from increasing exposure to ultraviolet radiation by eliminating the use of 641
tons/year of ODS. Phaseout of the consumption of ODS must be implemented in a timely and
globally-comprehensive manner to achieve a reduction in the rate of thinning of the earth's
atmosphere. Although it is difficult to measure the impact the project would have on the
earth's ozone layer, and Belarus is just one of many consumers of ODS, its incremental



- I1 -
contribution to this global effort is essential to the protection of the earth's environment. The
provision of a GEF grant allows Belarus to substantially meet its phaseout of ODS under the
Montreal Protocol within a three year period, which would not be achievable in the absence of
this grant. This effort would also serve to enhance the country's credibility within the
international environmental community. In the longer term, it allows the country to avoid the
economic disruption that would occur when imported ODS is no longer available for
industrial, commercial and other consumer applications. The technology conversion provided
under the project would contribute to the modernization of key industries and allow them to
maintain domestic and export markets. Belarus' institutional capacity for monitoring and
regulatory enforcement of ODS phaseout would also be strengthened under the project.
XIIL PROJECT RISKS AND MITIGATION MEASURES
32.         Risks of the project can be categorized as follows: (a) implementation risks; (b)
risks associated with the six enterprise sub-projects; and (c) risks associated with the two
technical assistance sub-projects.



- 12 -
IDENTIFIED RISKS                        MEASURES TO MINIMIZE RISK
|___________________            PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Risk of inadequate capacity  Project implementation arrangements were reviewed in detail during
in MNREP for project        appraisal. Key staff of the Ozone Office have already been hired or
implementation and          appointed by MNREP and participated in appraisal activities. Project
management                  management training for staff has been part of project preparation.
B. MNREP's lack of          The Ozone Office staff and beneficiary enterprises have received training
familiarity with Bank       in Bank procurement procedures prior to appraisal. Ozone Office staff
procedures, and project     have also received training in disbursement, and project accounting.
management.                 Ongoing support would be provided through the resident mission, EDI
training courses, and during project implementation.
ENTERPRISE SUB-PROJECTS
A. Risk of supporting a     A financial viability assessment has been completed for each beneficiary
potentially non-viable      enterprise and would be used as a baseline for monitoring enterprise
enterprise. This includes   performance. Where financial viability is a concern, enterprises would be
macroeconomic policies that   monitored closely to obtain early warning of difficulties prior to
may impact enterprise       disbursement of grant funds. This risk would be shared with the
viability, such as government   government by seeking government responsibility for recovery of
intervention in setting foreign   equipment if an enterprise becomes insolvent during the implementation
exchange rates.             period. Viability assessments incorporate sensitivity to macroeconomic
factors such as foreign exchange rates for each enterprise and will be
used to monitor the impact of the government policies.
B. Risk of an enterprise not    Ability to meet counterpart funding requirements has been part of the
meeting its counterpart     enterprise viability analysis. The grant generally meets costs the
funding.                    enterprise would eventually incur to remain competitive and retain
markets, and therefore provides a strong incentive for cooperation.
Disbursements would be withheld if an enterprise could not meet its local
financing.
C. Potential for supporting a   The OORG review required by the GEF project cycle focuses specifically
technically unsound project    on technical issues to minimize this risk.
proposal.
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE SUB-PROJECTS
A. Risk of the Government    Agreement on government counterpart commitments was reached at appraisal
not meeting its counterpart    and confirmed during negotiations (para. 35j). The Prime Minister has
committments.               issued a customs duty and VAT exemption for the project, effective June,
1996.
B. Fragmented decision-     An inter-agency commission for the fulfillment of the Montreal Protocol,
making on environmental and  formally established in 1993, would be used as a mechanism for better
investment matters at the   coordination. The Cabinet of Ministers has accepted the ODS Phaseout
national and regional levels.    Country Program and designated responsibility for its implementation to
MNREP (2/96). All ozone activities would be centrally coordinated by
the Ozone Office in MNREP.



- 13 -
XIV. ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS
33.          The project would provide significant global environmental benefits through the
reduction in ODS consumption. There are no major environmental concerns and the project has
been assigned a "B" rating under World Bank O.D. 4.01. The limited environmental risks associated
with the project pertain to the conversion to cyclopentane in the refrigeration foam blowing sub-
project, and a potential increase in wastewater generation where aqueous cleaning technologies are
used in the solvent sector sub-projects. The inclusion of wastewater treatment and recirculation
capabihty where applicable in the solvent sub-projects mitigates this potential impact. All sub-
projects would follow the industrial safety guidelines recommended by suppliers, and the safety
equipment proposed for the handling of cyclopentane has been approved by the OORG review
process. In addition, an environmental review would be completed for each subproject. The review
would include health and safety plans for each sub-project with potential industrial safety concerns
such as those proposing the use of cyclopentane. Speciflc guidelines for environmental reviews
consistent with the World Bank's O.D. 4.01 were agreed at appraisal. The Bank and MNREP would approve
all environmental review documents prior to sub-project implementation. MNREP would monitor and
enforce regulations on industrial safety and the environment during project implementation. It was agreed at
appraisal that the Ozone Office would conduct routine inspections to address any environmental or safety
concerns (paras. 35h and 37a).
XV. AGREEMENTS REACHED PRIOR TO NEGOTIATIONS
34.   Agreements reached prior to negotiations were:
(a)    Finalization of detailed procurement plans (Schedule B and para. 17).
(b)    Finalization of detailed project implementation plan (Annex I and para. 16).
XVL AGREEMENTS REACHED AT NEGOTIATIONS
35.   Agreements reached at negotiations were:
(a)    All procurement activities under the project would follow the procedures outlined
in Schedule B and para. 19.
(b)    Disbursement arrangements will follow the procedures described in Schedule B.
(c)    Establishment of a special account will follow the procedure described in Schedule B
and para. 18.
(d)    The functions of the Ozone Office and its management of the project activities would
be as described in para. 16.
(e)    Subgrant agreements with beneficiary enterprises would be established, including
an agreed disposition plan for retiring ODS dedicated equipment. Two draft sub-



- 14 -
grant agreements would be prepared to the satisfaction of the Bank prior tci grant
effectiveness (paras. 20 and 29).
(f)    All project accounts would be audited as described in para. 28.
(g)   Reporting and evaluation of project activities would be as described in paras. 28 and
29.
(h)    Environmental review  for investment subprojects will be completed to the
satisfaction of MNREP and the Bank prior to sub-project disbursement, as described
in para. 33.
(i)    The Government's proposed ODS licensing program would be adopted prior to
grant effectiveness, as described in para. 22.
(j) Confirm government comnnittments to the project including on-going financial
support of the Ozone Office and its government staff (paras. 12,15 and 32)
(k)   In the case of enterprise insolvency, the government would be responsible for
recovering non-ODS equipment purchased under the project and ensuring it is used
for purposes consistent with the project, as described in para 24.
(1)    The Government and the Bank may agree on the discontinuation of the
implementation of any subproject due to loss of financial viability of the enterprise,
and to the substitution with another subproject as accepted by the GEF as described
in para. 28.
XVII. CONDITIONS OF GRANT EFFECTIVENESS
36.   Conditions of Grant Effectiveness are:
(a)    Adoption of the Government's proposed ODS licensing program (para. 22).
(b)    Preparation of two draft sub-grant agreements satisfactory to the Bank (para. 29).
XVIII. CONDITIONS OF DISBURSEMENT
37.   For sub-project disbursement, the following conditions would apply:
(a)    Finalization of sub-project environmental reviews and health and safety plans (para.
33).
(b)    Finalization of sub-grant agreements, including an agreed disposition plan for
retiring ODS dedicated equipment (para. 29).



BELARUS OZONE DEPLETING SUBSTANCE PHASEOUT PROJECT                                                                                        SCHEDULE A
SCHEDULE A SUMMARY OF SUB-PROJECT DATA AND COSTS
SUB-PROJECT/    SECTOR                   SUB-PROJECT               ANNUAL ODS           COST           INCREMENTAL          INCREMENTAL          TOTAL           Contingency    Ttal Subproject  ENTERPRISE         PROPOSED
ENTERPRISE                              DESCRIPTION                    USE        EFFECTIVENESS  INVESTMENT COST    OPERATING                SUB-PROJECT           -10%           Cost wIth      FINANCING    GEF SUB-GRANT
COST (SAVINGS)         COST         - retmaning       Contingency   REQUIREMENT
(MT/YR)        (USSIg/VR-)             (USS)               (USS)             (USS)          expenses                           (USS)             (USS)
(Note )                                                  (Note 2)                       (not on op. codst)
Atdant Ltd.       Household    Replae CFC-1 I Foam bnvoing agent          344       (US59.60/kg. ODP)'       9,750,790               0             9,750,790        552,993         10,303,783       5,979,537         4,324,246
(Minsk)           Refigeratien with cydopentant and provide recovery
and recyling capabity for CFC-12
refrigerants in servkIng operatins
Beltrgprres    Retrigeration Trining and recsery faciliesfor              256       (USS6.25kg. ODP)         1,491,315           115,740           1,607,055        149,132         1,756,187         277,990          1,478,197
(Minsk)           Servicng      oanmereAlhduotrlw ttter                 (Nte 3)
Beilar            Solvent      Aqueous  eatIng tecnoloy                    6       (USS 53.25hg ODP)         265,540              17,018           282,558           26,554          309,112          53,472            255,640
(Minsk)                         cooversn froun CFC-1 13 solvexts
Minsk Computer   Solvent       Aqueous ceaning and "no-dean"          6 (CFC-I 13)  (USS 20.8/kg ODP)        795,000              15,123           S10,123           79,500          U89,623          629,623           260,000
(Minsk)                        tchnolog conversin fron CFC-1 13                         CFC-1 13
& alkaline proms tednoogy conversIn   43 (TCA)   (USS 37.17/kg ODP)
frm Metbiykchorrom sovent                                  TCA
Tsvettroin        Sotvent      Alktaie process tedmslo osaverslon         32        (USS 385hlg ODP)         1,735,000              0              1,735,000        158,500          1,893,500       1,770,300          123,200
(Brest)                        from Methylcboslorm  elvent
Kamston           Solvent      Add-adkalinetipgh purity "ater              3       (USS 27.95/kg ODP)         123,460             56,696            100,156          10,526          190,682          123,582           67,100
(Pinsk)                        tehnolg coveorsion from CFC-113
Sub-Grant
ProceIng Charge                                                                                                                                    200,771             0             200,771                            200,771
RSRC "Ecoilgy"   Haim          Halon uer sector workabop and                                                  27,273                                27,273           2,727            30,000                            30,000
technica support
Minisry of        Instionda   Country Program Implementation                                                 140,000                               140,000           14,000          154,000                            154,000
EnvIronment       Technial
Assisance
PROJECT TOTALS                                         641                                14,328,378           204,577          14,733,726        993,932        15,727,658        8,834,504        6,893,154
Notes             1. ODS consumption Is the greater of average 1993,1994 nd 1995 consumption or 1994 consumptton (for Attant, ODS consumption vadue uses years 1992,1993,1994 because conversion began In 195).
2. NPV of annual operating costs over 4 years at 10% discount rate
3. Estisated ODP phased out Its usage reduction In commerci. and industrin. sector at point oi self suf1dency (1998)
4. Excludes safety costs
Page 1                                                                                                           4/2/97






SCHEDULE B
Page 1
REPUBLIC OF BELARUS
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENTAL FACILITY OZONE DEPLETING SUBSTANCES
PHASEOUT PROJECT
PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENT ARRANGEMENTS
Procurement
1.          Procurement of goods and services would be made in accordance with "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" (January, 1995, as amended January and August,
1996) (para. 35a). As part of project preparation, the enterprises, and MNREP received
procurement training to assist them in implementing the Bank's procurement procedures. The
beneficiary enterprises, with the assistance of a full-time local procurement specialist in the
Ozone Office, would have overall responsibility for procurement.   An international
procurement specialist would be contracted on an as-needed basis to provide further assistance
as and when necessary. To meet the Montreal Protocol requirement of ODS phaseout,
enterprises would have to purchase and install equipment financed under the project as soon
as possible. Thus, the procurement procedures have been designed with special attention to
ensure expediency during project implementation. A summary of procurement arrangements
are provided in Tables B1 - B3.



TABLE B-1
Belarus ODS Phaseout Project
Procurement Information
Section 1: Procurement Review
Element          LIB               ICB               IS              NS                 Consultants          Other methods
1. Procurement    One specialized  >$USD400,000    >$USD50,000    <$USD50,000                                Operating costs
method thresholds  package                           (aggregate      (aggregate                              $USD103,000 and
USD$2,200,000)  USD$25,000)                             $USD200,000
overhead fee
2. Prior Review  All               All               First three     None               >$USD I00,000 - firm    Based on approved
_____ ____ _____ ____ _____ ____   ___ _____ ____ _    ___ ____ _____  >   $USD 50,000   - indiv.  schedule
3. Ex-post Review   Explain briefly the ex-post review mechanism:
21% ex-post review with assistance of a consultant during supervision.
Section 2. Capacity of the Implementing Agency in Procurement and Technical Assistance requirements
4. Brief statement  The Ozone Office hired Crown Agents during project preparation to provide procurement training for Ozone Office staff and
enterprise representatives. A full-time procurement staff position has been filled since November 1996 and will continue through
the grant implementation period. Procurement training occurred prior to, during and after project appraisal to maximize
opportunities for hands-on learning.
5. Country Procurement Assessment Report or Country  6. Are the bidding documents for the procurement actions of the first year ready by
Procurement Strategy Paper status:                   negotiations?
Country Procurement Assessment Report planned for FY98                  Yes
Section 3. Training, Information and Development on Procurement
7. Estimated date of Project 8. Estimated date of    9. Indicate if contracts are    10. Domestic Preference    11. Domestic Preference
Launch Workshop         publication of General       subject to mandatory SPN in  for Goods             for Work, if applicable
Procurement Notice          Development Business
5/15/97                  2/20/97                     Yes, for ICB              Yes, for ICB                N/A
12. Retroactive financing        No                  13. Advanced Procurement                 No
14. Explain briefly the Procurement Monitoring System and Information System: The Ozone Office has been equipped with computers and software
developed by Crown Agents, to track and record procurement implementation. All procurement requests will be channeled through the Ozone Office for
centralized recordkeeping. Monthly progress reports to Bank will regularly update procurement implementation progress.
Section 4. Procurement Staffing
15. Indicate name of Procurement Staff as part of Project Team:            Division:           Ext.
AppraisalUSupervision - Ms. Snezana Mitrovic                            EC4NR                32182
16. Explain briefly the expected role of the Field Office in Procurement: A field-based deputy team leader would act as the Ozone Office's primary
liaison to review procurement documents for completeness and submit them for transmittal to headquarters through the Bank's pouch service. This staff
would also participate in all supervision missions, and alert the project team to any procurement training opportunities in the region, and conduct prior
review of the second and third IS packages.



Table B-2
Belanus ODS Phaseout Project
Procurement Plan
1                           2              3                4                             5                      6. Estimated Schedule
No.slicesfitems/                 Procurement                     Document                       Contract     Contract
Description'                               Type2           subpackages3    Estimated Cost'    Method5     Prequalificabon  Preparabon    Invitabon to Bid    Signing   Completion
REFRIGERATION SECTOR                                                      .
Atlant Ltd._____
Door Foaming Lines (2and 3)                      G               1              $4,658,775      LIB        Not required     March'97         April'97      Sept'97      Dec'98
Door Foaming Lines (2 and 3)                                                     $902,220      NBF         Not required
Servicing Equipment                              G               1               $383,938       IS         Not required     March '97        Apnl'97        July '97    Sept '97
Servicing Equipment                                                              $181,170      NBF         Not required
Door Foaming Line 1 Prod. Equip.                                                $1,863,680     NBF         Not required
Safety Audit                                     CI              1                $22,000       SSI        Not required      June'98                       July'98      Aug'98
Cabinet/Door Foaming Produebon
Equipment/Support Infrastructure                                                $2,292,000     NSF         Not required
Beltorgprogress
Leak Detectors, Charging Units, Tools            G               1               $463,155      ICB         Not required      April '97       May'97         July'97      Oct'97
Recovery and Soldering Units                     G               1               $368,335       IS         Not required      April '97       May '97        July '97     Nov '97
CFC Containers                                   G               1               $212,080       IS         Not required      Feb '97        March '97      June '97     Aug '97
Pneumatic Pump                                   G               1                $16,500       NS         Not required     March 97         April 7        July '97    Sept '97
Recovery and Recharging Equipment                G               1               $142,890       IS         Not required      Apnl '97        May '97        July '97     Jan '98
Computers and Classroom fumishings               G               1                 $8,140       NS         Not required     March '97        Apnl '97       July'97     Sept97
Recovery Vehides                                 G               1               $132,000       IS         Not required     March'97         Apnl '97       July'97     Sept'97
Study Tour                                       CF              1                $32,423       SSF        Not required      Dec '96         Jan '97        Feb '97      May '97
Operabng Costs                                  Other            1               $102,674     OTHER        Not required
Operabing Costs                                                                   $25,850      NBF         Not required
Facility Installation/Upgrading                                                  $136,400      NBF         Not required
Incremental Operating Costs                                                      $115,740       NBF        Not required
SOLVENT SECTOR                                                                                                                                        _
Kam erton__                                    _ _ _ _   __ _ _ _ _ _ _ __                                                 _ _ _ _ _ _   __ _ _ _ _ _ _  __ _ _ _ _    __ _ _ _ _
Cleaning Machine                                 G                                 $39,600      is        Not required      Feb '97        March '97      June '97      Oct 97
Di water treatment system                        G               1                $27,500       IS         Not required      Feb '97        March '97      June '97      Oct'97
Mastc Application Equipment                                                        $4,136      NBF         Not required
Chemical Cleaning Machines-TCA Washing                                            $16,200      NBF         Not required
Equipment Upgrading                                                               $18,150      NBF         Not required
Engineering/Env. Ass.                                                             $28,400       NBF         Not required
Incremental Operating Costs                                                       $56,696      NBF         Not required
Tsvetrotron
ADF Developing Machine                           G               1                $159,500       IS         Not required     Feb '97        March '97       June '97     Sept '97
Surface Preparabion Unit                                                         $126,500       NBF        Not required
Photoresist Removal Unit                                                         $110,000       NBF        Not required
Equipment Dismantling                                                            $165,000       NBF         Not required
vWvTP Upgrade                                _________ . _____________          $1,198,000      NSF         Not required   ____________    ___9__NForq e
Training/P. MgmVEnv. Ass.                                                        $134,500       NBF         Not required
Page 1



Table B-2
Belarus ODS Phaseout Project
Procurement Plan
2              3                4                               5                      6. Estimated Schedule
No.slices/items/                  Procurement                     Document                        Contract     Contract
Description'                                Type2           subpackages3     Estimated Cost4    Method'      Prequalification  Preparation   Invitation to Bid  Signing    Completion
Belvar                                                                                                                                     I_____
Cleaning Equipment                                G               1                $244,640        IS         Not required      April '97       May '97        July '97      Dec '97
Technical Assistance                              CI              1                 $11,000       SSI         Not required      Dec 96           Jan '97      March '97     May '97
InstallP. Mgmt/Env. Ass./Commissioning                                              $36,454       NBF         Not required
Incremental Operating Costs                                                         $17,018       NBF         Not required
Minsk Computer
Aqueous cleaning system                           G               1                $245,739        IS         Not required      Feb '97         March '97      June '97      Dec '97
ADF developing machine                            G                                 $159,842      Is         Not required      Feb'97          March'97       June'97       Dec'97
Surface Preparation (etching) Equip.                                               $124,465       NBF         Not required
Photoresist Removal                                                                $180,554       NBF         Not required
WvVTP Upgrade/Equip. Dismantling                                                    $47,600       NBF         Not required
P. MgmtEquip./Env. Ass./Commissioning                                              $116,300       NBF         Not required
Incremental Operating Costs                                                         $15,123       NBF         Not required
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Halon Subproject
Workshop training                                 CF              1                  $30,000      SSF         Not required      Dec '96          Jan '97       April '97     July 97
Ozone Office
Vehicle                                           G               f                 $27,500        is         Not required      Feb'97           April'97      June'97       Aug'97
Misc. Offlice Supplies                            G               1                 $11,000        IS         Not required      Feb'97           April '97     June'97       Aug'97
Ozone Monitoring Equipment                        G               1                 $11,000        is         Not required      April '97       June'97         Aug'97       Oct'97
,Procurement advisory services                    Cl               1                 $55,000 .     SLI        Not required      March '97        Apnil 97       May'97       Nov. 99
Local Contract Staff (accounting)                 Cl              i                 $13,200       SSI         Not required     March '97         April'97       May'97       Nov. '99
Local Contrac Staff (procurement)                 Cl              1                 $13,200       SSI         Not required     March'97          April'97       May'97       Nov. '99
Regulatory Program Support                        Cl              1                 $23,100       SLI         Not required      April '97       June'97         Aug'97       Oct99
Sub-Grant Processing Charge (3%)                 Other                             $200,771      OTHER        Not required               _
TOTAL PROJECT COST                                                               $15,727,658
NOTES:
'Name of Package
2Indlcate CW (for civil works); S&l (for supply and install); TK (for tumkey); CF (for consultant firms): Cl (for Individual consultants); TR (for training).
The type is related to the use of the relevant standard bidding documents.
31f known, indicate number of slices, major items or subpackages in the package
4Expressed in US$
'lndicate ICB, LIB, NCB, IS, NS, DC (for direct contracting), FA (for Force Account), MW (for Minor works), SLF (for short-listing of consultant firms);
SLI (for short-listing of individual consulants); SSF (for Sole sourcing of consultant firms); SSI (for sole sourcing of individual consultants),
Other (for recurrent costs procured on the basis of admiistrative proceduresbased on a schedule and budget acceptable io the Bank);
P.g. 2



TABLE B-3
BELARUS ODS PHASEOUT PROJECT
Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Methods               Total
Project                           LIB      ICB        Other    Not Financed    Cost
by GEF
I       Works
1.1           Rehabilitation and                           -           0.3         0.3
Maintenance             -                    -          (0.0)       (0.0)
2       Goods
2.1           Equipment and           4.7      0.4        2.3          7.0         14.4
Machinery             (4.0)    (0.4)       (2.0)        (0.0)       (6.4)
3       Consultancies
3.1           Technical Assistance     -                  0.1          0.3         0.4
(0. 1)       (0.0)       (0. 1)
3.2           Training                                    0.1           -          0.1
(0.1)                    (0.1)
4       Miscellaneous
4.1           Sub-grant Processing                        0.2           -          0.2
Charge                                     (0.2)          -         (0.2)
4.2           Recurrent Costs                             0.1          0.2         0.3
(0.1)        (0.0)       (0.1)
Total                                          4.7      0.4        3.2          7.8         15.7
(4.0)    (0.4)      (2.9)        (0.0)       (6.9)
Note: Figures in parenthesis are respective amounts financed by GEF.
Other includes: US$ 2.2 million for International Shopping
US$ 25 thousand for National Shopping
US$ 200 thousand for consultant services
US$ 300 thousand for operating costs and sub-grant processing fee



SCHEDULE B
Page 5
Disbursement
2.            The project is expected to be disbursed in less than three years, and the funds
would be channelled through a special account (SA) established in a Bank-approved financial
insitution (Financial Agent), or paid directly to a supplier by the World Bank. Funds would be
disbursed against: (a) 100% cost of foreign expenditure, ex-factory cost of domestically-manufactured
goods, technical assistance including service associated with supply of goods, and consulting services;
and (b) 75% of expenditures on goods procured locally. Disbursements to the Ozone Officefor sub-grant
processing would be limited to 3% of eligible disbursements for each invoice (para. 35b). Allocations
of funds to disbursement categories and an estimated schedule are provided in Tables B4 and
85.
Table B4
Disbursement Categories
(in U million $)
Category            Amount          Percent of Expenditure Eligible for Financing
100% of foreign expenditure
Goods                          6.7      100% of local expenditure (ex-factory costs)
75% of goods procured localy
.           100% of consultant services
Sub-grant processing fee       0.2      100%
Total                          6.9
Table B5
Estimated Disbursement Schedule
(in US $ milDion)
|FY 97         |FY 98           |FY 99
Fiscal Year                       0.0              5.0              1.9
Cumulative                        0.0              5.0              6.9
3.            Establishment of the SA would be under the terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank (para. 35c). After effectiveness and upon the recipient's request, the Bank would make an
initial deposit of US $400 thousand which would be increased up to US $690 thousand when
disbursements reach US $1.5 million (SDR equivalent 1.1 million). Requests for replenishment
of the SA would be made on a quarterly basis, or when the balance of the SA is at one half of
the deposit, whichever occurs first.  In addition  to the evidence of payments, each
replenishment application would be supported by monthly statements of the SA which would
be reconciled by the Ozone Office. Project expenditures would be monitored by the FA, which
would provide monthly statements to the Ozone Office. Payments would be made by the FA
following the submission of requests for payment by the Ozone Office on behalf of the
beneficiary enterprises.
4.            Except for contracts requiring prior review, disbursement would be made
against certified statements of expenditure for which detailed documentation would be
available for the required audits, and also for review by Bank supervision missions. The Bank
would accept requests for direct payment to the supplier of goods or services for an amount
not less than 20% of the SA Deposit.



SCHEDULE C
REPUBLIC OF BELARUS
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENTAL FACILITY OZONE DEPLETING SUBSTANCES
PHASEOUT PROJECT
TIMETABLE OF KEY PROJECT PROCESSING EVENTS
1.          Time to prepare:                      24 months
2.          Prepared by: Karin Shepardson (EC4NR), team leader
Kathleen Stephenson (EC4NR), task manager (prior
to 1/96)
Jennifer Allen (consultant), deputy team leader
Rick Cooke (consultant), technical specialist
COWI Consult (Danish EPA Consultants)
3.          First Presentation to Bank (IPID):    February, 1996
4.          Pre-Appraisal Mission Departure:      June 1996
5.          Final EPS to GEF Council:             March 1996
6.          GEF Council Approval:                 April 1996
7.          Appraisal Mission Departure:          December 1996
8.          Negotiations:                         February, 1997
9.          Board Approval:                       March, 1997
10.         Planned Date of Effectiveness:        April, 1997
11.         Expected Date of Completion:          February 29, 2000
12.         Project Identification Number:        BY-GE-44729






SCHEDULE D
REPUBLIC OF BELARUS
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENTAL FACILITY OZONE DEPLETING SUBSTANCES
PHASEOUT PROJECT
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BELARUS
A. STATEMENT OF IBRD LOANS
(as of February 28, 1997)
Amount in US
$ million
Loan No.   Fiscal        Borrower         Purpose      Bank   Undisbursed
_______  Year                      T_____  __
2 loans closed                                         125.16      0.80
3741-BY |  1994    Republic of Belarus    Forestry     41.9      39.83
l     _  l          lDevelopment
Total Number of loans = 1                               41.9      39.83
Total                                       167.06
of which repaid                               0.0
Total held by the Bank                      167.06 1
Amount sold         0.0
of which repaid     0.0
Total undisbursed                                       40.64






PART II
TECHNICAL ANNEXES






ANNEX I
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION PLAN






ANNEX I
Page 1 of 8
Project Implementation Plan
The Project
1.    The project's main objective is to assist Belarus with the rapid phaseout of ODS
consumption in a manner consistent with international efforts and within internationally
agreed timeframes. The project targets priority consumption phaseout activities in the
refrigeration and solvent sectors. It also provides modest technical assistance at both the
institutional and enterprise levels to facilitate implementation of the ODS Phaseout Country
Program, and technology transfer for phaseout in the fire protection sector. It is structured as a
framework project consisting of a series of six enterprise-specific technology conversion
investment sub-projects and two technical assistance sub-components.  The technology
conversion component consists of one sub-project in the refrigeration manufacturing sector, one
sub-project in the industrial/commercial refrigeration servicing sector, and four sub-projects in
the solvent sector. The technical assistance component consists of two sub-components which
address the transfer of technology and training for conversion in the fire protection sector and
institutional strengthening.
Implementation Arrangements
2.    The Government has assigned the Ministry of Natural Resources and Environmental
Protection (MNREP) as executing agency for the project and overall implementation of the ODS
Phaseout Country Program. Within MNREP, project implementation responsibility has been
assigned to the Ozone Office. Financial support towards its establishment has been given
through a GEF Project Preparation Advance (PPA), and the Ozone Office would receive
subsequent support through the project grant. The Office is staffed by three full time personnel
recruited from and paid for by MNREP and BSRC "Ecology", and two independent full-time local
staff specializing in accounting and procurement who would to be funded under the project. As a
permnanent structure within the Ministry, the Ozone Office has overall responsibility for ODS
matters including: (a) acting as secretariat to the Interagency Commission which oversees the
ODS Phaseout Country Program; (b) coordinating implementation and updating the Country
Program; (c) communicating with the Executive Commnittee of the Montreal Protocol; (d)
collecting and reporting consumption, trade and recycling information to the Government and
international bodies; and (e) preparing legislative and regulatory initiatives such as ODS import
licensing, sector specific bans and sanctions for non-compliance with phaseout schedules.
3.    Project-specific responsibilities of the Ozone Office as a project implementation unit
include: (a) appointment, commnunication with, and supervision of an international Financial
Agent who would administer disbursements for the project; (b) set-up and management of a
project accounting system; (c) appointment and supervision of an international procurement
agent to provide procurement guidance to beneficiary enterprises in accordance with World Bank
guidelines; (d) making arrangements for annual audits; (e) coordination of environmental
approvals required for sub-project implementation; (f) monitoring of beneficiary enterprise
financial performance on a quarterly basis; (g) managing all communications with the World
Bank, including obtaining all permissions and no-objections required on the project; and (h)
submission of progress reports (initially monthly and to become quarterly at the direction of the



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 8
Bank) and a completion report to the Bank. An overall implementation schedule for the project is
attached.
4.    A financial agent (foreign bank) acceptable to the World Bank, would be appointed to
handle the management and disbursement of funds including: (a) holding and managing a
Special Account (SA) for project funds on behalf of the Ozone Office; (b) administering project
disbursements through the World Bank and the SA, including payments under approved
contracts, and funding allocation to technical assistance components; and (c) monitoring all sub-
project expenditures.
5.    The need for an intemational procurement agent during project implementation has been
minimized through the use of an intemational procurement specialist during project preparation
and by including the procurement specialist in project appraisal. The Ozone Office would have a
full time local procurement specialist to process procurement requests and to act as an
intermediary between the Bank and beneficiary enterprises. A budget would be set aside to
contract with an intemational procurement specialist as required throughout project
implementation. The World Bank resident mission would also provide back-up procurement
advice on request and inform project staff of any World Bank procurement training courses in the
region.
6.    The responsibilities of each enterprise include: (a) acting as Purchaser under the
procurement contracts; (b) preparing project implementation and procurement plans and
specifications; (c) finalizing bidding documents; (d) undertaking tender evaluation; (e) placing
contracts; (f) monitoring delivery and installation of equipment and inspection of goods; (g)
maintaining contract and payment documentation; and (h) providing information on the status of
project implementation to the Ozone Office on a regular basis.
7.    An umbrella grant agreement between the Bank as GEF Implementing Agency and
MNREP defines the overall framework by which GEF grant funds can be disbursed to enterprise
specific sub-projects. Individual sub-projects would be covered by sub-grant agreements between
MNREP and the participating enterprises. Both the grant agreement and sub-grant agreements
would be pattemed after those utilized for the Ozone Project's Trust Fund. Sub-projects have
been approved in accordance with the Bank's trustee obligations to GEF and revisions to
individual sub-projects may require prior approval by GEF.
8.    The project grant agreement establishes government responsibility for recovery of
equipment allocated to an enterprise if the investment is lost through enterprise insolvency
during the project implementation timeframe. Also, funds may be withdrawn from an enterprise
sub-project at the Bank's discretion at any time during implementation. Withdrawn funds would
be eligible for reallocation to an altemative Belarus ODS phaseout activity under the approval of
the World Bank and GEF Council as necessary. Project processing procedures would parallel
those used for Multilateral Fund projects, including the utilization of the technical review
capability established for these projects.



ANNEXI
Page 3 of 8
9.     As part of the development of the Country Program  for ODS Phaseout,  MNREP
undertook consultations with a broad spectrum of enterprises and interested parties: other
ministries (including Industry, Economics, and Finance), NGOs, industry associations and others.
Enterprises were given the opportunity to participate in the project as long as they could provide
the necessary data for project staff to evaluate their financial viability, technological capabilities
and eligibility for financial assistance.
Procurement
10.    Procurement of goods and services would be made in accordance with "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" (January 1995, as amended January and
August, 1996). The beneficiary enterprises, with the assistance of a full time local procurement
specialist in  the Ozone Office, would  have overall responsibility  for procurement.   An
international procurement specialist would be contracted on an as-needed basis to provide further
assistance as and when necessary. To meet the Montreal Protocol requirement of ODS phaseout,
enterprises would have to purchase and install equipment financed under the project as soon as
possible. Thus, the procurement procedures have been designed with special attention to ensure
expediency during project implementation. A summary of goods to be procured is shown in
Table Al.l. The proposed procurement procedures were reviewed with the government during
appraisal.
Table A1.1
Summary of Procurement Arrangements
[in US mn V's]
Procurement Method
Not
Project Element                LIB      ICB   Other   Financed        Total
_________  ______by  GEF
Goods and Works                4.7      0.4    2.3       7.3           14.7
(4.0)    (0.4)  (2.0)     (0.0)         (6.4)
Technical Assistance                           0.2       0.3           0.5
and Training                   (         (     (0.2)    (0.0)          (0.2)
Operating Costs/Processing Fee                 0.3       0.2           0.5
(-) j (0.3)                   (0.3)
4.7      0.4    3.2      7.8           15.7
TOTAL                          (4.0)    (0.4)  (2.5)    (0.0)         (6.9)
Other includes:
US $2.2 million for International Shopping
US $25 thousand for National Shopping
US $200 thousand for consultant services
US $300 thousand for operating costs and sub-grant processing fee
Figures in parenthesis are respective amounts financed by GEF
11.    Goods. To the extent possible, contracts for goods have been grouped to allow for the
procurement of larger packages. Each enterprise would procure its own equipment with
assistance and supervision from the Ozone Office and an international procurement specialist as
necessary. The equipment is expected to be for: (a) foaming machines and associated ancilliary
equipment; (b) aqueous cleaning systems; (c) refrigerant extraction, storage, and charging



ANNEX-I
Page 4 of 8
equipment; (d) up-grading safety systems and testing laboratories; (e) replacement of in-line
circuitboard developing processes; (f) limited office equipment; and (g) training by suppliers to
the workers in beneficiary enterprises acquiring new equipment.
12.   Contracts larger than US $400,000 with an aggregate amount of US $0.4 million would be
procured on the basis of the Bank's International Competetive Bidding (ICB). An exception is one
Limited International Bidding (LIB) package (US$ 4.6 million) for foaming equipment where a
limited number of suppliers able to meet safety standards were identified. This LIB package is
consistent with what has been recommended for similar ODS Phaseout Projects in the Region.
Contracts between US $50,000 and US $400,000, with an aggregate amount of US $2.2 million
would be procured through International Shopping (IS) based on comparing price quotations
from at least three suppliers from two countries. Such an arrangement would allow enterprises to
procure the goods in a timely manner and maintain the ODS phase-out schedule required under
international commitments (by January, 2000). National Shopping (NS) could be applied for
contracts less than US $50,000 up to an aggregate of about US $25,000 based on at least three price
quotations from local suppliers. No direct contracting would be required. Operating costs and
sub-grant processing fees for a total of US $300,000 would be reimbursed through a direct
payment to the beneficiary enterprise and the Ozone office.
13.   Consultant Services. The project involves consultant services for: (a) engineering support
for equipment investments (training, installation, environmental permitting); and (b) technical
assistance to the Ozone Office. The total value of services is estimated to be US $200 thousand.
Engineering and technical support for sub-projects would require contracts of less than US
$50,000 each, for a total of US $100,000. Technical assistance provided to the Ozone office (US
$100,000) would involve consultant services in such areas as procurement, accounting, regulatory
program development, and legal services. The hiring of consultant services, both for individuals
and consulting firms, would be in accordance with the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" (August, 1981).
14.   Review by the Bank. All ICB and LIB contracts, and the first three international shopping
contracts, regardless of their value, and all contracts for consulting services valued in excess of US
$100,000 for firms and US $50,000 for individual consultants, would be subject to prior review and
approval by the Bank. Contracts of a lesser amount would be subject to ex-post review by the
Bank. Terms of Reference for all consultant contracts would be reviewed in advance by the Bank.
Procurement information would be included in the project progress reports to be prepared by the
Ozone Office.
Disbursement
15.    The project is expected to be disbursed in less than three years, and the funds would be
channelled through an SA established in a Bank-approved financial institution (Financial
Agent), or paid directly to a supplier by the World Bank. Funds would be disbursed against:
(a) 100% cost of foreign expenditure, ex-factory cost of domestically-manufactured goods,
technical assistance including service associated with supply of goods, and consulting services;
and (b) 75% of expenditures on goods procured locally. Disbursements to the Ozone Office for
sub-grant processing would be limited to 3% of eligible disbursements for each invoice.



ANNEX-I
Page 5 of 8
Allocations of funds to disbursement categories and an estimated schedule are provided in
Table A1.2 and A1.3 (reproduced below).
Table A1.2
Disbursement Categories
(in US million $)
Category             Amount          Percent of Expenditure Eligible for Financing
100% or foreign expenditure
Goods  and  services  under    6.7       100% of local expenditure (ex-factory costs)
subprojects                              75% of goods procured locally
100% of consultant services
Sub-grant processing fee
______________________  ~~~~~~~~~~0.2  100%
Total                           6.9
Table A1.3
Estimated Disbursement Schedule
(in US $ million)
I EY97            FY 98             FY 99
Fiscal Year                        0.0              5.0              1.9
Cumulative                         0.0              5.0              6.9
16.    Establishment of the SA would be under the terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank. After effectiveness and upon the recipient's request, the Bank would make an initial
deposit of US $400,000 which would be increased up to US $690,000 when disbursements reach
US $1.5 million (SDR equivalent $1.1 million). Requests for replenishment of the SA would be
made on a quarterly basis, or when the balance of the SA is at one half of the deposit,
whichever occurs first.  In addition to the evidence of payments, each replenishment
application would be supported by monthly statements of the SA which would be reconciled
by the Ozone Office. Project expenditures would be monitored by the Financial Agent, which
would provide monthly statements to the Ozone Office. Payments would be made by the
Financial Agent following the submission of requests for payment by the Ozone Office on
behalf of the beneficiary enterprises.
17.    Except for contracts requiring prior review, disbursement would be made against
certified statements of expenditure for which detailed documentation would be available for
the required audit, and also for review by Bank supervision missions. The Bank would accept
requests for direct payment to the supplier of goods or services for an amount not less than
20% of the SA Deposit.



ANNEX I
Page 6 of 8
Monitoring and evaluation
18.   The completion date for the grant is February 29, 2000. The Ozone Office would have
overall responsibility for monitoring project progress. It would prepare monthly progress
reports summarizing project implementation, procurement, and disbursement, and would
highlight issues and follow-up actions to ensure that the project remains on schedule. The
reporting requirement may be revised to a quarterly basis as significant progress has been
made, at the discretion of the Bank. Ozone Office responsibilities would also include
monitoring and enforcement of safety regulations and procedures as agreed prior to sub-
project implementation.
19.   The Ozone Office would be responsible for arranging for an annual financial audit (in
accordance with the Financial Reporting and Auditing Handbook, January, 1995) and
preparation of a Implementation Completion Report within six months of the end of project
implementation. The Ozone Office would also be responsible for monitoring the financial
performance of beneficiary enterprises on a quarterly basis, including updates of balance
sheets and income statements, and other factors relating to enterprise performance in World
Bank progress reports. Sub-grant agreements would require enterprises to submit annually
audited financial statements, and agree to periodic monitoring of financial performance The
World Bank would maintain the right to stop disbursements or drop any enterprise sub-
project during project implementation if viability becomes uncertain. Supervision by a Bank
team would take place on a semi-annual basis following submission of the first progress
report of the Ozone Office. Supervision missions would include the Bank team leader (or an
authorized representative), and a financial or ODS technical specialist as needed. Proposed
project performance monitoring indicators for the project would be included in the progress
reports, and are presented in Table A1.4.
20.   Monitoring ODS phaseout and consumption in Belarus as required for reporting to the
Parties of the Montreal Protocol, has in the past, and would continue to be carried out by the
Institute Ecology, which is subordinate to MNREP. The status of ODS consumption would be
reported to the Bank and GEF when required. A disposition plan for retiring ODS dedicated
equipment will be included in each sub-project subgrant agreement to help ensure that project
objectives are met.
Performance Indicators
21.   Table A1.4 provides performance indicators for the project.



Table A1.4
Belarus ODS Phaseout Project
Environmental Performance Indicators
Objectives             Input                 Ouput                 Outcome                 Risks           Development Impact
(Resources Provided   (Goods & Services       (Direct Outcome)       (The outcome is
for the Project    produced by project)                           dependent on ....
Activities)
Reduce the rate of
To reduce the         GEF Grant             Training/policy        Reduced ODS           Adequate long-term    thinning of the
consumption of Ozone  ($US 6.9 million)     support for           consumption in various  support for new       atmosphere's ozone
Depleting Substances.                      implementation of the   sectors (from 1994    technologies.         layer.
ODS Phaseout Country  levels.)
Beneficiary enterprises  Program.                                  Low increase in       Reduce health impacts
($US 8.8million)                            (a) Refrigeration: 600   incremental operating   from exposure to
Retrofitting/substitutio  tons               costs.                ultraviolet radiation.
n of technologies that
Government staff     consume ODS.           (b) Solvent: 90 tons
resources (MNREP)
and office           Training refrigerant   (c) Halon: 18.6 tons
accommodations.      servicing technicians in  (extends beyond project
recycling and materials  timeframe)
handling. (Number of
people trained)
To reduce the economic                      Training for fire     Conversion of industry  Investing in enterprises  Increase international
impact to enterprises                       protection sector in use  to the use of non-ODS    operating in a   Competitiveness of
dependent on ozone                          of non-ODS            materials.             transitional economy   beneficiary enterprises.
depleting substances,                       technologies.                                with a higher risk of
when an international                                                                    insolvency.
phaseout of production
occurs.
To assist the                                                      Fulfill International  Continued support of
Government of Belarus                                             obligations to phaseout  international        Increased cooperation
in meeting its                                                    consumption of ODS     agreements by the      on achieving
international                                                      materials.            Government of          international
obligations.                                                                             Belarus.               environmental
objectives.



Project Implementation Schedule
1997             [            1998             [            1999                          2
ID   Task Name                     Q     | tr           [ Q tr2   Qtr3    Qtr4 |Qtr    Qtr2   Qtr3   Qtr4   Qtr I   Qtr2   Qtr3   Qtr4   Qtr 1   Qtr2
1    Finalize Design
2    Identify Suppliers                        _       l
3    Environmental Reviews
4    Grant Effectiveness                                *  4115
5    Sub-Grant Agreements
6    Halon Workshop                                          51
7    Procure Goods
8    Disbursement
9    Commissioning/Start-up
10   Refrigeration Servicing Training                                                                  - _ -l
11   Project Completion Report
Task                                   Summary                                Rolled Up Progress
Project:                             Progress                                Rolled Up Task
Date: 4/2/97                         Progrens
Milestone                              Rolled Up Milestone 



ANNEX II
SUBPROJECT DESCRIPTIONS






ANNEX II
Page 1 of 20 -
SUB-PROJECT SUMMARY
COUNTRY:                             Republic of Belarus
SUB-PROJECT TITLE:                   Atlant: Phaseout of CFC-l 1 usage and development of CFC-12 recovery and
recycling capacity for domestic refrigeration servicing system
LOCATION:                            Minsk
SECTOR:                              Domestic Refrigeration
ODS USE IN SECTOR:                   Foam Insulation: 282 MT CFC-l 1
Domestic Refrigeration Servicing: 62 MT CFC-12
Total: 344 MT (Based on Average 1992, 1993, 1994 Consumption)
PROJECT IMPACT:                      344 MT (Based on Average 1992,1993, 1994 Consumption)
PROJECT DURATION:                    2.5 Years: Foam Conversion:           June 1997 to January 1998
Refrigeration Servicing:    June 1997 to June 1998
PROJECT ECONOMIC LIFE:               10 Years
SUB-PROJECT COSTS:                   Incremental Capital Costs                        US$ 9,750,790
Contingency (10%) on remaining capital expenditures  US$ 552,993
NPV Incremental Operating Cost (Savings)                    0
Total Project Cost (Net of Savings)             US$ 10,303,783
FINANCING:                           Global Environment Facility                      US$ 4,324,246
Atlant                                           US$ 5,979,537
COST EFFECTIVENESS:                  US$ 9.06/kg ODP
IMPLEMENTING ENTERPRISE:             Atlant
GEF IMPLEMENTING AGENCY:             The World Bank
COORDINATING NATIONAL BODY: Ministry of Natural Resources and Environmental Protection (MNREP)
STAP/OORG REVIEW:                    The foam insulation portion of the sub-project was reviewed by Mr. G.M.F.
Jeffs and approved in revised form. The refrigeration servicing portion of the
sub-project was reviewed by Mr. L.J. M. Kuijpers and approved subject to
justification of some servicing equipment, which was subsequently
withdrawn.
Enterprise background
Atlant, a closed joint stock company, is the only manufacturer of domestic refrigerators in
Belarus. The enterprise was founded in 1993 with the merger of the Minsk Refrigerator Factory and
the Baranovitchi Machine Construction Plant. In 1996, Atlant employed a total of 10,000 workers,
6500 of which work at its refrigerator and freezer production plant in Minsk, and 3500 at its



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 20
compressor plant in Baranovitchi. Currently, the enterprise produces seven models of refrigerators and
freezers and nine models of hermetic compressors.
Project Description
This sub-project would complete the phaseout of ODS in Atlant's operations, replacing CFC-1 1
with cyclopentane and developing recovery and recycling capacity for domestic refrigeration servicing.
The CFC-1 1 phaseout component would involve the installation of new foam insulation blowing lines
and the provision of supporting storage, production, testing and safety infrastructure. The enterprise
will provide a letter of assurance that all safety measures have been addressed in the conversion process.
The servicing component will provide necessary equipment and training within Atlant's internal and
contracted service organization for the recovery and recycling of CFC- 12 refrigerants within the
national domestic refrigeration sector. Servicing capacity for HFC-134a refrigerants has been excluded
from the sub-project. The project would phase out a total of 263.5 tons of ODS.
The sub-project would be implemented in two phases as follows:
Phase I
* product engineering and development (already implemented by Atlant -- no funding
requested)
3 installation of foaming line for cabinets (already implemented -- no funding requested)
* installation of 3 foaming lines for doors and smaller parts (funding requested for lines 2 and
3)
* supervision by supplier of installation/commissioning and operation
Phase H
* full production with cyclopentane -- (no funding requested for incremental operating costs)
As indicated in the attached implementation schedule, the conversion activities are expected to be
completed by the end of 1998.
Financing Plan
The total sub-project cost is US$ 10,303,783. A GEF grant of US$ 4,324,246 has been
allocated to this sub-project, with the remaining US$ 5,979,537 to be financed by the enterprise.
atlant.sum



Figure A2.1
Belarus ODS Phaseout Project
Atlant Sub-project Schedule
1997               [               1998                               1999
ID   Task Nare                                Qtr      Qtr2    Qtr3    Qtr4     Qtr 1    Qtr2    Qtr3    Qtr4    Qtr1    Qtr2    Qtr3    Qtr4  |Qtr
1    Development of procurement documents
2    Environmental and safety assessment
3    Signing of sub-grant agreement
4    Procure equipment
5    Disbursement
6    CommissioningAinstallation
7    Decommissioning
B    Full ODS-free production
Task                  _        _        Summary            __                   Rolled Up Progress
Date: 4/2/97 ~~~~~Progress                       ~M                  Rolled Up Task _
.                        ~~~~~~~~~Milestone  *Rolled Up Milestone<>



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 20
SUB-PROJECT SUMMARY
COUNTRY:                             Republic of Belarus
SUB-PROJECT TITLE:                   Refrigeration Servicing: Phaseout of ODS in commercial, industrial, and
transportation refrigeration servicing
LOCATION:                            Minsk and regional servicing locations
SECTOR:                              Servicing of refrigeration appliances
ODS USE IN SECTOR:                   297 MT CFC-12 (1994)
PROJECT IMPACT:                      256 MT CFC-12 (1999)
PROJECT DURATION:                    3 years
PROJECT ECONOMIC LIFE:               10 years
SUB-PROJECT COSTS:                   Incremental Capital Costs                           US$ 1,491,315
Contingency (10%) on remaining capital expenditures  US$  149,132
NPV Incremental Operating Cost (Savings)            US$  115,740
Total Project Cost (Net of Savings)                 US$ 1,756,187
FINANCING:                           Global Environment Facility                         US$ 1,478,197
Beltorgprogress and Ecology                         US$  277,990
COST EFFECTIVENESS:                  US$ 6.25 kg ODP
IMPLEMENTING ENTERPRISE:             BSRC Ecology, Beltorgprogress
GEF IMPLEMENTING AGENCY:             The World Bank
COORDINATING NATIONAL BODY: Ministry of Natural Resources and Environmental Protection (MNREP)
STAP/OORG REVIEW:                    This subproject was reviewed by Mr. L.J.M. Kuijpers and approved subject to
modification in project scope. These modifications have been made. Several
implementation modifications were proposed at appraisal, and therefore a
supplementary technical review is anticipated prior to sub-project
effectiveness.
Sector Background
In 1994, the refrigeration servicing sector in Belarus consumed 341.7 MT CFC-12,
encompassing the domestic, commercial, industrial, and transport refrigeration sub-sectors.
Servicing of commercial refrigerating appliances is carried out by two organizations,
Beltorgprogress in the urban areas and Belcorpsajuz in the rural areas. Beltorgprogress has seven
regional service centers with approximately 500 refrigeration technicians, and Belcorpsajuz is



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 20
approximately 20% of the size of Beltorgprogress. Servicing is either performed on site or, if
necessary, the compressor or condensing unit is taken to a service center for overhaul.
The servicing of industrial refrigeration appliances is carried out by the organization
Selhoztechnika, by local servicing companies, and by consumers. Servicing of refrigerated trucks is
done by three service companies located in Minsk, Brest, and Mogilev, and is overseen by the
organization ATEP-5. Railcar refrigeration is serviced by two companies, one located in Brest and one
in Molodechno.
Servicing of domestic refrigerators and freezers is implemented by Atlant' s service department
and 120 other service enterprises, all of which have a service contract with Atlant. All training for
domestic servicing of non-ODS appliances will be implemented by Atlant and is included under their
sub-project.
Enterprise Background
The enterprise Beltorgprogress is proposed as the primary implementing enterprise for this sub-
project. Beltorgprogress is a state-owned enterprise reporting to the Ministry of Trade.
Beltorgprogress has six subsidiary enterprises, including Torgtehnica in Minsk, four regional integrated
plants in Brest, Gomel, Mogilev, and Vitebsk, and a pilot plant in Gomel. Beltorgprogress would be
responsible for the investment component of the sub-project.
The Belarusian Research Centre Ecology (BSRC Ecology), an arm of the Ministry of Natural
Resources and Environmental Protection, would be the second implementing agency of this sub-project,
with primary responsibility for coordination of the training component. BSRC Ecology conducts a
variety of environmental monitoring activities and was actively involved in the development of the
Belarus Country Program for Phaseout of Ozone Depleting Substances.
Project Description
This sub-project addresses the development of servicing capability for commercial, industrial,
and transport refrigeration equipment in Belarus. It involves training of service technicians in leak
detection and repair, handling of non-ODS refrigerants, retrofitting existing appliances, and methods of
recovery, recycling, and reclamation of CFC-12. Industrial service organizations would be supplied
with necessary equipment, such as leak detectors, recovery units, acid testing kits and resources to
develop centralized recycling and storage of recovered refrigerants. Charging equipment for
replacement substances has been excluded from the grant.
The project comprises two main components:
Component I: Re-education of service technicians
Approximately 1000 service technicians would be trained in servicing of ODS-free appliances.
Investments related to this component would be for the establishment of training facilities and
for the development of a compendium for service technicians.



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 20
Component II: Equipment Distribution and Establishment of Recyclng and Storage Facilities
Service technicians would be provided with the necessary equipment to service ODS-free
appliances, such as recovery units and containers, acid testing kits, portable leak detectors,
portable soldering units, and other tools. Testing facilities would be retrofitted, a refrigerant
recycling scheme would be developed, and a central storage facility for heavy contaminated
refrigerants would be established.
As indicated in the attached implementation schedule, these activities are expected to be
completed by 2000.
Financing Plan
The total sub-project cost is US$ 1,756,187. A GEF grant of US$ 1,478,197 has been allocated
for this sub-project, with the remaining US$ 277,990 to be covered by Beltorgprogress and BSRC
Ecology.
service.sum



Table A2.2
Belarus ODS Phaseout Project
Refrigeration Servicing Sub-project Schedule
1997                               1998                               1999
ID   Task Name                             Qtr 1    Qtr2    Qtr 3    Qtr 4    Qtr 1    Qtr 2    Qtr 3    Qtr 4    Qtr 1    Qtr 2    Qtr 3    Qtr 4    Qtr 1
1    Information collection
2    Sub-grant agreement
3    Disbursement
4    Establishment of training facilities
5    Procurement of equipment
B    Establishment of recycling centers
7    Establishment of storage facility
| Re-education of technicians
Task                  __Summary                                               Rolled Up Progress
Date: 4/2/97                         Progress                                Rolled Up Task _
Milestone         *Rolled Up Milestone  '



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 20
SUB-PROJECT SUMMARY
COUNTRY:                           Republic of Belarus
SUB-PROJECT TITLE:                 Belvar: Phaseout of CFC-1 13 usage
LOCATION:                          Minsk
SECTOR:                            Solvent
ODS USE IN SECTOR:                 42 MT CFC-1 13, 87 MT methylchloroform (TCA), 2 MT CTC (1994)
PROJECT IMPACT:                    6.2 MT CFC-1 13 (1994)
PROJECT DURATION:                  9 months
PROJECT ECONOMIC LIFE:             10 years
SUB-PROJECT COSTS:                 Incremental Capital Costs                        US$ 265,540
Contingency (10%) on remaining capital expenditures  US$ 26,554
NPV Incremental Operating Cost (Savings)         US$ 17,018
Total Project Cost (Net of Savings)              US$ 309,112
FINANCING:                         Global Environment Facility                      US$ 255,640
Belvar                                           US$ 53,472
COST EFFECTIVENESS:                US$ 53.25 kg/ODP
IMPLEMENTING ENTERPRISE:           Belvar
GEF IMPLEMENTING AGENCY:    The World Bank
COORDINATING NATIONAL BODY: Ministry of Natural Resources and Environmental Protection (MNREP)
STAP/OORG REVIEW:                  This subproject was reviewed by Mr. B.H. Baxter, and approved in its present
form
Enterprise Background
Belvar is a state owned enterprise, manufacturing radio devices, dosimeter equipment, and
related systems. In 1996, Belvar employed 4920 people in its Minsk plant, down from 7000 in 1994.
Project description
This sub-project would eliminate the enterprise's use of CFC- 113 in de-preservation, cleaning
and degreasing of printed circuit board assemblies. Currently, CFC-1 13 is used to remove grease, wax,
resin, micro-resin particles, and polishing slurry from the circuit boards. This system would be replaced
by a high volume aqueous cleaning process and low solid content fluxes. This conversion requires the



ANNEX H
Page 9 of 20
installation of a new wave soldering line, a high volume aqueous cleaning line, a deionization system,
wastewater pretreatment improvements, and drying equipment. Upgrading of plant ventilation-systems
and training are also included under the sub-project. A total of 6.2 tons of CFC-1 13 would be phased
out.
Implementation Schedule
The project would be implemented in three phases:
Phase I
*  evaluation of alternative technologies and cleaning solutions
*  selection and placement of equipment and materials
Phase II
*  dismantling and removal of equipment
*  delivery and installation of new equipment
*  testing of new equipment
.  training
Phase III
* initiation of new cleaning procedures
* monitoring of performance for new equipment
As indicated in the attached implementation schedule, the conversion activities are expected to be
completed by October 1997.
Financing Plan
Total sub-project cost is US$ 309,112. A GEF grant of US$ 255,640 has been allocated to this
sub-project, with the remaining US$ 53,472 to be financed by the enterprise.
belvar.sum



Table A2.3
Belarus ODS Phaseout Project
Belvar Sub-project Schedule
1997           1          1998                      1999                      2000
ID   Task Name                                Qtr 1  Qtr 2 | Qtr 3 | Qtr 4 !Qtr 1 | Qtr 2  Qtr 3  Qtr 4  Qtr 1  Qtr 2  Qtr3  Qtr4  Qtr1  Qtr2  Qtr3  Qtr4
I    Development of procurement documents          111
2    Environmental and safety assessment
3    Signing of sub-grant agreement                         7/1
4    Procure equipment
5    Disbursement
6    Commissioninglinstallation
7    Decommissioning
L    Full ODS-free production               |                         *11
Task                  __Summary                                               Rolled Up Progress
Date: 4/2/97                         Progress                                Rolled Up Task _
Milestone         *Rolled Up Milestone 



ANNEX IH
Page 11 of 20
SUB-PROJECT SUMMARY
COUNTRY:                           Republic of Belarus
SUB-PROJECT TITLE:                 Kamerton: Phaseout of CFC-1 13 usage
LOCATION:                          Pinsk
SECTOR:                            Solvents
ODS USE IN SECTOR:                 42 MT CFC-1 13, 87 MT methylchloroform (TCA), 2 MT CTC (1994)
PROJECT IMPACT:                    3 MT CFC-1 13 (1994)
PROJECT DURATION:                  9 months
PROJECT ECONOMIC LIFE:             4 years
SUB-PROJECT COSTS:                 Incremental Capital Costs                        US$ 123,460
Contingency (10%) on remaining capital expenditures  US$ 10,530
NPV Incremental Operating Cost (Savings)         US$ 56,696
Total Project Cost (Net of Savings)              US$ 190,682
FINANCING:                         Global Environment Facility                      US$ 67,100
Kamerton                                         US$ 123,582
COST EFFECTIVENESS:                US$ 27.95/kg ODP
IMPLEMENTING ENTERPRISE:           Kamerton
GEF IMPLEMENTING AGENCY:    The World Bank
COORDINATING NATIONAL BODY: The Ministry of Natural Resources and Environmental Protection (MNREP)
STAP/OORG REVIEW:                  This subproject was reviewed by Mr. B.H. Baxter, and approved in its present
form
Enterprise Background
Kamerton, a subsidiary of the Integral research and production corporation, produces wafers for
the manufacture of semiconductors, and electronic products such as watches, electronic games, and
medical devices (blood pressure meters). The enterprise is state-owned, with a staff of 1800 (1996).
CFC- 113 is used as a cleaning agent to remove synthetic resin-based wax, polishing slurry, and
finger prints after the final polishing of the silicon wafers. Kamerton obtains its supply of CFC-1 13
from the Krion plant Kirovo-Cheptsk in Russia; the enterprise consumed 3.2 tons of CFC-1 13 in 1994.



ANNEX II.
Page 12 of 20
Project Description
This sub-project would eliminate the use of CFC- 1 13 for removing grease, wax, resin,
micropowder particles, and polishing slurry from monocrystal silicon wafers after the chemical-
mechanical polishing process. This cleaning process would be replaced by a multi-stage acid-alkaline
technology using ammonia-peroxide, nitric acid, and deionized water.
The proposed process to clean the wafers includes the following steps:
* double sided water cleaning with ammonia peroxide
* water treatment in nitric acid
* ammonia peroxide cleaning
* hydro mechanical cleaning
* drying
To implement this process, alternative resin free waxes would be introduced, requiring the
installation of a new wax application machine. Water treatment equipment will also be installed to
ensure sufficient water quality for the cleaning process as well as ensuring adequate processing of
wastewater. The ventilation system will also be modified to ensure worker safety.
Implementation Schedule
Phase I
* preparation of the specifications for the alternative equipment and materials
* evaluation of the need for changes in the existing processes
* evaluation of material specifications and consumption
* environmental impact assessment
* assessment of requirements for waste management
Phase II
* purchase and installation of new equipment and materials
* modification of existing processes to be compatible to the new materials
* modification of waste water management systems
* training of workers to operate the new processes
* evaluation of the performance and reliability of the new processes
As indicated in the attached implementation schedule, the conversion activities are expected to be
completed by the end of 1997.
Financing Plan
Total sub-project cost is US$ 190,682. A GEF grant of US$ 67,100 has been allocated to this
sub-project, with the remaining US$ 123,582 to be financed by the enterprise.
kamer.sum



Table A2.4
Belarus ODS Phaseout Project
Kamerton Sub-project Schedule
1997                    ~~~~~1998                         1999
ID   Task Nane                               Qtr     Qtr2    Qtr3    Qtr4    Qtr 1    Qtr 2    Qtr3    Qtr 4    Qtr 1    Qtr 2    Qtr 3    Qtr 4    Qtrl
1   Development of procurement documents
2    Environmental and safety assessment
3    Signing of sub-grant agreement
4    Procure equipment
5    Disbursement
6    Commissioning/installation
7    Decommissioning
9    Full ODS-free production                     |                            11
Task                       __Summary                                         Rolled Up Progress
Date: 42/V97                         Progress                              Rolled Up Task _
Milestone         *Rolled Up MilestoneX



ANNEX II
Page 14 of 20
SUB-PROJECT SUMMARY
COUNTRY:                            Republic of Belarus
SUB-PROJECT TITLE:                  Minsk Computer: Phaseout of CFC-1 13 and methylchloroform (TCA)
usage
LOCATION:                           Minsk
SECTOR:                             Solvents
ODS USE IN SECTOR:                  42 MT CFC-113, 87 MT methylchloroform (TCA), 2 MT CTC (1994)
PROJECT IMPACT:                     6 MT CFC-1 13 (1994), 43 MT TCA (1995)
PROJECT DURATION:                   9 months
PROJECT ECONOMIC LIFE:              10 years
SUB-PROJECT COSTS:                 Incremental Capital Costs                   US$ 795,000
Contingency                                US$ 79,500
NPV Incremental Operating Cost (Savings)   US$ 15,123
Total Project Cost (Net of Savings)        US$ 889,623
FINANCING:                          Global Environment Facility                US$ 260,000
Minsk Computer                             US$ 629,623
COST EFFECTIVENESS:                 US$ 20.80/kg ODP (CFC-1 13)
US$ 37.17/kg ODP (TCA)
IMPLEMENTING ENTERPRISE:            Minsk Computer
GEF IMPLEMENTING AGENCY:    The World Bank
COORDINATING NATIONAL BODY: Ministry of Natural Resources and Environmental Protection
STAP/OORG REVIEW:                   The CFC-1 13 part of this subproject was reviewed by Mr. B.H. Baxter, and
approved in its revised form. The TCA component was incorporated into the
subproject at appraisal, and has received final OORG approval from Mr. Joe
Felty.
Enterprise Background
Minsk Computer is a state-owned manufacturer of electronic equipment, including computers,
personal computers, telephone exchanges, and consumer light appliances. The company employed
approximately 8000 staff in 1996. The company currently uses CFC-1 13 vapor defluxing in two
facilities to clean printed circuit board assemblies. Consumption of CFC- 113 was approximately 6



ANNEX II
Page 15 of 20
metric tonnes in 1994. The enterprise also uses 43 tons of methylchloroform (TCA) annually in
photoresist development in the process of producing printed circuit boards for electronic products.
Project Description
CFC-113 Phaseout
The sub-project would eliminate the use of CFC-1 13 in the cleaning of assembled printed circuit
boards used in the manufacture of computers, personal computers, telephone exchanges, and light
appliances. Minsk Computer would eliminate its usage of CFC-113 by replacing the existing CFC-113
vapor defluxers with two different technologies. No-clean technology would be used for the majority of
products, and the high solid content, aggressive flux soldering process would be replaced with a low
solid content, non-aggressive flux requiring a new wave soldering machine. For products requiring
cleaning, an aqueous in-line cleaning machine, with a deionized water production unit and waste water
treatment unit, would be used. Soldering of products requiring cleaning would use a water-soluble flux.
The component would be implemented in three phases:
Phase I
* evaluation of alternative technologies and cleaning solutions
* selection and placement of equipment and materials
Phase II
* dismantling and removal of equipoment
* delivery and installation of new equipment
* testing of new equipment
* training
Phase IH
* initiation of new cleaning procedures
* monitoring of performance for new equipment
TCA Phaseout
This component would eliminate Minsk Computer's use of methylchloroform (TCA) in
photoresist development. The enterprise will replace the current process with a water/alkaline process,
dismantling the developing and stripping machine in existing circuit board manufacturing lines and
replacing it with two new lines, one for double-sided board production, the other for multi-layer board
production. All existing developing and stripping lines will be dismantled except for one surface
preparation etching unit considered suitable for the new process. Investments would be made in
process design, developer equipment, retrofitting the existing wastewater treatment systems with filters
and reverse osmosis water recycling systems, upgrading of ventilation systems, and training.



ANNEX II
Page 16 of 20
The component would be implemented in five stages as follows:
*  process design
*  equipment purchase
*  dismantling of existing equipment
* installation of new equipment and plant infrastructure upgrading
.  commissioning
As indicated in the attached implementation schedule, the conversion activities are expected to be
completed by April 1998.
Financing Plan
Total sub-project cost is US$ 889,623. A GEF grant of US$ 260,000 has been requested for
this sub-project. The remaining US$ 629,623 will be financed by the enterprise.



Table A2.5
Belarus ODS Phaseout Project
Minsk Computer Sub-Project Schedule
1997                       1998                       1999                      2000
ID   Task Name                               Qtr 1  Qtr 2 |Qtr 3  Qtr 4  Qtr 1  Qtr 2  Qtr 3  Qtr 4  Qtr 1  Qtr 2  Qtr 3  Qtr4   tr 1  Qtr 2  Qtr 3   Qtr 4    tr1
1    Development of procurement documents
2    Environmental and safety assessment
3    Signing of sub-grant agreement                         7/1
4    Procure equipment
5    Disbursement
6    Commissioning/installation
7    Decommissioning
8    Full ODS-free production
Task                                    Summary                                 Rolled Up Progress
Date: 4/2/97                           Progress                                Rolled Up Task
Milestone                               Rolled Up Milestone



ANNEX II
Page 18 of 20
SUB-PROJECT SUMMARY
COUNTRY:                           Republic of Belarus
SUB-PROJECT TITLE:                 Tsvetotron: Phaseout of inethylchloroform (TCA) usage
LOCATION:                          Brest
SECTOR:                            Solvents
ODS USE IN SECTOR:                 42 MT CFC-1 13, 87 MT methlychloroform (TCA), 2 MT CTC (1994)
PROJECT IMPACT:                    32 MT methylchloroform (TCA) (average of usage 1993, 1994, 1995)
PROJECT DURATION:                  12 months
PROJECT ECONOMIC LIFE:             4 years
SUB-PROJECT COSTS:                 Incremental Capital Costs                        US$ 1,735,000
Contingency (10%) of remaining capital expenditures  US$  158,500
NPV Incremental Operating Cost (Savings)                    0
Total Project Cost (Net of Savings)              US$ 1,893,500
FINANCING:                         Global Environment Facility                      US$ 123,200
Tsvetotron                                       US$ 1,770,300
COST EFFECTIVENESS:                US$ 38.50/kg ODP
IMPLEMENTING ENTERPRISE:           Tsvetotron
GEF IMPLEMENTING AGENCY:    The World Bank
COORDINATING NATIONAL BODY: Ministry of Natural Resources and Environmental Protection (MNREP)
STAP/OORG REVIEW:                  This subproject was reviewed by Mr. B.H. Baxter and approved in its revised
form
Enterprise Background
Tsvetotron manufactures printed circuit boards, diodes, electronic control units, electronic
watches, crystals, and liquid crystal display (LCD) panels. The number of payroll employees in 1996
was 4159.
Project description
This sub-project would eliminate Tsvetotron's use of methylchloroform (TCA) in photoresist
development in the process of producing printed circuit boards for electronic products. An alkaline
development of photoresist will replace the methylchloroform processes, involving investment in
process design, developer equipment, retrofitting the existing wastewater treatment systems with filters



ANNEX II
Page 19 of 20
and reverse osmosis water recycling systems, upgrading of ventilation systems, and training. The
project would phase out 32 MT of TCA.
Tsvetotron will replace TCA with a water alkaline process, dismantling the developing and
stripping machine in the existing in-line circuit board manufacturing line and installing alkaline
equipment in its place. In addition, Tsvetotron will install water purification equipment to ensure proper
treatment of the wastewater generated in this process. The capacity of the new equipment
configuration will be approximately equal to that of the existing equipment. The project consists of the
following elements:
Implementation Schedule
The project would be implemented in three phases:
Phase I
- evaluation of alternative technologies and developing solutions.
-  selection and placement of equipment and materials to be purchased.
Phase II
- dismantling and removal of equipment which is to be replaced.
* receive and install new equipment.
* test new equipment prior to operating equipment.
* optimize developing and water cleaning processes and train workers
Phase III
* initiate use of new procedures
* monitor performance of new equipment and adjust as necessary.
As indicated in the attached implementation schedule, the conversion activities are expected to be
completed by October 1997.
Financing Plan
The total project cost is US$ 1,893,500. A GEF grant of US$ 123,200 has been allocated to
this sub-project, with the remaining US$ 1,770,300 to be financed by the enterprise.
tsveto.sum



Table A2.6
Belarus ODS Phaseout Project
Tsvetotron Sub-Project Schedule
1997   |     1998          |          ~~~~     ~     ~~1999  |2000        _
ID   Task Name                              Duration  Qt      t      t      t      t   r  &2 | Qt  I  Qtr 4 | Qtr 1 _ Qtr 2 |Qtr 3 | 4tr4  Q Qtr I | t 2|Qt 
1    Development of procurement documents65             _
2    Environmental and safety assessment         65
3    Signing of sub-grant agreement                1 d        4/1
4    Procure equipment                            67d
S    Disbursement                                66d
6    Commissioning/installation                  66d
7    Decommissioning                              67d
8    Full ODS-free production                      1d                   * d
Task                                   summary                                Rolled Up Progress
Date: 4/2/97                         Progress                                Rolled Up Task
Milestone                              Rolled Up Milestone



ANNEX III
BELARUS EXECUTIVE ORDERS FOR THE PROTECT






: )   ~J t}  *
MZIUCr3PCTRA
o       xIWLZP   P3CyrC-A       0          nPUPOWbaX PECYPCOB
I AXOlIal IIHSACOJILHAA                    14 OXPAHL ORPY*AIOUX
ACXPO                                        Cpra
P3C3YLU3c1 SlE7UYCTL                       pECTiY JTM1  SEJWYCZU
22., r. ic  K p         a        . 13      220-. r. M1Hncx, Kong-rpHi. ID
,    fa i @17) 25-SS3
Ha .                              - .F[    Mr Carsten Gicating,
Eccnomist
COWIconswlt
Denmark4, OK.2800, bynq6y
Fax: 4S45 9722 12
Dcar Ms S8derstro6,
I would like to inform you that the Republic of Belarus, being a part of the
USSR , adopted the A4justments and the Amendments to the Montral Protocol on
Substances that Deplete the Ozone Laycr ( June 1990 , London ) in accordance with the
Deeree J& 198 of the Cou.ncil of Ministers of the USSR of 23 April 1991.
To confirmn thc impl=tenration of its obligations under the Monral Protocol,
the Government of the Republic of Beiarus acp ted the Resolution )i 115 of 19
February 1996 " On Aditional Measur= for Phase-Out of Ozone Depleting
.Substances in Belarus ,which adoted the Coun=y Pogrammc for Phasc-Out of
Ozone Depleting Subsances in Belarusas well as approved the Andments to the
Montr=lI Protocol on Substances thaL Dep1ee the Ozone Layer.
I epress the hope that you wil fid it possible to providc the frnancial assistance
for the Republic of Belarus to enable its compliance with international agre=nents in
the field of the ozone layer protection .
I look forward to our further fruitful co-operation
Yours sincerely
A'8&.I  W.            Mikhail Rusy,
Ministcr ,



C.
~~~~~~~~~~~ .
e; ~~     ~    ~    110    1*F  INH   i*             :; I
sc-5 ~*        *                               Iw4+
Y ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ h .' '                          .
4 b    01l  X '4  KC



MIHICT:3PCTlIA I1PurPOfRHbIX P3CYPCAS
I AXOBbI HABAfCOJbtiArA ACHPOJ3A  Y3cnV&mcI EEAPYCb
224)0N1. r. Mi cp. Knatnpiiu3. 10  r^n. (0172) 206;691. 4iauc (t)17) 205S-3
3AiA,rl, AN453
1t20 140      9traIl                                              r.Mitsac
rio imqozvy oocT'any
Z    SMH  Bna,=,Wzpa ITfrO3I,6r rta,  Ee=ero cnegnaZidcTa o=eTm8
IIO ltaimzpo= 3a B3pSoca=zA  OT fnleDeWt=uux 9OTOXRW1OB Hia3HaxMTl  B
noDice neDemo.a c I jzz T996 rU=a Ia  0J onOCTB Ras zaA        c fea
rocy,l.aPcTMeHHoro xonT)oa1i no coxDauieHu=i osoHpDa3 rywai x 1eixueom
X PecniWdjuue Beapyci.
YOTaEOBZTL tnqeIm B.r.  ).0ZIaHOCTHOR  0Mio5 ftA oxiiaVJE a noBIte
Ra'qazaiLuza YnDamnenis MiMMCTCncTna,
OcuonaEue:  npegcTaBzeuffe Ranwz.ia czegiuneIgulm
r'Oc1c0Tzp0o   3a  cnoJi3oDaagBgM  1 oxDa9og
aTMocfeT?Eoro iosz0xa  OT 27,06.96r.,
a3amemxe  MJtLea3 B.r.
MS~~~H~~CTp                    1A~~.1.PYCHV1



MI^NIISTRY OF NATURAL RESOURCES AND ENYIRONMENT PROTECTION
OFTH   REPUtRLIC OF BELARUS
Order # 53
JUNE 28, l996                                                          Minsk
StafT
Mlnchenya VL;dimir Grioryevich, Leading cxpCTt, mobiL sourc  emiion
monitoong division, shalL bc rmssigacd, cffccti'v July 1, 1996, to tak chauW ofthe Offce of
State C:ontrl of reducing ozone-depLeting substances in tho Republic oCflReauz.
Mln-hPny;'s monthly xilary sAall ho cquivalktit t that of the Ministry's department
head.
Grounds:      prntntton ar thc hcad of tlhc 'peclal inspection of state c=ntrol of
ambient air wc and protcction datcd Junc 26, 1996,
Minchenya's application
M. J. RmDYi
Minister



MiTzJ(.-T)cruTBA nripOJWimlix rPCYPCA9
I AXOBLI IIABAICKtIhlArFA AC'SPOJIJX3SI Pt)C:11JYWlJIKI BEAPYCL
Xllt0JI.   ,.  Nliicuc.   Icw1cKT.IpII&U. It ) tt l   ti. (0172)  206-6ql.   4*KC   (0172) 205-5X3
3 A I A J. 
9P-OtHSE 19'Ar.                                                 r.Miiicx
0 C03=Hma 0MCD no rOc7PcT23GnoM7
mOUTpaOm  Cmp8U5GMMW, rOTPeCXOBNS2
Do'OHOp03pyMa, BeMUCTn
npn MHzcTe.pcBe
B C0OThTCTBN C IIOCTsaOBJSeHIfM KEOrBeTa MauwcTp  Peczy&znzrm
EGJlDPYCL OT 19 (DenPa    1996 roD  1h =5 "0 zoz=nzTemfmtx  repaz
nO Ipe esr JCn=13DlHPIJ.B3  Pecnyenzze Jesapycz DescTm, pa3pyzm
axzX OasDRoHI   0cd" z  y nooUHfl PGcrq71Va!ucxO  11p'p3m02 no m
,BU1eHM  ZCna3LO SOBBHOZ 03DHOD3   a3!1=   XDCITZB 7  eBGBPYCNe
II P K   A 3 I B A 10:
I. Co03=m  IW  MA1uHCTepCTBe MIMpox=c PGC72COB H oZpaHu
apyzou5egl cpemz ODo rcy   CTmessora zouTpaw no coxpamensl
noTpeOderni osonopa3pytri W'=     o CT n.B33 B CZd=d e- C I  Bu   1996
MIWq 08 1ZD0O  BbMO HHZ Il;pIMPuz.MMi NHBHczpuoa rm, nO EW-
Bo;W zemec=9, 1BZOPYUlI9   Z O:0OOD  CD!1.
2. HsqnHIzy Cm=nejmz3nponSHHL VIBC0ceK=3 rOCROUTpUM :30
ocnawm3owszem  z oxpwnoul aTmombeporc BO3mZ8 Kopdy'  BJI. B cPw
.o 28  m   1996 raz  =O=dtp0DTS FBRI=TYPY ua IX=oNCTL PPOBO>
=TeWI    0#Cc  no) rOCXDoTPMaD OaHaMHEnR o30HODDsp      =x  1MU00T33
8 Peci8d.ne Bo2pyci. peapedTOTL npOGxT IIeWJE 0d 0O ce.
WTSTBO' S PaI0CevGe I1 ero cOOTvs.
3. H w.a Ky yWCrOB   YH neBg  Ao3aNom   T.K.
paccuoTpTsQ BsofalcuC, c3naaIS0     C iU9RCZPO33BZGU PadOTMOOB
Oo    zc TCTOnORnX ero cHJ1anCapammm a cp= = 28.06.1996 r'O.
4. YnPmBs o        JMM Zemwaom  A.C. pe=m  Boupocm, cl=a3H-
Hue c pasiea.enzom padOTHzXOB O#CD, odeongeqi zx p8dO'   MGOCTEBM
B odopyz m5eM.
5. KaOBSpaw  30a BammcieHzeM HOcTo=ero mZUsEs  BoC=TlT as
S8MGCTHTe=J  MMUZCPTC  Anoro A.H.
MHRHPOTP                                             MJT.P



MINISMTY OF NATURAL RF-SOURCE1S AND PNYIRONMIENT PROTECTION
OF THE REPUBLIC OF BELARUS
(Onrer 149
JUNE 27, 1996                                                          Mns.k
RCsPCCtinS cstablishment of thc Oicc of Stato Control
of reducing consumption of ozone-depicting substances
under the Ministsy
SU>J~to DoeItO a xor:ri Cabsiot orM      toaftha uApuhlic of raGLeud=M
February 19, 1996 "R=spcctivx additionad mveurcs Lo c: the u= in tlh Republic of Belna
of substances dptiig the omne hlyer" a ind the approved republican I'rogra  to ce th. we
of ozanc-Icp1cting substances in Beuans,
Iher-by ORDER:
1.    To cstablivh undcr the Mlnistry of nmtumI resources and environment protection,
efrective July 1, 1996, tho OtSlco of Sta to Contrl of mducing consumption of us on-depltin
subatanc= for the pcriod or GEF-finaned prograni to remove ozone-dcpicting substances.
2.     V.I. Korbut, head of speciaL Inspection. of the Sta;t Contiol of ambient nir use and
protection, shall, bcfbrc June 28, 1996, jctcct a porxon to tAkr charg uft tho Ofrmce of State
Control of rcducLrny ozonz-depleting subdaanrcc in the Republic of B3larus and drift the
Ragulation respecting the Oflfcc, its ntannin8 tabic and staff.
3.     TICLzakovich, head of acconating and rinance dcndmcnt. shal, befibu Jun.26,1
996, conxidcr thc tuus rlating to inancig of 0cc saand ,urcs ofsuch fLnacig.
4.     AJ. Lyadctsky, officer in chals uradrlinis1t1iiv aflaikr, shall resolv tho iu
reLating to accommodation of Office staff providing them with wnrkplaces and equipmenL
5.     A.N. Aptiky, dcputy minister, shll ex rczie conttol of complinnco with this order.
Rusyi
Minister



I~~~~~~~~~~~~



IMAGING
(9      Printed on recyc ed paper                                 Report No.:            1S0S      BY
Type:        PD



