 IEG
                                                                                                  Report Number: ICRR14849

                    ICR Review
                    Independent Evaluation Group


1. Project Data:                                                Date Posted: 10/05/2015

                 Country: Haiti
                          Is this Review for a Programmatic Series ?                                       Yes    No
              Series ID:
        First Project ID : P127208                                                    Appraisal              Actual
         Project Name: Economic                        Project Costs (US$M):
                           Reconstruction And
                           Growth Development
                           Policy Credit
  L/C Number:                                           Loan/Credit (US$M):                         20                20.4
       Sector Board:       Economic Policy              Cofinancing (US$M):

             Cofinanciers:                               Board Approval Date :                                06/18/2013
                                                                 Closing Date:            06/30/2014          06/30/2014
          Sector(s):         Central government administration (56%); Transmission and Distribution of Electricity (28%);
                             General public administration sector (11%); Banking (5%)
         Theme(s):           Public expenditure; financial management and procurement (56%); Other public sector
                             governance (33%); Administrative and civil service reform (11%)
Evaluator:                   Panel Reviewer:         ICR Review                 Group:
                                                     Coordinator:
Robert Keyfitz               Mauricio Carrizosa      Lourdes N. Pagaran        IEGPS2

2. Project Objectives and Components:

a. Objectives:

    The overarching objective of the operation was, “to support the Government of Haiti’s program of sustainable
    reconstruction and growth.” Specific objectives were, “[support of] institution building and the strengthening of
    economic governance in sectors critical to reconstruction and growth in the short and medium term.” (Program
    Document, Grant and Program Summary, p. ii; Sect. V.B, p. 17)

 b. If this is a single DPL operation (not part of a series), were the project objectives/ key
associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
No

c. Policy Areas:

    The operation comprised three policy areas with a total of eight prior actions:

    (i) Public Financial Management (PFM).

    The operation sought to improve transparency and accountability of public expenditure through better tracking
    and monitoring of the capital budget and streamlining cash flow management. The Ministry of Planning had
    begun rolling out a consolidated, public investment information management system (SYSGEP) in 2009. But,
    operationalizing the system required establishing a central directorate with in the Ministry of Planning with overall
    responsibility together with dedicated units in line ministries to input data and liaise with the Directorate. Prior
    actions were: (1) Establishment of a Directorate of Public Investment in the Ministry of Planning; and (2)
    Establishment and staffing of UEPs, and adoption of an action plan to operationalize them and provide training.

    Compounding the challenge of expenditure tracking was a large number of bank accounts maintained by line
   ministries -- a total of 569, many of them dormant -- which complicated cash flow management and forecasting.
   The Ministry of Economy and Finance (MEF) had adopted a strategy to rationalize the system of public accounts
   by initially reducing the number held by each line ministry to three, and eventually leading to a Single Treasury
   Account. The strategy had already been presented to the Council of Ministers. A prior action called for: (3)
   Development of the strategy by the MEF and closure of 301 idle or dormant accounts.

   (ii) Public procurement . To strengthen public procurement, the operation supported establishment of a credible
   institutional framework and upgrading management capacity. A new Procurement Law adopted in 2009 had
   established a procurement regulatory body (Commission Nationale des Marchés Publics, CNMP) and provided
   for setting up procurement units in line ministries. However, parts of the law were suspended to facilitate the
   emergency response to the 2010 earthquake and subsequently implementation had stalled. Implementing
   regulations covering practices and procedures and a code of ethics remained to be published. Moreover, the
   CNMP’s oversight was hampered by inadequate enforcement procedures and staffing of ministerial procurement
   units. In a related development, numerous irregularities had occurred during the emergency and the operation
   supported rescinding a number of egregious violations of good practice. Prior actions included: (4) Issuance of
   implementing regulations covering a code of ethics and standard documents for evaluating bids; (5)
   establishment and staffing of procurement units in all line ministries and provision of training by the CNMP; (6)
   rescinding of 5 contracts improperly awarded under the Emergency Law.

   (iii) Electricity sector governance and performance. Poor governance and financial performance of the national
   electric utility, Electricité d’Haiti (EDH) had been a longstanding developmental constraint, due in part to
   inadequate monitoring of production by Independent Power Producers (IPPs), and weak revenue collection
   requiring costly fiscal transfers. Meanwhile, only a quarter of the population had access to electricity and only 5%
   of the population in rural areas. Despite the Bank's past engagement in the sector, little progress had been
   achieved. The operation targeted a specific subset of issues aimed at stabilizing financial performance. Prior
   actions were: (7) Initiating the use of meter readings to verify IPP production levels and billing; (8) Performance of
   on site meter testing and verification of meter readings for at least 200 large customers, with recovery of arrears
   where applicable; (9) Settlement of outstanding arrears from the Central Government to EDH.


d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:

   The project was approved 6/14/2013 and closed 6/30/2014 as planned, funded by a US$20 million IDA grant.
   There were no Government or counterpart contributions, but an additional US$10 million in parallel financing was
   provided by the Haiti Reconstruction Trust Fund. The initial commitment was SDR 13.3 million, equivalent to
   US$20 million, but the actual disbursement was $20.4 million due to exchange rate movements.


3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

a. Relevance of Objectives:

   Modernizing public administration and strengthening the management of public resources were core elements of
   both the Government’s 2007 Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper, and the Bank’s FY09-12 Country Assistance
   Strategy (CAS) and FY13-14 Interim Strategy Note (ISN). Implementation of reforms began in 2008, but the
   global financial crisis, 2010 earthquake, and 2011-12 political turmoil had disrupted the process. Priorities shifted
   and progress slowed or even reversed, at the very time massive reconstruction efforts increased the importance
   of public sector transparency and accountability. Thus, reviving the reform agenda by reasserting “cross-cutting
   themes” of institutional strengthening, budget management, procurement and service delivery from the CAS and
   ISN was highly relevant. Arguably, though, shortening the time frame of the PDO -– i.e. avoiding explicit
   references to “sustainability” and “[the] medium-term” –- might have been appropriate for a standalone operation.
   On balance, relevance of objectives is rated substantial.

   Relevance of objectives: Substantial


b. Relevance of Design:
   The design constituted a pragmatic approach toward achieving the PDO. Policy areas of PFM, procurement and
   restructuring the electricity sector were evidently foundational, and prior actions were specific, focused and
   relevant.

   That said, the design was much too ambitious about the ability of Haiti's limited administrative capacity to
   implement far reaching institutional reforms in such a short time frame. Expectations were unrealistic about
   operationalizing UEPs and procurement units across the Government in a year, especially considering that in the
   short run priorities had necessarily shifted to dealing with natural disasters and political turmoil. Nor did the
   design anticipate outright resistance from vested interests that expenditure tracking, public investment
   management, procurement and electricity sector reforms might face. Finally, a single tranche operation with no
   planned follow up may have weakened the Government’s incentives to achieve good results. On balance,
   relevance of design is rated modest


4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):

   The PDO comprised two sub-objectives: (1) institution building; and (2) strengthening economic governance in
   sectors critical to reconstruction and growth.

   (1) Support to institution building was to be achieved through the first two policy areas which established budget
   monitoring and procurement procedures, and staffed and operationalized units charged with carrying them out
   (prior actions).

   However, after effectiveness, the Government's commitment and discipline wavered. Without the Bank’s
   concurrence, SYSGEP, which had been agreed as an investment budget management tool, was abandoned in
   favor of a different system, SID-Haiti, with more limited capabilities. Though formally established, many UEPs
   were never adequately staffed or fully functional and only four out of nineteen achieved a satisfactory level of
   performance. By January 2015, quarterly budget execution reports were still not being prepared (publication
   using SYSGEP was a PDO target). Procurement units were established, and implementing regulations were
   published along with a code of ethics and standard bid evaluation forms. With Bank TA support, training
   workshops were held. However, in many ministries these units did not become functional, including the Ministry
   of Public Works, a key ministry for procurement; only eleven of nineteen ministries submitted FY14 procurement
   plans to the CNMP and only two submitted quarterly reports, thereby not meeting the associated targets. A PDO
   results target calling for at least two-thirds of contracts to be awarded competitively using standard bidding
   documents was not reported. Five of the eleven procurement contracts improperly issued under the emergency
   law were rescinded and the funds originally allocated were freed up for other investments. Strong leadership from
   the Prime Minister overcame considerable resistance and achieved the target for bank account rationalization,
   namely a limit of three bank accounts for each line ministry.

   In summary, efficacy is rated modest due to limited achievements in FM and procurement reforms. The results
   fell short of expectations with one of two PFM indicators and one of three procurement indicators meeting their
   targets.
   (2) Strengthening economic governance in sectors critical to reconstruction and growth comprised reforms to
   EDH. An important part of the agenda was to meter production by the Independent Power Producers to ensure
   they were being paid for only power actually supplied to the grid. While there were substantial delays, by early
   2015 all meters were installed and functional. However, ownership of the initiative by EDH is unclear and it is not
   known whether the readings are actually being used for billing purposes. There was better success in basing
   billing for priority customers on meter readings, with EDH regularizing more than 200 customers’ accounts.
   Finally, by early 2015, the central government’s arrears to EDH had been cleared (although much larger arrears
   from regional governments remained outstanding). Despite the achievements under the DPG, economic
   governance of the sector appears still to be fragile. The IMF’s latest Article IV Staff Report (2015) reports even
   larger fiscal drain from EDH, and a structural benchmark for the latest Enhanced Credit Facility (ECF) calls for
   completing an audit of tariff determination of the 200 largest clients by 2016.

   In brief, efficacy is rated modest due to limited achievement in the energy reform agenda. Though two of three
   PDO indicators achieved their targets, economic governance in the sector has yet to show significant
   improvement.

5. Efficiency (not applicable to DPLs):


6. Outcome:

   The objectives were substantially relevant, albeit they did not make adequate allowance for the country's short
   term circumstances. However, the design suffered from a lack of attention to capacity limitations and vested
   interests and was only modestly relevant. Progress toward achieving the twin objectives was mixed. Institution
   building in the public sector was hampered by a lack of ownership and staffing constraints, while in the electricity
   sector reforms focused on technical problems without addressing institutional concerns.

a. Outcome Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory


7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:

   The program's achievements are at high risk and extensive further support will be needed to consolidate any
   progress and ensure sustainability. It seems doubtful that institutional reforms in PFM and procurement have
   achieved a critical mass, and therefore substantial further support and capacity building will be needed if they are
   to take hold. Meanwhile, the technical achievements in the electricity sector (installation of meters) do not appear
   to have effectively addressed the true constraints to reform, Here the prognosis may be more optimistic since the
   IMF has taken an interest in the sector and EDH is the subject of structural benchmarks in the latest Enhanced
   Credit Facility (ECF) program. However, the enduring problems of the sector indicate that progress will not be
   easily achieved.

  a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : High

8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

a. Quality at entry:

   The operation's scope and objectives targeted critical developmental needs and aligned well with the Bank's
   longer term strategy for Haiti. Analytical underpinnings included a 2012 Public Expenditure and Financial
   Accountability (PEFA) evaluation, IMF PFM TA reports and a 2010 White Paper on Energy prepared by the
   Government with Bank support. However, the operation did not anticipate the impact of natural disasters and
   political turmoil on the Government's priorities and implementation arrangements made no allowance for
   limited administrative capacity. Expectations about what could be accomplished in a short time period would
   have been unrealistic in any case, and the design failed to anticipate the resistance to the reforms from
   vested interests.


  Quality-at-Entry Rating:                      Moderately Unsatisfactory


b. Quality of supervision:


   The Bank's supervision was no more than adequate, and communication both within the team and with the
   Government could have been better.

   Three missions were held during implementation, and communication appears to have been relatively good
   with the Ministry of Economy and Finance and the other central agencies responsible for implementing the
   reforms. However, the Bank might have reached out more proactively to line ministries to overcome the lack
   of communication about the program from within the Government itself. Substantial turnover in the Bank --
   there were three TTLs over the course of the project -- and a lack of coordination with the TA project
   supporting SYSGEP likely also contributed to the relatively poor outcomes. Communication between senior
   Bank management and the authorities appears to have been good, though intermittent and probably not close
   enough for maximum effect. More attention to follow up during preparation would have prepared the way for a
   more proactive and forward looking supervision.


  Quality of Supervision Rating :               Moderately Satisfactory

  Overall Bank Performance Rating :             Moderately Unsatisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

a. Government Performance:
    The Government satisfied all prior actions and maintained a stable macro environment. Nevertheless, top
    level commitment to the project was inconsistent. Notably, in one area -- bank account consolidation --
    reforms were pushed through successfully after the Prime Minister intervened, but elsewhere interest and
    achievements were more limited. MEF was tasked to lead implementation, but its priorities at the time were
    dictated by political turmoil and urgent reconstruction needs. Communication between MEF and other entities
    responsible for various elements of the project (line ministries and EDH) was poor, and implementation
    suffered from weak ownership and limited administrative capacity.



  Government Performance Rating :                             Unsatisfactory


b. Implementing Agency Performance:


  Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                     Not Applicable

  Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                        Unsatisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

a. M&E Design:

   Indicators and targets were appropriate and well chosen, In terms of implementation arrangements, MEF had
   overall responsibility for monitoring and evaluation, though there was a recognition from the outset that some
   institutional strengthening might be required. A supervision committee established in MEF was charged with
   coordinating and reporting on inputs collected from other agencies with responsibility for specific measures in
   their areas, including the Directorate of Public Investment, CNMP and EDH. Meanwhile, a parallel effort was
   carried out by the Bank and other donors in conjunction with the joint donor matrix for budget support.

b. M&E Implementation:

   The authorities in MEF tasked with oversight did not adequately monitor the project and had little knowledge of
   how it was performing. In practice, it was Bank staff who kept the Government informed.


c. M&E Utilization:

   There was little interest in or use of the M&E system, especially in light of the lack of planned follow up to the
   project.

 M&E Quality Rating: Negligible


11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards:

   The operation did not trigger any safeguards policies.

b. Fiduciary Compliance:
    NA

c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):
    NA

d. Other:
    NA



12. Ratings:                               ICR                   IEG Review               Reason for
                                                                                   Disagreement/Comments
                     Outcome: Moderately                    Moderately
                              Unsatisfactory                Unsatisfactory
          Risk to Development High                          High
                     Outcome:

           Bank Performance: Moderately                     Moderately
                              Unsatisfactory                Unsatisfactory
       Borrower Performance : Unsatisfactory                Unsatisfactory

                Quality of ICR:                             Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:

    The ICR argues that a multi-tranche or programmatic operation would have strengthened the Government's
    incentives to achieve the objectives. Even if a single-tranche, standalone format is deemed appropriate under
    the circumstances, adequate attention to incentives, for instance through proposed follow on operations, might
    lead to better outcomes.

    An important issue is the Bank's involvement in Government operations, specifically the extent to which it
    should engage directly with line ministries (or other stakeholders) about a project where communication and
    direction from the central authorities is weak. The ICR suggests that such interventions should be approached
    cautiously. But, where appropriate including a communications strategy in the implementation arrangements
    might ensure a better understanding of the project and M&E framework.

    Better coordination among donors can make a critical difference. Consider two examples where outcomes
    were very different. The decision to change from SYSGEP to SID, which contributed to the program going off
    track, was based partly on a recommendation from the Agence Francaise de Developpement. Meanwhile,
    consolidation of bank accounts, where the target was achieved, owes some of its success to IMF support for
    the move.


14. Assessment Recommended?                  Yes      No




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:


    The ICR is concise, candid and informative. The narrative is generally clear and convincing, though more detail
    would have been helpful in a few areas such as the M&E framework and the problems with TA. Its main
    weakness is assessing outcomes with respect to actions and indicators rather than objectives.
a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
