OFFICIAL-
DOCUMENTS
GRANT NUMBER H868-0-HT
Financing Agreement
(Economic Reconstruction and Growth Development Policy Financing)
between
REPUBLIC OF HAITI
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated   u            ,2013


﻿FINANCING AGREEMENT
Agreement dated        4-a-, 2013, entered into between the REPUBLIC OF HAITI
("Recipient")  and   INTERNATIONAL       DEVELOPMENT       ASSOCIATION
("Association") for the purpose of providing financing in support of the Program (as
defined in the Appendix to this Agreement). The Association has decided to provide this
financing on the basis, inter alia, of: (a) the actions which the Recipient has already taken
under the Program and which are described in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement,
and (b) the Recipient's maintenance of an adequate macroeconomic policy framework.
The Recipient and the Association therefore hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02.  Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in
the Appendix to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II - FINANCING
2.01. The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a grant in an amount equivalent to
thirteen million and three hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR
13,300,000) ("Financing").
2.02. The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in support of the
Program in accordance with Section II of Schedule I to this Agreement.
2.03. The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the
Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per
annum.
2.04. The Payment Dates are April 15 and October 15 in each year.
2.05. The Payment Currency is the Dollar.


﻿ARTICLE III - PROGRAM
3.01.  The Recipient declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.
To this end:
(a)    the Recipient and the Association shall from time to time, at the request
of either party, exchange views on the Recipient's macroeconomic policy
framework and the progress achieved in carrying out the Program;
(b)    prior to each such exchange of views, the Recipient shall furnish to the
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress
achieved in carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Association
shall reasonably request; and
(c)    without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this
Section, the Recipient shall promptly inform the Association of any
situation that would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives
of the Program or any action taken under the Program including any
action specified in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV - REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION
4.01. The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following:
(a)    A situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program,
or a significant part of it, will be carried out.
(b)    An action has been taken or a policy has been adopted to reverse any
action or policy, under the Program, including any action listed in
Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, in a manner that would, in the
opinion of the Association, adversely affect the achievement of the
objectives of the Program.
4.02. The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of, namely, that any event
specified in paragraphs (a) or (b) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is
continuing for a period of thirty (30) days after notice of the event has been given
by the Association to the Recipient.
ARTICLE V - EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01.  The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of, namely, that the
Association is satisfied with the progress achieved by the Recipient in carrying
out the Program and with the adequacy of the Recipient's macroeconomic policy
framework.
-3-


﻿5.02.  The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement.
ARTICLE VI- REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01.  The Recipient's Representative is the Minister of Economy and Finance of the
Recipient.
6.02.  The Recipient's Address is:
Minist&re de l'Economie et des Finances
5, Avenue Charles Sumner
Port-au-Prince
Republic of Haiti
6.03.  The Association's Address is:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:       Telex:               Facsimile:
INDEVAS              248423(MCI)          1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C.
-4-


﻿AGREED at              , J   L    as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF HAITI
By
Aiithorized Re--entative
Name:)
Title: I     d
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Autho ized Representative
Name: fr4"->K J       t
Title:         L    AJ .J0
-5-


﻿SCHEDULE 1
Program Actions; Availability of Financing Proceeds
Section I.    Actions Taken Under the Program
A.     The actions taken by the Recipient under the Program include the following:
1.     The Recipient's Ministry of Planning and External Cooperation has established
and staffed a Directorate of Public Investment ("Direction de l'Investissement
Public") within the said ministry.
2.     The Programming and Analysis Units ("UEPs") in Line Ministries have been
staffed, and a UEP action plan to restructure and strengthen the said UEPs was
adopted in January 2013 by the Prime Minister's Office ("Primature ").
3.     The Recipient's Ministry of Economy and Finance has: (a) adopted the May
2012 strategy to establish the Single Treasury Account; and (b) closed 301 idle
and dormant public accounts at the Central Bank and commercial banks.
4.     Pursuant to the procurement law dated June 10, 2009, the Recipient has issued
and published on December 21, 2012 through its executive branch, the following
two implementing regulations ("arretis d'application") covering respectively:
(a) the code of ethics for public officials involved in procurement activities; and
(b) the standard documents for evaluating bids.
5.     All the Line Ministries have established and staffed ministerial procurement units
("commissions ministrielles de passation des marchis "), and the National
Commission for Public Works ("Commission Nationale des Marchs Publics")
has provided training to the staff of such units.
6.     In order to improve public procurement practices, the Recipient has, in
accordance with provisions of the General Rules of Public Accountability and the
Emergency Law, rescinded five (5) public contracts which were awarded under
the said Emergency Law.
7.     EDH has initiated the use of meter readings from functional remote meters newly
installed at IPP entry points to verify IPP production levels and inform billing.
8.     EDH has performed on-site meter testing and verified meter readings for at least
200 priority customers, re-issued bills, and implemented arrears recovery plans
when applicable.
9.     The Central Government, through the Recipient's Ministry of Economy and
Finance, has settled all of its FY2012 payment delays to EDH.
-6-


﻿Section H.   Availability of Financing Proceeds
A.     General. The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in
accordance with the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as
the Association may specify by notice to the Recipient.
B.     Allocation of Financing Amounts. The Financing is allocated in a single
withdrawal tranche, from which the Recipient may make withdrawals of the
Financing. The allocation of the amounts of the Financing to this end is set out
in the table below:
Amount of the Financing
Allocated
Allocations                   (expressed in SDR)
(1) Single Withdrawal Tranche             13,300,000
TOTAL AMOUNT                              13,300,000
C.     Withdrawal Tranche Release Conditions
No withdrawal shall be made out of the Single Withdrawal Tranche unless the
Association is satisfied: (a) with the Program being carried out by the Recipient;
and (b) with the adequacy of the Recipient's macroeconomic policy framework.
D.     Deposits of Financing Amounts
1 .   The Recipient shall open, prior to furnishing to the Association the first request
for withdrawal from the Financing Account, and thereafter maintain a deposit
account in Dollars ("Foreign Currency Deposit Account"), on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association. All withdrawals from the Financing
Account shall be deposited by the Association into the Foreign Currency Deposit
Account.
2.     Except as the Association may otherwise agree: (a) all withdrawals from the
Financing Account shall be deposited by the Association into an account
designated by the Recipient and acceptable to the Association; and (b) the
Recipient shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the Financing into
this account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the Recipient's budget
management system, in a manner acceptable to the Association.
-7-


﻿E.     Excluded Expenditures. The Recipient undertakes that the proceeds of the
Financing shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Association
determines at any time that an amount of the Financing was used to make a
payment for an Excluded Expenditure, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice
from the Association, refund an amount equal to the amount of such payment to
the Association. Amounts refunded to the Association upon such request shall be
cancelled.
F.     Audit. Upon the Association's request, the Recipient shall:
1.    have the Foreign Currency Deposit Account audited by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association, in accordance with consistently applied auditing
standards acceptable to the Association;
2.    furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than four
(4) months after the date of the Association's request for such audit, a certified
copy of the report of such audit, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, and make such report publicly available in
a timely fashion and in a manner acceptable to the Association; and
3.    furnish to the Association such other information concerning the Foreign
Currency Deposit Account and its audit as the Association shall reasonably
request.
G.     Closing Date. The Closing Date is June 30, 2014.
-8-


﻿APPENDIX
Section I. Definitions
1.     "Central Government" means the Recipient's ministries and public agencies
covered by the Recipient's public budget.
2.     "EDH" means Electricitj de Hafti, the Recipient's power utility, established
through the decree signed and published by the Recipient's executive branch on
August 20, 1989.
3.     "Emergency Law" means the Recipient's Emergency Law published in le
Moniteur No. 29, dated April 19, 2010.
4.     "Excluded Expenditure" means any expenditure:
(a)    for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or
international financing institution or agency other than the Association or
the Bank has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Association or
the Bank has financed or agreed to finance under another credit, grant or
loan;
(b)    for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published
by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3
(1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or subgroups under future
revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Association by notice to the
Recipient:
Group     Sub-group                Description of Item
112                  Alcoholic beverages
121                  Tobacco, un-manufactured, tobacco refuse
122                  Tobacco, manufactured (whether or not containing
tobacco substitutes)
525                  Radioactive and associated materials
667                  Pearls, precious and semiprecious stones,
unworked or worked
718        718.7     Nuclear reactors, and parts thereof; fuel elements
(cartridges), non-irradiated, for nuclear reactors
728       728.43     Tobacco processing machinery
897        897.3     Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum group metals
(except watches and watch cases) and goldsmiths'
or silversmiths' wares (including set gems)
971                  Gold, non-monetary (excluding gold ores and
concentrates)
-9-


﻿(c)    for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury
consumption;
(d)    for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of
which is prohibited under the laws of the Recipient or international
agreements to which the Recipient is a party;
(e)    on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the
United Nations; and
(f)    with respect to which the Association determines that corrupt, fraudulent,
collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the
Recipient or other recipient of the Financing proceeds, without the
Recipient (or other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate
action satisfactory to the Association to address such practices when they
occur.
5.     "Foreign Currency Deposit Account" means the account referred to in Part D.1
of Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
6.     "FY" means the Recipient's fiscal year which starts on October 1st and ends on
September 30th.
7.     "General Conditions" means the "International Development Association
General Conditions for Credits and Grants", dated July 31, 2010 with the
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix.
8.     "General Rules of Public Accountability" means the regulations set forth in the
"Arr& portant riglement giniral de la comptabilit publique" dated February
16, 2005.
9.     "IPP" means the independent power producers which are privately owned and
have active power purchase agreements with EDH.
10.    "Line Ministries" means the Recipient's sectoral ministries.
11.    "Program" means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to
promote growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or
referred to in the letter dated May 10, 2013 from the Recipient to the Association
declaring the Recipient's commitment to the execution of the Program, and
requesting assistance from the Association in support of the Program during its
execution.
-10-


﻿12.    "Single Withdrawal Tranche" means the amount of the Financing allocated to the
category entitled "Single Withdrawal Tranche" in the table set forth in Part B of
Section II of Schedule I to this Agreement.
Section H. Modifications to the General Conditions
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:
1.     The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety.
2.     Sections 2.04 (Designated Accounts) and 2.05 (Eligible Expenditures) are
deleted in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered
accordingly.
3.     Sections 4.01 (Project Execution Generally), and 4.09 (Financial Management;
Financial Statements; Audits) are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining
Sections in Article IV are renumbered accordingly.
4.     Paragraph (a) of Section 4.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above
and relating to Use of Goods, Works and Services) is deleted in its entirety.
5.     Paragraph (c) of Section 4.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3
above) is modified to read as follows:
"Section 4.06. Plans; Documents; Records
...    (c)    The Recipient shall retain all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures under the Financing
until two years after the Closing Date. The Recipient shall enable the
Association's representatives to examine such records."
6.     Section 4.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is modified to
read as follows:
"Section 4.07. Program Monitoring and Evaluation
...    (c)    The Recipient shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and furnish
to the Association not later than six months after the Closing Date, a report of
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on the
execution of the Program, the performance by the Recipient and the Association
of their respective obligations under the Legal Agreements and the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Financing."
-11-


﻿7.     The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered
accordingly:
(a)    The definition of the term "Eligible Expenditure" is modified to read as
follows:
"Eligible Expenditure' means any use to which the Financing is put in
support of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded
pursuant to the Financing Agreement."
(b)    The term "Financial Statements" and its definition as set forth in the
Appendix are deleted in their entirety.
(c)    The term "Project" is modified to read "Program" and its definition is
modified to read as follows:
"'Program' means the program referred to in the Financing Agreement in
support of which the Financing is made." All references to "Project"
throughout these General Conditions are deemed to be references to
"Program."
-12-


