Report No. PIC5007
Project Name                Brazil-Mato Grosso State Privatization Project (+)
Region                               Latin America and Caribbean Region
Sector                               Public Sector Management/Privatization
Project ID                           BRPE48870
Borrower                             The State of Mato Grosso
Guarantor                            The Federative Republic of Brazil
Implementing Agency                  State Ministry of Planning
Country Contact                      To Be Determined
Date PID Prepared                    April 25, 1997
Project Appraisal                    March 17, 1997
Projected Board Date                 June 26, 1997
Background
1.      Country and Sector Background. Brazil's public sector is
highly decentralized. Its government is comprised of the federal
government, 26 state governments, a federal district, and
approximately 4,300 local governments or municipalities.
Democratization and constitutional revisions in the 1980s increased
the degree of resources under sub-national control, and the degree
of local political autonomy in their allocation. Approximately half
of budgetary public expenditures are now made by sub-national
governments.
2.      Brazil will soon complete the third year of a stabilization
plan that has seen an impressive reduction in the monthly rate of
inflation, from about 40 percent at mid-1994 to around 0.35 percent
currently. The economy has grown at an annual rate of close to 3.5
percent over the same period, while the external current account
deficit has been limited to about 3.0 percent of GDP. Strong
capital inflows have permitted a buildup in international reserves
to US$59 billion at end-January 1997, or nine months of imports of
goods and services. However, fiscal policy weakened in 1995 and
1996, with the operational balance of the public sector declining
from a surplus of 1.3 percent of GDP in 1994 to a deficit of 3.9
percent in 1996. The primary balance slipped into deficit in 1996
(-0.1 percent of GDP), from a surplus of 5.2 percent in 1994. The
most important factors behind this deterioration were an increase
in wages and a much higher domestic interest bill resulting from
tight monetary policy and an accumulation of internal debt by
federal and state governments.
3.      The State of Mato Grosso is located in western Brazil. The
state is Brazil's largest state in terms of total land area. The
current population of 2.6 million represents an increase of 73
percent over the last ten years. Mato Grosso's fiscal situation--
like that of other Brazilian states--is precarious. The present



administration, which took office on January 1, 1995, inherited an
extremely heavy debt burden and large commitments to personnel. At
the end of 1995, the stock of state debt stood at US$2.6 billion
(US$1,300 per capita), of which US$500 million consisted of arrears
and other short-term obligations. Personnel costs consumed 85
percent of revenue in 1996. To address its immediate liquidity
problem, the state rescheduled the majority of its short-term debt.
By January 1 1997, short-term debt had fallen to US$180 million and
personnel arrears were nil. The stock of long-term debt, however,
had increased to US$2.9 billion. Under an agreement with the
Federal Government, the state is now obligated to pay 15 percent of
its net revenues to service its debt, with an excess capitalized
into the outstanding stock.
4.      Like all Brazilian states, Mato Grosso is limited in the
actions it can take to improve its difficult fiscal situation,
given its large commitments to personnel and a heavy debt burden.
The Federal Constitution prohibits the dismissal of confirmed civil
servants and mandates expensive pension benefits. Moreover, its
ability to raise revenue is limited by federal restrictions on the
rates of the state's principal tax, the ICMS. The state
administration has responded within these constraints by freeze new
hiring, dismiss non-confirmed staff, and restraining salary growth.
However, even with these measures, the state will continue to run
an operational deficit.
5.      The Mato Grosso State Privatization Project (SPP) is one of
four state privatization projects planned for Brazil. As initially
conceived, the projects had two objectives: immediate fiscal
adjustment and longer-term structural reform. A crucial element of
fiscal adjustment was a debt workout between the states and the
federal government. In response, the project was modified and now
focuses almost exclusively on structural objectives.
6.      Objectives. The project's main objective is to support the
state's privatization and concession program, making the state
government less vulnerable to losses on banking operations and more
efficient in the delivery of electricity and water supply services.
7.      Description. The project consists in the implementation of
key actions linked to the project objective. The loan will disburse
against two time-slices of eligible reform costs of US$20 million
each, once the conditions for each time-slice are met. The first
time-slice disbursement of US$20 million would be released promptly
after loan effectiveness, since actions required for disbursement
will have been implemented prior to Board presentation. The second
time-slice disbursement of US$20 million--planned for the first
semester of 1998 -- would be released following a positive review
of the conditions for second time-slice actions.
8.      Financing. Total project costs are estimated at US$258
million. These costs include: (a) the losses incurred by the state
bank, BEMAT; (b) severance payments for staff dismissed from the
state's direct administration and state-owned enterprises; (c)
reform-related studies, consultants training and equipment (d)
-2 -



incremental grants for municipal health consortia, health service
outsourcing, and family preventive medicine; and (e) high priority
investments for road maintenance and school equipment and
maintenance during the reform period.
9.      Implementation. The Government of the State of Mato Grosso
would be the Borrower, and the Federative Republic of Brazil would
be the guarantor. A Project Implementation Unit would be
established within the Ministry of Planning. This unit would
coordinate the implementation and supervision of key actions with
other state ministries.
10.     Sustainability. The privatization project consists of reforms
that are inherently difficult to reverse. Once sold, state banks
and public utilities are difficult to repurchase. Concession
contracts for water supply should be difficult to abrogate.
However, the establishment of a transparent and fair regulatory
framework for the private provision of public services may be
vulnerable in its first years of operation as it represents a
radical change in the way the government has so far delivered
public services. In addition, the state's regulatory framework will
require constant adjustments to make it compatible with the
framework the Federal Government is slowly developing.
11.     Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector.
Key lessons have been drawn from the Bank's extensive experience in
the reform of the public sector. First, projects must focus on a
few significant reforms that are hard to reverse--such as
privatization of public enterprises and banks, and reforms passed
through legislation--and that can be fully implemented during the
mandate of a government. Second, project design and implementation
arrangements must be flexible enough to achieve targeted reform
objectives. Third, as reform projects for subnational governments
can have high supervision costs, project implementation should seek
to include as much private participation as possible in such areas
as auditing and procurement. Finally, to ensure commitment in
implementation, the initiative to undertake the project components
should be the government's. The Bank's role should be to provide
technical and financial support.
12.     Poverty Category. Not applicable.
13.     Environmental Aspects. The Mato Grosso SPP will not have
adverse environmental impacts. The program will likely improve
environmental performance through better environmental oversight of
current state enterprises as well as increased investment in and
improved management of water and sewerage systems. The project has
been classified as "B" regarding potential environmental impacts.
Prior to each sale or concessioning of a facility with potentially
significant environmental problems, an environmental audit would be
prepared and an agreement would be reached among the responsible
entities on environmental performance targets and on remedies for
identified problems.
14.     Program Objective Categories. Privatization (BP).
-3 -



Contact Point:           Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No.:   (202) 458-5454
Fax No.:   (202) 522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain
components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending April 25, 1997.
- 4 -



ANNEX
Environmental Aspects
15.     The proposed project would finance reforms that would have
neutral or beneficial environmental impacts. The program will
likely improve environmental performance through better
environmental oversight of current state enterprises as well as
increased investment in and improved management of water and
sanitation systems. The project has been classified as Category B
regarding its potential environmental impact.
16.     The state government recognizes the importance of considering
the environmental aspects early in the process of privatizations
planned under its privatization program. This approach will: (a)
reduce the uncertainty for potential private sector investors about
their environmental obligations; and (b) allow improvements in
environmental performance at least cost.
17.     It was agreed that for each company or activity with
potentially significant environmental impacts, the environmental
obligations of the new owner/operator would be determined before
the time of sale/concessioning. Following an environmental audit,
and still before the time of concessioning or sale, agreement would
be reached among the responsible entities on environmental
performance targets including the time and the responsible party
for remedying the identified problems.
18.     Within the components of the State Privatization Project, two
sectors raise environmental issue that are discussed below: the
reforms of the water and sewerage sector and the sale or
concessioning of the power company. For the environmental audits in
these sectors, the Terms of Reference (TORs) for environmental
audits and draft reports of the consultants would be sent to the
Bank for comments. Other components of the project, such as the
privatization of the state bank, do not require an analysis of
environmental aspects since potential environmental impacts from
the sector are non-existent or minimal.
Water and Sanitation
19.     The water and sewerage sector is, for most conventional
pollutants, the main source of water pollution in the state. To
date, there is little sewage treatment, and raw sewage from sewage
collection systems and uncollected runoffs directly enter the
waterbodies. One of the reasons for considering increased private
sector participation in the water and sewerage sector is the need
to generate the financing required to expand basic sewerage service
and associated wastewater treatment. The planned reforms have,
thus, a significant positive environmental effect, and if properly
designed, can contribute to improved environmental management in
the state.
20.     As in many other states, relations between the water and
sewerage sector and the environmental agencies are difficult.
Licensing of sewerage systems is based on norms that would
- 5 -



generally require secondary treatment. However, a specific license
can be granted even if these standards are not met immediately but
attained over a specific period of time. In practice, environmental
oversight of sewerage systems is limited, and most older systems do
not operate under a valid license. Environmental management in Mato
Grosso is the responsibility of the Funda6ao Estadual do Meio
Ambiente (FEMA). FEMA is responsible for the licensing system and
undertakes monitoring of water quality, focusing in particular on
the Upper Paraguay River. Capacity for environmental oversight by
FEMA is relatively limited.
21.     Drinking water quality standards are established by federal
regulation (Portaria No. 36/1990) of the Ministry of Health). This
regulation contains minimum water quality parameters and minimum
water quality monitoring requirements and delegates implementation
of the regulation to the states. Currently, there is no effective
oversight of the implementation of these standards. However, the
State Water and Sewerage Company (SANEMAT) has an internal system
for water quality monitoring. The development of effective control
and oversight of drinking water quality by the Vigilancia Sanitaria
of the Secretary of Health should be a priority of the reform
program.
22.     Since the environmental targets to be set for the new
utilities will be a critical factor in determining both the
economic feasibility and the environmental consequences of
restructuring, it is of critical importance that a consistent set
of environmental targets and obligations for the restructured
utilities be developed early in the process through a coordinated
mechanism between the water and sewerage sector, on the one hand,
and the environment sector, on the other.
23.     SANEMAT operates most water and sewerage systems. Consultants
are currently assisting the state in the preparation of the
municipalization and subsequent privatization of major systems. So
far, specific locations and timetables for the privatization of
water and sewerage systems have not been decided. While the obvious
candidates are the systems of the bigger cities (in particular
Cuiaba, Varzea Grande, and Rondon6polis) the program will
ultimately depend on the political conditions in the affected
municipalities.
24.     The following steps have been agreed with the state
government in consideration of the environmental dimension of
future water sewerage concessions:
a working group with representatives of SANEMAT, FEMA and major
municipalities which intend to concession water and sewerage
services (i.e., Cuiaba, Varzea Grande) is being formed to oversee
the environmental analysis of this project.
the TORs for a study on the institutional framework for the water
sector ("water sector study"), financed under the Water Sector
Modernization Project I (Ln. 3442-BR), already include an analysis
of the environmental regulatory framework for the sector. The
analysis would also include recommendations for necessary
improvements in the regulatory framework (for example with respect
- 6 -



to the supervision of drinking water and wastewater quality,
regulation of industrial emissions entering the sewerage network,
capacity of environmental agencies, and coordination between
financial and environmental regulation of concessions), which will
subsequently be adopted by the state.
an environmental compliance audit will be performed for all systems
to be concessioned before the time of concessioning. The TORs of
the water sector study will be amended to include environmental
audits to be undertaken once the systems to be concessioned have
been determined. TORs of the environmental audit would be discussed
by the working group and sent to the Bank for comments. Such audits
will include, inter alia, an analysis of compliance of the existing
systems with national regulations and international standards in
respect to, for example, drinking water and wastewater quality and
monitoring systems, as well as disposal of sludge from wastewater
treatment plants. The audit would identify remedies for identified
problems. Based on this audit, the government would determine
necessary steps as well as the time frame and party responsible for
their completion.
the working group will review existing studies to determine the
extent of additional work required within the water sector study to
prepare a decision on wastewater treatment targets over time for
future concessions, in particular for Cuiaba and Varzea Grande. The
analysis will result in a comparison of different wastweater
treatments targets over time with their incremental costs and
environmental impacts (in terms of ambient environmental quality
and environmental damages). Based on this comparison and before the
time of bidding for concessions, the responsible agencies (FEMA,
regulatory entity, municipalities) will take a joint decision on
the applicable wastewater treatment targets over time.
25.     The requirements of the concession contract would refer to
and/or be consistent with the requirements of the environmental
license to be issued for the system. Moreover, the state is
committed to implementing the necessary measures to improve the
environmental and health regulatory framework, including setting up
an effective system of drinking water quality surveillance.
Power
26.     The state intends to privatize the State Power Company
(CEMAT). For the most part, CEMAT transmits and distributes power
purchased from the outside. However, about 8 percent of sales is
generated mostly be diesel generators in isolated systems. Future
investments are likely to absorb the isolated systems, leading to
the phase-out of local power generation. Some of these generating
systems are likely to be associated with local environmental
problems such as noise and spillage during fuel handling. Not all
systems have a valid environmental license.
27.     The following steps have been agreed with the state
government in consideration of the environmental dimension of the
privatization of CEMAT:
the TORs for a study preparing CEMAT for sale ("power sector
study") already include an analysis of the regulatory framework for
-7 -



the sector. This analysis would also include a review of the
applicable environmental regulations and recommendations for
improvements in the environmental regulatory framework (for example
with respect to the licensing and environmental impact assessment
system and the enforcement capacity of environmental agencies).
An environmental compliance audit will be performed for all
installation to be privatized before the time of sale. The TORs of
the power sector study will be amended to include these
environmental audits. TORs for the environmental audits would be
discussed with FEMA and sent to the Bank for comments. Such audits
will include an analysis of compliance of the existing
installations with national regulations and international
standards. The audit would identify remedies for the problems
encountered. Based on this audit, the government would determine
necessary steps and the time frame and party responsible for their
completion. In order to clarify environmental obligations of the
new owner, CEMAT and FEMA will seek, before the time of sale, to
establish valid environmental licenses for all installations which
legally require such licenses.
28.     The requirements established for privatization would refer to
and/or be consistent with the requirements of the environmental
license for such systems. Moreover, the state is committed to
implement the necessary measures to improve the environmental
regulatory framework.
-8-



