Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 23884
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(SCL-4 1890)
ON A
LOAN/CREDIT/GRANT
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$45 MILLION
TO THE
STATE OF MATO GROSSO, BRAZIL
FOR A
MT STATE PRIV. PROJECT
03/25/2002
Poverty Reduction and Economic Management Unit
Brazil Country Management Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective October 2001)
Currency Unit = Real (R$)
R$1.06 = US$ 1.00(March 27, 1997
US$ 1.00 = R$1.8(June 2000)
R$2.5 = US$1.00 (October 2001)
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BEMAT         Banco do Estado de Mato Grosso
BNDES         Banco Nacional de Desenvolvimento Econoniico
CAS           Country Assistance Strategy
CASEMAT       Companhia de Annazens e Silos do Estado de Mato Grosso
CEMAT         Companhia de Eletricidade de Mato Grosso
CEPROMAT      Companliia de Processamento de Dados de Mato Grosso
CODEMAT       Companhia de Desenvolvimento de Mato Grosso
COHAB         Companhia de Habitacao do Estado de Mato Grosso
EMPAER        Empresa Mato-Grossense de Pesquisa, Assistencia Tecnica e Extensao Rural
IDB           Inter-American Development Bank
METAMAT       Companhia Mato-Grossense de Mineracao
SANEMAT       Companhia de Saneamento de Mato Grosso
SEAIN          Secretaria de Assuntos Intermacionais/Ministerio de Planejamento e Orcamento
UGP           Unidade de Gerenciamento do Projeto
Vice President:   David de Ferranti
Country Manager/Director:   Vinod Thomas
Sector Manager/Director:   Emesto May
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:     William Dillinger



BRAZIL
MT STATE PRIV.
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                          1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                         I
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry  2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                  3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                   14
6. Sustainability                                                       16
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                        18
8. Lessons Learned                                                      20
9. Partner Comments                                                     22
10. Additional Information                                             24
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                    25
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                    29
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                    33
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                    37
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components    39
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                       40
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                   41
Appendix 1 - Fiscal Performance of the State of Mato Grosso
Appendix 2 - Environmental Aspects
Appendix 3 - CEMAT Privatization
Appendix 4 - Municipalization of Water/Sewerage Services and Liquidation of SANEMAT
Appendix 5 - Liquidation of BEMAT
Appendix 6 - Liquidation of COHAB
Appendix 7 - Summary of CODEMAT Liquidation
Appendix 8 - CASEMAT Liquidation
Appendix 9 - CEPROMAT Restructuring
Appendix 10 -EMPAER Restructuring






Project ID: P048870                                     Project Name: BR MT STATE PRIV.
Team Leader: William R. Dillinger                       TL Unit: LCSPS
ICR Type: Core ICR                                      Report Date: April 2, 2002
1. Project Data
Name: BR MT STATE PRIV.                            LIC/TFNumber: SCL-41890
Country/Department: BRAZIL                                            Region: Latin America and
Caribbean Region
Sector/subsector: DI - Private Infrastructure
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:   08/13/1996                            Effective: 06/30/1999        04/20/1999
Appraisal:  02/13/1997                              MTR: 06/30/1999           06/21/1999 -
06/25/1999
Approval:  06/12/1997                             Closing: 06/30/2001         09/30/2001
Borrower/Implementing Agency: THE STATE OF MATO GROSSO/STATE SEC. OF MOERNIZTN &
PRIVATZN
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                 At Appraisal
Vice President:     David de Ferranti                        Shahid Javed Burki
Country Manager:     Vinod Thomas                            Gobind T. Nankani
Sector Manager:      Ernesto May                              Paul Meo
Team Leader at ICR:  William R. Dillinger                    David Vetter
ICR Primary Author:  Charles Dahan; Dominique
Babelon
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Imnpact: SU
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:                       S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The project's main objective was to support the state of Mato Grosso's reform efforts to enhance its
efficiency in the delivery of public services through the privatization, restructuring or liquidation of state
enterprises, and concessioning of public services. This included the following fundamental reforms in the
structure of the government: the closure of the state commercial bank (BEMAT), the state housing agency
(COHAB), and the state development agency (CODEMAT); privatization of the state power company
(CEMAT); and decentralization and concession of water/sewerage services (then operated by SANEMAT,
the state water and sewerage company). The objective was consistent with the CAS objectives of
macroeconomic stabilization and public sector modernization, and of increasing private participation in the
provision of infrastructure. The project objective was clear and realistic, although somewhat vague in
some areas, in particular on regulatory objectives and design of the regulatory framework.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The project objective was not revised during implementation.
3.3 Original Components:
The project was organized into three "time-slices", to be disbursed against a list of eligible expenditures.
Each time slice would be released once the state had achieved project conditions, established in the Loan
Agreement and in two State Government Policy Letters, related to the liquidation, privatization,
decentralization and concessioning of the state enterprises mentioned in para. 3. 1, and provided the state
had complied with overall pre-established fiscal targets and ceilings for capital investments. The first
time-slice would be disbursed upon effectiveness (at which time BEMAT's commercial banking operations
would have ceased and an acceptable strategy for the water sector would have been agreed), the second
after a program review planned in June 1999 (by which time CEMAT should have been privatized, either
COHAB or CODEMAT closed and fiscal and investment targets met); and the third was a floating tranche
dependent on minimum achievements in concessioning of water and sewerage services. The content and
timing of these conditions are further detailed in subsequent paragraphs.
In essence, the project was an adjustment lending operation, but, for lack of a Bank sub-national
adjustment lending instrument at the time, and similar to three other state reform/privatization projects
which were processed in parallel in Brazil, the project was structured as an investment operation. The
time-slices were to be disbursed against a set of eligible expenditures related directly or indirectly to the
cost of state reform. These costs were identified as: (a) net liabilities of the state bank absorbed by the
state; (b) severance payments associated with the closure, privatization or restructuring of the state
companies included under the program; (c) reform-related consultants, training and office equipment and
software; (d) transfers to municipalities and other entities in support of decentralization of public health
and sanitation and education expenditures; (e) incremental recurrent costs incurred by the state in
connection with the reform program (such as outsourcing of services and mitigating social assistance
programs); and (f) priority investments in road maintenance and other maintenance and rehabilitation
subprojects acceptable to the Bank. Bank funds would be disbursed among these categories against eligible
expenditures in categories (b) through (f), incremental recurrent costs being on a declining basis.
3.4 Revised Components:
Before loan signing, in order to account for the long delays between Board approval and signing, some
changes were made to the Loan Agreement relative to the PAD with respect to the closing date, dates of
covenants and allocation of loan proceeds. Also, an updated policy letter was requested by the Bank,
which was received in February 1999. There was only one important change in the project design during
implementation. In May 2000, the Government requested, and the Bank agreed to, an extension of the
closing date and to the division of the last floating tranche into two tranches, to reflect difficulties
- 2 -



encountered by the State in the municipalization and concessioning of water services. The closing date was
extended by one year (to June 30, 2001) and the last floating tranche was divided into two tranches. The
first one would be disbursed against steps to liquidate of SANEMAT (dismissal notices sent to all
remaining employees, and approval of liquidation by the shareholders assembly), and the release of a policy
statement regarding compensation payments for assets. The second tranche was linked to the concessioning
of services reaching at least 100,000 people (instead of 400,000 originally). Because this did not represent
a significant change in the project objectives and the project was formally an investment operation, the
Region proceeded with the change without informing the Board. In June 2001, the Loan closing date was
further extended by another three months, to September 30, 2001.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
Quality at entry was satisfactory (no rating by QAG is available). The project was and still is consistent
with CAS objectives and federal and state government priorities of fiscal adjustment and improving
efficiency of the state and in the provision of public services. The overall design was satisfactory despite
some vagueness in regulatory design. It adequately incorporated Bank safeguard policies. Project risks
were generally well identified, except for those associated with the right of municipalities to concede water
and sewerage services.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The project's overall outcome was Satisfactory. The project achieved its major objectives, and, in some
areas (liquidation of state enterprises), even exceeded the original targets. Except for limitations in the
water sector, all its targets in the restructuring, closure and privatization program of state enterprises were
achieved. The environmental objectives were substantially met or are likely to be met. Fiscal and financial
objectives were also met. Institutional development was substantial and sustainability is likely.
4.2 Outputs by components:
(a) Implementation of the State Public Sector Restructuring Closure/Privatization or Concession
Program
Performance in implementing the program was Highly Satisfactory: CEMAT was transferred to
the private sector and its performance has already improved; SANEMAT was liquidated and all water and
sanitation systems transferred to municipalities; by September 30, 2001, at least five concessions had been
granted, covering a total urban population of about 115,000; BEMAT was closed and is being liquidated;
COHAB was liquidated; CODEMAT as well as CASEMAT were closed and their liabilities and assets
assumed by EMPAER and METAMAT respectively; EMPAER, METAMAT and CEPROMAT are being
restructured. As a result, significant fiscal savings were achieved. Finally, the regulatory framework for
the power and the water sectors is generally satisfactory.
Privatization of State Power Company (CEMAT). CEMAT was one of the worst-performing power
companies of Brazil, with annual losses reaching about R$ 265 million in 1996, financed through arrears to
Eletrobras for power purchased from the national grid (CEMAT only generates 8% of the power it sells).
When the state decided to privatize CEMAT, in order to clean up the company to make it attractive to
investors and optimize its market value, the Government decided in September 1996 to hand over its
management, restructuring and preparation for privatization to ELETROBRAS and BNDES. The new
management team selected by ELETROBRAS efficiently carried out a 12-month program including staff
downsizing targeting employees holding the highest salaries (staff decreased from 2,129 to 1,538),
reduction of losses, emergency investments, re-negotiation of debts and resolution of outstanding legal
disputes.
-3 -



Under supervision of BNDES, the privatization process was implemented efficiently with assistance from a
consortium of Brazilian consulting firms. The auction took place on November 27, 1997 in the Rio de
Janeiro Stock Exchange, less than one month after the originally targeted date. 85% of all ordinary shares
were sold for R$391.5 million, 21% above the minimum price. The state received R$176.1 million,
ELETROBRAS R$140 million, and BNDES R$34.6 million. The control of CEMAT was transferred to a
consortium consisting of two Brazilian companies: Empresa de Electricidade Vale do Parapanema S.A,
(EEVP) of the REDE Group and INEPAR S.A. The 30-year distribution and concession contracts signed
by CEMAT and the Brazilian power sector regulation agency - ANEEL - in December 1997, establish
standards for service coverage and quality, investments and pricing and call for the reorganization of
CEMAT within three years, in two independent companies separately providing services of generation and
distribution. It was also agreed between the State Government and ANEEL that part of the regulation and
control activities will be subcontracted to the MT State Government, through a cooperation agreement to
be signed as soon as the state regulatory agency is fully operational.
Immediately after privatization, REDE, which controls the consortium, installed a new Board of Directors,
improved the company's organizational structure and optimized its work force through replacements and
training. In the first three years, the concessionaire undertook to substantially improve productivity, reduce
total losses and costs. Total power losses were reduced from 25.1% in 1997 to 17.6% in 2000, and are
expected to reach 14% in 2001. Energy sales in volumes increased 33% between 1997 and 2000. The
number of consumers per employee improved from 324 in 1997 to 358 in 2000. CEMAT invested a total
amount of R$160 million in 1998, 1999 and 2000 to improve operation, maintenance, and capacity of its
system. As a result, the quality of CEMAT's services improved to levels within the targets established by
ANEEL, as indicated by the cumulated number of hours of interruption of supply per year (DEC), which
fell from 78 in 1997 to 29 in 2000; the number of interruptions per year (FEC), which improved from 110
in 1997 to 40 in 2000; and the average time for attendance of customer's claims, which improved from 182
minutes in 1997 to 85 minutes in 2000. CEMAT's current investment program is of R$94 million in 2001
and R$128 million in 2002 and includes: (i) a rural electrification project expected to be completed in 2001
as part of the national rural electrification program (Luz no Campo); and (ii) an interconnection to the
national grid project involving a 1,000 kilometer long transmission line expected to be completed in 2003,
as part of the national program (Avanca Brazil). In 1999, CEMAT obtained the premium of Best Global
Change in the Brazilian power sector, distributed in year by the Brazilian Modem Electricity Journal.
Also, in a recent survey of the Federal University of Mato Grosso commissioned by CEMAT, more than
60% of the persons interviewed were very positive about the new CEMAT.
The concessionaire was satisfied with the process of privatization and with the concession contracts. Prices
increased five times since privatization to compensate for inflation and devaluation. Annual operating
revenues increased from R$346.8 million in 1997 to R$679.8 million in 2000. However, after reaching a
positive net profit after tax of R$2.3 million in 1998, CEMAT had net losses of R$60.3 million in 1999
and R$115.8 million in 2000 due to the large devaluation of the Real early in 1999, the subsequent
national economnic recession, and its own high level of debt in foreign currency. CEMAT's management
expected to improve the financial performance of the company and reach financial equilibrium in 2002,
however, the depreciation of the Real in 2001 and the energy rationing program imposed by the Federal
Government is likely to delay this expectation. Appendix 3 provides detailed infonnation on CEMAT
privatization, including main performance indicators and benefits.
Decentralization and Concession of Water and Sewerage Services (SANEMAT) - In 1996, besides
providing very bad quality services, SANEMAT had a very poor financial performance. Less than 40% of
water produced was effectively collected, and high salaries paid to a total staff of 1,850, accounted for
- 4 -



140% of corresponding revenues. As a result, at the end of 1996, SANEMAT's annual losses reached
R$31.2 million and the state had to assume SANEMAT's debts to CEMAT and BEMAT totaling about
R$121 million. In 1996, the State Government decided to municipalize or privatize water and sewerage
services, and, in June 1997, contracted technical assistance for that purpose through the Bank financed
Water Sector Modernization Program PMSS. However, the decision to proceed with municipalization was
considerably anticipated later in 1997, when the concession contracts between the largest municipalities of
Cuiaba and Varzea Grande and SANEMAT expired, and these two municipalities decided not to renew
them. Since these two municipalities accounted for 45% of SANEMAT's asset value and for over 55% of
water revenues, SANEMAT was left with the higher-cost, smaller systems, resulting in a 100% increase in
financial losses in 1998 (which reached R$47.4 million).
In April 1998, the State Government therefore decided to accelerate the municipalization of most
SANEMAT systems. Progress was delayed by the need to obtain reach agreement with each of Mato
Grosso's 92 municipalities. A particular sticking point was the value of compensation each municipality
would be required to pay the State in return for assets to be transferred from SANEMAT. As an interim
measure, the state agreed to allow municipalities to operate water facilities within their boundaries, subject
to later agreements on the value of compensation due to the state. On this basis, 22 municipalities
(accounting for 80% of invoicing) had been municipalized by March 1, 2001 and 75% of SANEMAT staff
had been dismissed, at a total severance cost of about R$27million. However, losses continued to increase
in 1999 (to R$67.8 rnillion), due to lack of compensation payments for the transferred assets, the high cost
of operating the remaining 70 systems, lack of resources to dismiss more employees, and escalating
financial expenses. SANEMAT further fell into arrears in its tax and social security payments, and on
debts to the state government and federal institutions. Liabilities increased by 43% between December
1997 and December 1999. In March 2000, as soon as the Bank agreed to provide the necessary funds to
dismiss remaining employees, the Government therefore resolved to further accelerate municipalization by
dismissing all remaining employees of SANEMAT and decreeing the liquidation of the company before
June 2000.
In parallel, little progress was being made with private concessioning of water and sanitation systems,
either by the state or the municipalities which had assumed their systems, pending resolution of disputes
regarding the level of compensation payments for transferred assets. It is only during the second semester
of 1999, and at the Bank's urging, that the state government became more active in promoting
privatization. It contracted specialized technical assistance to develop model bidding documents and
procedures, concession contracts and regulations (including revised tariff structures, service coverage and
quality targets and environmental regulations), to be used by municipalities. It also started to promote the
formation of consortia of the smaller municipalities. As of March 2000, however, no privatization had yet
taken place, still pending agreement on the value of compensation payments for assets, and for lack of
political will to invite bids as municipal elections came closer.
Under the Loan Agreement, the last tranche of US$ 10 million was to be disbursed provided concession
contracts or management contracts had been agreed for the operation of water and sewerage systems with a
total population of at least 400,000 in aggregate, such contracts being in accordance with wastewater
treatment targets consistent with the Privatization Program Letters and with environmental obligations
based on environmental audits satisfactory to the Bank; and provided that a regulatory framework for the
sector has been put into effect. Acknowledging the difficulties encountered by the State, in an amendment
dated May 23, 2000, the Bank agreed to split this remaining loan tranche into two tranches of US$5
million each. The first would focus on closing SANEMAT. Disbursement of the first tranche would be
conditional on all remaining employees of SANEMAT having received a termination notice; SANEMAT
shareholders having approved the liquidation of the company; and on a policy statement emphasizing the
- 5 -



importance of proper regulation and confirming that SANEMAT will accept compensation payments in the
form of a share of the concession fee, provided municipalities accept regulation by the state agency
(AGER) and that the concession contracts are acceptable to AGER. Under the second tranche, funds
would be disbursed provided that private concession or management contracts were signed for the operation
of systems with an urban population of at least 100,000. The second tranche also required that the process
of terminating SANEMAT's employees and liquidating the company be substantially completed, and that a
regulatory framework for the water and sanitation sector be put into effect..
In order to resolve the compensation issue, the Government proposed to the Legislative Assembly a draft
law authorizing the granting of heavy discounts to municipalities over compensation payments. This law
was passed on December 13, 2000. It stipulated discounts ranging from 30% to 100%, depending on
urban population, number of connections and water revenues, and authorized the payment of the balance
over up to 30 years. This provided the necessary impetus. By November 2001, 47 out of 95 municipalities
had signed agreements over compensation payments and final recision of concession agreements with
SANEMAT. Out of these, 13 had granted concessions to private operators (covering a total urban
population of about 220,000), 4 had signed lease agreements (covering a total urban population of about
142,000) and 11 had issued tender documents for concessions (covering a total urban population of about
238,000). Although none of the three major cities had granted concessions or leases, this still meant that
close to one third of total urban population was already covered, or was about to become covered, under
concession or lease agreements with the private sector. None of the municipalities, however, used the
models and procedures prepared and recommended by the State with Bank assistance and there was
considerable reluctance to delegate regulation to AGER. Some of these contracts have flaws, in particular
concerning award procedures, regulatory arrangements and sewerage targets, and no municipality had
performed environmental audits prior to issuing bidding documents, as was required under the Loan
Agreement.
Consistent with the revised conditionality for disbursement of the final tranche, the State Government, with
Bank assistance, drafted a regulatory framework law (State Policy for Water Supply and Sewerage). This
was passed by the Legislature in November 2001. The law, inter-alia: (a) clarifies that municipalities or
inter-municipal consortia have competence over water supply and sewerage, therefore removing the state
from any further involvement in service provision; (b) it creates a State Council, responsible for the
formulation of the state policy in the sector and the approval of a multi-year sector program, including
spending priorities, and provides for the development of coordination mechanisms with water basin
agencies and environmental and sector regulators; (c) it establishes a state fund to channel resources for
grants for low-cost projects benefitting low income populations or municipalities without investment or
indebtedness capacity; (d) it specifies the main characteristics of regulatory agencies; (e) it specifies that
regulation must be delegated to AGER whenever the creation of a municipal agency is inadequate or
expensive, a municipal system may affect other municipalities, and whenever municipalities adhere to the
incentive program providing discounts on compensation payments for assets; (f) AGER will define
minimum standards of coverage and quality of service; and (d) the state will provide technical and
managerial technical assistance to municipalities. Furthermore, the state government intends, as part of the
law's regulation, to require that AGER approve all forthcoming draft concession contracts and bidding
documents before bids are invited. Further details on the liquidation of SANEMAT and the privatization
and regulation of the water and sanitation sector are given in Appendix 4.
Closure of the State Commercial Bank (BEMAIT) - The Central Bank intervened in BEMAT in
February 1995 but, after three years of management, the financial situation of BEMAT had further
deteriorated and attempts at privatization had failed. By the end of 1997, BEMAT's negative equity
totaled about R$118 million and annual operating losses had reached R$92.5 million (R$47.5 million
-6 -



excluding special provisions for severance costs). On July 11, 1997, the debt restructuring agreement
between the Union and the State of Mato Grosso was signed. As part of this agreement, the Union pledged
to lend funds to the State to finance the extinction of BEMAT, at an estimated cost of R$122.7 million (this
contract was subsequently amended in December 1997 to finance the transformation of BEMAT into a
development agency at a cost of up to R$284 million). Six months later, BEMAT signed a contract with
Banco do Brasil for the transfer to Banco do Brasil of BEMAT's deposits (current, term and judicial
deposits with the public and inter-bank deposits) of a total value of R$143 million by then. All accounts
were transferred in the course of December 1997. Extra-judicial liquidation was then decreed by the
Central bank in January 1998. During 1998, BEMAT's agencies were closed and 829 employees (out of a
total of 873) were dismissed at a severance cost of about R$40 million. However, it is not until June 1998
that the debt restructuring agreement with the Union was approved by the Senate and until January 1999
that resources were effectively transferred by the National Treasury to BEMAT to honor its commitments
to Banco do Brasil, which had by then increased to R$178 million. This amount represented a 24%
increase in nominal terms and a 15% increase in real terms since the transfer of deposits in December
1997, and an increase of more than 80% in real terms since the end of 1996. In a time of very high real
interest rates in Brazil, delays in processing the debt restructuring agreement thus not only caused
substantial delays in the liquidation of BEMAT but also significantly increased its cost.
The ordinary liquidation of BEMAT was decreed by the State on June 2, 1999, and a state liquidator was
appointed. With the help of the remaining 44 employees, the liquidator proceeded with liquidation, in
particular, with settling outstanding labor court actions evaluated at about Rs.39 million. In September
2001, all remaining assets and liabilities were transferred to the State and BEMAT was formally extinct
Appendix 5 provides detailed information on BEMAT's closure, and a cost/benefit analysis.
Closure of the State Housing Agency (COHAB) - Created in June 1965, COHAB's functions were to
study, design, coordinate, implement, finance and refinance popular housing programs, in addition to
having the responsibility for administering the use of funds from the National Housing System. As of
December 31, 1995, the company's cumulative losses totaled R$32.1 million, and annual operating losses
reached R$6.7 million. The State decreed the liquidation of COHAB on April 02, 1996, and the company
was extinguished on December 27, 1999, after all its remaining assets and liabilities had been transferred to
the State Government. COHAB's land portfolio was transferred to INTERMAT, the State Land Institute,
and most of the housing portfolio was sold to Caixa Economica. All 384 employees of COHAB at the
start of liquidation were dismissed, at a total severance cost of Rs. 5.5 million. Outstanding labor court
actions are estimated at about Rs. 1.1 million. The claim value of suppliers outstanding court actions is
estimated at about Rs. 51 million. Appendix 6 provides detailed information on COHAB liquidation, and a
financial cost/benefit analysis.
Closure of the State Development Agency (CODEMAT) - CODEMAT's main activities consisted of
the provision of infrastructure necessary for colonization, such as construction of roads, electrification and
telecommunications. In addition, it was involved in agricultural land titling in the colonization areas. As of
the end of 1995, the company losses reached R$. 27.2 million, its negative equity totaled R$. 22.4 million
and all its revenues of R$15.7 million were direct government transfers . The State decreed its liquidation
on February 14, 1996 and the company was extinguished on April 6, 1998, after it was incorporated to
METAMAT, a mixed capital enterprise acting in the mining sector. Incorporation was preferred over
complete liquidation because: (i) liens were imposed by labor courts on all assets due to court actions by
workers; (ii) part of the higher-paid personnel had been seconded to the government, which wished to retain
them, but could not also hire them directly because of competitive entrance requirements for civil servants;
(iii) the liquidation process was already well in excess of the 360 days allowed under Brazilian law; and
(iv) the government wanted to avoid a longer liquidation process and associated risks of political pressures
- 7 -



for maintaining the company alive. Out of the 809 employees of CODEMAT at start of liquidation, 719
were dismissed at a total severance cost of R$7.6 million. As of April 2000, claim value of outstanding
labor court actions was estimated at R$.8.7 million. The remaining 90 employees were transferred to
METAMAT and are seconded to the State secretariats. METAMAT assumed R$28.9 million of liabilities
and R$ 14.1 million of assets. Appendix 7 provides detailed information on CODEMAT liquidation, and a
cost/benefit analysis.
Closure of the State Grain Storage Company (CASEMAT) - CASEMAT provided grain storage
infrastructure and services to farmers. In 1992, the company had 38 storage facilities, operating with high
costs and low returns, resulting in operating losses of R$2.1 million in 1995, and it was unable to compete
with the private sector, which had built overtime a large storage infrastructure. Although the extinction of
CASEMAT was decided as early as 1992, the liquidation process did not actually start until 1996, due to
lack of resources, and was hindered by: (a) difficulties in finding buyers for run-down facilities with
obsolete equipment; and (b) judicial liens on the assets imposed by the Courts pending resolution of labor
disputes. In November 1998, the government decided to incorporate CASEMAT into EMPAER, a
mixed-capital enterprise in charge of agricultural research, technical assistance and extension. Out of 161
employees before the start of liquidation, 56 were dismissed in 1996 and 105 transferred to EMPAER.
These 105 employees were formally dismissed by EMPAER by March 2000. Total severance costs were
R$2.4 million. The State assumed a debt of R$6.24 million to CONAB, and EMPAER assumed other
liabilities totaling R$15.8 million. The claim value of unprovisioned labor and other court actions,
assumed by EMPAER, are estimated at about R$4.0 million (book value of R$11.8 million). EMPAER
also received R$32.2 million of total assets in December 1998, including 31 grain storages, evaluated at a
market value of R$4.0 million at most. Appendix 8 provides detailed information on CASEMAT
liquidation, and a cost/benefit analysis.
Restructuring of the State Agricultural Research, Extension and Technical Assistance Company
(EMPAER) - EMPAER, which is charge of agricultural extension and research, has started a
restructuring process under its strategic plan (1999-2003). Main goals are to improve efficiency and
relevance of agricultural research and extension services through decentralization of decision making and
staff to the field and establishment of modem computer links between field offices and research laboratories
and centers. In March 2000, EMPAER had a total staff of 630, already a significant reduction over 1,038
in 1992 and 790 (including 104 from the former CASEMAT) at the start of restructuring early in 1999.
The objective is to further reduce total staff by another 50, plus about 100 employees currently seconded to
various parts of the government. Total cost of severance for the 160 employees already dismissed was of
R$3.2 million, allowing cost savings of R$2.6 million per year.
Restructuring of the State Mining Company (METAMAT) - METAMAT is a mixed capital enterprise
acting in mining research and exploration. Its personnel totals 70 employees, not including the 90
employees from CODEMAT presently seconded to the Government. Before the incorporation of
CODEMAT, the company was already in a very bad financial situation, with cumulated losses of about
Rs. 23.2 million as of the end of December 1997. The company is now being used as a repository of
problem assets and liabilities of extinct companies (CODEMAT, SANEMAT). When these have been
cleaned up, it is likely that METAMAT will also be liquidated.
Restructuring of the Sate Data Processing Agency (CEPROMAT) - CEPROMAT (Centro de
Processamento de Dados), is a public enterprise 100% owned by the State. Its main activities include
operation and maintenance of data processing systems and computing equipment; network and strategic
data base management; and support to the governnent secretariats and agencies. As part of the
Government Reform Program, CEPROMAT is being restructured and modernized to enhance its efficiency
-8 -



and its capacity as executing agency of the Government Information Policy, contributing to the
modernization of the Government Secretariats and Agencies. CEPROMAT Modernization Program
includes: (i) a downsizing program through dismissal, voluntary departure and early retirement of about
514 employees (in excess of 220 planned); (ii) the implementation of the INFOVIA project, which
integrates all the Government agencies through a computer network of high performance and reliability;
and (iii) training of personnel financed under both the loan and IDB financed National Fiscal
Administration Program (PRONAF - see Appendix 1). The INFOVIA project is expected to enhance
Government efficiency through more efficient and less costly transfer of documents between agencies,
economy of scale from the central management of the agencies local networks, reduced costs of internal
telephone communications, possibility of video conferencing, and use of distance education and training.
(b) Institutional Objectives: Regulatory Framework and Establishment of a Regulatory Agency
The PAD is rather confusing, and sometimes even seems contradictory, regarding the nature of the required
regulatory arrangements. This confusion reflected considerable debates and lack of definition at the time
within the Bank and the state government regarding the state's role in these two sectors, electricity being
federally regulated, and water and sewerage being predominantly (though not entirely) a municipal
responsibility. In the end, the Loan Agreement only stated that the CEMAT concession contract should be
satisfactory to the Bank and that the concession contracts for water and sanitation systems should contain
waste water treatment targets as established in the Privatization Letter. The design of a regulatory
framework for the water and sanitation sector would be left to be proposed subsequently by a consultant,
contracted under the Bank-supported Water Sector and Modernization Program (PMSS). The need for, and
type of, regulators and regulations were progressively clarified subsequently during project implementation,
as described below, and the resulting regulatory framework is a substantial improvement over what was
originally planned.
In mid 1998, based on the regulatory framework recommended by the consultant financed under PMSS,
the Government submitted a water and sewerage regulatory law (including the establishment of a state
water regulatory agency) to the State Assembly, but it was not approved, due to political opposition mainly
from the large municipalities. Subsequently, however, on January 14, 1999, before the loan was signed,
the State Assembly passed another law, proposed by the Government, establishing a State regulatory
agency covering many sectors, including energy, water and sewerage, roads, ports, airports,
telecommunications, and gas. The Bank found this approved law incomplete and far from acceptable with
respect to the agency structure, the number and nomination process of commissioners, and the lack of
financial autonomy of the Agency. During the second semester of 1999, at Bank recommendation, an
experienced consultant was contracted under the loan, to draft a revised regulatory law. However, the
Governnent considered it "politically impossible" to submit a new law and preferred to submit an
amendment to the existing law, which was approved on December 22, 1999.
Under the amended law, the main features of the multi-sector regulatory agency (AGER) are: (i) a Board of
four executive directors, including a president, appointed by the Govemor after approval by the State
Assembly for a four-year term; (ii) initial terms differentiated to allow replacement of part of the directors
early during the next administration; (iii) a consultative council of 7 members nominated for a four-year
term, after approval by the State Assembly of names indicated by the govemor (3), AGER (1), consumers
agency and associations (2), and the concessionaires (l); (iv) potential financial autonomy through a
regulatory fee to be defined in the concession contracts; (v) 35 technical regulators to be hired through a
public competitive exam organized by AGER, including a General Secretary nominated by the Govemor;
(vi) subcontracted administrative assistance; and (vii) through specific agreements with the Federal and
Municipal governments, AGER can have regulatory, control, and monitoring functions of public services
-9-



under their responsibility.
With respect to the water and sanitation sector, as a long-awaited federal law was not forthcoming
clarifying the role of states in the sector, a revised state law was prepared with the assistance of the Bank,
which was finally approved by the State Assembly in November 2001 (para.-and Appendix 4). This law
inter-alia clarifies unambiguously that municipalities and inter-municipal consortia have competence over
water and sanitation, therefore removing the state from the provision of services. But it also specifies that
regulation in the water and sewerage sector must be delegated to AGER whenever the creation of a
municipal agency is inadequate or too expensive, and whenever municipalities adhere to the incentive
program providing discounts on compensation payments for assets.
By May 2000, the four directors of AGER had been nominated (one has resigned since and has not been
replaced), all of which having been involved in privatization or management of state public companies
being privatized. The agency's Internal Regulations were also approved by gubernatorial decree in May
2000. These regulations aim at completing the law by detailing the structure of AGER, its responsibilities
and its operating rules. Also, they attempt to mitigate a remaining weakness in the regulatory framework
by restricting the power of the president who has a casting vote in a board with an even number of directors
-- Internal Regulations require a majority of 3 votes in order to make decisions on critical issues such as
tariffs revision, changes in tariff structure, declaration of termination, renewal, or intervention in
concession contracts and the approval or modification of the Agency Internal Regulations. These important
matters should eventually be covered in law rather than in Internal Regulations which can easily be changed
by decree.
Building up AGER as an institution since has been slow. In November 2001, a year and a half after Board
members were nominated and internal regulations adopted, total staff still consisted of only 3
superintendents with some support staff and a group of inspectors seconded from the transportation
secretariat. Technical staff was just being recruited, but only 19 out of the planned total of 35, due to lack
of qualified candidates at the competitive entrance exam. Delays were mostly due to lack of budget, since
the agency has to rely on regulatory fees from mostly yet- to- be privatized companies. In 2000, total
budget of AGER was only R$60,000. In 2001, it increased to R$1.3 million (including R$1.0 million from
the state government budget and R$0.3 million from ANEEL, to assist in the supervision of CEMAT). In
2002, the approved budget is of R$3.3 million, including R$1.9 million from the state government, R$0.3
million from ANEL, and R$ 1.1 million from regulatory fees, mostly from the transport sector.
So far, ANEEL has concentrated its activities on tasks delegated by ANEEL (receiving and hearing
CEMAT consumer complaints), regulating tariffs of inter-municipal bus transports, and organizing the
concession process in the natural gas sector. It is expected that, in 2000, AGER will expand its activities
in the power sector (under further delegation by ANEEL) and, mostly, in the water and sanitation sector.
In light of the new water and sanitation and incentive laws, it is likely that AGER will have a major role in
reviewing and approving the many forthcoming municipal concessions in the sector and designing
applicable standards.
(c) Environmental Objectives
The Loan Agreement and the Privatization Program letter required that: (i) CEMAT privatized company
should carry out its operations in accordance with environmental protection standards deternined on the
basis of environmental audits satisfactory to the Bank; and (ii) concession or management contracts signed
for the operation of water and sewerage systems in municipalities provide that the operation of such
systems shall be in accordance with: (a) wastewater treatment targets; and (b) environmental obligations
- 10-



determined on the basis of environmental audits satisfactory to the Bank.
1.     CEMAT
Environmental Audit. The Government failed to carry out a formal environmental audit of CEMAT prior
to its privatization. Instead, in 1997, prior to the privatization, and in 1998 and 1999, after privatization,
FEMA undertook an extensive program of inspections of all the main facilities operated by CEMAT. Bank
review of FEMA's summary environmental assessments concluded that they establish requirements for
future operations as would have been done via an environmental audit, and that FEMA has followed-up on
its requirements to ensure that are met. Consequently, the Bank considered that the State fully complied
with the spirit of the loan condition although via a different route that originally envisaged.
Environmental Performance of the Privatized Company. Since privatization, CEMAT has substantially
increased its environmental awareness and improved its environmental quality performance. CEMAT
organization includes an environmental departmnent in charge of implementing the company's environmental
policy and REDE/CEMAT is currently implementing ISO 14 000 in its environmental management
systems. As of November 2001, most CEMAT's facilities were operating with valid environment license,
and the remaining had requested licenses, which under review by FEMA. Major environmental activities
and programs of CEMAT are further described in Appendix 2.
2.     SANEMAT
The water and sanitation sector is, for most conventional pollutants, the main source of water pollution in
the state. There is still little sewage treatment in the state and one of the reasons for considering increased
private sector participation was to generate the financing required to expand basic sanitation services and
associated wastewater treatment facilities.
Environmental Audits. The Government 1997/98 study to prepare the water and sanitation sector for
municipalization and/or privatization failed to comprehensively analyze the environmental regulatory
framework and to carry out formal environmental audits of SANEMAT facilities. A technical and
environmental assessment was prepared in November 1999 for the concessioning of Varzea Grande
municipality water and sanitation system. After review of this report, the Bank recommended that the
State Government empower FEMA to develop regionally based water quality targets and that it requires in
the bidding documents of Varzea Grande concession a clear definition of liabilities, targets and
responsibilities of the different parties entering into the concession agreement. However, as of December
2001 the bidding documents for the concession of Varzea Grande had still not been published (Appendix
4). Finally, as of March 2001, five Municipalities with an aggregate urban population totaling about 115,
000, had awarded concessions of their water and sanitation services to private firms, but had not conducted
environmental audits prior to privatization. To bring them in line with Bank's condition, FEMA conducted
rapid environmental inspections of the five systems and asked the concessionaires to obtain environmental
licenses within 30 days or face severe penalties.
Environmental Performance of the Privatized Companies. The 5 concessions inspected by FEMA have
improved their facilities operation and consumer services. In most cases the water distribution coverage
has already increased and medium and long terms plans are set for sewage coverage. However, while
distributed water quality is generally controlled and monitored for most conventional pollutants, little or no
monitoring is made for superficial and aquifer water sources, in particular with respect to toxic pollutants
from agriculture chemicals. FEMA expects to take the opportunity of environmental licensing of the water
supply systems to address this issue.



As of November 2001, 8 additional municipalities had granted concessions to private sector and 11 had
issued tender documents for concessions, however, no information is available on environmental targets
included in the bidding documents and concession contracts. In the absence of a strong State intervention
before and after the privatization process, the municipalities are unlikely to design and implement
regulations and concession contracts that ensure improvements in coverage and service quality while
addressing environmental concerns. This is hopefully possible now with the incentive law, passed on
December 2000, authorizing discounts on assets to municipalities; and the State Policy for Water Supply
and Sewerage law approved in November 2001, which provides for the development of coordination
mechanisms with water basin agencies and environmental and sector regulators. FEMA should urgently
develop regionally based water quality targets, as recommended by the Bank and increase its effort,
through visits during the licensing processes and establishment and follow-up of agreed targets, to ensure
that agencies operating the water and sewerage systems, address existing non conformities.
(d) Fiscal Objectives
At appraisal, the Bank considered that constitutional obligations with respect to stability and pension rights
of civil servants were preventing meaningful fiscal adjustment at state level. Furthermore, the Bank was
convinced that the terms of the debt restructuring agreement negotiated with the Federal Government
would not ensure fiscal sustainability of the state. Fiscal conditions in the Loan Agreement (which referred
to two Policy Letters of the State Government) essentially seek to ensure that the State would not engage in
egregious behaviour while achieving modest improvements. As expected, by 2000, the state had still not
reached financial equilibrium and it continued to show negative operational deficits, particularly when
taking deferred interests into account. Also, little had been done to address the looming pension rights
issue. However, in all other aspects, except in 1998, the performance of the Government has been
substantially better than projected at appraisal. Since 1996, while the stock of debt has continued to grow,
it has done so less than net current revenues, and the ratio of total medium and long-term debt to net current
revenues has decreased from 3.0 in 1996 to 2.4 in 2000 (compared to 3.5 estimated at appraisal for 1999,
the last year of the PAD projections). The state government has also performed well in meeting the other
fiscal targets projected in the PAD and established in the Governor's own Policy Letters The Policy Letter, dated
May 23, 1997, established targets for 1997 only. These targets were: (a) to limit total operational deficit to no more than 51% of net current revenues;
(b) to limit total stock of debt by year-end to no more than 335% of net current revenues; and (c) to limit investment spending to priority investments
not to exceed R$135 million, including no more than R$35 million financed through debt. In a subsequent letter, dated February 4, 1999, which was
issued after Senate approval but before Loan signing, the government expected to reach a primary surplus of 10% and 16 % of total revenues
(including capital receipts) in 1999 and 2000 respectively, and to limit total investment to no more than 5% of total revenues in these two years. Both
letters are referred-to in the Loan Agreement.: Key fiscal data and ratios- actual compared with appraisal estimates and
targets established in the Policy Letters- are presented in the attached tables I and 2 of Appendix 1, which
also reviews the fiscal performance of the state in more detail. While net current revenues grew by more
than 100% between 1996 and 1999, total expenditures grew by only about 45%. Personnel expenditures
have been contained, and, as a share of net current revenues, have been consistently maintained below
targets (decreasing from 83% in 1996 to 57% in 2000). Except in 1998, the operational deficit (excluding
deferred interests) has also been substantially below targets (decreasing from 41% of net current revenues
in 1996 to only about 3% in 1999 and 2000, versus 19% projected at appraisal for 1999) and, since 1999,
state accounts have shown a primary surplus instead of a reduced deficit, as originally projected.
In addition, the Government effectively carried out the Fiscal Administration Program, which was part of
the cost of the project, with IDB financing. Results substantially exceeded expectations, since tax
collection in real terms grew by 21% in 1999 and a further 11% in 2000, compared with the program target
of 10% per year. In addition, the program was broadened to financial administration in various
secretariats, in order to promote fiscal equilibrium and improve and coordinate management of public
- 12 -



expenditures by integrating planning with budgeting and financial implementation. In 1999, the objective
was to execute 84% of planned and budgeted expenditures. In fact, 92% were executed. The objective in
2000 was to reach 100%.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
An economic analysis was performed in the PAD for the severance programs of enterprises under
restructuring (CEMAT, SANEMAT and CEPROMAT). Economic costs benefits for SANEMAT and
CEPROMAT were re-estimated using the same methodology (CEMAT's severance program was excluded
from the project before loan signing). Re-estimated economic rates of return were 99% for SANEMAT
(versus 81% at appraisal) and 124% for CEPROMAT (versus 128% at appraisal). CEMAT severance
costs were paid out of CEMAT's own resources. Assumptions used are further detailed in Annex 3.
Economic costs and benefits of the reform program are considerably larger, although difficult to quantify.
Net benefits include resources saved by not having to maintain inefficient enterprises in operation, and net
gains in efficiency and coverage of privatized public power and water and sanitation services.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
(a)    Overall Impact on the State Budget.
In the PAD, financial analysis was limited to a cost/benefit analysis of the severance payments program for
enterprises under restructuring (SANEMAT, CEMAT and CEPROMAT). However, costs and benefits to
the state budget of actions included under the project are significantly broader. Incremental costs include
state spending on costs of liquidation and additional liabilities assumed as a result of the liquidation process
(excluding costs of assumption by the state of pre-existing debt and contingent liabilities). Incremental
benefits include privatization proceeds for CEMAT and, for liquidated companies, future savings in
resources required to subsidize operations or periodically re-capitalize loss-making enterprises, using as a
proxy the net present value of their future annual operating losses. A cash flow analysis was performed on
that basis. Results and assumptions are presented in Annex 3 and further detailed in annexes on each
company.
Results of the project are very favorable to the state budget, since the overall financial rate of return is
about 180%. Excluding CEMAT (net proceeds of CEMAT sale have a predominant weight in net benefits,
but privatization of CEMAT did not involve any direct or indirect state budget outlays), the rate of return
for liquidated enterprises and CEPROMAT is still about 36%. The average pay-back period is only about
a year including CEMAT and 3.5 years excluding CEMAT. These benefits are even conservative since no
attempt was made to include govenmment savings in investments which would have been required to
maintain or expand services provided by these entities.
With respect to liquidated companies, a sensitivity analysis was performed to include all costs incurred
during the reform process, including those which are not incremental (all liabilities explicitly assumed and
contingent liabilities, even those not attributable to the reform process but to past operations). Results
remain quite favorable, since the overall financial rate of return is still close to 50% including CEMAT and
18% excluding CEMAT. Even under the worst case scenario where the state would loose all outstanding
court actions, the rate of return would still be estimated at about 40% including CEMAT and 16% for the
other enterprises.
Net present value (at 12% discount rate) under the base case is estimated at about R$350 million in
constant 1999 terns (about US$200 million), decreasing to about R$200 million (about US$120 million)
under the worst case scenario of the sensitivity analysis. Annual savings to the state budget in constant
1999 terms are estimated at about R$1 00 million. These savings represent only about 5% of net current
- 13 -



expenditures in 1999, but over 50% of the primary deficit. Savings estimates are conservative since these
do not include any state funds saved for investments required by these companies to expand services and
improve their quality. An order of magnitude of such investment savings is provided by planned investment
expenditures of the privatized CEMAT, which are estimated at about R$500 million over ten years.
Investments required in water and sanitation are also estimated to several hundred millions. Thus,
investment savings could amount to another R$50 to R$100 million per year, increasing total savings to
10% of 1999 net current revenues and over 100% of the primary deficit.
(b)    Financial Analysis of Severance Programs
A financial cost-benefit analysis was perforned in the PAD for the severance programs of enterprises
under restructuring (CEMAT, SANEMAT and CEPROMAT). These financial costs benefits for
SANEMAT and CEPROMAT were re-estimated using the same methodology (CEMAT's program was
excluded from the project before loan signing). Re-estimated financial rates of return were 135% for
SANEMAT (versus 164% at appraisal) and 204% for CEPROMAT (versus 211 %). Severance costs for
CEMAT were paid out of CEMAT's own resources. Assumptions used are further detailed in Annex 3
4.5 Institutional development impact:
Institutional development objectives were substantially achieved. The project promoted better fiscal and
financial management by the state. The project helped develop regulatory capacities at state level. In the
water sector, the project promoted sound regulationp and concession processes which are, from now on,
likely to be adopted by most municipalities. The project helped develop good model bidding documents and
processes, draft concession contracts, consortia agreements and regulations which can be used elsewhere by
municipalities in Brazil, or in federally supported programs for water and sewerage concessions.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
There were considerable delays in project implementation relative to PAD estimates (two and a half years),
although only one year relative to the dates in the Loan Agreement, which was revised shortly before
signing. Most of these delays were in Loan signing, which took place on March 30, 1999, more than a year
and a half after Board approval. Disbursements against the first time-slice were released upon
effectiveness (April 20, 1999); and against the second time-slice on November 16, 1999, after a program
review took place in June 1999 (on time). The last two time-slices were released on June 13, 2000, and
September 30, 2001, respectively. The original closing date in the PAD (December 31, 1998) was changed
to June 30, 2000 in the Loan Agreement before signing, and subsequently extended twice, to June 30, 2001
and to September 30, 2001.
Factors due to the Legislature. Most of the delay in loan signing (one year and a half) is attributed to late
approval of the Loan by the Senate. The Loan faced immediate opposition from some federal senators of
Mato Grosso, also political opponents of the Governor, who objected to the distribution of disbursements
among categories of expenditures. To mitigate these concerns, in March 1998, the Bank agreed to revise
the disbursement schedule to assign US$10 million more to highway modernization subprojects and to
correspondingly reduce the allocation of funds to cover expenses of CEMAT privatization (which had
already been privatized in December 1997). However, as gubernatorial elections approached (October
1998), and the main opponent to the incumbent Governor was one of the MT senators, approval was
delayed until after elections. In addition, later in 1998, labor unions of enterprises under liquidation,
backed by deputies in the State Assembly, brought claims to the Senate that the State did not adequately
calculate compensation due to laid-off workers or settle prior claims. The Senate finally approved the Loan
on December 15, 1998, but imposed restrictions on the use of funds (Annex 4d), channeling them to
- 14 -



payments associated with the restructuring of EMPAER, the municipalization of SANEMAT,
modernization and training of the direct administration, program management, labor indemnities and debts
pertaining to enterprises under liquidation, and tax and other social security liabilities. These restrictions
were not reported to the Bank neither by SEAIN, nor by the State Government, nor were they mentioned in
the Legal Opinions provided to the Bank prior to Loan signing.
The mismatch created between the allocation of funds by categories in the Loan Agreement and the Senate
Resolution created considerable confusion later-on. The State Government had reconciled both by
differentiating the source of funds (obtained against eligible expenditures listed in the Loan Agreement
Categories) and their application (to be governed by the terms of the Senate Resolution). But when the first
tranche was disbursed in April 1999 (mostly against goods and works), a group of 380 former and current
employees of CODEMAT brought the issue to the State Assembly claiming that the Government was
misallocating funds to goods and civil works. The State Assembly created a special commission to follow-
up on use of Bank funds throughout project implementation and organized a public hearing on the subject.
The government has been under tight scrutiny regarding allocation of funds from the Bank and is narrowly
constrained in their use by the categories established by the Senate.
Factors due to the Bank. For lack of a lending instrument suitable for sub-national adjustrnent projects, the
project was treated as an investment project. The confusion created by disbursements against civil works
and other kinds of investments to support what is in essence an adjustment operation created a number of
difficulties. Not only it caused the problems with the Senate and the State Assembly which were mentioned
above, but it required the establishment within the project unit of a structure to screen eligible expenditures
and their procurement process, where these expenditures had no relevance to the operation. It also entailed
additional costs in auditing these expenditures and their procurement. For the Bank, it also created
additional financial management supervision requirements, when more of the limited supervision resources
would have been better spent on the project's substantive issues.
Bank rules regarding eligibility of severance payments for investment projects also added to the confusion
and created additional hurdles. The Bank guidelines, dated March 5, 1996, on Financing Severance Pay in
Public Enterprise Reform Operations, specifies that budgetary savings and/or closures of inefficient
enterprises alone are not sufficient justification for an investment project. Since the project was formally
an investment operation, the Bank could not disburse against severance payments to employees of
enterprises under liquidation (BEMAT, CODEMAT, CASEMAT, COHAB), having instead to seek
expenditures remotely related to the objectives of the project. However, SANEMAT, EMPAER,
METAMAT and CEPROMAT being categorized as sectors or enterprises under restructuring, severance
payments to their employees were eligible (municipalization of SANEMAT was considered by the Bank as
sector restructuring).
These hurdles would not have existed if the project had been treated as an adjustment operation. A new
sub-national adjustment lending instrument has been created by the Bank since, which should avoid the
repetition of these problems.
Factors due to Municipalities. With respect to water and sewerage services, progress in concessioning has
been slowed down by unwillingness of the most important municipalities to adhere to the Government's
views on compensation payments, regulation and bidding process and conditions. There were also political
rivalries and a reluctance to loose control over the bidding and tariff-setting processes. The decision of the
two major municipalities in 1997 not to renew the concession of SANEMAT precipitated the
municipalization of water and sewerage services and the decision to liquidate SANEMAT, as their
withdrawal considerably worsened the company's financial situation. Subsequently, the concessioning
- 15 -



process was stalled for at least six months due to municipal elections in October 2000. As of November
2001, only 13 small and medium-size had awarded concessions.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The debt restructuring agreement between the Union and the State of Mato Grosso was signed on July 11,
1997, in which the Union inter-alia pledged funds to finance the extinction of BEMAT. However, it is not
until June 1998 that the debt restructuring agreement with the Union was approved by the Senate, and until
January 1999 that resources were effectively transferred by the National Treasury to BEMAT to honor its
commitments to Banco do Brasil. Delays in processing the debt restructuring agreement thus not only
caused substantial delays in the liquidation of BEMAT but also increased its costs.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Responsibility for delays in privatization of water and sewerage systems and reduced achievements relative
to project objectives is shared between municipalities and the State Government, which implemented the
project. Due to riots and court actions, the Government had to transfer the systems to the largest
municipalities before agreement was reached on asset compensation payments. This decreased the
incentive of municipalities to seek an agreement and also lowered the leverage of the state. However, the
government was slow in finding a resolution of this issue. Also, the creation of AGER, the regulatory
agency, the appointment of its commissioners, and the establishment of its operational structure were very
slow.
With respect to companies under liquidation, although all dismissed employees have received their
severance payments, a large number of them have initiated court actions, claiming that they had not
received their rights or that the State still owed them payments under old claims (such as monetary
corrections and interest on past salary arrears). These claims considerably slowed down the liquidation
process because labour courts have imposed liens on remaining assets. In mid-1999, the State Government
contracted a specialized firm to help review all these claims, and another one to help better prepare the
SANEMAT severance packages. Subsequently, in order to further speed up liquidation, the Government
transferred all remaining assets and liabilities to other state agencies and/or the state treasury and declared
the enterprises extinct, therefore eliminating the risk of a later revival. Without making any judgment about
the validity of the claims, better planning of retrenchment and cautious analysis of outstanding claims
beforehand might have avoided many of these problems.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
Actual total cost estimates of the reform program are about US$349.4 million, a 24% increase over
appraisal estimates (Annex 2a). However, these costs include US$77.7 million of priority investments
during the reform program, 46% higher than the appraisal estimate for this category. Excluding these, total
costs amount to US$271.7 million, compared to US$228 million estimated at appraisal for the other
categories, still a 19% increase. This difference is mostly due to the increase in the cost of liquidation of
BEMAT, which is presently estimated at about US$165 million compared with US$90 million estimated at
appraisal.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Sustainability is likely. Privatization and municipalization are very hard to reverse and, once extinct, it is
very unlikely that new state companies with purposes similar to those liquidated can be re-created. The
State was authorized by the State Assembly and the Central Bank to transform BEMAT into a
development agency, but, since BEMAT was extinguished, this risk no longer exists. The creation of a
non-financial development agency would require a new law. Sustainability of state fiscal improvements is
- 16 -



likely, particularly now that the national Fiscal Responsibility law has been passed.
In the water and sanitation sector, the new sector law, provided it is regulated and implemented, goes much
beyond appraisal expectations and should go a long way towards ensuring sustainability of reform. A
Coordination is being created within the Secretariat of Infrastructure to provide support to the Council and
ensure the implementation of the law. The Coordinator has already been appointed and will have rank of
under-secretary. The combination of the new law with the incentive program, which has retroactive effect
on municipalities which have already conceded their systems provided they accept AGER as a regulator,
should provide the means to correct some of the faults in existing concessions and avoid similar faults in
future ones.
Municipalization and concession of water and sewerage has furthered the creation of local firms, using
SANEMAT technical personnel, willing to operate concessions in small and medium-size towns, with an
eye on other forthcoming concession offers to capture economies of scale in systems administration. In the
short term, municipalization has not caused a collapse of the system, even in municipalities which are still
operating the systems themselves.
However, consolidation of benefits is still subject to a number of uncertainties:
(a) Sustainability of fiscal improvement in the medium term may be jeopardized by escalating deferred
debt service obligations and looming social security liabilities. The Federal Government is pressing the
state to establish a special pension fund for civil servants.
(b) Sustainability of benefits from private concessions largely depends on the strength and effectiveness of
regulatory agencies. There are some risks that the appointment of commissioners linked to the privatization
process or former managers of the privatized companies may later undermine the creditability of AGER,
even though risks have been reduced by scheduling their initial mandates so that some would expire early in
the subsequent government administration. Of more concern is the fact that several important features of
AGER, in particular concerning the powers of its president, are embodied in the Internal Regulations,
which, despite quorum requirements, are not very difficult to change. These should be incorporated in
amendments to the law.
(c) Efficiency improvements in water and sanitation at the municipal level may not be sustained if the
systems remain operated by municipal departments, as is still the case for the vast majority of
municipalities.
(d) A few remaining issues will need to be addressed concerning sewerage coverage. The law stipulates
that sewerage services should be universal over a time frame to be specified, and FEMA environmental
regulations demand that all sewage collected through new collection networks should receive secondary
treatment before being discharged. This is very expensive and there are substantial economies of scale in
sewerage provision and treatment, which make it unlikely that municipalities and concessions in small and
medium-size towns will be able to provide all of the required service and offer more than very partial
coverage over the concession period. The environmental standards may provide a disincentive to
municipalities to expand sewage collection networks at all, and some of the existing concession contracts
may well be unrealistic in this respect, leading some concessionaires to likely default on their obligations
when they become due. Under the new sector law, grants may be provided to provide sewerage to low
income populations or poor or over-indebted municipalities, which could have helped alleviate this problem
if sufficient resources are available. However, use of these funds is prohibited by municipalities whose
systems are operated under any type of private sector involvement. In addition, this restriction may act as
- 17 -



disincentive to private sector management, particularly in smaller, poorer towns which are the least able to
construct and manage such systems themselves.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Three of the five state enterprises addressed by the project-BEMAT, CODEMAT, and
COHAB-were liquidated. They therefore present no transition issues. The fourth-CEMAT-was
concessioned to a private consortium. The 30-year distribution and concession contract establishes
standards for service coverage and quality, investments and pricing. Compliance with the conditions will be
monitored by the federal regulatory agency, ANEEL, and the state government, acting through its
regulatory agency.
The fifth agency, SANEMAT, has been extinguished, with virtually all its operations transferred
to municipalities. Because the largest municipalities have not yet reached agreement on the amount of
compensation due to the state, the municipalization process cannot be considered complete. The state
government will have to pursue this matter after project closing. As it has already completed agreements
with 47 of the 95 municipalities, it appears fully capable of completing this task. The operational
performance of the municipalized water companies-including those that have subsequently been
concessioned to private operators-will be monitored by the state regulatory agency, AGER.
No further Bank operations in the banking or water supply sectors in Mato Grosso are
recommended, nor are future operations in the power sector, except to the extent they involve national
regulatory issues and/or private providers. Given the ambitious scope of this project, it is highly suited for
OED review. This should occur within a 2-3 year time frame, allowing sufficient time for the sustainability
of the reforms to be evaluated.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
Bank performance in the identification, preparation and appraisal phases was satisfactorv. Consistency
with the state government strategy and the Bank CAS and the strong commitment of the state government
were well assessed; the operation was processed fast in good harmony with the borrower; the quality and
skill mix of Bank staff and consultants was good, and so was continuity, despite a change in task manager
soon after identification. The project design was not unduly complex and within the implementation
capabilities of the state government, and the design and requirements were consistent with the Bank's
safeguard policies with respect to environment and severance programs.
However, while risks were generally recognized, risks of municipalities not adhering with state
government's strategies and regulatory framework for the water and sewerage sector were not reported,
although municipalities, not the state, had the conceding power. Also, the Bank used an il-suited lending
instrument, because there was no other option at the time. The Bank has since developed and adopted a
sub-national adjustment lending instrument. Finally, regulatory requirements were somewhat vague and
ultimately left for technical advisers in charge of preparing the restructuring or privatization of CEMAT
and SANEMAT to specify.
7.2 Supervision:
The quality of supervision was satisfactory overall, despite some significant shortfalls during part of the
implementation period. After the loan was approved in June 1997, pending loan signing, the Bank did not
- 18 -



dedicate much effort to follow-up on project implementation. There was only one full supervision mission
in January 1998 and another one year later, in January 1999. Yet, the second half of 1997 and the year
1998 were critical periods during which a number of events occurred and important decisions were taken
by the Government, which went unreported in the Bank until much later. In particular, the Bank missed on
the nature of the difficulties in the Senate and on the resulting limitations on use of funds; on the sudden
acceleration in the municipalization of SANEMAT; on the considerable delays in the liquidation of
BEMAT The closure of BEMAT (withdrawal of commercial banking license) was established as condition
of Board presentation in the PAD. The Bank later-on waived this requirement, accepting a letter of the
Central Bank confirming that the Central Bank, BEMAT, and Banco do Brasil had reached agreement that
BEMAT's liabilities (public deposits) would be transferred to Banco do Brasil, starting July 7, 1997 This
transfer actually occurred only in December 1997 and compensatory payments to Banco do Brasil only a
year later, with significant increases.
; on the failure to carry out an environmental audit for CEMAT (which was privatized in November 1997);
and on the passing of a law creating the regulatory agency which the Bank subsequently found
unsatisfactory. Absence of the Bank during this period is probably attributed to a combination of Bank
reluctance to allocate a more substantial budget to a project which remained unsigned over a long period,
and lack of continuity due to two changes in task managers between June and November 1998.
When the Senate finally approved the loan, the Bank significantly stepped-up its supervision efforts to
accelerate loan signing and effectiveness and the disbursement of the first two tranches. Also, starting June
1999, considerable efforts were dedicated to assist the government to remedy problems encountered in the
regulatory agency (AGER) and devise and implement a strategy which could still ensure concessioning of
water and sewerage services in a satisfactory environmental and regulatory framework. The Bank pressed
the Government to resolve outstanding disagreements with municipalities on asset compensation issues and
to improve its dialogue with them. The Bank also pressed for, and allowed the contracting under the loan
of, top technical assistants to help the state produce model bidding and concession documents, draft
consortia agreements, and sector regulations for the municipalities and to propose improvements to the law
creating AGER, and missions made substantial contributions in these respects. The Bank worked with IDB
to ensure consistency of approaches and synergy with the Pantanal project to promote the formation of
consortia. Finally, the Bank was responsive to the Borrower's needs and showed flexibility by agreeing the
divide the last time-slice into two tranches and associate conditions to them which were under the control of
the state.
7.3 Overall Bankperformance:
The overall performance of the Bank was satisfactorv. It was so for lending, and, for supervision,
deficiencies during the first part of implementation, between Board approval and effectiveness, were
compensated by strong support to the project provided subsequently.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The State Government's performance during preparation was satisfactorv. demonstrating a strong
commitment to the project and fulfilling all requirements expeditiously. In the meantime, it continued to
implement the reforms, particularly those related to BEMAT, CEMAT and the other enterprises
subsequently liquidated.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
Performance during implementation was hiehly satisfactory. The Government continued to demonstrate
very strong support to the reform program throughout implementation, even in 1998, an election year.
There was excellent continuity since the governor was re-elected and maintained his team in charge of the
-19-



reform and the project. All major objectives were met, and, in some areas achievements were beyond what
was originally planned. Delays were mostly not attributable to the State Government. Except in 1998,
fiscal objectives were met, in some years more than the objectives set in the Policy Letters and estimated in
the PAD. In addition, the Government carried-out a Fiscal Administration Program (with IDB funds),
which has already yielded substantial results.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
Regarding project implementation arrangements, a dedicated project unit was established within the
Secretariat of Planning, which has performed effectively and consistently well with respect to progress
reporting and financial management (including the preparation and use of an operational manual, records
and accounts, procurement and auditing).
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
In some areas, however, the Government could have been more effective, although corrections were made
when issues surfaced. Although the privatization of CEMAT was being led by Eletrobras and BNDES, the
Govermment should have ensured that an environmental audit was carried out in parallel to the preparation
of bidding documents. Instead, FEMA undertook an extensive program of inspections in 1997 prior to
privatization and in 1998 and 1999 after privatization. The programs of severance payments for the
liquidated enterprises could have been planned more cautiously to minimize court actions delaying
extinction. The establishment of AGER was significantly delayed and the law which established it still has
shortfalls. In the water and sewerage sector, although the Government was largely forced into accelerated
municipalization, it could have sooner been more flexible on the modalities of compensation for assets
while putting stricter conditions (regulations, bidding processes, environmental audits) to the effective
transfer of the systems, as it eventually did under the Incentive Law. Finally, the Government should have
informed the Bank about the restrictions imposed by the Senate on the use of funds. Failure to do so not
only complicated the management of the project but exposed the Bank itself.
8. Lessons Learned
State Reform projects have large returns in the long term in terns of fiscal savings and improved efficiency
of public services. The Mato Grosso project has demonstrated that sustained Borrower commitment as well
as continuity were critical to the success of reform, and, also, that, within the basic program strategy,
flexibility is necessary to adapt actions to changes, unforeseen difficulties, or political opposition. Even if
immediate solutions are not optimum, they are preferable to delays or abandonment of the process,
particularly when inefficiencies can be remedied later through complementary measures.
Project Design
*      Because of the importance of continuity, projects of this type extending beyond one state
administration would allow the Bank an opportunity for dialogue with the incoming administration should
the Govemor not be re-elected.
*      In areas where states do not have direct authority or conceding power, Loan conditions are better
set on actions under the control of the state, such as the creation of incentives, regulations, and programs
promoting efficient privatization by lower levels of government.
*      It is recommended that conditions regarding liquidation/closures (often used inter-changeably) be
formulated more precisely. Closure means that all agencies and offices are closed, operations have stopped
and most employees have been dismissed. Liquidation , however, is a long process with steps which are
- 20 -



not always under the control of the liquidator, and conditionality should refer either to the start of
liquidation (decreeing liquidation and liquidator in office) or the completion of liquidation (extinction).
Regulatorv Agencies
*      Regulatory agencies are best established as soon as possible, so that they can build-up capacity
before privatizations start.
*      Sustainability of benefits from private concessions largely depends on the strength and
effectiveness of regulatory agencies. State regulatory agencies are fragile in Brazil, as the decisions which
have shaped them can be relatively easily reversed or challenged even when incorporated in state laws.(as
happened in Rio de Janeiro and Rio Grande do Sul). This could be avoided if essential characteristics of
state regulatory agencies e govemed by federal law (numbers and appointment of mandated
commissioners, management and financial autonomy, powers and appeal processes, transparency). Also,
credibility of regulatory agencies depends on their independence and appointment of commissioners on
professional grounds. Risks of rejection by incomning administrations can also be reduced by scheduling
initial mandates so that subsequent administrations may also nominate some commissioners early- on.
Water Sector
*      There is a lot to be learned from the Mato Grosso municipalization experience. Rapid,
involuntary, transfer of systems to municipalities does not appear to have caused a collapse in service in the
short term, on the contrary there are some indications that it may have led to improvements in efficiency
and productivity. Experience demonstrates that the former state company employees are rehired by the
municipalities, in lower numbers and at a lower cost, to operate the systems. Municipalization accelerates
privatization and promotes the emergence of small and medium size private sector firms willing to
providing the services and to secure financing for the investments required, and hoping to spread their
administration costs by winning other concessions later. Also, complete, rather than partial,
municipalization ensures that the State will not remain with the higher cost smaller systems while the
major, more profitable systems are taken over by the private sector. Rapid municipalization does not
necessarily result in abandonment of the smaller systems, provided mechanisms are created to channel
funds and technical support to the poorest, smallest municipalities, as it is proposed under the Mato Grosso
Water and Sanitation Sector Law, and to allow large discounts on assets transferred to them.
*      On the other hand, municipalization can be very costly to the State government if actual transfer of
the systems precede agreements on compensation payments. Furthermore, in order to obtain maximum
efficiency gains from municipalization and ensure long-term sustainability, the approval of sector laws,
regulations and minimum standards and the build- up of regulatory capacity at state level should precede
municipalization. Coordination mechanisms between agencies and regulators in charge of the sector, the
environment and water resources management should also be established quickly. The preparation of model
bidding documents and contracts should also be done early on before transfer takes place. Technical
assistance should be provided to municipalities ahead of time to help them establish viable targets, in
particular for sewerage, and to form consortia to maximize economies of scale. The State should also
provide them training in economic aspects of water and sanitation services, in environmental analysis, in
the privatization process, and in regulatory aspects. Finally, as soon a liquidation has been decided, the
personnel of the state enterprise should receive training in management and privatization of services as well
as regulation, since they are likely to constitute the core staff of the municipal systems and provide advisory
services to municipal governments.
-21 -



*      Federal and/or state laws establishing minimum regulations applicable to municipal concessions,
including requirements in bidding processes and bidding documents, contents of concession contracts, and
appointment of regulatory agencies, are important to ensure sustainable concessions.
Bank Procedures
*      Ill-suited lending instruments considerably complicates project implementation. The new Bank
sub-national adjustment lending instrument should avoid such problems in the future for similar operations.
*      Bank Guidelines with respect to severance payments should be clarifies on some points The
Current Guidelines (dated March 5, 1996) specify that, under investment lending severance pay may be
financed directly as a component of an operation to restructure an enterprise or sector. The severance pay
component should be an integral part of the project aimed to make the enterprise or sector more productive.
It may accompany ... deregulation, sectoral, price, and other policy reforms to enhance competition and
productivity. The design and justification of the project must be based on the increased productivity of the
activities remaining in the enterprise or sector after restructuring. Budgetary savings and/or closures of
inefficient enterprises alone are not sufficient justification for an investment project. Workers who have
received severance packages should not be re-hired by the same enterprise if it remains in the public sector
or to the extent monitorable by other public sector institutions.
(a) when a sector is decentralized to lower levels of government, it is likely and desirable that a number of
former employees of the state company will be re-hired by municipalities on their own terms (through
competitive examination ). The severance payments they receive from the state government should be
eligible for financing, because, although still in the public sector, they are not being re-employed by the
same level of government nor on the same termns; (b) more specific guidelines should be provided on
how to carry out the economic cost-benefit analysis of severance payments, in particular on how to
evaluate restructuring benefits.
*      The Bank should require legal opinions to report any lirnitation to Loan Agreement introduced by
the Senate and require a copy of the senate Resolution.
In adjustment operations, important decisions are taken within relatively short period: The Bank should
schedule appropriate budget funds and missions for intensive supervision, particularly early in
implementation, even when loan signing and effectiveness are delayed.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
GOVERNMENT OF THE STATE OF MA TO GROSSO
OFFICE OF THE GO VERNOR
Because of political dissension and pressure from labor unions, the Government of Mato
Grosso encountered a great many difficulties in gaining approval of the loan in the Federal
Senate and during the execution of the work. Pressured by civil servants who had already left
government service, politicians obstructed the handling of the case and Resolution 109 of 1998
was passed with an error of addition in the application plan-allocation of funds-Article 1,
- 22 -



Paragraph One of One, where the figure US$ 46,720,000.00 conflicted with the amount of the
loan authorized in the head paragraph of that same article.
Thanks to the efficient assistance received from members of the IBRD missions that supervised
the project, it was possible to carry out the Program within the initial guidelines of the
Government of Mato Grosso.
The Bank conducted periodic missions to supervise the Project. They examined payment
documents, evaluated the progress of the activities, and contacted the executing agents,
leaders, and Government officials. Ultimately, they recommended certain measures be taken.
When the Project Implementation Unit needed assistance, the Task Manager and Bank support
staff in both Brasilia and Washington DC responded promptly.
As a result of the International Contract, the Bank rules applicable to contracting and
procurement came to govern the legal relationships between the borrower (Government of
Mato Grosso) and the Bank in ways that differ from Brazilian procedures without, however,
conflicting with basic guiding principles of Brazilian law, whose key vectors are founded in
both bodies of rules, such as Equitable Treatment, Transparency and Probity, Publicity, and
Confidentiality in the submission of the bids, Adherence to the provisions of the invitation,
Objective Judgment, Economy and Efficiency. In the effort to improve interaction among the
executing states and the supervisory agencies, Bank regulations ought to be disseminated to the
audit offices in greater detail, thus eliminating the serious difficulties experienced in the
Executive/Legislative relationship.
The remaining Bank procedures are practical, objective and intelligent, as in the case of the
refinancing whose proceeds, used to reimburse eligible expenses incurred in an earlier period
not to exceed 12 months, enable the borrower to cover project-related expenses by freely using
those funds. An example of this was the case of the labor-related lawsuits against CODEMAT
[Mato Grosso State Development Company], estimated at R$ 25 million. Because funds were
available, it was possible to reach settlements in the Labor Court System that cut the debt to
R$ 6 million.
Despite the difficulties reported, the Government of Mato Grosso has achieved the objectives
of the Program. At the end of 2001, the State recorded substantial progress in meeting planned
goals. In general terms, the payroll was reduced, revenues were increased, the state electric
utility company was privatized, companies were closed (CODEMAT, COHAB, SANEMAT
and CASEMAT), and the commercial activities of the Bank of the State of Mato Grosso
(BEMAT) were terminated. Water and sewer services were transferred to the municipalities
and efforts made to privatize them. Mechanisms were set up to regulate the delegated public
services - AGER, and a plan for the modernization and restructuring of companies is being
developed. Furthermore, a State Policy for Water Supply and Sanitary Sewers has been
adopted.
We believe that the model of municipalization and privatization of water and sewer services has
opened up new prospects for advancements in public administration that could be explored in
- 23 -



other regions of Brazil. The initiative taken by the State with the support of the Bank had to be
conducted with a firm hand, since the privatization of such services clashes with the autonomy
of the municipalities that, under the Constitution, hold the concession. An important
instrument employed by the Mato Grosso Government was the incentives, in the form of
discounts on the assumption of the assets, offered to the city governments to encourage them
to join in the process.
In the context of the Program we would also like to make special mention of the cooperation
from the STN [National Treasury Secretariat] and the SEAIN [Intemational Affairs
Secretariat], without which Mato Grosso would not have achieved success in its decision to
bring about full fiscal and financial equilibrium, goals it has been pursuing since 1995.
(b) Cofinanciers:
(c) Otherpartners (NGOs/privatesector):
10. Additional Information
- 24 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
A. Outcome/Impact Indicators
Indicator                Projected in PAD/Loan           Actual/Latest Estimate
Agreement
CAS Objective: environmentally  Growth of state GDP per capita  GDP time-series only available until
sustainable growth and                                          1997
macroeconomic stability
Expand private sector output    Growth in State GDP            GDP time-series only available until
1997
Increase efficiency and coverage of  Sectoral indicators of output and  * CEMAT
public utilities                efficiency (unspecified        Between 1997 and 1999:
Covera=e
No. of consumers increased from
498,000 to 539,200
No. of municipalities increased from
126 to 136
Efficiency
No. of consumers per employee
increased from 324 to 362
Energy sold per employee increased
from 1.55 Gwh to 1.93 Gwh
FEC index (frequency of
nterruptions) improved from 110.4 to
65.0
DEC index (length of interruptions)
mproved from 77.6 to 43.1
Losses decreased from 25.1% to
20.7%
* SANEMAT
(to be completed)
Improve fiscal condition of state  Improvement in state operational  State operational deficit reduced from
government                      deficit and debt/revenue ratio, and  41% in 1996 to 2% in 2000;
elimination of capital subsidies to  debt/revenue ratio decreased from 3.0
BEMAT                           in 1996 to 2.1 in 1999. Actual and
potential capital and operating
subsidies to BEMAT, COHAB,
CODEMAT and CASEMAT
eliminated.
B. Output Indicators
Indicator                 Projected in PAD/Loan           Actual/Latest Estimate
Closure of State Bank (BEMAT)   Withdrawal of commercial banking  * May 23, 1997: BEMAT General
license a condition of Board    Assembly approves transformation of
- 25 -



presentation- planned date: June  BEMAT in non-financial
1997- Actual: June 12.         development agency;
June 11, 1997: Central Bank informs
State Government that agreement has
been reached with BEMAT and
Banco do Brasil for transfer of
BEMAT deposits to Banco do Brasil,
staring July 7. Board condition
considered met by the Bank.
* July 11, 1997: Debt restructuring
agreement between Union and State is
signed in which Union pledges to
finance extinction of BEMAT.
* Debt restructuring agreement
between Union and State and
concomitant Agreement between
Banco do Brazil, State and BEMAT
approved by Senate in June 1998, one
year later.
unds transferred by STN to BEMAT
to pay Banco do Brasil for assumption
of BEMAT liabilities in January
1999.
* Extra-judicial liquidation decreed
by Central Bank in January 1998 and
ordinary liquidation decreed by State
nJune 1999.
Liquidation in process, expected to be
completed by February 2001, date at
which BEMAT will be extinguished
or transformed into a non-financial
development agency.
Concession of SANEMAT           Mutually acceptable strategy for the  Policy Letter dated may 23, 1997
water/sewerage services or      water and sewerage sector, including establishes as a strategy for the State
anagement contracts to private  an adequate regulatory framework.  to stimulate the signing of concession
firms within adequate regulatory  ondition of Board presentation.  agreements and/or management
system                          Planned date: June 1997         ontracts with private enterprises by
the major municipalities and by
Signing of concessions or       inter-municipal consortia. The state
management contracts of water and  might retain responsibility for
seweage to private operators for  management of the services in areas
municipalities with an aggregate  unattractive to the private sector or
urban population of at least 400,000  unsustainable. Strategy requiring
within a satisfactory regulatory  consent of each municipality. State
framework. Condition of floating  and Federal Governments to establish
tranche release, by completion date  appropriate regulatory framework
(September 1998 in PAD, later
- 26 -



changed to March 31, 2000 in Loan  Under political pressure and faced
Agreement)                      with expiration of several major
SANEMAT concession contracts,
State government decided in
November 1997 to accelerate
municipalization of services, ahead of
their privatization, by transferring
their operation to municipalities
under various types of contractual
arrangements. As of March 2000,
SANEMAT had transferred services
to 22 municipalities accounting for
80% of invoicing. However, transfer
was done before municipalities had
aid for the assets, and, since there
was still no agreement with all major
municipalities on compensation
payments, no privatization had taken
place yet. In parallel, the government
was working on the formation of an
inter-municipal consortium in the
Southern region. Due to elections,
however, it was unlikely that any
concession would be advertized before
early 2001.
In 1999, the State government
developed model bidding documents,
procedures, concession contracts, and
draft regulations for use by
municipalities. It has also attempted
to persuade them to use AGER, the
ewly-established state regulatory
agency, as regulator.
Sale of CEMAT within adequate   State shares of CEMAT liquidated by * State shares of CEMAT sold on
regulatory system               First Annual Review (March 1998 in  ovember 27, 1997.
PAD, later on changed to June 1999
n Loan Agreement)              CEMAT concession governed by
federal regulatory framework for the
electrical sector, and currently
regulated by ANEEL. State
Regulatory Agency (AGER) created
on January 14, 1999 will later
supervise CEMAT under delegation
from ANEEL.
Closure of other state entities  Closure of either CODEMAT or   CODEMAT liquidation decreed on
COHAB by First Annual Review    February 28, 1996; extinction on
(March 1998 in PAD, later on    April 6, 1998 after incorporation in
changed to June 1999 in Loan    METAMAT
Agreement)
* COHAB liquidation decreed on
May 8, 1996, completed on December
27, 1999.
- 27 -



* CASEMAT liquidation (decreed in
1992 but actually initiated in 1996)
completed in November 1988.
Extinction after incorporation with
EMPAER.
Restructuring of METAMAT,
EMPAER and CEPROMAT
underway.
Fiscal performance improved, as  In 1997, as stated in Policy Letter,  In 1997:
measured by limited growth of state  dated May 23, 1997:
deficit and debt stock ratios and
capital expenditure program    *    Operational deficit no more  * Operational Deficit was 20% of net
than 51% of net current revenues;  current revenues;
*    Stock of debt by year-end no
ore than 335% of net current  * Stock of debt by year-end was
revenues;                      242% of net current revenues;
*    Capital spending program
limited to priority investments not to * Capital spending was R$131
exceed R$135 million, including no  illion.
ore than R$35 million financed by
debt.                          * In 1998:
In 1998: No formal commitments for
that year under any of the two policy
letters, but PAD estimated:    * the operational deficit reached 42%
of net current revenues;
* the operational deficit at 24% of
net current revenues;          * the debt stock was 220% of net
current revenues; and
* debt stock at 343% of net
current revenues; and          * the capital spending program was
R$257 million, equivalent to 32% of
*    capital spending program of  net current revenues.
about 16% of net current revenues.
In 1999 and 2000:
In 1999 and 2000, as stated in Policy
Letter, dated February 4, 1999:  * Investments were about 6.5% of
RLR in 1999, equivalent to 6% of net
* Investments maintained at about current revenues.
5% of RLR (Receita Liquida Real);
Primary surplus was about 7% of
Primary surplus to reach 10% of RLR RLR in 1999, equivalent to 6% of net
in 1999 and 16% in 2000.       current revenues.
- 28 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Component                                            Appraisal            ActuallLatest Estimate                  Percentage of
Estlmate                                                      Appraisal
Up to March 2000                    Projected April
2000- June
2001 Total
Direct Costs of Reform                                         187.0                          265.2                           33.8
267.0140%
Non-severance Losses from Privatization of BEMAT           90.0                          165.3                       165.3184%
Downsizing of the Work Force: Severance                    97.0                           55.5                            9.8
65.3
67%
Liabilities from Labour Disputes BEMAT, CASEMAT                                            2.4                           24.0
and METAMAT                                                                                                                   26.4
Rescheduling of Tax Obligations                                                            5.0                             5.0
Reform-related Studies, Consultants, Training and Equipment     28.5                          16.3                            16.23
2.5114%
National Fiscal Administration Program                     20.0                           10.8                       9.220.0100%
Other Studies, Consultants, Auditing, Training and Equipment  8.5                          5.5                       7.012.5147%
Grants                                                          10.0                           0.8                           0.88%
Incremental Recurrent Costs of Reform on a Declining Basis      2.4                            0.1                           0.14%
High Priority Investments During Reform Period                  53.1                          70.2                        65.2135.4255
Total Project CostS                                            281.0                          315.6                        115.2430.815
I                                           1 ~~~~~~~~~~~3%
Expenditure Categories        Procurement Method                 Procurement Method                    Procurement Method
Appraisal Estimate               Actual- up to March 2000                  Projected Total
ICB   NCB   Other  NBF    Total  :ICB  NCB    Other  NBF    Total Cost .ICB  NCB    Other   NBF     Total Cost
Cost
Direct Costs of
Reforn
Non-severance Losses                       90.0   90.0                      165.3    165.3                          165.3    165.3
Severance                           97.0          97.0               55.5            55.5                   65.3             65.3
(25.0)        (25.0)              (12.2)         (12.2)                 (19.7)            (19.7)
Labor Disputes                                                               2.4      2.4                           26.4     26.4
Tax Obligations                                                              5.0      5.0                            5.0      5.0
- 29 -



Training, Consultants,
Equipment
Fiscal Administration                    20.0  20.0                     10.8    10.8                         20.0     20.0
Prog.
Other                             8.5           8.5               5.5           5.5            1.6    10.9            12.5
(1.0)         (1.0)             (5.3)         (5.3)          (1.6)  (8.1)           (9.7)
Grants                            10.0         10.0               0.8           0.8                   0.8             0.8
(4.0)         (4.0)             (0.8)         (0.8)                 (0.8)           (0.8)
Incremental                       2.4           2.4              0.02           0.02                  0.02            0.02
Costs of Reform                   (1.0)        (1.0)            (0.02)         (0.02)                (0.02)          (0.02)
Prioridt                          53.1         53.1              70.2           70.2                  70.2   65.2    135.4
Investments                      (14.0)        (14.0)            (14.8)        (14.8)                (14.8)          (14.8)
Total                            171.0  110.0  281.0             132.0  183.2  315.5           1.6   147.3   281.9   430.8
(45.0)        (45.0)            (33.1)        (33.1)          (1-6)  (43.4)         (45.0)
- 30 -



Annex 2c. Project Financing by Component (in US$ equivalent)
As per Loan Agreement                               Projected up to
component             Appraisal Estimate (a)             (a)            Actual as of March 2000      Completion            T
Bank   |Gov. |IDB           Bank |Gov. |IIDB        Bank I Gov. I IDB      Bank     Gov. I IDB      Banl
Direct Costs of Reform
Non Severance Losses                    90.0                     90.0                   165.3
Severance Paymnents           25.0      72.0             15.0    62.0            12.2    43.3           7.5         2.3
Labor Disputes Liabilities                                                                2.4                      24.0
Tax Obligations                                                                           5.0
Consultants, Training and
Equipment
Fiscal adn.Progran                               20.0                    20.0                    10.8                     9.2
Other                          1.0       7.5              1.0     7.5             5.3     0.2           4.4         2.6
Grants                          4.0       6.0              4.0     6.0             0.8                  0.02        0.01
Incremen.Recurent Costs         1.0       1.4              1.0     1.4            0.02
High Priority Investments      14.0      39.1             24.0    49.1            14.8    55.5                      65.2        _
TotalCosts                     45.0     216.0     20.0    45.0   216.0    20.0    33.1   271.7    10.8  11.9      94.1   9.2
Note:
(a) There is a discrepency between the SAR and the Loan Agreement on the amounts funanced under the loan for Severance Payment
and Priority Investments including consultants and training.
- 31 -



Actual from Jan. 1,
Senate      Actual in 1999     2000 to March 30,      Total
Resolution                             20
US$ million Rs.million  US$     Rs.million   US$     s.million
m illion(i)          m illion (i)
Restructuring of Empaer           6.46      3.22        1.85     3.17       1.84      6.39
Municipalization of Sanemat       18.72    26.79       15.37     1.12       0.64     27.91
State Gov. Modernization          2.81      0.03       0.02                           0.03
Project Mngt Unit                 0.73      0.43       0.24      1.76       1.00      2.19
Severance and Debt Payments
COHAB                            4.00     2.09        1.27                          2.09
CASEMAT                          4.00
CODEMAT (paid by Metamat)        5.00     0.13        0.07      4.04      2.45      4.17
Tax and Social Security Liabilities  5.00   7.78       4.72                           7.78
Total (ii)             46.72     40.481     23.54     10.091      5.93     50.57
- 32 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
In the PAD, financial and economic analyses were limited to cost/benefit analysis of the severance
payments program for enterprises under restructuring (SANEMAT, CEMAT and CEPROMAT).
However, costs to the state were significantly more than these, as substantial costs were incurred
in the liquidation of BEMAT, COHAB and CASEMAT. Furthermore, benefits are more than just
savings in salary costs derived from the severance program: they extend to future savings in
resources required to periodically re-capitalize loss-making enterprises or finance their
investments, and to proceeds of privatization and concessioning. At appraisal, no attempt was
made to estimate such a cash flow of costs and benefits to the state budget. In this annex, such an
approximation has been attempted. A re-estimation of the financial and economic rates of return
of the severance program along the lines of the PAD is also presented.
A.     Financial Cost-Benefit Analysisfor the Sate Budget
Base Case
In the base case, only incremental costs and benefits attributed to the Reform have been included.
*      For liquidated enterprises, incremental benefits are conservatively estimated as avoided future
subsidies (or equivalent periodic capitalizations or debt assumptions) necessary to absorb operational
deficits. Operating losses are taken as a measure of incremental benefits rather than total losses because
most financial expenditures relate to past debts and arrears, and, in theory, could be avoided through the
timely annual injection of budgetary subsidies. Benefits are conservative because they do not include
funding of future investments which would have been required to maintain the enterprise afloat, but which
are too difficult to estimate. Incremental costs include severance payments and other liquidation costs but
not expenditures associated with assumption of past net liabilities Net of value of liquidated assets. and
unprovisioned contingent liabilities (derived from court actions of unfunded pension liabilities), which
principally reflect mismanagement of past operations and would thus have to be paid for by the state
directly or indirectly irrespective of liquidation.
*      For privatized or municipalized enterprises (CEMAT and SANEMAT), benefits are the proceed of
sale and/or up front and periodic lease payments. Costs include outlays made by the state government prior
to the sale, including severance payments. Where the Government has chosen to assume part of the debts,
these assumed liabilities should be treated as a cost because, since these enterprises had a positive net
equity, they could have been transferred to the new owner. In the case of CEMAT, the Government
assumed no liability prior to the sale, nor did it pay for severance costs- thus the price obtained in the
privatization auction represents the net present value of costs and benefits expected from the business
(including investments). In the case of SANEMAT, the Government did pay for severance costs of all the
company's employees before its liquidation and assumed part of its debt. These should be treated as costs
since they could have been absorbed by the concessionaires, who could have paid lower leases in return.
Sensitivity Analysis
With respect to liquidated companies (except SANEMAT), a sensitivity analysis was performed to include
all costs incurred during the reform process, including those which are not incremental, that is, preexisting
net liabilities which only became transparent in the process (assumption of debts net of the proceeds of
asset sale, and contingent labor and other liabilities associated with court actions). This analysis provide a
- 33 -



full measure of the total fiscal impact of reform.
Results are presented in the following order:
1.     Base case, based on incremental costs and benefits only;
2.     Costs are increased to include net liabilities assumed by the state (debts as well as unprovisioned
indemnities due as a result of court orders, net of asset sale);
3.     As above, but state loses all outstanding court cases.
Results
A detailed analysis and calculations for each company are presented in their respective Annexes and are
summniarized in the table below.
- 34 -



Agency                          Costs  I Annual Benefits  NPV          IRR 1    Pay-back period I
Base C'ase 7/                i         i     
EIMAT'                          41.2          28.2         122.3      70%          1.Syaiir
COHAB                            5.9          15.6         54.6       99%          5 months
CODEMAT                          16 5         20.1         97.2       120%o        0.8 iars
CASENAT                          4.1'         4.9          18.1       58%          0.8 geais
Sub-161 Liquiditid E6tiifi?es  6 7.7 '       6.           27.4       DI.       '      7year
CE,MAT2^                                                   1.7                         .
SANEMAT                                ,
CEPROMAT $/                      7.8          14.0         61.0       182%         7 mio6ih:
Tht ro?aI                       75.5  5, 82.8             ;745.9     288o         7i7r   is
Sensitivity I1                         '
| BEMAT                       1 185.6         28.7          8.6        13%         6.5 years
COHAB                           42.9 1,5.                  40.8       60%          2.86 airs
CiOEMAT                         37.8          20.1         82.5       85%          1.9 ears
CASEMAT                          10.5         4.9          13.7       37%          2.1 years
S6bi61iI Li&uidild 8 1firi6     276.& S       6.3 63 6.7               MO          4 je 4ars
CEMAT                        |                             195.7
I SAN,EI\i,AT ...~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.        ...... ............ ...  ..    ............  ......... .... ....j.....
SANEMAT
CEFPROMAT                 '                    2.0          5.4  '      8%          , y6irs
Total _                      ! 282.9          ?.3i        313i7.7    223%          4 years
,isitiviity' 2 41
BEMAT                           197.0  .      28.7          0.5       12%          6.9 yearis
COHABI4/                        683           156           192       25%          4 4 years
COIDEMAT                        43.4          20.1         78.,       756/o        2.2 yea;'s
CASEMAT                          10.5         4.9          13.7       37%          2'1 ,earis
Sub-t6tli Li&bidated Efitrfiris  319.2        69.3         111.8      27%          4.6 ki&
CEMAT                                                      195.7
SANEMAT
CEPROMAT6/                       6.1          2.0           5.4       38%           3 yeiri
Toital                       j 325.3          11.3 _ ___   305.3      212%    i   4.5 years
Note: NPV at 12% discount rate.
1/ Ificreriehtal Costs ar,d 8Beinfits Only
2/ Proceeds of saii to State (R$176.1) adjusted to 1999 termins
3/ Cos'ts of libilities assumption and "ontirngen't liabilities are included
41 Same as abo6v,e buftl c'ur csae lost I 
5/ Excluding costs and benefits of Infovia
6/ Including costs of Infovia
Financial and Economic Cost-Benefit Analyses of the Severance Programs
At appraisal, a financial and economic cost-benefit analysis was carried out for severance programs of
- 35 -



enterprises to be restructured under the project (CEMAT, SANEMAT and CEPROMAT). Financial costs
consisted of the cost of severance programs and financial benefits of the annual salary and benefit cost
savings to the state. Economic costs were equal to financial costs but economic benefits were based on the
marginal productivity, elsewhere in the economy, of laid-off staff.
The following table presents results of these analyses as estimated at appraisal and as re-estimated using
actual or projected figures. Revised economic benefits were re-estimated using the same coefficients of
re-employment and marginal productivity used in the appraisal estimate, as no actual information is
available. Since CEMAT severance payments were excluded from the project before loan signing, no
revised estimates are presented.
Summary of Staff Retrenchment Program
As Estimated at Appraisal              Reestimated as of May 2000
Company:                                   CEMAT     CEPROMAT    SANEMAT       All    CEPROMAT     SANEMAT      All
Type of Program:                            Early    Involuntary Involuntary Weighted  Involuntary Involuntary Weight
Retirement   Dismissal  Dismissal  Average    Dismissal  Dismissal   Averat
No. of Layoffs                               300         220        658       1,178       514        1,650     2,164
Annual Average Wage& Benefits (US$)        66,177       15,182     25,733     34,062     23,017     22,206     22,39;
Severance Payment per Employee (US$)       109,212      7,185      19,005     39,770     11,295     13,560     13,02:
Total Cost of Retrenchment Program (US$000)  32,764     1,581      12,505     46,849     5,806      22,375     28,18'
Annual Labor Costs Savings (US$000)        19,853       3,340      16,932     40,125     11,831     36,639     48,47'
Estimated Economic Rate of Retum
Economic Costs (US$000)                    32,764       1,581      12,505     46,849     5,806      22,375     28,18'
Annual Economic Benefits (US$000)          31,914       5,369      27,219     64,501     19,018     58,898     77,91'
Net Present Value (US$ m)                    64          29         112        205        102         246       348
- Base Case Economic Rate of Retum          17%         128%        81%        74%       124%        99%        105k
Estimated Financial Rate of Return
Financial Costs (US$000)                   32,764       1,581      12,505     46,849     5,806      22,375     28,18'
Annual Cost Savings (US$000)               19,853       3,340      16,932     40,125     11,831      36,639    48,47'
- Base Case Financial Rate of Retum         48%         211%        135%      127%       204%        164%       173k
- 36 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                 No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)   Implementation Development
MonthiYear     Count          Specialty                      Progress     Objective
Identification/Preparation
6/96                         5   Division Chief, Task Manager
(Fin. Analyst); Energy
Economist; Public Finance
Specialist; Water Sector
Specialist
7/96                         1   Power Engineer
12/96                       3    Task Manager (Private Sector
Specialist), Financial Analyst;
Public Finance Specialist
1/97                        2    Task Manager (Private Sector
Specialist); Environment
Specialist
Appraisal/Negotiation
3/1997                       7   Task Manager (Private
Sector Specialist); Public
Finance Specialist); Public
Finance Specialist; Energy
Economist; Water Sector
Specialist; Environment
Specialist; Economist; Staff
Assistant
Supervision
2/98                         4   Task Manager (Private              S             S
Sector Specialist); Financial
Management Specialist;
Water Sector Specialist;
Country Coordinator
6/98                         1   Financial Management Specialist    S             S
2/99                         2   Task Manager(Economist);           S             HS
Financial Management Specialist
6/99                         3   Task Manager (Economist);          S             S
Water Sector Specialist;
Financial Management Specialist
9/99                         2   Task Manager (Economist);          S             S
Water Sector Specialist
11/99                        1   Financial Management Specialist    S             S
12/99                        1   Task Manager (Economist)           S            HS
4/00                         2   Task Manager (Economist);          S             S
Financial Management Specialist
ICR
4/00                         2    Economist; Industrial             S             S
Engineer
- 37 -



(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                  Actual/Latest Estimate
.________________________  No. Staff weeks             US$  ('000)
Identification/Preparation              54.8                      234.4
Appraisal/Negotiation                   15.8                       59.9
Supervision                             50.1                      253.0
ICR                                      4.0                       16.7
Total                                  124.7                      564.0
- 38 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
Ol Macro policies                       O H  *SUOM      O N  O NA
FO Sector Policies                      O H  *SUOM      O N  O NA
Oi Physical                             O H  *SUOM      O N  O NA
El Financial                            O H  *SUOM      O N  O NA
Li Institutional Development            0 H  * SU O M   0 N   0 NA
Li Environmental                        O H  OSUOM      O N  O NA
Social
O Poverty Reduction              O H   OSUOM      O N  * NA
EL Gender                         OH OSUOM ON *NA
O Other (Please specify)         O H   OSUOM      O N  O NA
L Private sector development            0 H  O SU O M   0 N   0 NA
L Public sector management              0 H  O SU O M   0 N   0 NA
L Other (Please specify)                O H  OSUOM      O N   O NA
- 39 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperfonnance                                Rating
O Lending                                           OHS OS Ou OHU
O Supervision                                       OHS OS      O u    Q HU
OI Overall                                          OHS OS      O  U   O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                             Rating
L Preparation                                       OHS OS       OU    OHU
LI Government implementation performance            OHS O S      0 U   0 HU
LI Implementation agency performance                O HS OS      0 U   0 HU
O Overall                                           OHS OS O u O HU
-40 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Appendix 1: Fiscal performance of the State of Mato Grosso
Appendix 2: Environmental Aspects
Appendix 3: CEMAT Privatization
Appendix 4: Municipalization of Water/Sewerage Services and Liuqidation of SANEMAT
Appendix 5: Liquidation of BEMAT
Appendix 6: COHAB Liquidation
Appendix 7: Summary of CODEMAT Liquidation
Appendix 8: CASEMAT Liquidation
Appendix 9: CEPROMAT Restructuring
Appendix 10: EMPAER Restructuring
Appendix 1. Fiscal performance of the State of Mato Grosso
Fiscal Performance
In 1996, the fiscal situation of the state of Mato Grosso was precarious, with a very heavy debt burden
and large commitments to personnel (83% of net current revenues). In 1996, the State Government
converted its short term debt into medium-term debt in order to be able to liquidate arrears to personnel
and suppliers, but the medium term prospects remained uncertain. In August 1996, the state reached a
tentative debt agreement with the federal government to restructure about 20% of the medium and long
term-debt (mostly bonds and debt to CEF): However, the Bank estimated that, even if the State managed
to cut personnel costs in real terms and restrain capital spending, debt service would continue to result
in persistent growth in the debt stock. Projections in the PAD (dated May 1997) estimated that the total
debt would continue to increase, from an estimated 326% of net current revenues in 1996 to 350% in
1999.
The State signed the debt restructuring agreement with the federal government in July 1997, which
refinanced about R$806 million of the medium and long-term debt over 30 years, at 6% real interest rates
(instead of current market rates of about 29%). Furthermore, debt service payments were limited to up to
15% of total net revenues, and any excess over this cap would be capitalized into the stock of debt. This
agreement resulted in substantial alleviation, reducing debt service obligations in 1998 by R$344 million.
Also, the rest of the debt (domestic medium and long term debt not included under the debt restructuring
agreement) benefited from the relative decline in TR, the indexer used in its adjustment. While the stock of
debt has continued to grow since, it has done so less than net current revenues, and the ratio of total
medium and long-term debt to net current revenues has decreased from 3.0 in 1996 to 2.1 in 1999
(compared to 3.5 estimated at appraisal for 1999).
Since 1996, the state government has also performed well in meeting the other fiscal targets projected in
the PAD and established in the Governor's own Policy Letterstm: Key fiscal data and ratios- actual
compared with appraisal estimates and targets established in the Policy Letters- are presented in the
attached tables I and 2. While net current revenues grew by more than 80% between 1996 and 1999, total
- 41 -



expenditures grew by only about 30%. Personnel expenditures have been contained, and, as a share of net
current revenues, have been consistently maintained below targets (decreasing from 83% in 1996 to 53% in
1999). Except in 1998, the operational deficit has also been substantially below targets (decreasing from
41% of net current revenues in 1996 to only 2% in 1999, versus 19% projected at appraisal for that year)
and, in 1999, state accounts have shown a primary surplus. This performance is projected to improve
further in 2000 (to be updated).
Performance deteriorated in 1998, for reasons both within and outside state control. Among reasons
outside state control or justifiable were: (a) a 16% decrease in ICMS collection, mostly due to the
federally-mandated exemption of ICMS on exports combined with the general retraction in economic
activity following the Asian crisis; (b) the initiation of federally-mandated transfers from the state to
municipalities to finance primary education (FUNDEF); and (c) costs associated with the liquidation of
BEMAT (assumption of net liabilities and severance costs). Within the government's control, however,
were a somewhat still passive attitude towards control of tax evasion, and the doubling of investment
spending (well above the limits estimated at appraisal), most of it on public works. Poor performance in
these last two respects was associated at least in part with the usual pressures in an election year (1998 was
an election year for governors and state assembly). The 1997 Policy Letter had established investment
targets only for 1997, which were met, but not for the subsequent years, so the state government was not
formally in default with its commitments. In a subsequent letter to the Bank in 1999, shortly before Loan
signing, the state undertook to limit investment spending to no more than 5% of net revenues (Receita
Liquida Real-RLR).
In 1999, performance improved significantly, mostly due to recovery in tax collection and a decrease in
investment spending. ICMS collection increased by 36% (21% in real terms). Improved performance is
linked to the start of economic recovery nationwide, but also, mostly, to vigorous tax collection efforts
undertaken under the National Fiscal Administration Program (PRONAF), which is more extensively
described in the paragraphs below. As part of PRONAF, the state government has also started to impose
tighter controls over expenditure commitments, which have been more closely related to availability of
funds within the budget year. As a result, arrears to personnel and suppliers have substantially decreased.
Projections for 2000 show further improvements.
Provided the State Government is able to maintain its tax collection performance, sustainability of fiscal
efforts in the coming few years is likely: first, because the current administration will still be in power for
two more years; second, because PRONAF will introduce further improvements to tax collection and
financial administration; and, third, because the newly passed national Fiscal Responsibility Law will
compel the consolidation of these achievements by future administrations, in particular in the areas of
personnel management and financial discipline, especially in election years. There is however, a looming
issue which needs to be addressed to ensure long-term fiscal sustainability, that of projected future growth
in pension liabilities. This issue was identified during preparation, when a Bank mission reported
"prospects of a pension bomb", given the high level of benefits, the impact of which is delayed by the low
current average length of service and low dependency ratio of a young population of civil servants. In its
1999 monitoring report on implementation of the Debt Restructuring Agreement, the National Treasury
also warns that the ratio of personnel expenditures of inactive versus active employees will increase from
37.5% currently to 50% by 2007, and presses the State Government to more actively work towards the
establishment of a Pension Fund.
National Fiscal Administration Program (PRONAF)
This program, which started in 1998 with resources from the IDB, aims at modemizing fiscal
-42 -



administration. In Mato Grosso, the total cost of this program is estimated at about US$23 million,
including 80% from the IDB and 20% from the State Government (mostly in the form of equipment).
Costs of the program consist of training, technical assistance in computer systems, and equipment, about
one third of total costs for each category. Initially focused on tax administration, it was expanded to
financial administration as well when the devaluation of the currency increased the Real equivalent of the
IDB loan.
Improvements in the tax administration system were significant: Planning of tax collection
significantly improved as a result of sectoral estimates and action plans prepared by working groups;
increased computerization of tax analysis and consultation; and the establishment of SINTEGRA, a
computerized system to exchange information between states on inter-state merchandise transportation. In
1999, the original objective of the program was to increase tax collection by 10% in real terms relative to
1998. Results substantially exceeded expectations, since tax collection in real terms grew by 21%.
The financial administration program was incorporated in the program in 1999 and includes four
state secretariats: Administration, Finance, Planning and the State General Auditor's office. It is being
implemented in collaboration with CEPROMAT, the state data processing center. The objective of this
program is to promote fiscal equilibrium and improve and integrate management of public expenditures. A
multi-year plan was prepared to integrate planning with budgeting and actual financial implementation. In
1999, the objective was to execute 84% of planned and budgeted expenditures. In fact, 92% were
executed. The objective in 2000 is to reach 100%. For year 2000, the program also aims at improving
human and material resource and asset management.
This integrated financial administration program is implemented by a multi-functional team and
each participating secretariat already has a group of multipliers, whose aim is to change the financial
management culture in their secretariat Computer automation required for integrated management will be
considerably facilitated by Infovia, the backbone project under implementation in CEPROMAT.
The Tax and Financial administration program was planned to end in March 2001, but
expectations are that the closing date will be postponed to December 2001.
-43-



Appendix 2 - Environmental Aspects
Background
The State of Mato Grosso includes three major ecosystems: a part of the Amazon Basin, cerrados
(Savannahs), and the Pantanal (South America largest wetland). Agriculture is still the predominant
economic sector; although recently Industry started developing fast. As a result, the main environmental
problems in the State are related to land use and natural resource management.
The implementation of most environmental policies is the responsibility of the State and the basic
legal provisions for environmental management are contained in the Basic Environment Law of November
1995 (Lei Complementar 38) and Lei Complementar 70 of September 2000. The main instrument for
pollution management is a comprehensive licensing system that requires a valid license for every potentially
environmentally harmful activity. For activities with potentially large environmental impacts, an
Environmental Impact Assessment forms part of the licensing process. Environmental Management is the
responsibility of the Fundacao Estadual de Meio Ambiente (FENMA).
The Loan Agreement and the Privatization Program letter
The Loan Agreement required that: (i) the CEMAT privatized company carry out its operations in
accordance with environmental protection standards determined on the basis of environmental audits
satisfactory to the Bank; and (ii) the concession or management contracts signed for the operation of water
and sewerage systems for at least 400,000 persons in the aggregate, provide that the operation of such
systems shall be in accordance with: (a) wastewater treatment targets (referred to in the privatization
program letter); and (b) environmental obligations deternined on the basis of environmental audits
satisfactory to the Bank. In the Privatization Program Letter to the Bank, the Government expressed its
commitment to undertake environmental audits for the state power company (CEMAT) and the state water
and sewerage company (SANEMAT) as part of their preparation for privatization; to review the
environmental regulatory framework and enforcement capacity for the power and water/sewerage sectors;
and to implement measures necessary to strengthen the regulatory framework and the responsible agencies.
The agreed approach was expected to: (i) reduce the uncertainty faced by potential private sector
investors about their environment obligations; and (ii) lead to improvements in environmental performance
of privatized companies.
CEMAT
Environmental Aspects of the Privatization Process
A report on the environmental regulatory framework prepared by the Government consultant as
part of the study preparing CEMAT for privatization was reviewed by the Bank and found comprehensive
and adequate. This report also covered the status of licensing of CEMAT facilities and environmental
programs undertaken by CEMAT. However, the consultant failed to carry out a formal environmental
audit of the company prior to privatization. Instead, in the second semester of 1997, prior to privatization,
the State environmental agency (FEMA) undertook an extensive program of visits to inspect all of the main
facilities operated by CEMAT (small diesel generating plants, hidro plants and transmission and
- 44 -



distribution substations) and prepared summary assessment reports on the state of each facility and the
corrective and environmental impact mitigation measures necessary to satisfy FEMA for renewal of their
license. In 1998 and 1999, after privatization, FEMA continued its program of inspections to check that
the company had complied with its requirements before granting renewals of the licenses each year. Bank
review of FEMA's summary assessments found that: (a) FEMA carried out inspections of CEMAT's
operating facilities and established requirements for future operations - as would have been done via an
environmental audit; and (b) that FEMA had followed up on its requirements through a combinations of
inspections and correspondence with the privatized company to ensure that the established targets were
met. Consequently, the Bank considered that the State fully complied with the objectives of the loan
condition although via a different route than originally envisaged.
The Environmental Performance of the Privatized Company
Since privatization, CEMAT has substantially increased its environmental awareness and
improved its environmental performance. CEMAT organization includes an environmental department in
charge of implementing the company's environmental policy. The department's main activities include
environmental monitoring of the company facilities and of their compliance with the environmental
legislation, implementation of environmental corrective and mitigation actions, environmental education,
follow up of environmental licensing of facilities, relations with impacted communities, and implementation
of the recommendations included in environmental impact assessments prepared for new projects. In
addition, REDE/CEMAT is currently implementing ISO 14 000 in its environmental management system.
Main environmental activities include recovery and reforestation and/or seeding of degraded areas;
plantation of green belts; tree pruning in cities; recovery of thermal power plants sites after their phasing
out; implementation of liquid effluent control and treatment and noise pollution control in the small thermal
power plants; hydrologic monitoring of hydro power plants; environmentally controlled destruction of
about 10,5 tons of liquid and solid residues of Askarell , in Bayer's special rotary calcinatory (the storage
area where the residues were stored was inspected by FEMA and freed for other use); the modification of
design normns of electrical transport lines across the Pantanal to avoid deadly accidents with the protected
large-winged birds (Tuiuiu).
As of November 2001, all facilities were operated with valid or requested licenses: about 80
CEMAT's facilities were operating with valid environment licenses, 28 were operating with renewal of
environmental license having been requested, and 4 new facilities were operating with envirornmental
licenses requested.
Finally, many CEMAT small diesel power plants were phased out since privatization and many
will soon be when, as commented in Appendix 3, CEMAT's rural electrification project and
interconnection to the national grid project are completed. This will result in further improvements in
environmental performance.
SANEMAT
The water and sanitation sector is, for most conventional pollutants, the main source of water
pollution in the state. There is still little sewage treatment in the state and one of the reasons for
considering increased private sector participation was to generate the financing required to expand basic
sanitation services and associated wastewater treatment facilities.
- 45 -



A 1998 FEMA report on 30 licensing processes for sanitation, water catchments, treatment, and
distribution projects (28 requested by SANEMAT and 2 by municipalities), clearly pointed out at lack of
environmental monitoring and control in the water and sanitation sector of the state and reiterated the
importance of effective environmental control for the implementation of the State water resources policy.
Environmental Aspects of the Privatization Process
A 1997/98 report prepared by the Government consultant as part of a study preparing sector
privatization addressed wastewater treatment targets but failed to carry on a comprehensive analysis of the
environmental regulatory framework and to cany out formal environmental audits of SANEMAT facilities.
In September 1998, the municipality of Varzea Grande expressed strong interest in awarding a
concession of its system. To that effect, a technical and environmental assessment (Avaliacao Tecnica e
Ambiental, Plano de Investimentos - Municipio de Varzea Grande) was prepared and sent to the Bank in
November 1999. Bank review of this report concluded that it fell short of providing guidance to the
concessionaire as to its specific environmental responsibilities and that the proposed wastewater treatment
targets were too ambitious, and were not likely to be complied with. Rather than blocking Varzea Grande
concession, the Bank recommended that the State Government empower its Environment Agency to develop
regionally based water quality targets and that it requires in the bidding documents of Varzea Grande
concession a clear definition of liabilities, targets and responsibilities of the different parties entering in the
concession agreement. However, as of December 2001, the bidding documents for the concession had still
not been published, due to disagreement over the value of assets transferred and to municipal concerns
about the involvement of the State Regulatory Agency (AGER) (Appendix 4).
Technical and environmental assessments (Avaliacao Technica e Ambiental, Plano de
Investimentos) were also prepared for a consortium of 11 small and middle sized-municipalities of the
south-west in November 1999, and for a consortium of 7 municipalities of the south-east region. However,
these consortia did not materialize before municipal elections (October 2000) and the new mayors were not
able to reach an agreement to form the consortia nor to delegate the concession process to the State.
As of March 2001, five Municipalities with an urban population of between 12,000 and 32,000
each, totaling about 115, 000, after having agreed on the repayment of fixed assets, had awarded
concessions of their water and sanitation services to private firms. However, these municipalities had not
conducted environmental audits prior to privatization, relying upon FEMA's general licensing procedures
rather than listing explicit environmental goals in the concession contract. To bring them into line with
Bank's condition, FEMA conducted environmental inspections of the five systems. The Bank's
Environmental Department and Quality Assurance Team found the inspection reports to be inadequate, but
recommended as an option that FEMA issue a statement indicating that each of the five concessionaires is
in compliance with environmental laws and regulations. On August 1, 2001, the state sent an official
warning to the five municipalities, demanding that they obtain environmental licenses within 30 days or
face severe penalties.
- 46 -



The Environmental Performance of the Privatized Companies
The 5 concessions inspected by FEMA, (three of which were also visited by the ICR mission),
have improved the operation of the facilities and consumer services. In most cases the water distribution
coverage has already increased and medium and long-term plans are set for sewerage coverage. However,
while distributed water quality is generally controlled and monitored for most conventional pollutants, little
or no monitoring is done on superficial and/or aquifer water supply source waters, even in areas with
strong agriculture, such as Primavera and Sorriso, where chemical contamination from intensive use of
agro toxic and fertilizer substances is possible. FEMA expects to take the opportunity of environmental
licensing of the water supply systems to address this risk.
In the absence of a strong State intervention before and after the privatization process, the
municipalities are unlikely to design and implement regulations and concession contracts that ensure
improvements in coverage and service quality while addressing environmental concerns. This is hopefully
possible now with the incentive law, passed on December 2000, authorizing discounts on assets to
municipalities; and the State Policy for Water Supply and Sewerage law approved in November 2001,
which provides for the development of coordination mechanisms with water basin agencies and
environmental and sector regulators.
FEMA should also increase its dialogue with the institutions operating the water and sewerage
systems through visits during the licensing processes and the establishment of agreed targets to address non
conformities. Furthermore, to promote a more rapid extension of sewer networks in the poorer
municipalities when lack of sewerage treatment does not threaten the environment, the State may have to
accept temporary discharges of untreated or partially treated sewage to certain rivers and accept the
imposition of a tariff for sewage collection even if the sewage collected is not still treated.
- 47 -



ETable 1. Fiscal Per*ormance- Actuai Versus iroje6ded
jA. Fiscal Projecti6ins in PAO         .                  |   .     .
IPercent of Net Current Revenues              6       1997j     1998      1999T         2000
1~~~~~~~~~~
t Persoririel                               83%|      71%       67%       63%
' Capital Exp6nditures                       9%       23%       16%       16%I
Capit SEenvic                               37ue      31%       27%       27%
of 'wfiicfi. 'fihifi6iaD cap'it-alkifai6n   1 O%M     13%       11%       11%
PHrimary Deficit                           -20%      -34%       -7%       -3%
006rafi6fiil Deficit                  1    -38%      -51%      -24%      -19%
Toiil D6bt (end of S6ie)              I    326%      332%      343%      350%
IB. Targets in Policy Letters                 9i      1997      1998 0    1999
Letter Dated May 231 997              1
Operaiiol I)ficii as% 6t N6t CuFr6rit R6vinu6e
'   Exluaifi Diet C6os of Reform           35%
16ib as % of Nit Cui;i; Renu.                      ..iiU
Excluaing Finingi 'for Refoirri           320%
fIncluding6 Financing f6r kef&ffil       335%M 
Main Inv6stmenits in 1997 (R$smillion)
R6od Construction iaid Rehabilitation         23
Ag6-e646616icl (r6aeiao)          I   47
B;id& Cbfs  fi6fi inad fIrpvFe- iie-it    I   65
T6oil                                 135
Of Whi6fi; financeai tnroughf ad66                3 5    .    i 
'Leir Oaid Februaiy 4, t991I.                                       I    . 
Iii im Sur'plusas i  of RLI:L 1/                                    10%            16%
lin'est'ment E xpenditures as % 6f RLR 1/                                  5%            5%
C. Actual                             I     1996_      1997     1998 j   _1999 j   _    2000_ _
Pi&ii     if 'fi   iiiii                                            I         i             iiii
P&i6fNrjOllie                               83%1      68%       58%j      53%           53%
6 1Whi6h;Phj'ihallnvestrnents h             18%      lid/       9%        6%1           6%,
iDWb ServieM                                              ,         1 
6of Wfii6fi i6ifi6d by 60flkd66lo    l
Primfriiyf d6flit                          -20%       -8%      -28%        6%            9%
O06fif^665l o6feait                        -41%      -20%      -42%       -2%|           -5%
T6tiIl D6bf(6a6d O e1i)                    296%      242%      222%      212%          215%
Piaii 6                                                   i 
PhiVysical finestments                 _         I                   _     _1_6.5%l
a1 Receita Liquida Real (RLR), as per definition in footnote 1 of Table 2.i
- 48 -



Table 2. State of Mato Grosso- Fiscal Performance (Millions of Nominal Reais
19961    1997;     1998O 1999         2000
(Projected)
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Gross Current Revenues                      145)    151i0     16081     2022     2143
of which:
Transfers     293       351      6041      705
!IjCMS!    7921     973      821'      1117
fLess: Transfers to Municipios               2121     252'     243                 323
Net Current Revenues                        933     1258      1365      1713     182
1RLRI 1/|i                                                              15
1557
current Expenditures 2/                    12351    1371      1508j     i5441     1583
of which: *
Personnel'I    776!     8611!    794        901      964
Interest 3i    1971      41      192       145        70
Other Current 4':   262      3691     522        499      549
Capital Expenditures 5/                      841     134       4:35      207       141
.   , ,_..   . .....   ..   .... -S --l-  ---F-
of which:
Physical Investmenti    79j     131!      2571      102      117
Financial Investment 6/     5g       3.     178j        23       24
Total Expenditures                         131i9    i5051    1943j      1751     1724
Primary beficit (Surplus)                  -189i    -1061     -3861      107      166
as % of Net Current Revenues  -20%,     -8      -28%%      6.2%      9.%
as /ofRiR           .6.8
Operational DericitlSurplus 31             -3861    -247     -578        -38!      96
as % of Net Current Revenues  -41 %    -20%      -42%      32.2%     53%
as b,% oiiLR,i                              -2.40o
Debt Stock (medium & long-term) 7/         27631    3048:    3036       3630     3921
Debt:Revenue Ratio                    1     3.0       2.4,     2.21       2.11     2.2
Debt Stock (short-term)8/                                      529       185
of which: Arrears 9/                  .                        457        85
1/ Receita Liquida Real: defined as:total revenues, less credit operations, less asset salesJ
iess capital transfers, iess transfers to FUNDEF (expend.), less transfers to iviunicipios (expend.)
2/ excluding transfers to Municipios and deferred interest
3/ excluding deferred interest
4/ including FUNDEF, excluding transfers to Municipios
5/ excluding amortization payments    -
16/BEMAT and others                                    .
-49 -



Appendix 3 - CEMAT Privatization
CEMAT was privatized in November 1997, and 30-year production and distribution concession
contracts were signed with the federal regulatory agency of the electrical energy sector (ANNEL) in
December 11, 1997. CEMAT's control was purchased by a consortiurn composed of two companies
Empresa de Eletricidade Vale do Parapanema S.A, the operational holding of the REDE Group and
INEPAR S.A.. As of May 2000, it had been two years since the company had been managed by its private
owner. A summary of performance since 1995 is presented in attachment.
Background
Created in August 1956, and authorized to operate in October 1958, CEMAT, the state power
company of Mato Grosso, was in 1997 responsible for supplying electrical power to 126 municipalities of
the state of Mato Grosso (about 498,000 consumers) and for sustaining with infrastructure the fast
development of agricultural area in Mato Grosso. Average market growth rate during the last 6 years
before its privatization was 10%. However, CEMAT was one of the worst-performing electricity
companies of Brazil. Its annual losses which reached about Rs. 100 million in 1995 (US$ 109 million) and
Rs. 265 million (US$ 263 million) in 1996 were financed by not paying its bills to Electronorte (an
ELETROBRAS subsidiary) for the purchase of power (CEMAT only generates 8% of the power it sells)
and Electronorte had continued to supply it The very bad financial of CEMAT was the result of both
sector wide and company factors such as: (i) mandated nation wide low and uniform power tariffs were
below CEMAT's high unit costs in a low-density state; (ii) very high both non-technical losses due to poor
management and shortage of meters, and technical losses due to poor maintenance and overloaded
equipment, this had resulted in an inordinately high 27% total losses, about double what might be expected
from a well run company; and (iii) very high operating costs due to overstaffing, high salaries, and use in
remote areas of low efficiency and high operating and maintenance costs local diesel generators, as it
couldn't extend its transmission lines to link up customers to the grid. Not only was CEMAT's services
unreliable, but also it did not expand to meet the rapidly growing demand, due to its inability to invest.
With MT being one of the fastest growing state in Brazil, CEMAT became a serious brake on the state's
development and major fiscal burden for the state government. The 1996 Government decision to privatize
CEMAT reflected therefore both the state reform agenda and a practical necessity.
Preparation of CEMAT's Privatization
Before CEMAT could be sold it was necessary to clean up the company, so as to be able to attract
investors and optimize its market value. For that effect the Government decided to hand over the
management, restructuring and preparation for privatization of CEMAT to ELETROBRAS (second more
important shareholder after the Government) and BNDES through contracts signed in September 1996.
The new management team selected by ELETROBRAS carried out efficiently a 12-month program
including: the continuation of the staff downsizing through the early retirement program started in 1995 and
dismissals which targeted employees who hold the largest salaries, reduction of losses, emergency
investments to prevent power shortage or shortages and improve reliability, re-negotiation of debts and
resolution of outstanding legal disputes. As a result:
- 50 -



(a)    CEMAT's highly paid staff decreased from 2,636 in December 1995 to 2,129 in December 1996
and 1,538 in December 1997;
(b)    number of consumers increased by 6% from 469,700 in 1996 to 498,430 in 1997, and as a result,
the average consumers per staff increased from 220 in 1996 to 324 in 1997;
(c)    total losses were reduced from 26.8% in 1996 to a still high level of 25.1% in 1997, mainly
through metering;
(d)    emergency investments were implemented with funds from ELETROBRAS and BNDES, which
received convertible debentures in exchange. As a result the cumulated number of hours of interruption of
supply per year (DEC) and the number of interruptions per year (FEC) improved respectively from 91 and
138 in 1996 to 78 and 110 in 1997; and
(e)    social security (INSS), dismissal fund (FGTS) and profits tax (IRRF) arrears were re-negotiated
with the federal government; and power purchase arrears from Electronorte/ELETROBRAS were partly
capitalized.
However, in addition to the high losses already mentioned, a high debt and a high level of unpaid
bills were still critical problems, left to be faced by the future concessionaire.
Under the supervision of BNDES and due to the high priority given by all the parties, the
privatization process was implemented efficiently. A consortium of Brazilian furms' leaded by Maxima
was selected through competitive bidding to prepare the privatization process. The consulting work started
in January 1997 and despite some initial delays, the auction took place on November 27, 1997, less than
one month after the ambitious targeted schedule.
The Privatization Process.
Main features -
CEMAT was to be sold as single entity rather than separating its distribution and generation
activities. This was because its small generation capacity was unlikely to attract buyers and the process of
splitting the company would have been time-consuming. However, the concession contracts for generation
and distribution call for the reorganization of CEMAT within three years, into two independent companies
separately providing services of generation and distribution, in line with the on-going reform of the
Brazilian electric sector. It is expected that an extraordinary General Assembly will meet in June 2000 to
authorize the split of CEMAT in two independent companies.
All the shares offered had to be sold to a single firm or consortium to ensure clear responsibility for
the operation of CEMAT.
Up to 12% of ordinary shares were to be made available to CEMAT employees at 50% of the
minimum price for the auction, to help eliminate any employee resistance to the sale and give them a stake
in the company's success.
- 51 -



Financing was available to bidders from BNDES
Firms had to be pre-qualified and had to put up guarantees equal to the minimum price before the
auction.
Auction Data
*                  The auction took place in the Rio de Janeiro Stock Exchange on November
7, 1997 and lasted about one hour.
*                  Shares and convertible debentures offered for sale totaled about 54,614
million (about 52% of total shares) and included 30,839 million of ordinary shares (about 85%
of all ordinary shares). New ownership is as below, it reflects the shares and convertible
debentures acquired by ELETROBRAS and BNDES/BNDESPAR in exchange for resources
they put in the pre-privatization process and to clean-up power purchases and other arrears.
ELETROBRAS        State Government       BNDES               Total
Shares
OrdinaTy              14,119,041,797     14,945,513,547                       29,064,555,344
Preferential          12,534,490,009                                          12,534,490,009
Sub total     26,653,531,806     14,945,513,547                       41,599,045,353
Convertible Debentures
Equivalent
Ordinaly               1,465,117,368                          309,881,000       1,774,998,368
Preferential           9,277,896,240                         1,962,330,000     11,240,226,240
Sub total     10,743,013,608                        2.272,211,000     13,015,224,608
Total
Ordinary              15,584,159,165     14,945,513,547       309,881,000     30,839,553,712
Preferential          21,812,386,249                         1,962,330,000    23,774,716,249
Total      37,396,545,414     14,945,513,547      2,272,211,000     54,614,269,961
*                  The minimum price for the shares offered was set at RS 323.3 million.
*                  Out of 5 firms pre-qualified, 3 firms participated in the auction, of which
two presented their bids in consortium. Sealed bids were received from: (i) Cataguazes
-Leopoldina Power and light Company (Cataguazes-Leopoldina) with the highest bid price of
R$370 million, 14.4% above the minimum price; and (ii) the consortium formed by Empresa
de Eletricidade Vale do Parapanema S.A, of REDE Group, and INEPAR
S.A.(REDE/INEPAR), with a bid price of R$358.9 million, 11% above the minimum price.
Under standard Brazilian rules and in agreement with the bidding documents, if the second
- 52 -



highest sealed bid is within 10% of the winning bid, there should be a second round of voice
bidding. For the first time in a state privatization in Brazil, this actually happened. The
second-high bidder, REDE/ANEPAR was willing to match Cataguazes-Leopoldina bids and it
took 95 voice bids before it was declared the winner, with a final bid price of R$391.5 million,
21% above the minimum price. Apparently, foreign bidders were not interested by CEMAT,
probably because of its location and small size.
*              The R$ 391.5 million paid by REDE/INEPAR were allocated as follow:
R$ mitlion
State of Mato Grosso                    176.10
ELETROBRAS                           139.98
BNDES/BNDESPAR                         34.62
CEMAT                              40.60
Cost of the Auction                      0.20
This allocation reflects: (i) compensatory payments made by ELETROBRAS to the State
Government and to CEMAT for the difference between the nominal price ELETROBRAS had paid
before privatization per share transferred, or the emission value of the convertible debentures, and
the actual price obtained in the auction (R$87.4 million to the Government and R$40.6 million to
CEMAT); and (ii) re-payment made by the state government to BNDES (R$18.3 million) for
liabilities incurred under the contract of promise of purchase and sale of shares signed on
September 10, 1996.
- 53-



The New Owners
The control of CEMAT was successfully auctioned to a consortium consisting of two Brazilian
companies: Empresa de Electricidade Vale do Parapanema S.A, (EEVP) of the REDE Group and NEPAR
S.A. According to their internal agreement, the REDE group received about 65% of total shares purchased
in the auction and the control (about 57% of the total ordinary shares) and operation of CEMAT.
Distribution of shares as of May 2000 is presented below, and shows that ELETROBRAS still own 59.8%
of preferential shares and 5.8% of ordinary shares.
% of Ordinary % of Preferential     % of Total
Shares           Shares           Shares
Shareholder
REDE/EEVP Group (through               56.98            27.02             37.36
CAUIA)
INEPAR S.A.                            29.64             12.04            18.11
ELETROBRAS and Furnas                   5.79            59.80             41.17
Government of MT (employees)            4.17                               1.44
CODEMAT                                 0.25                               0.08
Other                                   3.17              1.14             1.84
Total      100.00           100.00           100.00
The REDE Group (REDE) is a group of seven concessionaires, controlled by an operational
holding company EEVP, itself controlled by DENERGE S.A.. REDE, assumed the control and
management of CEMAT in December 1997 and had CAUIA, one of its participant, become the titular of
CEMAT shares. REDE operates medium-size power companies in Sao Paulo, Minas Gerais, Parana,
Tocantins (CELTIN, the first state power company to be privatized) and, now, Mato Grosso. REDE is
currently part of the Lajeado consortium (46% of shares) responsible for the construction of an 850 MW
hydroelectric dam in Tocantins, the largest one to be owned by a private Brazilian company. The REDE
group has a total concession area of more than 1.2 million kIn , with a population of about five million,
consumers numbering 1.2 million and about 3,325 employees.
INEPAR S.A - Induistria e Construcoes (Curitiba, Parana) is a diversified and dynamic group with
investments in the areas of generation, electrical equipment, system automation, energy meters, telemetry
and telecommunications.
The Regulatory Framework - The concession contracts were signed with ANEEL, the federal
regulatory agency and are governed by federal regulations. The Brazilian power sector regulation is the
responsibility of ANEEL, the National Agency for Electric Energy. Standards for service quality,
investments and pricing are established in the distribution and generation concession contracts. Under an
agreement between the State Government and ANEEL, and as stipulated in the concession contracts, part
of the regulation and control activities will be subcontracted to the MT State Government, through a
cooperation agreement to be signed as soon as the state regulatory agency is fully operational.
- 54 -



Outcome of The Privatization Process.
Immediately after privatization, REDE, established a new Board of Directors for CEMAT and
improved the company organizational structure, through decentralization of administrative management to
six regional divisions. In the first two years, the concessionaire undertook to very substantially improve
productivity, and reduce total losses and costs. Total losses were reduced from 25.1% in 1997 to 21.6% in
1998 and 20.7% in 1999 and CEMAT expects to reach a level of 14% in 2001. Energy sold increased 14%
in 1998, but only 6% in 1999 due to climatic factors and economic recession, but a 9% increase is expected
for 2000. The number of consumers per employee further improved from 324 in 1997 to 362 in 1999.
Finally, the unpaid bills problem was practically overcome.
CEMAT invested a total of about R$ 100 million in 1998 and 1999 to improve operation,
maintenance, and capacity of its system. Main investments included construction and revamping of
substations to increase installed capacity from 812 MVA in 1997 to 1138 MVA in 1999, 485 kilometers of
new transmission lines, 521 new transformers, and about 86,000 power consumption meters. As a result,
the quality of CEMAT's services improved, as indicated by the cumulated number of hours of interruption
of supply per year (DEC),which improved from 78 in 1997 to 43 in 1999; the number of interruptions per
year (FEC), which improved from 110 in 1997 to 65 in 1999; and the average time for attendance which
improved from 182 minutes in 1997 to 107 minutes in 1999. REDE/CEMAT expects to invest a total of
R$500 million during its first ten years of concession. In 1999, CEMAT obtained the premium of Best
Global Change in the Brazilian power sector, awarded each year by the Brazilian Modem Electricity
Journal. Also, in a recent survey of the Federal University of Mato Grosso commissioned by CEMAT,
more than 60% of the persons interviewed were very positive about the new CEMAT.
As of April 2000, CEMAT's total number of employees was 1,550 with total annual salary costs
of R$ 3.7 million, much lower than the R$ 6 million which were necessary to pay about the same number
of employees (1,559) in 1997, before privatization. This was the result of CEMAT's decision to optimize
its work force, replacing about 1,000 existing employees by more specialized and less expensive new
employees. Severance cost amounted to R$10 million. In addition, CEMAT subcontracts about 1,100
employees at a total cost of R$ 1.1 million (in 1997, subcontracted employees amounted to 845). To
improve the quality of its workforce, and consequently of its services, CEMAT is implementing an
intensive training program for all its staff, including subcontracted employees.
The concessionaire was satisfied with the privatization process and with the concession contract.
Tariffs increased three times since privatization: (i) an annual adjustment of 8% in 1998; (ii) an annual
adjustment of 10.79% starting April 8, 1999; and (iii) a special adjustment of 8.19% to compensate for the
devaluation of the Real (4.49% starting June 6, 1999, 1.73% starting July 7, 1999 and 1.78% starting
August 7, 1999). The average tariff increased from R$104/MWH in 1997 to R$127/MWH in 1999 and
annual operating revenues increased from R$346.8 million in 1997, to R$411.6 million in 1998, and to
R$569.9 million in 1999.
Operating profit improved, from losses of R$30.2 million in 1997, to profits of R$8.9 million in
1998, but decreased to losses of R$2.4 million in 1999. In 1998, CEMAT net profit after tax was R$2.3
million, while in 1999, CEMAT lost R$60.3 million. CEMAT's bad financial performance in 1999 was
due to the large devaluation of the Real early in 1999, and to the subsequent national economic recession.
At the end of 1999, CEMAT total debt was R$446.3 mnillion, including R$162.6 million of re-negotiated
- 55 -



arrears. About R$180 million of the debt were in foreign currency. CEMAT's management expects to
improve the financial performance of the company and reach a financial equilibrium in 2002, reducing
losses, increasing revenues and optimizing debt..
- 56 -



Attachment- CEMAT- Indicators of Performance
Before Privatization             After Privatiza
1995        1996         1997          1998
Labor Productivitv
Number of Consumers              448,796       469,660      498,430      516,476
Number of Employees                2,636         2,129        1,538         1,332
Energy Sold (Gwh)                  2,010         2,154        2,390        2,719
Number of Consumers per Employee     170          221           324          388
Energy Sold per Employee             0.76         1.01         1.55         2.04
Effective Performance of the System
DEC                                102.34        91.13        77.61         66.61
FEC                                148.16       137.88       110.43        100.68
Losses (%)
Total (technical and commercial)   24.9%         26.8%        25.1%         21.6%
Financial Performance (Thousand Reais)
Operating Revenues               210,468       283,362      346,769       411,598
Operating Profit                 (58,258)      (23,479)     (30,238)        8,896
Net Profit (after taxe) (i)     (100,153)     (265,210)      45,210         2,287
Investments                       43,048        30,245       63,338        50,993
Market
Number of Consumers
Residential                      378,251       395,245      417,794       432,858
Industrial                         5,462         5,549        5,781         5,601
Comercial                         44,749        46,441       49,115        49,894
Rural                             14,867        16,771       19,938        21,855
Institutional                      5,207         5,393        5,557         6,035
Resale                                 3            3             3            3
Other                                257          258           242          230
Total                            448,796       469,660      498,430       516,476
Growth Rate                                      4.65%        6.13%         3.62%
Enermy Sold (Gwh4)
- 57 -



Appendix 4. Municipalization of Water/Sewerage Services and Liquidation of SANEMAT
Municipalization Process and Liquidation of SANEMAT
In 1996, SANEMAT, the state water and sanitation company, operated systems in 92 out of 126
municipalities. These systems served about 76% of state population with water and 12% with sewage
collection. Only 4% of sewage collected was treated. Only about 40% of water produced was effectively
collected. Despite high tariff, high salaries paid to staff accounted for 140% of revenues. Losses were
high (around R$30 million per year in 1995 and 1996). Given the high tariffs, poor services and high costs
of SANEMAT, municipalization or privatization of water and sewerage services has been a declared
objective of the State Government since 1996.
In June 1997, the government, through PMSS, contracted technical assistance to carry out
physical and financial diagnostics of the seven major systems, propose appropriate structures for each
municipality and for a regulatory agency, define the scope for private sector participation, and draft the
necessary laws and regulations. However, the decision to proceed with municipalization was considerably
anticipated during 1997, because the concession contracts between the largest municipalities of Cuiaba and
Varzea Grande and SANEMAT expired, these two municipalities decided not to renew them and also
obtained court injunctions for the state to hand-over the management of the services to them. Since these
two municipalities accounted for 45% of SANEMAT's asset value and for over 55% of water revenues,
SANEMAT would shortly be left with the many high- cost smaller systems while foregoing a large share of
its revenues, resulting in considerably higher losses.
Faced with the prospect of rapidly escalating losses, the State Government decided to proceed with
the municipalization of all SANEMAT systems and subsequently liquidate the company. The State issued
a decree on November 5, 1997 (Decreto Estadual 1802) establishing the municipalization process. The
state would enter into three types of contracts with interested municipalities: shared management (gestao
compartilhada) for expired concessions, technical cooperation (cooperacao tecnica) for municipalities
without concession contract or with an unexpired contract, and mutual cooperation (cooperacao mutua) for
municipalities with an intention to privatize. Between the beginning of 1998 and March 2000, SANEMAT
signed 22 of such agreements whereby municipalities took-over the operation of the systems while
transferring 7.5% of invoicing monthly to SANEMAT, as advances on payment for assets which would be
due after asset valuation has been completed. For Cuiaba, Rondonopolis and Varzea Grande, the largest
cities, this percentage was established at 25% of invoicing (for Cuiaba, up to a total value of R$ 1.85
million per month). These 22 systems accounted for about 80% of invoicing. As of March 2000, however,
out of 22 systems transferred, the state had reached an agreement regarding the level of compensation
payments for the assets with only seven municipalities, including none of the largest ones. Although by
then SANEMAT had already dismissed 75% of its staff, losses and liabilities escalated quickly in 1998 and
1999 as, without the bulk of revenues from water and sewerage charges, SANEMAT was left with the
onus of paying large debts to INSS and the federal government (federal taxes) as well as other financial
institutions (CEF), while continuing the bear the high costs of the remaining smaller 70 systems.
Furthermore, the State had ran out of funds to finance the dismissal of the remaining personnel. Arrears
increased considerably.
- 58 -



In March 2000, having secured the anticipation of part of the remaining tranche from the Bank, the
Government resolved to accelerate the process by transferring the operation of all remaining systems,
dismissing all remaining employees of SANEMAT by July 2000 (beyond which dismissals would become
illegal until after municipal elections) and to decree the liquidation of the company. The Bank agreed to
amend the Loan Agreement, postponing the closing date by one year, dividing the last tranche into two
tranches to allow timely financing of severance payments to SANEMAT employees, and reducing
requirements for coverage of private concession or management contracts from a total urban population of
400,000 in aggregate to 100,000. By June 2000, all but 90 employees had already been dismissed. A law
authorizing the liquidation of SANEMAT was approved by the State Legislature in August 2000. Another
law authorizing the extinction of SANEMAT and the transfer of its assets and liabilities to the state and
other shareholders was passed in December 2000. By September 30, 2001, the actual closing date, all
employees had been dismissed, the operation of all systems transferred to municipalities, and all remaining
assets and liabilities had been transferred to METAMAT or to the State Government. SANEMAT had
thus ceased to exist as an operating company. The only legal step remaining for the extinction of
SANEMAT and its formal incorporation to METAMAT was the publication of the final balance sheet and
its approval by the shareholders'assembly, which is expected by January 15, 2002.
Private Operation and Concession of Municipal Systems
In parallel, however, progress was very slow with respect to private concessioning of water and
sanitation systems by the municipalities which had assumed the operation of their systems. The main
bottleneck again was lack of agreement on the value of compensation payments for assets transferred by
SANEMAT, until which any concession by municipalities would be illegal. There was also disagreement
over the role of AGER. Most municipalities which assumed the operation of the systems contracted
private management temporarily, or chose to operate the systems themselves using contracted staff, until
they were in a position to concede the systems to private operators. As of March 2000, all three largest
municipalities (Cuiaba, Varzea Grande and Rondonopolis) had declared their intention to postpone the
bidding process until after municipal elections in October 2000. In connection with the IDB Pantanal
project, the Governor had reached an agreement with mayors of the Southeast region to form a consortium
of municipalities covering a population of between 100,000 and 150,000, and to delegate to the state the
concessioning process and subsequent regulation. However, this consortium as well as some other
promoted by the State Government did not materialize before election and the new mayors who took office
subsequently had different views.
In order to resolve the impasse of compensation payments, the Government proposed to the
Legislative Assembly a draft law authorizing the granting of heavy discounts to municipalities over
compensation payments. This law was passed on December 13, 2000. It stipulated discounts ranging from
30% to 100%, depending on urban population, number of connections and water revenues (the lower
percentage of 30% for the larger systems was subsequently raised to 40% in November 2001), and
authorized the payment of the balance over up to 30 years. This provided impetus for the start of
privatization. By November 2001, 47 out of 95 municipalities had signed agreements over compensation
payments and final recision of concessions agreements with SANEMAT. Out of these, 13 had granted
concessions to private operators (covering a total urban population of about 220,000), 4 had signed lease
agreements (covering a total urban population of about 142,000) and 11 had issued tender documents for
concessions (covering a total urban population of about 238,000), meaning that close to one third of total
urban population was already covered, or was about to become covered, under concession or lease
agreements with the private sector. None of the three major cities , however, had granted concessions or
leases. Varzea Grande (total urban population of about 211,000) had still not agreed on compensation
- 59 -



payments, but was planning to grant a concession as soon as an agreement was reached. Cuiaba (total
urban population of about 476,000) had established its own municipal company, but would have to legally
assume the property of the assets and contract out management of the system to a private operator in order
to be eligible for IDB funds under the Pantanal project. Rondonopolis (urban population of about
142,000) was operating the system itself, along with the other 61 municipalities, using its own or
contracted staff.
Sector Legal Framework and Regulation
Until mid- 1999, the state had not been involved in preparing the municipal concessions for
privatization and ensuring that contracts with private concessionaires include adequate provisions for
regulation, environmental obligations and protection of investors and consumers. In June 1999, following
discussions with a Bank mission, the state government formed a Water Privatization Committee, chaired by
the Secretary of Planning. The Committee was to identify individual or groupings of municipalities that
were viable candidates for concessions; review the existing structure of water and sanitation tariffs;
prepare model agreements between municipalities, concession contracts and bidding procedures for
privatization; prepare draft laws and regulations for the sector; and carry out environmental audits. At
Bank's urging, later in 1999, the state government contracted specialized technical assistance to develop
model bidding documents and procedures, concession contracts, and draft laws and regulations (including
revised tariff structures, service coverage and quality targets and environmental regulations), to be used by
municipalities in their concessions. The Committee then tried to convince municipalities to use them, to
delegate regulation to the state regulator, and to undertake environmental audits. The Committee was also
active in promoting the formation of consortia of the smaller municipalities, using financial incentives
available under PMSS and the IDB Pantanal project. However, these efforts may have come too late and
none of the concessions granted until late 2001 had been awarded using the documentation prepared by the
State, nor did any consortium materialize. As evidenced in the attached table summarizing the
characteristics of some systems visited by the completion mission, these concessions had some serious
flaws, in particular concerning award procedures, regulatory arrangements and sewerage targets, and none
had performed environmental audits prior to issuing bidding documents, as was required under the Loan
Agreement.
Concerned with the possibility of later failure of municipal concessions, the Water Privatization
Committee, with Bank assistance, drafted a sector law (State Policy for Water Supply and Sewerage),
which was passed by the Legislature in November 2001. The law, inter-alia: (a) clarifies that
municipalities or inter-municipal consortia have competence over water supply and sewerage, therefore
removing the state from any further involvement in service provision; (b) it creates a State Council,
responsible for the formulation of the state policy in the sector and the approval of a multi-year sector
program, including spending priorities, and provides for the development of coordination mechanisms with
water basin agencies and environmental and sector regulators; (c) it establishes a state fund to channel
resources for grants for low-cost projects benefitting low income populations or municipalities without
investment or indebtedness capacity; (d) it specifies the main characteristics of regulatory agencies; (e) it
specifies that regulation must be delegated to AGER whenever the creation of a municipal agency is
inadequate or expensive, a municipal system may affect other municipalities, and whenever municipalities
adhere to the incentive program providing discounts on compensation payments for assets; (f) AGER
will define minimum standards of coverage and quality of service; and (d) the state will provide technical
and managerial technical assistance to municipalities.
- 60 -



Sustainability
Provided the law is regulated quickly and implemented, it should go a long way towards addressing
concems about regulation and minimum standards. The state govemment intends to require that AGER
has to approve all forthcoming draft concession contracts and bidding documents before bids are invited. A
Coordination is being created within the Secretariat of Infrastructure to provide support to the Council and
ensure the implementation of the law. The Coordinator has already been appointed and will have rank of
under-secretary. The combination of the new law with the incentive program, which has retroactive effect
on municipalities which have already conceded their systems provided they accept AGER as a regulator,
should provide the means to correct some of the faults in existing concessions and avoid similar faults in
future ones.
Besides these issues of sustainability of concessions, concem was raised during supervision
regarding the sustained operation of small and medium systems massively transferred without much
transition to municipalities without any competence to operate them. A study carried out in 2000 at the
request of the Bank about the situation of ex-SANEMAT employees showed that, out of the 1,484
SANEMAT employees dismissed when the study was carried out, 540 (36%) were still working in the
sector (384 hired by municipalities, 113 by contractors working for contractors operating municipal
systems, and 43 working for concessionaires), or an average of close to 6 per municipality. This staff
reported compensation levels less than half their past compensation. It is therefore likely that
municipalization, while it has not caused a collapse of the system, has indeed increased efficiency and
productivity. This does not mean, however, that these increases will be sustained if the systems remain
operated by municipal departments, as is still the case for the vast majority of municipalities. Finally,
municipalization has furthered the creation of local firms, using SANEMAT technical personnel, willing to
operate concessions in small and medium-size towns, with an eye on other forthcoming concession offers to
capture economies of scale in systems administration.
A few remaining issues will need to be addressed conceming sewerage coverage. The law
stipulates that sewerage services should be universal over a time frame to be specified, and FEMA
environmental regulations demand that all sewage collected through new collection networks should receive
secondary treatment before being discharged. This is very expensive and there are substantial economies of
scale in sewerage provision and treatment, which make it unlikely that municipalities and concessions in
small and medium-size towns will be able to provide all of the required service and offer more than very
partial coverage over the concession period. The environmental standards may provide a disincentive to
municipalities to expand sewage collection networks at all, and some of the existing concession contracts
may well be unrealistic in this respect, leading some concessionaires to likely default on their obligations
when they become due. Under the new sector law, grants may be provided to provide sewerage to low
income populations or poor or over-indebted municipalities, which could have helped alleviate this problem
if sufficient resources are available. However, use of these funds is prohibited by municipalities whose
systems are operated under any type of private sector involvement. In addition, this restriction may act as
disincentive to private sector management, particularly in smaller, poorer towns which are the least able to
construct and manage such systems themselves.
- 61 -



Main Data
*     Characteristics of SANEMAT in 1997:
Population served with water: 1.73 million (76% of state population)
Population served with sewerage:   (12% of state population)
Water production: 169.5 million m3
Water billed: 75.6 million m3
Losses: Physical and commercial losses: 55.4%
Percent of water produced actually collected: 35%
*     Start of municipalization: 1998
*     Municipalities attended by SANEMAT (out of a total of 126):
Before start of municipalization (authorized on April 29, 1998): 92
*     As of November 2001:
Operated under lease arrangements: 4 (urban population: 142,252)
Operated under concessions:      13 (urban population: 219,752)
Bids for concession invited:     11 (urban population: 238,001)
Concession intention declared:  5 (urban population: 249,250)
Operated by municipalities       62 (urban population: 1,053,331)
*     Financial Situation (R$ Million)
- 62 -



Year    Operating Profit (Loss)  Total Profit  Gross        Total     Permanent
(excluding financial   (Loss)      Revenues      Liabilities  Assets
expenses)
1994          (32.29)            20.44        32.12        167.67      358.49
1995          (14.24)           (29.96)       74.65        243.84      445.53
1996          (11.20)           (31.29)       91.62        261.15      450.98
1997          (11.58)           (21.71)       88.79        273.92      460.60
1998            0.03            (47.38)       56.88        336.79      463.00
1999          (30.91)           (67.84)       14.96        393.15      459.50
2000           (11.38)          (46.79)        10.35       427.11       394.68
*     Personnel:
In December 1994: 2,366
In May 1997: 1,850
In March 1998: 1,650           monthly cost: R$2.71 million
By March 2000: 459             monthly cost:R$0.92 million
By November 2001: 0
Although the transfer of systems started in April 1998, dismissals only started in May 1999, due to
unavailability of funds to pay for severance costs.
*     Severance Costs
March 1999-September 2001: R$ 39 Million
Liabilities assumed or to be assumed by the State, based on December 30, 2000 Balance Sheet:
- 63 -



Taxes and Contributions                                      272.5
1. INSS (including R$155 million now owed to State          174.1
Government, which assumed that debt in February
2000 and refinanced it as part of debt restructuring
agreement with Federal Government)
2. Federal Taxes (of which R$64.5 million renegotiated        67.8
with Union on June 30, 2000. Total net repayable,
net of tax credits: R$26.39 million).
3. ICMS                                                      23.85
4. SANEPREVI (complementary pension fund of                   3.40
SANEMAT employees- payable in 60 monthly
installments @ 12% per annum, plus inflation)
Debts to State and Federal Government                       114.78
5. Debt to State Government: in repayment of debts          103.68
assumed by State Government: including to CEMAT,
originally. of R$48.75 million, assumed by the State
Government in May 1997.
6. Debt to Federal Government                                 11.1
Debts to Financial Institutions                              28.89
7. Debt to Fundo de Agua e Esgoto (FAE) and Caixa            26.03
Economica Federal (CEF), guaranteed by the State.
8. Other debts to financial institutions                      2.86
Other Liabilities (Suppliers and other)                      14.37
Total Liabilities                          427.11
Other Liabilities assumed by the State Government: debt of SANEMAT to CEMAT in 1997 (R$48.75
million)
*     Labor Disputes
Cases lost, including those under appeal: R$4.04 million
Cases in process: R$5.55 million
*     Costs of Liquidation
Legal, technical and financial consultants: R$2.91 million
- 64 -



*     Assets
Assets transferred to Municipios-Values net of discounts, to be received by the State in
installments over 30 years: R$131.02 million (plus interest). These values compare with a total
accounting value of R$441.1 million and an evaluated value of R$275.64 million.
Assets incorporated to METAMAT: head office: R$9.63 million; Other: R$76.0 million (cash and
receivables)-based on Dec. 2000 Balance Sheet.
Cost/Benefit Analysis:
Under the Base case, incremental costs of municipalization include all costs of severance payments
and liquidation. They also includes all incremental liabilities attributed to the municipalization process
during the transition period-ie the difference between total liabilities between the end of 2000 and the end
of 1997 (the base year), or a total of R$153.2 million. There was no significant addition to permanent
assets over the same period. Incremental benefits to the state are estimated operating losses avoided, taken
as a proxy for periodic recapitalizations to maintain operations.
Under the sensitivity analysis, the total cost to the state budget is considered, which includes: (a)
costs of severance payments and liquidation; (b) the entire negative equity of SANEMAT, calculated as all
liabilities which the state will assume at final liquidation (estimated at R$427.11 million), plus liabilities to
CEMAT assumed in 1997, net of expected compensation payments for assets (R$131.02 million), and
assets transferred to METAMAT (R$85.6 million). Total benefits are estimated operating losses avoided,
taken as a proxy for periodic recapitalizations to maintain operations, plus the value of expected
compensation payments for assets transferred to municipalities.
Net benefits under both cases, however, are underestimated, as they do not include additional
capitalizations which would be required from the state government to finance the large investments which
would be required to expand coverage of the services.
Experience in Five Municipalities
The completion mission visited five small and medium-size municipalities in November 2001.
Three had granted concessions and two were operating the systems themselves. Key features and results
for each one so far are summarized in the table on the next page. It is possible to summarize the main
findings as follows:
*       After take-over, all contracted former SANEMAT personnel to run the systems. Several
attempted to increase revenues by increasing tariffs and installing meters, and to reduce costs of water
treatment by switching from surface water catchment and treatment facilities to deep wells with simple
chlorination. Evasion, however, has tended to increase substantially as many users do not feel an
obligation to pay municipal governments, which in turn do not exercise much pressure to control
- 65 -



evasion (revenues revert to the general municipal treasuy account). After initial experience, the
financial burden became excessive and municipalities started feeling the need for passing on the
systems to third parties. Those who did, hired former SANEMAT employees to assist them in
designing concession documents.
*      One year after concessions were granted, municipalities were highly satisfied with the
performance of the concessionaires, as these managed to meet targets of increased water coverage,
metering and reliability, to substantially increase productivity, and to reduce losses. However, the
ambitious, more expensive, sewerage targets were not due yet, and concessionaires visited had not yet
secured financing for these investments. They intended to resort to federal funding from BNDES.
*      With respect to supervision and regulation, not much supervision was being exercised by the
Prefeituras, which tended to rely on concessionaires reports. Responsibility for regulation tended to be
vested in councils representing users, the municipal government and the municipal assembly, therefore
with an in-built bias towards consumers. There was already some evidence of delayed tariff
adjustments.
*      Concessions were operated by new enterprises keen on building capacity for running systems in
small and medium-size towns and later gaining economy of scale, at least in administration systems, by
winning other concessions in neighbouring towns. However, in some cases systems are very small and
targets are ambitious, casting some doubts on long-term sustainability.
Primavera do Leste  Don Aquino         Jaciara            Sorriso             Nobres
Urban Population      36,500, growing very  :6.400, mostly   20,760            31,400, growing      12,000
rapidly (doubled in past low-income. Stable.              rapidly (about 12% per
five years),                           5,132 connections  year)
1,880 connections
3,307 connections
Number of Connections  3,300 (water)      1,915 (water)      5,132 (water)     From 4,530 in June   2,806 (water)
:2000 to about 7,000 in
November 2001 (water)
Present Coverage of  Water:40%            Water: 90%         Water: 98%        Water: 90%           Water: 100%
system                                                                                             (subject to
Sewerage:25%        Sewerage: 0%       Sewerage: 0%       Sewerage:0%         interruptions).
Surface water
:Municipality        Municipality       Due to increase in  Water is supplied from catchment and
constructed water   constructed limited  energy costs, have  20 wells, including  treatment station in
treatment station prior sewerage collection  switched from  various new wells  operation, and one
to concession with  network covering less surface water   opened by           well, to be
capacity to treat   than 5% of         catchment and      concessionaire.     de-activated.
effluent of entire   population, but it is  treatment plant to
population          not yet in operation.  wells with simple
have switched from  chlorination
surface water
catchment and
treatment plant to
wells with simple
- 66 -



chlorination
Current Management    :System transferred in  Direct administration Direct administration Concession awarded in Concession awardec
1998. 30-year       by Prefeitura, using  by Prefeitura.  June 2000 to Aguas de in June 1999 to
Concession, awarded in personnel (8)   Revenues enter into  Sorriso, a company  Empresa de
2000 to a Cuiaba     contracted through  the general treasury  with nine shareholders Saneamento de
construction company  COOPERSERV, a    account. Operation  from Sao Paulo, with  Nobres (ESAN).
(KULLINAM)          cooperative of former contracted out to  businesses in    Shareholders are a
SANEMAT            COOPERSERV, a     construction and     group of
employees.         cooperativeofformer .sanitation. 10    entrepreneurs
SANEMAT            employees.         involved in
:employees. Mayor                      construction
would concede                          activities.
system but face
political difficulty
with local Assembly
Price of concession   R$1.135 miilion, 50%                                      R$ 1.3 million, up front Not available
up front and balance in
4 monthly payments
Targets               100% coverage for                                        Water: 100% of urban  Water: regularize
water in two years;                                       population within two  water supply by firs
75% coverage for                                          years. Rural        semester of 2002 by
sewers within 3 years                                     population: 50% within eliminating
5 years and 100%    interruptions.
within 10 years.
Sewerage: 17%
Sewerage: 30% within within 4 years, 70%
5 years, 50% within 10 within 7 years.
years and 100% within
25 years.
Investments estimated
in bid. Documents at
R$4 million for water
and R$11.5 million for
sewerage.
Regulation            Conselho de                                               Conselho de         Municipality receiv
Saneamento, made of 6                                     Saneamento, of 4     3% of invoicing fror
members representing                                      members (I           concessionaire to
business associations,                                    representing municipal maintain a municipr
neighborhoods and                                         govemment, I the     regulatory agency
municipal assembly.                                       municipal assembly,  which has not yet
Council decides on                                        and 2 commercial and  been created. No
imposition of penalties                                  *business associations). supervision from
according to a schedule                                   Legally created but not municipality, excepi
of points. Conselho                                       established yet. No  for sporadic checks
meets occasionally.                                       supervision so far.  by Health
Evaluates once a year.                                     Prefeitura relies on  Secretariat.
Supervision by                                            concessionaire's
COOPERSERV during                                          reports.
first year of concession.
Technical Assistance for COOPERSERV                                             COOPERSERV          Not Available
preparation of bid. Docs (Cooperative of                                        (Cooperative of
and concession contract ex-SANEMAT                                              ex-SANEMAT
employees). Also                                          -employees)
assisted in process and
supervision of
concession in first year.
- 67 -



Tariff adjustments    Not yet              Increased minimum  Minimum tariff of  Unchanged since April Minimum tariff
tariff from R4 to  R$4 per lOm3 had   1997. First tariff  increased from R$6
R55.5 per lOm3     not changed for 6  adjustment under     per lOm3 to R$7.3
years. Was recently  concession contract
increased to R56,  overdue.
-except for users
earning less than I
minimum salary.
Level of              High. Concessionaire  Low evasion       Not available      High.                High.
Satisfaction/Achievement has met all targets of  traditionally (6-7%).
s                     loss reduction, coverage Prefeitura has cut                Water coverage already Physical loosed
and customers service. costs by stopping                   increased to over 95%  reduced from
water treatment                       of urban population.  40-50% in 1999 to
station, and increased                Number of connections 20%. Targets for
revenues by raising                   has increased 54%,   water exceeded.
tariffs and installing                billing has more than  Replaced meters an'
meters (830 so far).                  doubled following    installed 2,300 new
Accounts now                          updating of cadaster  ones. Invoicing
balanced.                             and installation of  doubled. Evasion
meters on 55% of     now very low (very
connections.         high during year
when municipality
Sewerage: chronogram  operated system aft(
under preparation,   it was transferred.
.financing not yet   Concessionaire
secured. Intends to  concerned at low
apply for BNDES      willingness to pay fi
financing.           sewerage (only 500t
of potential users).
Evasion only 4.5%,
traditionally low. All
surplus from operation
go to investments.
- 68 -



Mato Grosso State Privatization Project - Loan 4189 - BR
Cost/Benefit Analysis- Liquidation of SANEMAT
(Million Reais- Constant 1999 Terms)
1997   1998   1999    2000    2001   2002    2003   2004   2005   2006   200'
Incremental Costs                                         I          -                 .
Cost of Li,uidation
Severance Payments                i                  28.0   11.0
Indemnities under Labor Court Actions 1/                                            68
Contracted Technical Assistance        i                   I .5 '   1 
Subtotai                                        95    .5 12   .o 600
Sutotai in constant i1999 terms                                Oi2i              6.2
Incremental Liabilities incurred during Municipalization                 .       I
incrementai Liabiiities over 1997                 629     56.4    34.0j
in i 999constant terms                        64i8   56.4'    32.71
Total Incremental Liabilities in 1999 constant terms                             153.8*
|_ TotalincrementaiCosts in constant 1999 terms              29.5    12.6   153 8s   6.2
Incrementai Benefits                                                     :
Operating Losses Avoided 2i                                                             I /        i 1  20.  20  20
Wet Incremental Benefit       N             ,es153.81 2                                       0320.3     20.3   20.3   20.3 20
Net Prese'nt' Value = !       -63.5        ffi     !
Total Costs                                       '                                                              -
Costs of Liquidation                              I      I                125               -6.8
Totai Liabiiities assumed by the State                                             i27 '.
less: assets transferred to ME TA MA T                                    -85.6,
Total Cost   48.8            295    12     34B 16
Total cost in constant 1999 terms,  54.2         29.5.   12.0  309.8I
Total Benefits                          .                                3
Compensation Payments                                                                      131.0
Operating Losses Avoided 2i                       I20.3                                            20.3   20.3   203    20i3   20.
Total Benefits      I                                 151.3   20.3   20.3   20.3   20.3   20
iTotal Net Benefits                               j                  29.5   -120   -309.81  145.1  20.3   20.3    20.3   20.3 j 20
Net Present Value =           -91.2                !
I                                t~~~~~~~~RR= !     0%oo|      j      |       5 
Sensitivity Analysis- Benefits do not include Losses Avoided     j
Net Benefits                                             |          -29.5  -i2.0| -309.S   124.8j
Net Present Value -          .-177.0
li?R = I      j#NUM!I                        i              i             i 
GDP Deflator                                        0.90     0.97    1.0     1.04T  i101    1.lO0
1/ assuming that SANEMAT loses 50% of outstanding court actions,  |        !            iI
- 69 -



Appendix 5. Liquidation of BEMAT
After three years of management by the Central Bank, the financial situation of BEMAT had not
improved and, after failing to privatize BEMAT, the Central Bank decreed its extra-judicial liquidation in
January 1998. However, actual liquidation of assets and liabilities proceeded slowly until funds became
available from the federal government under the debt restructuring agreement between the State and the
Union, to finance the assumption by the state of all assets and liabilities of BEMAT. Ordinary liquidation,
this time controlled by the state govermment, was then decreed in June 1999 and has been proceeding since.
Key Dates
*     February 2, 1995: Central Bank intervenes in BEMAT (RAET Regime)
*     May 22, 1997: General Assembly of BEMAT approves transformation of BEMAT into
non-financial Development Agency.
*     June 11, 1997: Central Bank confirms to State Government that Central Bank, Banco do Brasil
and BEMAT have finalized understandings that BEMAT liabilities will be transferred to Banco do
Brasil, starting July 7.
*     July 11, 1997: Debt restructuring agreement signed between State and Union, in which Union
pledges to finance the extinction of BEMAT (or its transformation into a development agency) for an
estimated value of R$122.7 million.
*     December 16, 1997: State and Union sign amendment to July 1997 agreement with Union,
revising amounts to up to R$284.6 million for the State to purchase the assets of BEMAT (280.0
million) and transform it into a development agency (an additional R$4 million), and incorporates
additional funds under State Debt Restructuring Agreement
*     On December 15, 1997, BEMAT signs contract with Banco do Brazil (BB) for transfer of
BEMAT deposits to BB, estimated at R$92 millionul (current accounts: R$31.2 million, inter-bank
deposits-CDI and term- R$60.3 million, and judicial deposits-R$0.4 million), interbank deposits to be
adjusted at date of transfer by contractual rates. Contract has duration of 18 months. Current accounts
are transferred on December 12 and all other accounts are transferred to Banco do Brazil on December
22. Total value of contract is rectified on December 19 to R$145 million, and again on January 19,
1988, to R$143 million.
- 70 -



*     December 22, 1997: closure of agencies starts.
*    January 28, 1998: extra-judicial liquidation is decreed by Central Bank
*    June 4, 1998: Senate approves debt restructuring agreement between State and Union and
follow-up December 16; 1997 contract;
*    January 22, 1999: Resources transferred from STN (R$193.1 million) to BEMAT. Payment
made to BB on same day in the amount of R$178.4 million;
*    June 2, 1999: ordinary liquidation is decreed by State; and
*     Planned date for extinction: February 2001.
Main Data
*     Personnel before start of extra-judicial liquidation: 873
*     Personnel as of March 31, 2000: 44, dealing with liquidation
*     Costs of Liquidation:
Million R$.
Since liquidation started: PDI  (1998)            40.0
*     Liabilities assumed by the State under Contract with Banco do Brasil
*     Outstanding Labor Court Actions               178.4
at start of ordinary liquidation:                39.0
less: existing provisions (already part of liabilities)  10.6
net value                                      28.4
Note: as of March 30, 2000, total outstanding claim value had decreased by R$7 million to R$32 million,
after a total of R$3.95 million (56% of original claim value) had been settled under negotiated
agreements.
- 71 -



*     Assets (value at start of ordinary liquidation)  51.0
Note: on March 30, 2000, assets yet to be disposed of were valued at R$39. 7 million. Their market value
(at auctions), however, was estimated by the liquidator to be substantially lower, at about R$28. 5
million. This value generally coincides with outstanding contingent liabilities from labor court actions
(net ofprovisions), and liens on a substantial part of these assets have been imposed by courts pending
resolution of these cases. BEMAT liquidator expects all cases to be resolved (through court or by
negotiation) by February 2001, at which point BEMAT will be extinguished or transformed into a
development agency.
*     Financial Information:
Negadve net equity
at start of extra-judicial liquidation (12-31-97): -R$117.74 million
at start of ordinary liquidation (12-31-98)  -R$127.4 million
Profits and Losses (Million Reais)
Year            Operating Loss   Provisions for  Operating Loss   Total Loss
Indemnities     Net of Prov. For
Indemnities
1994            -2.07                                            -2.36
1995            -11.3                                            -11.09
1996            -33.2            10.3            -22.9           -33.0
1997            -92.5            45.0            -47.5            -91.7
Note: in March 2000, income on BEMAT's remaining portfolio yielded about R$1 10,000 per
month, enough to pay for the cost of the liquidation team (about R$50,000 per month). In 1999,
BEMAT's net profit was R$1.4 million.
Cost-Benefit Analysis
In order to close BEMAT, it is expected that total costs to the state include assumption of
BEMAT's negative net equity, as a proxy for liabilities assumed net of proceeds of assets sale (RS$-127.4
million at the start of ordinary liquidation)' plus the cost of severance payments (R$40 million). The state
is also expected to incur additional costs of up to R$28.5 million, as a result of outstanding labor court
actions.
Total incremental costs to the state, however, do not include assumption of the negative net equity,
nor of the un-provisioned court actions, which already existed and would have been assumed by the state
sooner or later, with or without liquidation.
- 72 -



The benefits to the state of BEMAT's liquidation are avoided operating losses from continued
operations, which would have necessarily resulted in government outlays, either in the form of regular
operating subsidies or periodic capitalization. Operating losses under management by the Central Bank
grew exponentially. Losses in 1997 (R$47.5 million excluding provisions for employee severance
payments) may have been exceptional given impending threats of liquidation and were not considered. In
the cost-benefit analysis, saved operating losses were more conservatively estimated as the average of
operating losses in 1995 (R$11.3 million) and of 1996, excluding provisions for severance payments (-22.9
million), adjusted for inflation between 1996 and 1999.
Benefits also include a surplus of R$1.4 million in 1999. Most of the surplus from operations in
2000 (R$670,000) will be applied to severance payments for the remaining 44 BEMAT employees. After
liquidation (February 2001), it is also expected that the state will continue to receive repayments over 20
years of about R$500,000 per year from the PRODECER agricultural portfolio, which has already been
entirely written-off.
A sensitivity analysis was performed using total instead of incremental costs, adding net
liabilities-equity- assumed by the state and unprovisioned court actions, assuming that BEMAT would
continue to win about 60% of outstanding claims. A worst case alternative was also tested assuming that
all outstanding court actions would be lost. Results are presented in the table on the next page.
- 73 -



Cost/Benefit Analyi
Liquidation of BEMAT
(Mrlion Reals- Constant 1999 Terms)
*1'''    -''       -         !         _ -                                  _I+  
|  i 1998  1999  2000  2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 !2010
Costs                                             -      -                           -       --
Cosi of Liquidation                                                                  .
Siviranic  yeniets              40.0                                    .
Total Costs of Liquidation  40.0
Tota toZsis   i60. 
In constani 1999 ierini  4i2' 
Benerits                                          17I 17.                                 .       71    71   711
OperaiingLossesAvoided 2/                  17.1    17.  17.1 17.1 17.1   17.1 17.1   17.1  17.1  17.1  17 .1
in consdant 1999 terns 3i |2.2            28.2 :!8.2/ 28.  28.2 29.2 18.2 28.2 28.2 29.2 28.2 28 2
3uiptus jFroin Operatlons   j   ~~1.4        0.3    05 |   .3  0.3  ff.5  o.3  o.3   o.3  0.3i 0 o 
TeiaeBeees4 0.2         29.6   18.2  28.7  28.1  28.             i 28.7  28.7  28.1 28.7  28.7 28. 7 28.7
5R 0%
N  g't  eneCa s            -41.2    29.6   11.2 28.71 28.7 28      8 247  28.7 28.7 2-.7  28.7  28.7  28 7
Net Present Value=                .      .      .        I                                  .
1.  enii. 2 and All Zabur d  Acute o lo.t
AddIiiolndentinities    i             .    -71.4     i
Nei Beinfit                 -41 2   -97.8   -0.2  28.7f 28.7  28.7 28.7  29.7  28.7  29.7| 2X.7 28.71 28.7
1R                   t   12%                      t                         .        
2/ assuming thai BEMAT lNset   6% of oustaiy ndig co ourt tactios                                               1
2/averag t.   er*ialtg lissies  )ei 1!93 and 1.5 excluding exiiaordinary provis1n  or l  ab i li ies.
31 adjusd b o            ,~ by       lator of 0,9  Iii  an.ool 75 i.0 1.4 -                                      t
- 74 -



Apendix 6 - COHAB Liquidation
COHAB was a mixed capital State public enterprise created in June 1965. Its activity consisted
of study, design, coordination. implementation, financing and refinancing of popular housing programs.
COHAB was also responsible for the use of funds from the National Housing System. As of December
31, 1995, the company cumulative losses totaled Rs. 32.1 million and increased to Rs. 43.6 million at end
of 1996, and to Rs. 119.2 million in November 1999. Liquidation was decreed on April 02, 1996 and the
company was extinguished on December 27, 1999, after all its remaining assets were transferred to the
state government and all its remaining liabilities were assumed by the state government. The
administration of lands was transferred to INTERMAT, the State Land Institute. Rs. 1.58 million were
transferred to the State Secretariat of Infrastructure with regards to suppliers current liabilities. The
administration of other liabilities as shown in the company final balance sheet dated November 30, 1999
remained the responsibility of the State Finance Secretariat.
Main Data
*     Start-up of liquidation process: May 8, 1996
*     End of Liquidation process: December 27, 1999 (last balance sheet is dated November 30,
1999)
*     Personnel before liquidation: 384 employees, with total monthly personnel costs of Rs. 1.6
million, all dismissed.
*     Costs of Liquidation:
Million Rs
Severance costs             5.5
FGTS
Other
Total                   5.5
*     Liabilities Assumed by the State
Million Rs
Suppliers                 1.6
Taxes, INSS,COFINS etc...        14.2
Labor Court Actions           1.1
Total                  16.9
- 75 -



Assets Assumed
Million Rs
Current assets              5.3
Long term assets              -
Permanent assets              -
Total                   5.3
COHAB's portfolio included 35,000 housing units and 21,000 land lots in different areas
occupied by very low income families. During liquidation, 29,000 housing units were sold to
Caixa Economica for Rs. 142 million and the remaining 8,000 were transferred to the state
(current monthly revenues are Rs. 80,000). The land lots were transferred to INTERMAT and the
headquarters building in Cuiaba to the "Ministerio Publico"
*     Outstanding Court Actions: Labor court actions are estimated to about Rs. 1.1 million and are
provisioned in the final balance sheet. In addition, suppliers court actions are estimated by the
liquidator at up to Rs. 50.8 million and were not provisioned in the final balance sheet.
*     Net Profit or Losses in Year:
In 1994, operating net profit totaled Rs. 1.3 million
In 1995, the year preceding start of liquidation, net operating losses totaled Rs.6.7 million
In 1996, the year when liquidation started, net operating losses reached Rs. 11.7 million.
Cost Benefit Analysis of COHAB Closure
In order to close COHAB, the State assumed its net negative equity (Rs. 11.6 million), the cost of
its liquidation (Rs. 5.5 million plus) and the future cost of suppliers court actions considered at 50% of the
liquidator estimated total claim value of Rs. 50.8 million. However, the net negative equity already existed
and would have been assumed sooner or later by the government. Consequently, COHAB's negative net
equity cannot be considered as an incremental cost attributed to its closure.
The benefits to the government of COHAB closure are avoided operating losses from continued
operation, which would have necessarily resulted in Government outlays, either in the form of regular
operating subsidies or periodic capitalization. They are considered at their 1995 level, in 1999 constant
reais, using GDP defaltor.
- 76 -



Net Present Value is calculated with a discount rate of 12%.
Summary of Sensitivity Analysis
% of Suppliers
Court Actions   Negative Net    Net Present      IRR
Lost          Equity       Value (million    (%)
Rs.)
Base Case         0%         not included        54.6          99
Sensitivity 1     50%         not included      40.2           58
Sensitivity 2    50%           included         40.8           60
Sensitivity 3    100%          included          19.2          25
- 77 -



CosVBenefit Analysis
Liquidait'on of COHAB
(Miliion Reais in i999 terms)
_____________11996  1 997    1998    1999       00             2002 2   2003    2004     2005 ] 2006      2007
;A. Base Case                                          1   ,                          i
Cost of Liquidation               ,               4                 3
ISeverance                      i.5j    1.o      2.O1    2.0
Other                             33
Total Costs of/Liquidation   0.5     1.0      2.0      2.
Costs in Constant Terms (1)   0.7      1.i      2.      2.0      0.01                      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.6
Operating Losses Avoidedat 1995 level
Total Beneflts(2)                                     15.6'    156     iS.o'    15.6     15.6     iS.6    15.6     15.6
.                                                               ..  o  .   -  ,  -   -  -  ------ - - ---- ---t--- -- --- ----- -[---- ^ -------..... .   .   .   ..   ..
Net Benefits in Constant      -0.7     -1.i    -2.i    -2.0     15.61   15.6     15.6    i5.6|   15.6     15.6i.
(Base Case)                                                                                                           5      15.
:   l             .              .'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~........
ei rscent Va ue           i.o 6
|                  IR=Ioo 
B.Sensi5iviit Anaisis I                                             ,
Liquidation costs       |     Oiil     -i       2-320            o6        .i             oo        .i      oo       .        .
LIquidailon eosi~              0.71          ~   .1      .0      0.0      0.0      0.0,     0.01    0.0      0.0      0.0     0.1
Potential Cost of StJpiers Court Actions (50%)                  25.4
l  TotaiCosts~    t     0.71  ~  i.i'    2.1      2.0    25.4      0.0      o.0!    0.0      o.ol      .       0.0,    0.
Totai Benefits                 0.03     0. 00     0      0.0     15.6    15 6     15 6i    15 6     15.6    15.6|    15.6     i5
Neti Benefits            ,      J      .i.i    -it      -2.0     -9.8j   15.6     15.61    15.6'   15.6     15.6,    15.6    15.4
Net Present Value        40.2
I Sensiiiviiy Anaivsis 2 |
3 +Negat            Equity Assumed By the State                 -11
iNet Benefits             i    -0.7    -1.l,    -1       i.o     ii.i     i6       15.6j   i.6      i5.6     i5.6     15.6,   15.4
Net PresentVaiue |=i|
IRR=       44%1
3_. gensi i4yv -na3lysis 3                                      1                     1
Sens. 2 + all court cases lost  I         i23.4
Net Benefits             i         -0.7j  -i.i|  -.     -2.     i6     1       1i3.        i        i         1      i3.63    i3
Net Present Value = i     9l 9 I
3            ~~~~~iRRk =  25%o        1        43 
(I) GDP deflator: 0.75 in 1996, 0.90 in 1997 and 0.97 in 1998
(2i Operating iosses in 1995 totaled Rs. 6.7 miilion equivalent to Rs. 15.6 million in 1999 terms, using GDP defaltor of 0.43.
- 78 -



Appendix 7 Summary of CODEMAT Liquidation
CODEMAT was a mixed capital enterprise. Its main activities included the provision of
infrastructure necessary for colonization, such as construction of roads, electrification and
telecommunications. In addition, it was involved in agricultural land titling in the colonization areas. As of
the end of 1995, the company cumulative losses totaled Rs. 46.2 million and its equity was negative (Rs.
22.4 million). Liquidation was decreed in February 14, 1996 and the company was extinguished on April
6, 1998, after it was incorporated to METAMAT, a mixed capital enterprise acting in the mining sector.
Main reasons for incorporation instead of complete liquidation included: (i) liens were imposed by labor
court on all assets due to court actions by workers and could thus not be sold or transferred to the
Government; (ii) part of the personnel was seconded to the government, which did not wish to dismiss
them, but could not also hire them because of competitive entrance requirements for civil servants; (iii) the
liquidation process was already well in excess of the 360 days allowed under Brazilian law; and (iv) the
government wanted to avoid a longer liquidation process and associated risks of political pressures for
maintaining the company alive.
METAMAT is acting in mining research and exploration. Its personnel totals 70 employees, not
including the 90 employees from CODEMAT seconded to the Government. Before the incorporation of
CODEMAT, the company was already in a very bad financial situation, with cumulated losses of about
Rs. 23.2 million as of the end-of December 1997. The Government is presently studying the future of the
company.
Main Data
*     Start-up of liquidation process: February 28, 1996.
*     End of Liquidation process (extinction and incorporation): April 6, 1998.
*     Personnel before liquidation: 809 employees (under CLT status) for total monthly personnel
costs of Rs.1.32 million.
*     Personnel after liquidation: 104 employees, reduced later on to 90 employees with a total annual
cost of Rs. 218,000 (50 are seconded to the Planning Secretariat -SEPLAN and 40 to other
Secretariats).
*     Costs of Liquidation:
Million Rs
Severance costs             7.6
FGTS                    3.0
- 79 -



Other                   3.0
Total                   13.6
*     Liabilities Assumed by METAMAT:
Million Rs
Current liabilities          6.1
Long term liabilities         22.8
Total                   28.9
*     Assets Assumed by METAMAT:
Million Rs
Current assets              0.8
Long termn assets             1.6
Permanent assets             11.7
Total                   14.1
*     Net Equity at Time of Incorporation: R$14.8 million
*     Outstanding Court Actions: 900 actions for a total claim value of about Rs. 25 million, for
which provisions of Rs. 9.4 million were made in CODEMAT balance sheet before its incorporation to
METAMAT. As of mid-April 2000, about 65% of claims had been settled through direct negotiation
for a total value of about Rs. 6 million
*     Net Profit or Losses in Year Preceding Start of Liquidation:
In 1995, operating losses (defined as operating revenues less operating expenses, excluding financial
expenditures) reached Rs. 6.53 million (Rs. 5.08 in 1994). However, all revenues (Rs 15.7 million in
1995) were direct government transfers, covering less than operational expenses of Rs. 22.2 million
Cost Benefit Analysis of CODEMAT Closure
In order to close CODEMAT, the State indirectly assumed its net negative equity through
METAMAT (Rs. 14.8 million) and the cost of its liquidation (Rs. 13.6 million). However, the net negative
equity already existed and would have been assumed sooner or later by the government. Consequently,
although it became more transparent, CODEMAT's negative net equity cannot be considered as an
incremental cost attributed to its closure.
- 80 -



The benefits to the government of CODEMAT closure are avoided operating losses from continued
operation, which would have necessarily resulted in Government outlays, either in the form of regular
operating subsidies or periodic capitalization. In 1994 and 1995, all CODEMAT's revenues were from
Govemment transfers which reached Rs. 8.3 million in 1994 and Rs. 15.7 million in 1995. Costs and
benefits are calculated in 1999 constant reais, using GDP deflator. Net Present Value is calculated with a
discount rate of 12%.
Summary of Sensitivity Analysis
Remaining      Labor      Negative Net   Net Present     IRR
Claims Lost   Liabilities    Equity     Value (Million    (%)
R$)
Base Case     not included  not included  not included    97.2          120
not included   included     included         82.5         85
included    not included  not included     93.3         109
included     included     included         78.6          75
- 81 -



UdiUteIifitit AiiWYiMi
uquIasiurofls5i'po6roiu SrLUIEMA'1'
- (MIIIioini if Riilil IYY 199 'l'ifirii)
1995   1996  1997   1998  19Y     2UWi1  ZW1  ZW2    2W3    2UU4  2UU5   2UU6  2U07
uP UetlatiOr                    U.434 03.I6  U.9U 0.U.9Y  l.UU.
soverrnce                               3.6   4.U
IFL IS                                  1.5    1.5
jUtner                                  1.5    1.5
I     Zif-Oza t,ost in CWrren? Mlenn  6.6   7 V1
| 50 iiJ i   c1999 IYYiY7ii     8.7    7.3
Bene3its.
Up6-atin-g LU5696 AVOCIQOU In 1 96 terM  (l)
- UScistUot Prfiinneig UiMsfi6d             '.U   13.   13.9   13.9   13.9  13.9   13.9   13.9  13.9   13.9   13.9
- Utner uperating ;osts                     U./    1.4    1.4   1.4    1.4    1.4   1.4    1.4    1.4   1.4    1.4
- Less RevehUes (iji)
7oEilt BehEifii7 zin 1996 tenia        .1.7  1S.3   15.3   15.3  15.3   15.3   15.3   15.3  15.3   15.3   15.3
Thil mliJki iii I999 tennsi            1U.1   ZU.1   ZU.1  ZU.1   ZU.1   ZU.11  2.1   20.1   2U.1  2U.1   ZU.1
Net eietits                            -8.7    2.4  2U.1   20.1  20.1   2U.1   2U11.1  2U.1  2U.1  2U.1  2O.1  211Z.1
Net Pfitiiit Vildiz =       97.2
1RRa           1211%
SeisitHirii A ihisi3
(I)-Pay--ieidi*jorL4bor bMeilistoies sarT an               b.U.
I  gaiFaW iNeEqidyAssim^e9 -    . .               14.8
AuaditirlIma  oSts in 1999 i erms                   15.3   6.U
NUt BeWfiditi                          -8.7   2.4    4.9   14.1  2U.1   2U.1   2U.1  2U.1  2U.1   20.1  20.1   2U.1
Net PFeiiieit Vilijii       82.5
.                    I1UM-           8S@f      .        .              .. .              ..          .       ..5%
(2)Base( Uise, aiz All Remai iDng 'lai  IbLi .aZt ahiir eL Liam Va(iie-   rovi7e3vsionis .
im 1998 termis                                       5.4             r
iinlYYYterms                                         5.6             l
Net BFiEtits                           -8.7    2.4  14.6  Z2U.1  ZU.1.  ZU.1   1U.1   ZU. 1  U.1 1  20.1  20.1  20U.1
Nit Pfieie  Viiile          93.3
| 3) Net LiabiliFies AINUffied anad Re naiinin Uliain. Lail 
NUItBfeNifits                          -8.71  2.4    U.7   14.1  2U.1   2U.1   20U.1  2U.1  ZU.1   2U.1   2U.1  2U.1
Nit Pfeiinit Vlue I      l 78.61
'   ' R& I      75%.
(1) Bge8a ani tne liquiuaiurs rup rt an  aPprii  , 199 , iw [cm c  u n1i so 0115Oa on- Intfly osta l 1996 Lia Ii uiosflhc
3ageci , 1cs6 rmininirifg Mst8 If 19S8.
(2) Ii 1995; nirl f uI8WarO fFffi U6vernme ttransttral .
-82 -



Appendix 8 - CASEMAT Liquidation
CASEMAT was a mixed- capital public enterprise originally established, with financing from
Banco do Brasil, to provide grain storage infrastructure and services to fanmers. Over time, however, the
private sector built a large storage infrastructure principally to serve large farmers and CASEMAT came
to focus on small farmers only, which made it unviable. By 1992, CASEMAT had 38 storage facilities,
operating with high costs and low returns.
Although the extinction of CASEMAT was decided as early as 1992, the liquidation process did
not actually start until 1996 and was hindered by: (a) difficulties in finding buyers for run-down facilities
with obsolete equipment; and (b) judicial liens on the assets imposed by the Courts pending resolution of
labor disputes. In November 1998, the government decided to incorporate CASEMAT into EMPAER, a
mixed-capital enterprise in charge of agricultural research, technical assistance and extension.
Main Data
*     Liquidation decreed in 1992, but due to lack of resources actually started in 1996.
*     Extinction in November 1998, after incorporation with EMPAER.
*     Personnel before start of liquidation in 1996: 161 under CLT labor laws, all of which were
dismissed in 1996: Of these, 129 were dismissed and received severance payments and 32 were
dismissed but decision remained pending regarding their severance payment rights. 73 former
employees were re-hired by CASEMAT as service providers.
*     Personnel after extinction and incorporation with EMPAER: 105 employees were transferred to
EMPAER in November 1998, including the 73 service providers and the 32 employees previously
dismissed but still awaiting decision regarding their severance payments. By March 2000, all 105 had
been formally dismissed after EMPAER had determined that none but one were entitled to severance
benefits.
*     Costs of Liquidation (assumed by State):
Million R$.
Severance Costs(1996)-129 employees      2.34
Severance Costs (1999)-105 employees     0.05
Other Liquidation Costs                 0.95
*     Liabilities assumed by State:
Debt to CONAB: R$6.2 million
*     Liabilities assumed by EMPAER in December 1998:
- 83 -



Total Liabilities (net of debt assumed by State): R$15.8 million, of which
Provisions for Labor Disputes: R$ 1.41 million
*     Other unprovisioned Liabilities:
Labour Disputes: R$1.24 million
Other Court Cases: R$2.78 million
*     Assets assumed by EMPAER in December 1998:
Total Assets: R$32.2 million, including:
Current assets: R$3.2 million
Fixed assets: R$29.0 million, of which:
Land, buildings and equipment (net of deprec.):
R$11.8 million
Works in progress: R$17.2 million
Note: Out of the original 36 stores, five were sold and 31 were transferred to EMPAER, including 11
currently used by municipalities for community actions. All stores will be either passed on to
municipalities or auctioned as soon as labor disputes are resolved in court or by negotiation. Book
value of fixed assets at the end of 1998: R$11.8 million, but EMPAER estimates market value at only
about R$3.0 to 4.0 million.
*     Cumulated losses as of December 31, 1995: R$ 10.85 million;
Operating loss in 1995: R$ 2.11 million
Net total loss in 1995: R$1.39 million
Net equity (patrimonio liquido) as of December 31, 1995: R$16.1 million
Net equity as of December 1998: R$16.4 million (book value)
Cost-Benefit Analysis
To EMPAER:
Net equity as of December 1998: R$16.4 million
-84 -



Less: unprovisioned liabilities from labor and other court actions: - R$4.0 million
Less: difference between book value of fixed assets (R$11.8 million) and likely auction results (R$3.5
million)= - R$8.3 million
Net Benefit to EMPAER: R$4. 1 million
Note: this assumes that the large "works in progress" (R$17.2 million) remain valued at their book value,
which is probably overestimated. Should these be overestimated by 25%, the net benefit to EMPAER
would disappear. In the absence of additional information this is considered as the most likely scenario.
To the State:
Base Case
*     Costs include liquidation costs (R$3.34 million)
*     Benefits consisted of operating losses avoided each year, which would sooner or later result in
direct subsidies or periodic capitalizations. These losses amounted in 1995 to R$2.1 million.
Sensitivitv Analysis
Cost include liquidation costs (R$3.34 million) and cost of assuming debt to CONAB (R$6.2 million).
Benefits: Assumed to equal operation losses - in 1995 non-operating costs and revenues were negligible
and most of the difference came from monetary correction of assets, which cannot be assumed to be
repeated later (rules of monetary correction cancelled by federal regulations on December 26, 1995)
Summaav of Results
Net Present Value           IRR (%)
R$ million
Base Case    Excluding Liabilities             18.1                     58
Including Liabilities             13.7                     37
- 85 -



Liquidation of CASEMAT- Cost-Benefit Analysis (Million Reaisj
T 19961 1997T    19981  1999   2000   20011  2002   2003   20041 2005
Costs
Severance Costs                   2.34,                0.05
Other Liquidation Costs                                0.95
Liabilities assumed by State                    6.24       
Total Costs             2             6.24 1i0
In constant 1999 terms      3.08          6.43   1.00
Benefits "' ""  ''"''                                                                          . .. ....
Operating/total losses avoided-1995 terms              2.11   2.11   2.11   2.11   2.11   2.11   2.11
In constant 1999 terms                           4.91   4 .911  4.91  4.91   4.91   4.91   4.91
Net Benefits                                                  4.9j
- Including Liabilities         -3.081  0.00  -6.43  3.91   4.91   4.91   4.91   4.91    4.i 9  4.91
- Excluding Liabilities (Base Case)  -3.081  0.00  -0.19  3.91  4.91  4.91  4.91  4.91   4.91   4.91
Net Present'Value (R$ million)s
- Inciuding Liabilities               13.67 j
- Excluding Liabilities (Base Case)   18.11                   .
- Including Liabilities                37%
- Excluding Liabilities (Base Case     58% 
G6P Deflator                   |  0.76i  0 9Oj  0 971  1. 00|  104
I86 -



Appendix 9 - CEPROM\AT Restructuring
In 1973, the Government of MT created a Data Processing Center as a Department of the Planning
Secretariat. At the end of 1978, this center was transformed into a public enterprise 100% owned by the
State, CEPROMAT (Centro de Processarnento de Dados). Its activity consists of: (i) development,
implementation, operation and maintenance of data processing systems and computing equipment; (ii)
network and strategic data bases management; (iii) consulting services and support to the government
secretariats and agencies; and (iv) training in data base processing and computing. Main Clients of
CEPROMAT include the Finance Secretariat, the Planning Secretariat, the Administration Secretariat, the
Justice Secretariat, the State Traffic Department, and the Cuiaba Municipal Government.
As part of the Government Reform Program, CEPROMAT is being restructured and modernized
to enhance its efficiency and its capacity as executing agency of the Govermment Information Policy,
contributing to the modernization of the Government Secretariats and Agencies.
CEPROMAT Modernization Program includes:
*                A downsizing prograam through dismissal, voluntary departure and early
retirement of about 514 employees in excess of 220 planned at appraisal.
*                The implementation of the INFOVIA project, which integrates all the
Government agencies through a computer network of high performance and reliability. This
network will successively link the agencies located in the Government main admiinistrative
complex in Cuiaba, (expected to be completed in April 2000 and financed under the loan with
counterpart funds from PNAFE); the agencies located in the metropolitan region of Cuiaba,
(expected to be completed by July 2000 and financed under the loan); 6 regional poles, as pilot,
by December 2000; and 25 municipalities by December 2003. INFOVIA will allow the
simultaneous transfer of data, voice and images. As of April 2000, the financing of the
regional network was still not defined.
The INFOVIA project will have the following main benefits: (i) more efficient and less costly
transfer of documents between agencies; (ii) economy of scale from the central management of
the agencies local networks; (iii) reduced costs of internal telephone communications; (iv)
possibility of video conferencing; and (v) use in distance education and training.
*              Training of personnel financed under both the loan and BID's PRONAF
project.
Investments Costs and financing for INFOVIA Project
Total costs of implementing INFOVIA network in the Government's Main Complex and the metropolitan
region are estimated at about US$6.2 million (of which US$2.8 million from the loan, US$3.0 million from
PRONAF (IDB Project), and US$.4 million of Government counterpart funds)
- 87 -



Main Data
*     Personnel in May 1997 at appraisal before Restructuring: 1,076 employees
*     Actual Personnel as of March 2000: 562, with a monthly cost of about Rs. 1.0 million
*     Costs of dismissals: 514 Employees
Million Rs
Severance costs L                     6.0
FGTS and other                        1.2
Total      7.2
*     Monthly invoicing of CEPROMAT: Rs. 2.7 million
A costlbenefit analysis of CEPROMAT is presented below. In the base case, costs includes costs of
dismissal incurred from 1996 to 1998 and training of remaining personnel and benefits are respective
savings in labor costs. In the sensitivity analysis, costs of Infovia are added. Net Present Value is
calculated with a discount rate of 12%.
Summary of Sensitivity Analysis
Severance Costs   Cost of    Benefits from  Net Present   IRR
and Training     Infovia      Infovia        Value
(million R$)  (%)
Base Case   Included        Not Included  Not Included     61.0        182
Sensitivity I included      included     not included      55.2        171
Sensitivity 2  included     included     included
- 88 -



Restructuring of CEPROMAT
(Million Reais in 1999 terms)
_   _    _  _ .     _     _ _    _  -,           .,      1,       ,     I .  l      I     Ij
i___________________ ,1996. 1997        1998  1999   20001 2001   2002   20031  2004  20051 2006t
Costs
Severance Payments          0 .6   2.1   4.5.
Total Costs|  0.61  2.1    4.51
Total Costs in 1999 terms   0.81   2.3   4.7
Benefits                                                              .. .  . .  . .
._ _ _ _ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~... |i... ., .,.. _..,  ... .. ..  .....   ... ... __.  _ ... ... _wf<rsrrtjtt1t.1 
Labor cost savings                 1.4   5.61  14.0   14.0  14.Of  14.01  14.61  i4.0,  14.0  14.0j
Training costs          to be complete c
Totai benefits              1.4    5.61  14.0  14.0   14.0   4.01  14.0!  14.0   14.0  14.01.
Net Benefits               -0.8:  -0.9   0.9   14.0   14.0  14.0   14.0   14.01  14.0  14.0  14.0
Net Present Value          61.0I
'IRR                       182%I
Sensitivity with infovia .
infovia (US$ 6 millionj                  .             5.4    5.4
Telecom Savings and other (to be completed)
Net Benefits Including Infoi  -8  -0.9   0.9   14.0    8.6   8.6   14.0   14.01 14.0   14.0   14.0,
INet Present Value          55.2,
gIRR                    | i7i%l                        .   .       . ..      |.171%1
GDP Deflator               0.76   0.90  0.97   1.00  . .    . . .                           __. _
Salaries in 1999: R$1.0 million for 562 employees    -
514 were dismissed: benefits (Iabor costs salvings) estimated at R$14 million ,
Severance costs estimated at R$7.2 million from 1996 to 1998j  |       |I
- 89 -



Appendix 10 - EMPAER Restructuring
EMPAER is a mixed-capital public enterprise established in 1992 from the merger of three
enterprises, to promote agricultural development in the state through agricultural research and technology
development, and the provision of extension and technical assistance services to small and medium-scale
farmers.
EMPAER has started a restructuring process, under its strategic plan (1999-2003). Main goals
are to improve efficiency and relevance through decentralization of decision making and staff to regional
and field offices, technical training of personnel, regionalization of research, municipalization of technical
assistance activities and increased participation of farmers in the definition of programs. Efficiency is also
to improve with the establishment of modem computer systems and networks linling all 113 field offices as
well as regional offices (6) research centers (3), the central laboratory, and trial fields (12).
In March 2000, EMPAER had a total staff of 630, already a significant reduction over 1,038 in
1992 and 790 at the start of restructuring early in 1999 (this decrease of 160 includes 104 from the former
CASEMAT). The objective is to further reduce total staff by another 50, plus about 100 employees
currently seconded to various parts of the government.
Total cost of severance for the 160 employees already dismissed was R$3.2 million, allowing cost
savings of R$200,000 per month (R$2.6 million per year).
X The Policy Letter, dated May 23, 1997, established targets for 1997 only. These targets were:
(a) to limit total operational deficit to no more than 51% of net current revenues; (b) to limit total
stock of debt by year-end to no more than 335% of net current revenues; and (c) to limit
investment spending to priority investments not to exceed R$135 million, including no more than
R$35 million financed through debt. In a subsequent letter, dated February 4, 1999, which was
issued after Senate approval but before Loan signing, the government expected to reach a primary
surplus of 10% and 16 % of total revenues (including capital receipts) in 1999 and 2000
respectively, and to limit total investment to no more than 5% of total revenues in these two
years. Both letters are referred-to in the Loan Agreement.
ul Askarel is a dangerous synthetic oil used in transformers. Since 1981, the use of askarel is prohibited in Brasil.
X The consortium consisted of Maxima Consultoria e Financas Corporativas Ltda, BC Projetos Ltda, COGENTE
Consultoria e Gerenciamento de Projetos S.C. Ltda and Wald e Associados Advogados.
a' These figures reflected estimated values on October 31, 1997, and included: Liabilities transferred to BB (R$84.2
million), the Severance program-PDI (R$39.7 million), expired Mato Grosso State Bond Debt administered by
BEMAT but not in its balance sheet (R$110.5 million), other obligations of BEMAT (R$32.1 million, principally
provisions for contingent liabilities), other liabilities not transferred to BB (BNDES/STN, etc.) (R$14 million) and
Initial Capital for Development Agency (R$4 million).
w This estimate was based on balance sheet data as of December 31, 1996
g To be updated when liquidation is completed to reflect final cost of liabilities assumed and actual sale value of
assets.
- 90 -



m2 Severance cost was estimated at an average of six month salary and FGTS and other at 20% of salaries.
-91-



