Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4189-BR
Loan Agreement
(Mato Grosso State Privatization Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
and
STATE OF MATO GROSSO
Dated March 30, 1999
LOAN NUMBER 4189-BR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 30, 1999, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and STATE OF MATO GROSSO (the Borrower).
WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received: (i) the letter, dated May 23, 1997, from the 
Borrower describing a program of actions  designed, inter alia, to enhance the 
Borrower’s efficiency in the delivery of public services, through the privatization, 
restructuring or liquidation of enterprises owned or controlled by the Borrower and 
the concessioning of public services, describing the Borrower’s program of major 
investments to be undertaken in 1997, and indicating the proportion of such 
investments that will be financed from debt and the level of fiscal performance to be 
achieved in 1997, as well as declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of 
such program, and requesting assistance from the Bank in support of such program 
during the execution thereof; and (ii) the letter, dated February 4, 1999, from the 
Borrower, updating the information contained in the letter referred to in (i) above to 
include the investments undertaken in 1998 and the level of fiscal performance 
achieved in 1998 ( such program covering investments and fiscal performance in 1997 
and 1998 hereinafter called the Program), and indicating targets for investments and 
fiscal performance of the Borrower in 1999 (such letters hereinafter called the 
Privatization Program Letters);
(B)
the Federative Republic of Brazil (the Guarantor) and the Borrower, 
having been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of the Program and of the 
project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), have requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
(C)
by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of even date herewith between 
the Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor has agreed to guarantee certain obligations 
of the Borrower in respect of the Loan as set forth in the Guarantee Agreement; and
Page  2
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995, with Section 
6.03 thereof modified to read as set forth below (the General Conditions), constitute 
an integral part of this Agreement:
“Section 6.03.  Cancellation by the Bank.  If (a) the right of the 
Borrower to make 
withdrawals from the Loan Account shall have been suspended 
with respect to any amount of the 
Loan for a continuous period of thirty 
days, or (b) at any time, the Bank determines, after 
consultation with the 
Borrower, that an amount of the Loan will not be required to finance the 
Project’s costs to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, or (c) at any time, 
the Bank 
determines, with respect to any contract to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, that 
corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged 
in by representatives of the Borrower or of a 
beneficiary of the Loan during 
the procurement or the execution of such contract, without the 
Borrower 
having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Bank to remedy the 
situation, and establishes the amount of expenditures in respect of such 
contract which would 
otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, or (d) at any time, 
the Bank determines that the procurement 
of any contract to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan is 
inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement and 
establishes the amount of expenditures in respect of such contract which would 
otherwise have 
been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan, 
or (e) after the Closing Date, an 
amount of the Loan shall remain 
unwithdrawn from the Loan Account, or (f) the Bank shall have 
received 
notice from the Guarantor pursuant to Section 6.07 with respect to an amount of the 
Loan, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower and the Guarantor, terminate the 
right of the 
Borrower to make withdrawals with respect to such amount.  Upon 
the giving of such notice, such 
amount of the Loan shall be cancelled.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
“Authorized Amounts” means the amounts out of the proceeds of the Loan 
authorized from time to time by the Bank to be withdrawn to finance Selected 
Activities approved by the Bank;
(b)
“Program Review” means the exchange of views referred to in Section 3.03 
of this Agreement;
(c)
“Project Manual” means the Borrower’s manual, dated February 3, 1999, 
specifying the criteria for the eligibility and carrying out of Selected Activities to 
be financed under the Loan (including for separation programs of Borrower’s 
enterprises being restructured under the Project), including the detailed procedures 
regarding procurement, disbursement, accounting, auditing and reporting to be followed 
under the Project;
(d)
“Selected Activity” means any of the activities under the Project which 
is proposed by the Borrower to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan; and
(e)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
Page  3
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to forty-five 
million dollars ($45,000,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or 
attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)
When submitting to the Bank, for approval, Selected Activities to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Borrower shall inform to the Bank the 
aggregate amounts required to be authorized by the Bank to finance such Activities, 
pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2000 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor 
of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable in arrears on May 15 
and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project in accordance with appropriate administrative, financial and 
environmental practices and the provisions of the Project Manual, and shall provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for 
the Project.
Section 3.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
(b)
The Borrower shall, not later than 60 days after the disbursement of the 
proceeds of the Loan in respect of each of the three aggregate amounts referred to in 
paragraph 3 (b) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, furnish to the Bank an audit report, 
by an auditor acceptable to the Bank, on the compliance by the Borrower with the 
provisions set forth or referred to in this Agreement in respect of the procurement of 
goods and works financed under each such aggregate amount, each such report to be 
prepared in accordance with terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall, not later than June 30, 1999, exchange views 
with the Bank and the Guarantor on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the 
Page  4
Program and the taking of the actions specified in Schedule 6 to this Agreement (the 
Program Review).
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall exchange views with the Bank and the Guarantor 
on any proposed action to be taken, after the disbursement of the Loan, which may have 
the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the Program, including any action 
specified in Schedules 6 or 7 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting 
practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the 
departments, agencies or enterprises of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the 
Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section and 
the records and accounts for the Special Account for 
each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied by independent 
auditors 
acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months 
after the end of each such year, the report of 
such audit by said auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the 
Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and accounts and 
the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section, 
records and accounts 
reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for 
the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Loan Account was made, all 
records (contracts, 
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the audit 
referred to in 
paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate 
opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted 
during 
such fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Additional Event of Suspension
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which 
shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be 
carried out. 
Page  5
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions, namely, that the Loan Agreement has been duly registered by the 
Central Bank of Brazil. Central Bankof Brazil
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely, that the Loan Agreement has been duly 
registered by the Central Bank of BrazilCentral Bank of Brazil.
Section 6.03. The date June 30, 1999 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Secretary of Planning and General Coordination of the Borrower 
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of 
the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
     Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For the Borrower:
Secretaria de Planejamento e Coordenação Geral
Palácio Paiaguás - Bloco SEPLAN
Centro Político Administrativo
78000 Cuiabá, Mato Grosso
Brazil 
With copy to:
SEAIN - Secretaria de Assuntos Internacionais
Ministério do Orçamento e Gestão
Esplanada dos Ministérios, Bloco K - 5º andar
70040-906 Brasília, D.F.
Brazil
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the city of Brasília, Federal District, Brazil, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Page  6
By /s/ Gobind T. Nankani
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
STATE OF MATO GROSSO
By /s/ Dante Martins de Oliveira
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
   Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)
Goods, works,
  25,000,000
For goods: 
consultants’ services 
100% of foreign 
(including auditors’
expenditures, 100%
services) and training
of local expenditures
(ex-factory cost) and
83% of local 
expenditures for other 
goods procured locally
For works:
100% of foreign
expenditures and 
83% of local
expenditures
For consultants’
services and training:
100%
(2)
Severance payments
  15,000,000
100%
(3)
Transfers
   4,000,000
100% of amounts
disbursed
(4)
Incremental
   1,000,000
90%, in respect of
recurrent costs
withdrawals made
until December 
31, 1999; 
  __________
and 80% thereafter
TOTAL:
  45,000,000
  ==========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Guarantor for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Guarantor;
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Guarantor or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Guarantor;
Page  7
(c)
the term “severance payments” means payments made by the Borrower’s 
enterprises, being restructured under the Project, to their employees separated 
pursuant to a separation program satisfactory to the Bank, provided that such payments 
shall have not been financed or guaranteed by the Guarantor or any of the Guarantor’s 
financial agencies;
(d)
the term “transfers” means any transfers of own funds of the Borrower 
made, on a grant basis, to public or private non-profit entities for the carrying out 
of social assistance programs in the Borrower’s territory, in the areas of early 
childhood, public health, sanitation and basic education; and
(e)
“incremental recurrent costs” means costs incurred by the Borrower in 
connection with the implementation of the Program and with social assistance programs 
aimed at mitigating the social impact of the reforms adopted under the Program.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above:
(a)
No withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for 
expenditures:
(i)
prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in 
an aggregate 
amount not exceeding $22,500,000, may be made on 
account of payments made for 
expenditures before that date but 
after a date 12 months before the date of this 
Agreement; 
and 
(ii)
unless such expenditures have been incurred on account of a 
Selected Activity 
approved by the Bank.
(b)
When the Authorized Amounts shall have reached the amount of $25,000,000 
in the aggregate, the Bank will approve new Selected Activities requiring Authorized 
Amounts of up to:
(i)
$10,000,000 in the aggregate, only after the Program Review shall 
have taken place 
and the Bank shall be satisfied, based on evidence 
satisfactory to the Bank, that 
the actions specified in Schedule 
6 to this Agreement have been taken in form and 
substance 
satisfactory to the Bank; and
(ii)
$10,000,000 in the aggregate, whenever the Bank shall be 
satisfied, based on 
evidence satisfactory to the Bank, that 
the actions specified in Schedule 7 to this 
Agreement have been taken 
in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank;
provided that the actions referred to in paragraph 2 of Schedules 6 and 7 to this 
Agreement shall be considered as having been taken only if the purchasers of the 
shares or the concessionaires or managers of the services referred to therein, as the 
case may be, are firms which are not part of the Brazilian federal, state or municipal 
public sector.
4.
If, after the Program Review, the Bank shall have given notice to the Borrower 
that any action specified in Schedule 6 to this Agreement has not been taken in form 
and substance satisfactory to the Bank, and, within 90 days after such notice, the 
Borrower shall not have achieved progress satisfactory to the Bank in the taking of 
such action, then the Bank may, by further notice to the Borrower and the Guarantor, 
cancel an amount of the Loan equal to the amount referred to in paragraph 3 (b) (i) of 
this Schedule.
5.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditures for expenditures:
(a)
under contracts for goods and works;
(b)
under contracts for services of consulting firms and individual 
consultants costing less than the equivalent of $100,000 and $50,000, respectively; 
and
Page  8
(c)
for training, severance payments, transfers and incremental recurrent 
costs,
all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to support the achievement of the objectives of 
the Program of enhancing the Borrower’s efficiency in the delivery of public services, 
through privatization, restructuring or liquidation of enterprises owned or controlled 
by the Borrower and concessioning of public services.
The Project consists of the carrying out of activities, selected by the Borrower 
in accordance with the criteria set forth in the Project Manual, comprising, inter 
alia: (a) technical assistance, including carrying out of studies and training and 
acquisition of equipment, for preparation and implementation of the privatization 
process of enterprises owned or controlled by the Borrower or the process for 
concession of public services; (b) the restructuring of enterprises owned or 
controlled by the Borrower which have adopted a separation program satisfactory to the 
Bank; (c) subprojects in the areas of maintenance and rehabilitation of roads, schools 
and hospitals; and (d) social assistance programs in the areas of early childhood, 
public health, sanitation and education.
*   *   *
The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 2000.
SCHEDULE 3
Interest and Principal Repayment Provisions
A.
General Definitions
For purposes of this Schedule, the following terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“Disbursed Amount” means, in respect of each Interest Period, the 
aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account in such 
Interest Period.
(b)
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the date of 
this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest Payment Date occurring 
thereafter, and after the initial period, each period from and including an Interest 
Payment date to, but excluding, the next following Interest Payment Date.
(c)
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement.
(d)
“Rate Fixing Date” means, for each Disbursed Amount, the first day of the 
Interest Period next following the Interest Period in which such Disbursed Amount is 
withdrawn. 
B.
Interest 
1.
The principal amount of the Loan shall be divided into Disbursed Amounts.  
Interest shall accrue on each Disbursed Amount outstanding from time to time at a rate 
based on a floating rate index prior to its Rate Fixing Date and at a fixed rate from 
its Rate Fixing Date, as described in paragraph 2 of this Part B.
2.
(a)
From the date of withdrawal of each amount of each Disbursed Amount 
withdrawn and outstanding, to but not including the Rate Fixing Date for such 
Disbursed Amount, interest on each such amount shall accrue, at a rate equal to the 
applicable:
Page  9
(i)
LIBOR Base Rate; plus
(ii)
LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
From the Rate Fixing Date for each Disbursed Amount until final repayment 
thereof, interest on such Disbursed Amount shall accrue, at a rate equal to the 
applicable:
(i)
Fixed Base Rate; plus
(ii)
Fixed Total Spread.
3.
For purposes of paragraph 2 of this Part B, the following terms have the 
following meanings: 
(a)
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for the Interest Period in which a Disbursed 
Amount is withdrawn, the London interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in 
dollars for value the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the 
initial Interest Period, for value the day occurring on the Interest Payment Date 
preceding the first day of such Interest Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank 
and expressed as a percentage per annum.
(b)
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for the Interest Period in which each 
Disbursed Amount is withdrawn:
(i)
one half of one percent (1/2 of 1%);
(ii)
minus (or plus) the weighted average margin, for such Interest 
Period, below (or 
above) the London interbank offered rates, or 
other reference rates, for six-month 
deposits, in respect of the 
Bank's outstanding borrowings or portions thereof 
allocated by 
the Bank to fund single currency loans or portions thereof made by it 
that include such Disbursed Amount for such Interest Period; as reasonably 
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum. 
(c)
“Fixed Base Rate” means, for each Disbursed Amount, the equivalent of the 
London interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in dollars for value on the Rate 
Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount, expressed as a single fixed interest rate based 
on the fixed interest rates corresponding to the repayment installments of such 
Disbursed Amount, as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage 
per annum.
(d)
“Fixed Total Spread” means, for each Disbursed Amount: 
(i)
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%); 
(ii)
minus (or plus) the cost margin, applicable on the Rate Fixing 
Date for such 
Disbursed Amount, below (or above) the London 
interbank offered rates, or other 
reference rates, for 
six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank's outstanding 
borrowings or portions thereof allocated to fund single currency loans or portions 
thereof made by it that include such Disbursed Amount; plus 
(iii)
the Bank's risk spread applicable on the Rate Fixing Date for such 
Disbursed 
Amount; as reasonably determined by the Bank and 
expressed as a percentage per 
annum. 
4.
The Bank shall notify the Guarantor and the Borrower of the LIBOR Base Rate, 
LIBOR Total Spread, Fixed Base Rate and Fixed Total Spread applicable to each 
Disbursed Amount, promptly upon the determination thereof. 
5.
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the determination of 
the interest rates referred to in this Schedule, the Bank determines that it is in the 
interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for determining 
the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as provided in this Schedule, the 
Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest rates applicable to amounts of 
the Loan not yet withdrawn upon not less than six (6) months' notice to the Guarantor 
and the Borrower of the new basis. The new basis shall become effective on the expiry 
Page  10
of the notice period unless the Guarantor or the Borrower notifies the Bank during 
said period of its objection thereto, in which case said modification shall not apply 
to the Loan.
C.
Repayment. 
1.
Subject to the provisions of paragraph 2 of this Part C, the Borrower shall 
repay each Disbursed Amount of the Loan in semiannual installments payable on each May 
15 and November 15, the first such installment to be payable on the seventh (7th) 
Interest Payment Date following the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount and the 
last such installment to be payable on the twenty-fourth (24th) Interest Payment Date 
following the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount. Each installment shall be 
one-eighteenth (1/18) of such Disbursed Amount. 
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part C, if any installment 
of principal of each Disbursed Amount would, pursuant to the provisions of said 
paragraph 1, be payable after November 15, 2012, the Borrower shall also pay on said 
date the aggregate amount of all such installments. 
3.
After each Disbursed Amount shall have been withdrawn, the Bank shall promptly 
notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of the amortization schedule for such Disbursed 
Amount.
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 (the Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:
Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Except as otherwise provided in paragraphs 2 and 3 of this Part B, goods and 
works shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. In the procurement of goods and works under 
this Part B.1, bidding documents in a standardized form for the Project shall be used.
Without limitation to any other provisions set forth in this Schedule or the 
Guidelines, the following shall apply to the procurement of goods and/or works under 
this Part B.1:
(a)
contracts shall be awarded to the bidder whose bid has been determined to 
be the lowest evaluated bid, such evaluation to be based on price and, whenever 
appropriate, to also take into account factors similar to those referred to in 
paragraph 2.51 of the Guidelines, provided, however, that the bid evaluation shall 
always be based on factors that can be quantified objectively, and the procedure for 
such quantification shall be disclosed in the invitation to bid;
(b)
whenever required by the Bank, the invitation to bid shall be advertised 
for at least three consecutive days in a newspaper of wide circulation in Brazil;
(c)
the arrangements, under the invitation to bid, for a joint-venture 
(consórcio) of Brazilian and foreign firms shall be approved in advance by the Bank in 
each case;
(d)
the invitation to bid shall not establish, for purposes of acceptance of 
bids, minimum or maximum amounts for the contract prices; and
(e)
the purchaser shall not, without the Bank's prior approval, issue any 
Page  11
change order under a contract which would increase or decrease by more than 15% of the 
quantity of goods (and related services) without any change in the unit prices or 
other terms and conditions of sale.
2.
Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national or international shopping 
procedures, at the option of the Borrower, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $500,000 equivalent may be procured under lump 
sum, fixed price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three 
qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation 
shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the 
required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank, and 
relevant drawings, where applicable.  The award shall be made to the contractor who 
offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience 
and resources to successfully complete the contract.
Part C:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
Post Review
The procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply to each contract to be awarded pursuant to the provisions of this Schedule.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 (the 
Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.01 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
Page  12
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$200,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines 
shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means the Categories set forth in the 
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means the amount of $7,000,000 to be 
withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that the Bank may, at any time, 
modify, by notice to the Borrower, the Authorized Allocation to an amount which, in 
the reasonable opinion of the Bank, shall be the estimated amount of Project 
expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan in the four-month period 
after the date of such notice.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank 
requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Bank shall 
specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this 
Schedule for the payment or 
Page  13
payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On 
the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such 
amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said 
documents and other evidence to have been paid out of 
the Special Account for 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits 
shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the 
Loan Account under 
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective 
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and other 
evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
Page  14
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 6
Program Review
1.
The Borrower’s policies regarding fiscal performance and spending on major 
capital investments, as set forth in the Privatization Program Letters, have been 
substantially complied with.
2.
The Borrower’s shares in the capital of Companhia de Eletricidade de Mato Grosso 
(the power company controlled by the Borrower) have been sold, and the privatized 
company is carrying out its operations in accordance with environmental protection 
standards determined on the basis of environmental audits satisfactory to the Bank, 
and in a manner so as to achieve satisfactory coverage and service quality levels, 
under a concession agreement satisfactory to the Bank.
3.
Companhia de Habitação do Estado de Mato Grosso (the Borrower’s housing agency) 
or Companhia de Desenvolvimento do Estado de Mato Grosso (the Borrower’s development 
agency) has been closed.   
SCHEDULE 7
Actions Referred to in Paragraph 3 (b) (ii) of Schedule 1
1.
The Borrower’s policies regarding fiscal performance and spending on major 
capital investments, as set forth in the Privatization Program Letters, have been 
substantially complied with.
2. 
Concession contracts or management contracts have been signed for the operation 
of water and sewerage systems in areas of the Borrower’s territory with a total urban 
population of at least 400,000 persons in the aggregate, such contracts to provide 
that the operation of such systems shall be in accordance with: (a) wastewater 
treatment targets established in a manner as provided in the Privatization Program 
Letter; and (b) environmental obligations determined on the basis of environmental 
audits satisfactory to the Bank.
3.
A regulatory framework for the Borrower’s water and sanitation sector has been 
put into effect.
