Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.: 19948
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
NEPAL
HILL COMMUNITY FORESTRY PROJECT
(IDA CREDIT NUMBER 2028-NEP)
DECEMBER 13,1999
Rural Development Unit
South Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                Nepali Rupee (NRs)
1989/90 US$ 1.0:                           NRs 28.90
1990/91 US$ 1.0:                           NRs 31.20
1991/92 US$ 1.0:                           NRs 42.30
1992/93 US$ 1.0:                           NRs 45.40
1993194 US$ 1.0:                           NRs 49.30
1994/95 US$ 1.0:                           NRs 49.90
1995/96 US$ 1.0:                           NRs 55.00
1996/97 US$ 1.0:                           NRs 57.00
1997/98 US$ 1.0:                           NRs 61.50
1998/99 US$ 1.0:                           NRs 67.90
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
The metric system is used throughout this report
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
July 16 - July 15
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CBO            Community Based Organization
CF             Community Forestry
CFFI           Community Forestry and Field Implementation Project
CPFD           Community and Private Forestry Division
DANIDA         Danish International Development Agency
DDC            District Development Committee
DFO            District Forest Officer
DO             Development Objective
DOF            Department of Forestry
ERR            Economic Rate of Return
FAO            Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations
FSCC           Forest Sector Coordination Committee
FUG            Forest User Group
HCFP           Hill Community Forestry Project
HMGN           His Majesty's Government of Nepal
ICR            Implementation Completion Report
IDA            International Development Association
IP             Implementation Progress
MED            Monitoring and Evaluation Division
MFSC           Ministry of Forests and Soil Conservation
MIS            Monitoring Information System
MTR            Mid-Term Review
M & E          Monitoring & Evaluation
NARMSAP        Natural Resource Management Support Project
NGO            Non Governmental Organization
NPV            Net Present Value
NRs            Nepali Rupees
NTFPs          Non-timber Forest Products
ODA            Overseas Development Assistance (UK)
RTC            Regional Training Center
SAR            Staff Appraisal Report
UNDP           United Nations Development Program
VDC            Village Development Committee
Vice President:                Mieko Nishimizu
Country Director:             Hans Rothenbuhler
Sector Director:              Ridwan Ali
Team Leader:                   Ethel Sennhauser



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Table of Contents
Preface. .i
Evaluation Summary ............................................                            i
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT ............................................ 1
A. STATEMENT/EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES .
B.   ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES                                                             2
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT .1
D.    SUSTAINABILITY                     11
E. WORLD BANK PERFORMANCE .12
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE .12
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME .13
H. PLAN FOR FUTURE OPERATION .13
1. KEY LESSONS LEARNED .13
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES ......................... 17
Table 1:  Summary of Assessments .17
Table 2:  Related Bank Loans/Credits .19
Table 3: Project Timetable .19
Table 4:    Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual .19
Table 5:  Project Performance Indicators .20
Table 6:   Key Indicators for Project Operation .20
Table 7:  Studies Included in Project .21
Table 8A: Project Costs               ..22
Table 8B: Project Financing              ..22
Table 9:  Economic Costs and Benefits .22
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants .23
Table 11:   Compliance with Operational Manual Statements .24
Table 12:  Bank Resources: Staff Inputs .24
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions .25
APPENDICES:
A.   Mission's Aide-Memoire
B.    Borrower's ICR
C.    Co-Financier's ICR
D.   Financial and Economic Analysis
E.    Operational Plan for Future Operations
F.    Map of Project Area- IBRD 21343RI
This documnent has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
NEPAL
HILL COMMUNITY FORESTRY PROJECT
(IDA Credit No. 2028-NEP)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Hill Community Forestry
Project in Nepal for which IDA Credit 2028-NP for the amount of SDR 23.5 million (US$ 30.5 million)
was approved on August 18, 1989, and became effective on May 14, 1990. DANIDA has financed the
Training and Extension Component (US$ 6.03 million). UNDP has financed technical assistance to the
amnount of US$ 640,000. The Mid-Term Review (MTR) was undertaken in December 1993. Following
the recommendations of Mid-Term Review, SDR 13.1 million was cancelled in April 1995 and a further
SDR 3.48 million was cancelled in 1998. The Credit was formally closed on June 30, 1999, two years
after of the original closing date of June 30, 1997. The last disbursement took place on November 23,
1999, at which time a balance of SDR 0.43 million remained undisbursed and was cancelled. Total
disbursements were SDR 6.49 million (28 percent of the original Credit amount).
This ICR was jointly prepared by staff from the World Bank and the FAO Investment
Center led by Ethel Sennhauser of the Rural Development Sector Management Unit of the South Asia
Region. It was reviewed by Ridwan Ali. The report is based on material in the project files, discussions
with project staff, government staff, former task team members, other donors and beneficiaries (forest
user groups) and on the findings of a joint World Bank/FAO/DANIDA ICR mission which visited Nepal
in May/June 19991. The Aide-Memoire of this mission is attached as Appendix A. The Borrower
contributed to the preparation of this ICR by providing background data and documentation, preparing a
project operational plan, arranging all field visits, and submitting its own completion report which is
included as Appendix B. DANIDA, the main cofinancier of the project, contributed by facilitating studies
and reports, participating in the ICR mission, and preparing the cofinancier's ICR contribution, which is
attached as Appendix C.
Other mission members included Ms. Julia Falconer (social forester), Ms. Nathalie Olsen (FAO/CP Mission
leader-Economist), Mr. Desmond Chaffey (FAO/CP-Forester), Michael Ollgaard (DANIDA) and Kumud
Shrestha (Forester).






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
NEPAL
HILL COMMUNITY FORESTRY PROJECT (IDA Credit No. 2028-NEP)
Evaluation Summary
Objectives and Components
1.        The main objective of the Hill Community Forestry Project (HCFP) was to mobilize people
and resources in the Hill districts to establish a forest management system which would conserve and
expand the forest resources needed to sustain traditional farming systems and livelihoods. The underlying
strategy to support the implementation of this community based forest management system was to return
the responsibility for the management of these resources to local communities. More specifically, the
project was designed to: (i) conserve and stabilize fragile ecosystems and regenerate and expand hill forest
resources; (ii) increase the production of fodder, fuelwood and timber needed by local communities; (iii)
mobilize and empower community groups to manage and develop forests and (iv) reorient the Department
of Forests (DOF) to plan resource allocation and assist these user groups.
2.        The SAR envisaged that the implementation of this objective and strategy required: (i)
building the capacity of DOF to implement community forestry with Forest User Groups (FUGs), (ii)
establishing and training FUGs; (iii) investing in improved forest management and restoration, including
the introduction of sustainable management practices and plantation development; and (iv) supporting
research in silvicultural improvements and socio-economic analyses to enhance community forestry
planning. The MTR adjusted these components by reducing the support for plantations in the forest
management component to 17% of the original target and canceling the component on research.
3.        Evaluation of objectives and design. The project objective was realistic and appropriate. It
was framed under the 1989 Master Plan for the Forestry Sector, and developed from the experiences of
pilot efforts supported by other donors. The project was consistent with the Bank's Forestry Sector Policy
Paper (1978) and followed the country recommendations presented in the Nepal Forestry Sector Review
(1978) and the Bank's Country Strategy Paper (1988/89). Project design, however, presented some
shortcomings. On the positive side, the project committed HMGN to a policy and regulatory framework
that allowed effective decentralized control of natural resources and a procedure with which to hand over
forests. The design also correctly identified training, capacity building and reorientation as important tools
to change the role of DOF from controlling forests to supporting local communities to manage them. The
design of the community empowerment activities was flexible and built to learn from experience in the
sense that it was based on site-specific planning, robust operational procedures, processes and rules of use
instead of prescribing a rigid approach to specific investment and activities. However, other forest
restoration activities such as the establishment of plantations derived from a more rigid approach and
overestimated their role as appropriate mechanisms to promote afforestation and reduce degradation,
failing to incorporate the experience of earlier projects which indicated that natural regeneration would
have been a more cost-efficient option. This was partly corrected at the MTR by eliminating the subsidies
for protecting plantations and phasing out the ones for plantation establishment. Project design also failed
to address the risks of relying on other projects to support important aspects of institutional change and did
not incorporate a mechanism for donor coordination. This resulted in poor monitoring and evaluation of
the project and in the cancellation of the research component. A better donor coordination would have
provided, in both cases, an early warning that previous arrangements were breaking down, facilitating
potential adjustments.
Implementation Experience and Results
4.        Support to sector policies. The project assisted HMGN in the implementation of the
community forestry component of the 1989 Forestry Sector Master Plan. During preparation, the Bank
facilitated a policy dialogue between HMGN and donors and enabled HMGN's adjustments to the legal
framework so as to promote its community forestry policy. Conditions of the credit covered the legal status
of FUGs and the process of decentralization. Loan effectiveness was dependent on preparation of



Operational Guidelines, as legislation prevailing in 1989 did not provide sufficient incentives for FUGs to
participate in community forestry. Credit effectiveness was postponed twice as a number of covenants
relating to the review of field and travel allowances of DOF field staff needed anmendment. Despite the
important role the Bank played in supporting policy change at the time of preparation, it took a number of
years before the Forest Act (1993) and supporting regulations (1995) were actually approved. As a result
of these delays, DOF was cautious in the implementation of the new policy during the first years of the
project.
5.        Accomplishment of institutional objectives. The implementation of this component was
satisfactory. The project successfully introduced the policy and procedural framework necessary to
establish a user group-based approach to forest management. The policy established the FUG as forest
manager and as beneficiary of this management -100% of produce and income from sale of produce went
to the FUG, which could freely decide how to use the income derived from this management. As a result of
a good incentive framework, more than 6,600 FUGs were established, representing roughly 39 % of the
rural households in the project area and involving more than 2.4 million people. By empowering
communities the project also implemented a major decentralization initiative. The DOF has decentralized
decision-making to a level lower than either the District Development Committee (DDC) or Village
Development Committee (VDC) giving to a group of forest users direct control of resources. FUGs are
now responsible for planning and implementing the sustainable use and restoration of nearby forests,
including the establishment of rules, doing forestry work, sharing benefits equitably, managing committee
selection, holding meetings, managing accounts, resolving conflicts, and marketing produce. The
institutional development and re-orientation of the DOF at the field level to implement the community
forestry program has also been effective. Implementation of community forestry is currently the dominant
approach to the management of forests in the Hills, and field staff devotes most of their time to supporting
FUG activities to restore and manage forests. The role of DOF has changed radically, from one of policing
and direct control over the forest, to one of promoting and facilitating local community efforts to manage
forests. Helped by an effective training program and based on a sound legal framework, the attitudinal shift
of DOF staff at all levels is significant. As a result, the relationship between DOF staff and communities
has improved greatly.
6.        A significant oversight in the institutional setting however, has been the poor monitoring of
project outcomes and impacts. With the TA provided by UNDP, a Monitoring Information System (MIS)
was established at the Community and Private Forestry Division (CPFD), but this system operated
primarily as a centralized database to track project physical and expenditure achievements with little
application in planning and decision-making. The existence of a parallel M&E program for the whole
Ministry at the Monitoring and Evaluation Division (MED) and the weak coordination of the project to this
program hindered the efficient monitoring of project impacts, both positive and negative and the
quantitative assessment of its outcomes. Nonetheless, despite the poor results in M&E activities, the
significant achievement in community empowernent and reorientation of DOF largely justify the
satisfactory rating given to the implementation of this component.
7.         Forest restoration and management. Achievements under this component were mixed,
mainly due to an overemphasis on plantations as an effective means to restore forest vegetation. The undue
reliance on plantation development as a strategy for forest restoration was identified and corrected at the
MTR. Despite the shortcomings with the plantations, the project helped to bring about a marked
improvement in the condition of forests under FUG management. Within the project area, approximately
328,000 ha of national forest land were transferred to FUGs, accounting for 72% of the optimistic scenario
projections given in the Forest Master Plan for year 2000. These forests are now largely under sustainable
management showing a significant improvement from the unsustainable management prevailing under the
pre-project defacto open access situation. Achievements by subcomponent include:
* Forest restoration and environmental conservation. Field evidence suggests that the project has
had a positive environmental impact as a result of improvements in forest regeneration and
condition. FUGs evidently recognize the broader environmental value of their forests, highlighting
as major environmental benefits a reduced erosion, improved water availability, biodiversity,
conservation and reduced incidence of forest fires. For this reason they often favor excessively
strict protection and forego more productive (but still sustainable) forms of forest management.
ii



* Management offorests. The project successfully introduced sustainable management practices,
specific for each forest site, under the guidance of agreed operational plans, developed by forest
users and negotiated with DOF every 5 years. This FUG management system established local
rules for restoration, management and harvesting rather than setting forth a plan of investments.
The emphasis on management rules and site-specific planning has proven to be a cost-effective
means to managing these critical ecosystems. During the life of the project, management shifted
from protection to harvesting, and from the single focus on fodder and fuelwood to a more
diversified management including timber and NTFPs.
* Plantations and Nurseries. At the outset, the project focused on the restoration of degraded
forest land through plantation establishment. The MTR recognized that plantation establishment
was not necessary for the regeneration of natural forests, and that it was not cost-effective; as a
result, the area targeted was decreased to a fifth and subsidies for plantation protection were
cancelled. A study completed under the project in 1998 confirmed the field supervision evidence
of very high seedling mortality rates, and showed that effective community protection resulted in
rapid natural regeneration of indigenous species. As a result, the project changed its approach from
one emphasizing plantation establishment to one more supportive of protection and silvicultural
treatment to promote natural regeneration. The production of seedlings and the establishment of
nurseries to support the plantation program have also been problematic as the SAR plantation
target far exceeded demand. To address this, DOF nurseries were cancelled and subsidies for
seedling production and plantation establishment were gradually phased out. Despite the declining
interest in nurseries and plantations throughout the project, and the low area of plantations
established, the impact of the failure of these activities (nurseries and plantations) in the
development goals of this component have been limited, as communities realized early in the
process that natural regeneration was a more successful mechanism to achieve forest restoration,
and increased their efforts in natural forest protection to achieve this.
8.        Training and extension. The training component of the project, financed by DANIDA, has
been of central importance, underpinning many of the gains in institutional development of DOF and FUG
capacity and in improvements to the forest management practices. During project implementation, more
than 1,000 officers and 9,500 field staff had attended one or more of the 3,000 training activities supported
by this component. In addition to this, several workshops, seminars and study tours were also organized.
As a result of this effort, almost every staff of DOF up to ranger level was able to facilitate the
identification and formation of FUGs at the end of the project. A strong effort was also given to the direct
training of FUGs, with more than 54;000 members participating in some kind of training program. An
intense awareness and extension campaign, including weekly radio broadcasts, puppet theatres,
documentaries, posters and calendars has not only increased the ability of FUGs to manage their forest but
has also kept high the demand for expanding the CF program to new users and villagers. The process was
however hindered by frequent transfer of staff, the poor distribution of some training material, especially in
remote areas, and the partial staffing of training centers. The poor quality of some of the construction
supported by the Bank (West and Midwest RTCs) implied that prescribed building standards were not
followed in some cases and that additional resources from DANIDA had to be allocated for repairs.
9.         Research to improve silvicultural techniques and socio-economic analysis to improve
community forestry planning. The research component of the project was never implemented, mainly
because the Forest Research Division was unable to increase its program (and staffing) beyond the level
required to implement an on-going ODA funded program. As a result, the component was cancelled at the
MTR. It is unfortunate that no alternative approaches were identified to ensure that specific and priority
problems emanating from field implementation of the community forestry program were addressed. In
particular, it is unfortunate that alternative strategies for assessing the baseline and the socio-economic
study were not developed as this affected the evaluation of project impacts and achievements.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations and Key Lessons Learned
10.       The overall outcome of the project is satisfactory. The project achieved its main objective of
establishing a community-based forest management system, accomplished through the empowerment of
user groups and the transfer of the management of forest resources to them. This system is likely to be
sustainable while the existing policy, regulatory and incentive frameworks remain in place. The project
iii



seems to have had a significant impact on the conservation and productivity of the forests in the Hills, on
the capacity of DOF and on the lives of local people.
11.       Sustainability. Present indications are that the project is likely to be sustainable. The
Community Forestry Program has been based on a strong policy and legal foundation on which several
thousand FUGs have been created. HMGN's commitment to community forestry is high, and it is currently
the dominant approach to the management of forests in the Hills. User groups have received little financial
support from the project, and technical assistance has been provided through the existing DOF channels
with no additional staffing.
12.       Future plan of operation. The Ministry of Forests and Soil Conservation (MFSC) has
prepared a plan for the future operation of the project. The maintenance of achieved outcomes and the self-
sufficiency of FUG operations will be a primary responsibility of the CPFD of MFSC. A Community
Forestry and Field Implementation (CFFI) project of U$6.4 million has recently been included in the on-
going NARMSAP program of DANIDA. As the outputs and components under the CFFI project follow
the structure of the HCFP, it is important that its future activities build on lessons learned from the design
and implementation of HCFP, and ensure that: (i) program sustainability achieved under HCFP will be
maintained, and (ii) further investments will focus on new activities to improve the quality of the hand-
over and post-hand-over process, and the strengthening of the capacity of government institutions, user
groups and private sector service providers.
Lessons Learned
13.       Reorientation of government institutions. The project has demonstrated that given a
favorable policy and legal framework, a government forest department can evolve from one concerned
mainly with policing to one that supports local communities to manage forests.
14.       Establishment of forest user groups. The empowerment of local communities, the formation
of FUG and the transfer of management responsibilities from DOF to local users have proven to be viable
mechanisms for sustainable forest management and conservation. Empowerment of communities to
manage forests as a group has also strengthened their capacity to act together in other spheres of
community development.
15.       Restoration of forest ecosystems. Protection and management of natural regeneration has
proven to be a more successful mechanism than plantation establishment to restore forest ecosystems.
Natural regeneration was adopted by local users because an appropriate set of measures and incentives was
in place.
16.       Community fund management. The project has demonstrated that FUGs can manage their
financial accounts satisfactorily, with adequate community supervision, selecting within the FUG the
activities to be supported and openly choosing an independent auditing system. This openness in the
allocation of FUG resources strengthens FUG ownership, builds self-reliance and increases the capacity to
mobilize other development resources.
17.       Project design and implementation. Project design should incorporate mechanisms to
ensure effective coordination with parallel programs to which project outcomes are partially linked. For
projects based on community participation, design should also be process oriented and based on "rules of
use" rather than a predetermined menu of activities.
18.        Sustainability and ownership. Community empowerment cannot be accelerated at a pace
beyond (i) the capacity of the facilitating institution to manage the expansion and (ii) the rate of learning
and behavioral changes required by forest users. Within this pace, an implementing agency may wish to
enter into partnerships with experienced NGOs to accelerate the handover process and to handle post-
handover capacity building.
19.        Training. The reorientation of the DOF to the community forestry concept, policy and
regulatory setting was critical for the successful implementation of the program. By investing heavily in
training, the process of change in institutional culture in the public service was accelerated.
20.        Financing. Community empowerment is achievable without large investments, but requires
more important administrative resources and implementation time. Building the capacity of community
iv



and government institutions (training and reorientation) seems to be the critical trigger to the user group
formation process.
21.        Governance: Community based projects can contribute to changing the relationship between
people and government and be an important step to improve govemance and strengthen the quality of the
services provided by the public sector.
22.        Donor co-ordination. A government-led forum, which includes donors, can make a valuable
contribution to a policy debate and development. Stakeholders should, however, be aware of the potential
fragility of arrangements in which the outcome of one project is partly dependent on the products of
another. In cases with a long history of donor assistance, donor exit strategies to move from expanded
operational support towards more quality focus activities are needed to promote genuine and long-term
sustainability.
23.        Monitoring and evaluation. The weakness in monitoring and evaluation meant that
ineffective strategies and activities were supported for longer than they should have been, with associated
financial costs. Furthermore, it has proven difficult for program managers and policy makers to assess
quantitative impacts across the Hills and to identify new constraints and opportunities. As a result,
inefficient monitoring led decision-makers to rely on qualitative measures and individual positive and
negative observations, which (in this latest case) where often given undue weight.
v






NEPAL
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
HILL COMMUNITY FORESTRY PROJECT (IDA Credit No. 2028-NEP)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. STATEMENT/EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
Country and Sector Context
l.        Forest resources in Nepal have been declining for some time, in large part due to the
conversion of forest land to agriculture and to uncertainty over tenure and usufruct. The 1957 decision to
nationalize all forest land in Nepal only aggravated this trend, and was reversed in 1977 when control of
limited areas of government forest was transferred to Panchayats. The introduction of democratic processes
in the early 1990s (and the end of the Panchayat system) has allowed the genuine implementation of
participatory approaches to resource management. Community forestry in Nepal arose due to concerns
about forest destruction and environmental degradation, combined with a move from centralized to local
level participation and management of common property resources. The Bank has supported the policy of
transferring management of forests to users since 1980 through a number of forestry projects providing
institutional support and training and through a structural adjustment credit in 1987.
2.        Project objective. The main objective of the Hill Community Forestry Project (HCFP) as
reflected in the Staff Appraisal Report was to mobilize people and resources in the Hill districts to
establish a forest management system which would conserve and expand the forest resources needed to
sustain traditional farming systems and livelihoods. The underlying strategy to support the implementation
of this community based forest management system was to return the responsibility for the management of
these resources to local communities. More specifically the project was designed to: (i) conserve and
stabilize fragile ecosystems and regenerate and expand hill forest resources; (ii) increase the production of
fodder, fuelwood and timber needed by local communities; (iii) mobilize and empower community groups
to manage and develop forests and (iv) reorient the DOF to plan resource allocation and assist these user
groups. The priority was clearly identified as conservation of forests and reversing the decline in forest
degradation, ensuring that production of forest products to meet local needs was maintained and, where
possible, increased.
3.        Project components and activities. The SAR envisaged that the implementation of this
objective and strategy required: (i) building the capacity of the Department of Forest (DOF) to implement
community forestry with Forest User Groups (FUG); (ii) establishing and training FUGs; (iii) investing in
improved forest management and restoration, including the introduction of sustainable management
practices and plantation development; and (iv) supporting research in silvicultural improvements and
socio-economic analyses to enhance community forestry planning. The MTR adjusted these components
by reducing the support for plantations in the forest management component to 17% of the original target,
and by canceling the research component.
4.        In addition to this, the project also provided assistance for works including demarcation,
construction of houses, office buildings, nurseries and training centers, and provision of equipment such as
vehicles, computers and tools for forest management.
5.        Special legal covenants promoting objectives. Project covenants related to the objectives
included the identification of forest areas to be handed over to communities, the establishment of forest
user groups, the disbursement of funds to these groups and the appointment of key staff to training centers,
CPFD and the Research Division.
6.        Evaluation of project objective. The project objective and underlying strategy were
appropriate and realistic as they were built on successful examples of small scale community forestry
efforts supported by other donors. The project was Nepal's greatest effort to implement its forestry sector
strategy, as described in the 1989 Forest Policy and Master Plan and the 1993 Forestry Act. The goals of
the project were also consistent with the Bank's 1978 Forestry Sector Policy Paper which encouraged the
implementation of new institutional arrangements to manage village forests involving local organizations
1



and promoted a strong support to rural afforestation, and the recommendations of the 1978 Nepal Forestry
Sector Review, which encouraged the implementation of sustainable forest management strategies based
on community forestry development and the support to integrate these government policies with
operational procedures and capacity building of field staff. The goals also concurred with the Bank's
Policy Framework Papers for Nepal (1988/89), which openly supported the 1988 Forest Master Plan and
promoted the involvement of local user groups in the management of forest resources. The project was
complex and ambitious in the sense that it aimed to promote the implementation of a new forest policy
focused on community empowerment, the setting of a new institutional framework and the development of
operational procedures for community mobilization, all of them embedded in the political changes of the
democratization process and the abolition of the panchayat regime. Technically, however, the project was
much simpler in the sense that it covered only one geographical region of the country (the mid-Hills)
therefore limiting the social, environmental, cultural and management issues to the ones within this
ecological area. The project covered 38 of the 54 districts of the Mid Hills (70%).
7.        Evaluation of project design. Project design was mixed, with deficiencies in some of the
components. On the positive side, it recognized from the very beginning the importance of establishing the
appropriate policy and regulatory environment, making several steps conditions of the Credit. The
emphasis on training, capacity building and reorientation, and the underpinning strategy on community
empowerment, also proved to be effective. The design of the institutional development and FUGs activities
was flexible and built to -learn from experience- in the sense that it was based on site specific planning,
founding operational procedures, processes and rules of use instead of prescribing a rigid approach to
specific investment and activities. However, other forest restoration activities, such as the establishment of
plantations, derived from a more rigid approach that overestimated their effectiveness for promoting
afforestation and reducing degradation, and failed to incorporate the experience of earlier projects (Credit
1400-NEP, Credit 1008-NEP) which indicated that natural regeneration would have been a more cost-
efficient option'. This was partly corrected in the adjustments introduced at the MTR, which eliminated the
subsidies for plantation protection and phased-out the ones for plantation establishment, as incentives to
move towards a natural regeneration system.
8.        Project design also failed to address the risks associated with relying on other projects to
support some important aspects of institutional change. It could have been improved, for example, by
developing a framework and mechanism for donor coordination, i.e. allocating resources for lesson
sharing workshops, meetings and study tours. The failure to incorporate these coordinating
mechanisms had important consequences in the monitoring and evaluation of the project and in the
cancellation of the research component. At the time of project preparation, responsibility for M&E
was assigned to a monitoring unit (MED) and a program within the Ministry of Forests and Soil
Conservation (MFSC) supported by bilateral donors. The SAR describes in detail the M&E process to
be followed and the role of MED and the regional staff in it. As reliable and timely information was
not being collected, the MTR had very strong recommendations to improve project monitoring.
Unfortunately, the linkages of this monitoring to the already existing MED M&E system for the whole
Ministry were not strengthened at this time, hindering the implementation of these recommendations.In
relation to research, the SAR overestimated the capacity of the Research Unit and MFSC to provide
additional staff to implement this component jointly with a stand-alone research program supported by
another donor. An improved donor coordination mechanism would have provided, in both cases, an
early warning that previous arrangements were breaking down, facilitating potential adjustments.
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
General
9.        Progress in the first two years of the project was slow, in part due to the political changes
taking place during 1989/90, which diverted much attention away from the early implementation of the
project. After 1992 progress improved rapidly, indicating a growing awareness among communities of the
new forest policies, improving ability of field staff to facilitate the hand-over process, and increasing
importance placed on the program at the district level. The project was consistently rated satisfactory by
It should be noted, however, that the prevailing international thinking still placed emphasis on tree planting
strategies.
2



supervision missions for both DO and IP. The credit closing date was extended twice from June 30, 1997
to June 30, 1999 to strengthen post-formation activities that would strengthen sustainability. Physical
objectives were largely met. New regulations and operational procedures guiding the program were
introduced as required. Covenants were complied with, except those that were made irrelevant due to the
modifications introduced at the MTR.
Physical Objectives
10.       The ICR mission found that the project generally achieved the physical objectives agreed
during MTR. Details by component are summarized below. The location of the districts included in the
Project is shown on the map in Appendix F (IBRD Map No. 21343R1)
11.       Support to sector policies. The project intended to assist HMGN in its implementation of the
community forestry component of the 1989 Forestry Sector Master Plan. The project successfully
introduced the policy and procedural framework necessary to establish a community-based approach to
forest restoration and management. At the time of preparation in the late 1980s, the Bank facilitated a
policy dialogue between HMG and donors, and helped HMG to change the legal framework in order to
promote its community forestry policy. Credit conditions ensured an appropriate legal status for FUGs and
a process of decentralization in forestry decision-making. A further condition, adoption of Operational
Guidelines, was set for Credit effectiveness in order to provide field staff sufficient guidance to
operationalise FUG participation in forestry. Credit effectiveness was postponed twice as a number of
covenants relating to field administration required amendment. Despite the instrumental role played by the
Bank during project preparation in policy change, it took a number of years before the Forest Act (1993),
and supporting regulations (1995) were actually approved. As a result of these delays, DOF was cautious
in the implementation of the new policy and consequently in project implementation. While this did have
unfortunate consequences on the fist years of project implementation, it is rather remarkable that such a
far-reaching policy shift was achieved in a period of extreme political instability.
12.       Accomplishment of institutional objectives. The project aimed to strengthen and re-orient
DOF to enable it to identify and establish community groups and to empower community organizations to
transfer to them the responsibility for the management of forest areas. Implementation of the component
was satisfactory. Its major accomplishments include:
* Identification of areas to be transferred to communities. At the beginning of the project, an inventory
and mapping exercise identified areas of forest with the potential for community forestry. Maps were
prepared for project districts showing accessible forest patches greater than 25 ha which offered a quick
picture of district forest resources and potential for community forest. However, DFOs have relied far
more on field investigations and discussions with villagers in their identification offorests which could
be handed over to FUGs, thus adopting an opportunistic rather than strategic approach. Now, the
popularity of the program drives the identification process and DFOs respond to the demand of interested
community groups.
* Re-orientation of DOF to work with community groups. The institutional development and re-
orientation of the DOF at the field level has been tremendous. From an organization which relied mainly
on policing tactics to manage forests, the DOF now relies almost exclusively on its partnerships with
FUGs and field staff devote most of their time to supporting FUG activities to restore forests in the Hills.
The role of DOF has changed radically, from one of direct control, to one of promoting community
efforts to manage forests. Helped by a comprehensive training program, sound legal framework and
considerable field experience, the attitudinal shift of DOF staff at all levels is significant. As a result, the
relationship between DOF staff and communities has been transformed.
* Decentralization. The project has successfully implemented a major decentralization initiative. The
DOF has decentralized decision-making to a level lower than either the DDC or VDC giving to a
community of forest users direct control of resources. The FUGs are responsible for planning and
implementing the sustainable use and restoration of nearby forests, including the establishment of rules,
doing forestry work, sharing benefits equitably, managing committee selection, holding meetings,
managing accounts, resolving conflicts, and product marketing. The role of the VDC and DDC in the
implementation of community forestry policy is uncertain and in the future might need clarification as
the decentralized political bodies become more effective at delivering development assistance and as the
3



forests become increasingly valued as a local resource. To date, these bodies have not been actively
engaged in FUG planning, decision-making or monitoring.
* Empowerment of communities to manage forests sustainably. Approximately 6,600 FUGs have been
established in the 38 districts supported through the project, exceeding the SAR target. This FUG
membership represents roughly 39 percent of rural households, and involves more than 2.4 million
people'. The community forestry approach presumes that by empowering people with a vested interest in
a resource to work together, forest conditions and forest productivity (thus benefits) will improve. The
formation and support of FUGs is guided by several principles: that all users of a forest be included in
the FUG and contribute to decision-making, that benefits be shared equitably among all members and
that the first priority in forest production be to meet the basic needs of members. The process of FUG
formation was piloted before the start of the project and procedures were legally established in DOF
operational guidelines agreed during the project. The process entailed:
*   preliminary discussions and PRA between the community and DOF, formation a group
including membership from all households who use the forest and are interested,
*   preparation of an operational plan with the forest ranger which details the area, the rules of
use, the work to be done to improve the condition of the forest, harvesting rules and distribution of
benefits,
* formal hand-over of the forest to the FUG once the plan is approved,
* training by DOF of FUG in forestry and other community works,
*   forest protection and maintenance by members on a voluntary basis and harvesting and
distribution of produce according to plan and as agreed by the group;
- regular FUG meetings and reporting to maintain transparency;
- revision of the plan after five years to reflect changed forest condition and lessons learnt.
Over the past few years supervision missions have consistently been told by FUG members that one of
the single greatest impacts of the program has been their empowerment, and this experience has
encouraged them to try to work together to solve other village problems. Where community
empowerment has been successful, it is a result of participatory planning, involvement of all forest users
(often crossing social barriers), an agreed set of objectives and rules of use codified in an approved plan,
the formal handing-over of responsibility for plan implementation to FUG, training and field practice,
FUG fund management, a clear system of reporting and auditing (to membership and DOF), and results
in the form of forest re-growth and local environmental stability. However, the lack of systematic
monitoring of social indicators limited the quantification of these benefits and impacts.
* Establishment of an incentive framework to sustain community forestry. The experience with the
implementation of community forestry suggests that the 1989 policy established an effective incentive
framework. The policy established the FUG as forest manager and as beneficiary of this management-
100% of produce and income from sale of produce goes to the group who have devoted their energies to
forest restoration and management. This ensures that people have access to an increasing supply of
fodder and fuel resources needed to sustain their households.2The policy also clearly stipulates that
benefits would be shared equitably between members of the group. Details of benefit sharing
arrangements are prescribed in a specific operational plan for the particular forest. There is a clear and
direct link between the gains in forest productivity and benefits going to the FUG. At the outset of the
program, and also generally in the first few years of FUG formation, the main thrust of forest
management was on strict forest protection to promote natural regeneration and use to meet domestic
needs only. As confidence has increased, managers are trying to improve the productivity and returns
from forests. There remains concern amongst some DOF staff that, as forests improve and income
increases, the principles of FUG forestry may be undermined by local elite and sustainability would be
eroded. However, to date, this has emerged as a problem in only a few communities. Effective
monitoring and transparency in FUG functioning will help to limit this problem. It is evident that the
FUG and foresters increasingly see these forests as community assets which require little external support
to be sustained. Indeed, as the forests regrow and FUGs are able to sell produce (even if only locally)
'There is a considerable range among Districts, with values ranging between 13 to 89%.
2 In some cases, FUGs have limited access to these essential goods in order to encourage the forests to re-grow;
however, as people begin to manage this regeneration, they generally find that quantities of fuel and fodder
increase with increased protection and managed extraction.
4



support for the effort increases markedly within the community and the forests become valued not only
as a source of needed goods and environmental stability, but also as a source of income to help promote
community development. The FUGs are free to decide how to use any income from forest harvesting and
in practice it is used in a wide variety of ways: from reinvestment in forestry work (paying watchers,
planting), to serving as a revolving credit fund for needy members, to funding a vast array of community
development needs (fixing culverts, school teacher salaries, school buildings). Since the project shifted at
MTR to focus on managing natural regeneration rather than on tree planting, there has been very little
external subvention of FUG effort. The system as it is currently implemented requires very little extemal
support, the main inputs come from FUG members, and mainly in the form of labor and changed
behavior. The significant contribution from DOF is in technical and moral support to the FUG. The most
significant future challenge for DOF to sustain community forestry in the Hills is juggling the demands
for "backstopping" by thousands of FUGs. Strategic human resource planning may be required at the
District level to allocate support according to the degree of attention required by different FUGs;
generally within a few years FUGs have proved able to function with little regular DOF attention.
13.       Monitoring and evaluation. A significant oversight in the institutional development
setting relates to the poor monitoring of project outcomes and impacts. While the SAR clearly
specified a structure and responsibilities for monitoring and evaluation, this was not undertaken
satisfactorily, with serious consequences for the quantitative assessment of both the positive and
negative impacts of the project. With the TA provided by UNDP, a Monitoring Information System
(NMIS) was established within CPFD consisting primarily of a FUG database with information at the
district level'. This MIS, however, operated primarily as a centralized database to track project
physical and expenditure achievements with little link to program planning and decision-making at
any level of implementation. At MTR, it was clear that reliable information was not being collected
from participating districts, and rangers, DFOs and regional staff of DOF were made accountable for
the collection and transmission of information. Unfortunately, the linkages of this monitoring to the
already existing MED M&E system for the whole Ministry were not strengthened at this time,
hindering the implementation of these recommendations, and at project completion meaningful
indicators of project impact were not yet collected and/or transmitted to CPFD. At the community
level, however, participatory monitoring systems were found to be in place, and continuous
monitoring of the forest conditions by members of the FUGs are continuously incorporated in the
decision making process and the implementation of the management plans. Monitoring of forest
conditions and operational plan implementation are a relevant factor when these plans need to be
reviewed and updated. The success in the implementation and application of M&E at the local level,
however, was not replicated at broader levels of decision-making, hindering the quantification of
project impacts and results.
14.       The project's financial management system  did not receive the indepth attention at
appraisal that more recent projects have received since the introduction of OP 10.02. Although the
financial management systems put in place serviced the project's basic needs, an improved project
management system would have brought benefits in terms of better financial control and improved
monitoring of the project's physical and financial progress.
15.       Despite these poor results in the monitoring of project activities, the significant achievements
in community empowerment and reorientation of the Forest Department largely justify the satisfactory
rating given to the implementation of this component.
16.       Forest resource management. The project included a component to promote the restoration
and sustainable management of forest ecosystems. This component comprised improving the management
of existing forests, plantation establishment, and seedling production and distribution. Achievements under
this component were mixed, mainly due to an overemphasis on plantations as an effective means to restore
forest vegetation. The undue reliance on plantation development as a strategy for forest restoration was
identified and corrected during MTR. Despite the shortcomings with the plantations, the project has helped
The FUG database includes information on Number of FUGs and households, CF area, participation of women in
FUG committees, and constitution of FUG committees.
5



to bring about a marked improvement in the condition of forests under FUG management. Approximately
328,000 ha of national forest land were transferred to FUGs during the life of the project, considerably
more than the target established during the MTR1. These forests are now largely under sustainable
management showing a significant improvement from the unsustainable management prevailing under the
pre-project defacto open access situation.
* Forest restoration and environmental conservation. While no comprehensive studies have been
conducted, supervision evidence suggests that the project has had a positive environmental impact as a
result of improvements in forest condition. This is particularly significant in forests which were degraded
at the outset of the project, e.g. one forest showed a 29 percent increase in stem basal area in three years.
FUGs evidently value the broad environmental services of their forests. For this reason they often favor
strict protection at the outset and forego more productive (but still sustainable) forms of forest
management. It is evident that rapid natural regeneration provides considerable boost to motivation
within the FUG and this generally is associated with equally rapid impacts on local environment. FUG
members have highlighted a number of crucial environmental benefits, including:
*  Soil and water conservation: Communities associate increased forest cover with reduced soil
erosion and improved water availability during the dry season. The reduction in soil erosion and
land slips has a direct and appreciable impact on the farming system and food security. Increased
availability of water during the dry season reduces the drudgery of water collection and in some
locations has prompted changes in cropping patterns.
*  Biodiversity: supervision evidence suggests that the improvement in forest condition be
accompanied by an increase in biodiversity, although some of the species adapted to the more
degraded conditions may become less common. Certainly, villagers report significant increases in
wildlife populations in community forests.
i  Forest fire: Under community forestry, the incidence of forest fire has declined, reflecting the
emphasis FUGs place on protection. For the future, training programs in fire management are
needed, and institutional arrangements to coordinate fire management between nearby clusters of
FUGs will be essential since as the forest conditions improve, the risks of catastrophic fires also
increases in unmanaged conditions.
* Management offorests. The project successfully introduced sustainable management practices specific
to each forest site, under the guidance of operational plans. Once a FUG was formed and the plan
agreed, this was submitted to the DOF for approval. The approved plan provided the legal basis upon
which forests were handed over and entrusted to FUGs. Plans were reviewed regularly by FUG and local
forestry staff and new plans negotiated every 5 years. This system of management planning has helped to
instil a dynamic approach -- one which builds from site-specific changes in the forest and its use. The
FUG management system established local rules for restoration, management and harvesting rather than
setting forth a plan of investments. The emphasis on management rules, rather than activities has proven
to be a cost-effective means to managing these vulnerable ecosystems. Operational plans were developed
in a participatory way, involving all members of a community and especially all users of the particular
forest area in decisions over how the forest would be used and managedi2 The process involved users in
identifying, mapping and assessing the condition of the forest. Management priorities and rules of use
were agreed and negotiated, as were responsibilities of individual members and the functioning of the
FUG and its executive committee. Most FUGs relied on the voluntary support of membership for any
forestry activities, especially for forest protection. At the outset, FUGs often concentrated on protection
to restore the forests and to establish the authority of the group. It was only after a number of years, and
considerable support and training by DOF staff, that FUGs introduced activities to improve the
productivity of forests. In many areas, thinning and pruning natural regeneration had significant results,
improving the condition, productivity and variety in the forest. This managed harvesting helped to
increase the volumes of fodder, fuel and small poles coming from the forest. In addition, after a few years
The area covered is below the original SAR target of 400,000 hectares but well above figure agreed at MTR of
200,000. The SAR projections overestimated the size of forest which would be managed by a FUG.
2 In some Districts, the failure to identify all concemed forest users, particularly nomadic users has led to problems
and conflicts within and between communities. Methods for negotiating use and management rights between
sedentary and nomadic communities have since been developed and are now being under implementation.
6



of experience with forest tending and as more people have taken an active interest in the FUG,
management priorities have become more diverse and shifted from the single focus on fodder and fuel
which was common in the early years of community forestry, to one which encompassed a wide range of
non-timber forest products such as medicinal plants and timber. However, very little technical support
has been provided up to now on improving the productivity of NTFPs.
. Plantation establishment. The project supported the establishment, protection and maintenance of
forest plantations as a means to increase forest area and restore degraded forest lands. The project design
overestimated the potential for plantations in the prevailing conditions of many parts of the Hills. Several
adjustments were introduced during implementation to amend this, as a result of which the project
changed its approach from one emphasizing plantation establishment to one more supportive of
protection and silvicultural treatment to promote natural regeneration. When HMGN and the MTR
recognized that plantation establishment was not a cost-effective mechanism for the regeneration of
natural forests, the area targeted was decreased to a fifth, subsidies for plantation protection were
cancelled and the ones for plantation establishment were phased out. As a result of this, there was a
marked reduction of interest in FUGs for plantation development. Consequently, only 13,166 hectares of
plantation were actually established, compared to a SAR estimate of 56,300 ha. A 1998 study supported
by the project confirmed that most of these plantations were not successful, corroborating the field
supervision evidence of very low seedling survival rates (26%). These low rates were mainly due to (i)
poor commitment of FUGs to maintain plantations, (ii) inappropriate use of technology, (iii) unsuitable
selection of sites, (iv) inexperienced technical support. The study also showed that effective community
protection resulted in rapid natural regeneration of indigenous species, and that this option was achieving
better and.more cost-efficient results than plantations. It should be noted, however, that for many FUGs
the plantations served as essential "nurse crops" to initiate natural regeneration, and without plantation
establishment it would have been difficult to obtain the necessary protection for natural regeneration to
occur.
- Seedling production (nurseries). The production of seedlings and the establishment of nurseries to
support the plantation program have been problematic. The SAR envisaged the production of 117 million
seedlings, of which 99 million would be used to establish community plantations, and the remainder
would be distributed to farmers for planting on private lands. However, the MTR found that the SAR
plantation target far exceeded the demand for plantations by FUGs and consequently reduced the target
to 71 million seedlings and shifted the focus from DOF managed nurseries to FUG run nurseries. By the
end of 1998 almost 77 million seedlings had been produced (of which 16 million were produced by
FUGs). Over the life of the project the subsidy for seedling production has been steadily reduced, and, as
a result, interest in nurseries has also declined. However, and despite the reduced interest in nurseries and
plantations throughout the project, the impact of the failure of these activities (nurseries and plantations)
in the development goals of this component has been limited, as HMGN and the local communities
realized early in the process that natural regeneration was a more successful mechanism to achieve forest
restoration and increased their efforts in natural forest protection to achieve this.
17.       Training and extension. The training component of the project, primarily financed by
DANIDA, has been of central importance, underpinning many of the gains in institutional development of
DOF and FUG capacity and in improvements to the forest management practices. Discussions on this
component are addressed in more detail in DANIDA's contribution to this ICR, attached as Appendix C.
Accomplishments of this component include:
* Improved capacity of the Department of Forest to impiement community forestry. By the end of June
1998 more than 1,000 officers and 9,500 field staff had attended one or more of the 3,000 training
activities related to CF matters. In addition to this, several workshops, seminars and study tours were also
organized. As a result of this effort, almost every staff of DOF from the project districts up to ranger
level was able to facilitate the identification and formation of FUGs at the end of the project. Courses for
rangers included topics such as CF orientation, training of trainers and CF silvicultural management.
* FUGs trained in CF. A strong effort was given in this component to the direct training of members of
FUGs, with an increased tendency to move training activities nearer to the communities, and even to the
users' own forest. By the end of June 1998, 54,000 FUG members had participated in some kind of CF
training activity. Frequently attended course types included: CF seminars and workshop (orientation
about CF), networking (review and planning) WS and CF silvicultural management courses, study tours
7



to other FUGs. An increased focus on activities for women showed an improved participation by them in
FUG activities. The increased awareness and knowledge at the user level has not only increased the
ability to manage a self-determined development of the forest, but has also kept high the demand for
expanding the CF program to new users and villages.
* Enhanced extension efforts: the project has also significantly improved the extension efforts of the
DOF, by increased awareness of community needs on the part of DOF staff, and enhanced visibility of
the program, particularly amongst the rural communities. Extension activities included the active
participation of DOF in weekly radio broadcasts about the program, the implementation of a puppet
theatre extension program, and the production of documentaries, telecasts, bulletins, posters, calendars
and information pamphlets for FUG members and field staff.
* Establishment of training centers. The project gave support to the establishment of 5 regional training
centers (RTCs), one in each region of the country. Buildings were constructed with IDA resources, and
the operation was coordinated under DANIDA. The RTCs were the primary location for training at the
outset of the project, but after MTR when emphasis shifted to district-based training and study tours to
build the capacity of FUGs to function as effective forest managers and community institutions, the
RTCs activities focused more on training of trainers, rangers and forest guards, and on supporting the
planning and implementation of the training of FUGs carried out by staff of the DFOs.
18.        Although the implementation of this component was uniformly good throughout the project,
and the impact of its activities was remarkable, some issues prevented the achievement of even more
significant results. Frequent transfers of DOF staff, especially during the early years, disrupted the training
program, affecting continuity in the work with the users and making the training needs assessments
redundant. The selection of the participants to the training courses was sometimes hampered by local
dominance of elite groups, or ignorance of conflicting requirements due to, for example, the agriculturai
calendar. Distribution of training and extension material did not reach some of the trainees, especially in
remote areas. Finally, problems encountered at the RTCs included the poor quality of some of the
construction, which required repair 2-3 years after completion, and full staffing, which in some cases was
not reached (especially for administration staff).
19.        Research to improve silvicultural techniques and socio-economic analyses to improve
community forestry planning. The research component of the project was never implemented, mainly
because the Forest Research Division was unable to increase its program (and staffing) beyond the level
required to implement an on-going ODA-funded program. As a result, this component was cancelled at the
MTR. It is unfortunate that no alternative approaches were identified during early implementation of the
project to ensure that specific and priority problems emanating from field implementation of the
community forestry program were addressed. In particular, it is unfortunate that alternative strategies for
assessing the baseline and the socio-economic study were not developed, as this affected the evaluation of
project impacts and achievements. The cancellation of the silviculture sub-component, however, was less
relevant as these technical studies were covered under the ODA program.
Co-ordination with Other Projects in the Program
20.        The Community and Private Forestry Division (CPFD) of the MFSC was established as the
project management unit, and to co-ordinate all multilateral and bilateral community forestry activities in
Nepal. In practice, the activities of CPFD have been confined to the 38 districts, with an overall role on
policy matters. Despite the good coordination between donors during project preparation (when policy and
regulatory reforms needed to be sought), co-ordination between different donor-supported projects during
the implementation phase was weaker. While a Forest Sector Co-ordination Committee (FSCC) was
established, most exchange of infonnation and experiences between the different projects remained
informal. In the case of this project, the collaboration between DANIDA (cofinancier) and the Bank has
primarily focused on contact during supervision and review missions. Given the fact that donor
coordination had been a constant issue in the development agenda of the country, it was unfortunate that
the project did not incorporate in its design specific mechanisms and activities to facilitate formal
arrangements for this coordination. This would have facilitated, for example, the identification of potential
break down on the expected outcomes of other donor-supported activities (such as M&E and research)
which had direct impacts on this project.
8



Economic and Financial Re-evaluation
21.        The re-estimation of the economic returns of the project as a whole resulted is an ERR of 18
percent (see Appendix D), which is half the appraisal estimate of 36 percent. The reduced ERR is
attributable to (i) offtake from community forests has been less than envisaged at appraisal due to the early
adoption of management regimes emphasizing protection rather than management for production (ii) the
actual area of forest handed over was 80 percent of the target set in the SAR; and (iii) the SAR did not
include the costs of the training and research components in the economic analysis.' The ERR though,
remains as high as 18% although only one third of the credit was disbursed because the basic economic
analysis at the time of appraisal did not take into account economic returns such as yields from non-
traditional forest product or environmental benefits which were considered in the economic analysis at the
time of this ICR. This ERR might have been even higher if some quantification could have been done on
other relevant benefits such as community empowerment and mobilization, not possible to include at this
completion stage due to the absence of baseline studies and data.
22.        The re-estimation of economic returns to plantation establishment produces a highly negative
net present value of NRs -166 million (the SAR ERR was 21 percent). This is predominantly due to the
very low seedling survival rate of 26 percent. It has been costly for DOF to produce and distribute
seedlings and to support FUGs to set up their own nurseries. Fortunately, it was soon apparent that
investment in plantation establishment had negative returns.
23.        The economic and financial analysis (Appendix D) based on hectare activity models evaluates
the role of the seedling pricing policy and the financial incentives of the protective and active management
regimes. In the absence of the seedling subsidy, it is unlikely that FUGs would consider plantation
establishment, moving towards natural regeneration practices. The activity models also indicate that there
are strong financial incentives for FUGs to shift from protective to more active management regimes. The
NPV of activities in actively managed forests (almost NRs. 20,000 per hectare) is more than three times
the NPV of protected forest (roughly NRs. 6,400 per hectare). The fact that FUGs emphasize protection
may be due to social factors affecting the behavior of the user group, i.e. fear to be successful in the
introduction of sustainable management practices, insecurity of DOF staff to provide "secure"
management advise, and, in reduced cases, dominance of local social elites more keen in forest protection.
Social Impacts
24.        One of the aims of the project was to improve rural livelihoods through improved availability
2
and access to forest goods essential for maintaining farming systems. Unfortunately there has been no
systematic monitoring of the social impacts of community forestry, thus both criticism and praise about
program impacts are based on evidence from field visits and case studies in a limited sample of villages
and mainly biased to those with good access to towns. Nonetheless, the evidence does suggest an overall
positive social impact. The transfer of forest to FUGs is promoting community-based institutional capacity
and self-reliance and has fostered community initiatives in other spheres, for example in education, water
resource management, and access to micro-credit. Specific impacts relate to:
* Popularity of FUG forestry: Almost 6,600 FUGs, involving 464,500 households have joined efforts to
manage forests. This involvement continues to increase as people see the success and benefits accruing to
their FUG neighbors. Keeping up with this increased demand for community forestry is a major problem
in some Districts. However, it does suggest that from the perspective of forest users the results of
community forestry are positive.
* Beneficiaries: Community forestry is grounded in three essential principles of equity: (i) that FUG
membership include every interested forest user, no matter their social standing, (ii) all benefits from the
forests are distributed equitably among member households; and (iii) first priority of management is for
meeting household subsistence needs. The rules of distribution of any benefits and products of the forest
are established in the operation plan of the FUG. In approving the plan the DFO tries to ensure that the
sharing mechanisms will not put an unmanageable burden on the poorest households in the FUG.
At completion, all project costs were included in the economic analysis given the importance of training, extension
and institutional support to the success of local level management of forests.
2 The SAR introduction clearly links the transfer of responsibility for forest management to FUGs with the creation of
a resource base for "social, economic and environmental betterment in the Hills" (SAR par. 1.1)
9



However, this may be quite difficult to assess and negotiate in practice. There remains concern within the
DOF that in some places the elite will dominate the decision-making and gain more than their due from
the managed forest, particularly where these forests are now generating income. Another concern is that,
when strictly protecting the forest area, the poorest households may suffer as they have few alternative
sources of produce. Some argue further that the principal of equally dividing benefits from the forest is
having a negative impact in the poorest since they have a disproportionate need for forest goods. Clearly,
these are all issues which should be monitored in order to assess the extent of the problem and to develop
solutions with the concerned FUGs as they arise. However, the established process of participatory
operation planning and review should provide an adequate framework to address these problems on a
FUG by FUG basis. The gains achieved through the community forestry program in decentralizing
decision-making should not be reversed in an attempt to redress social inequities within the FUG, nor
will blanket solutions be appropriate for addressing the myriad situations of thousands of different
community groups.
* Poverty reduction: the project did not aim to reduce poverty, although it did seek to improve the lives
of the rural poor. Nonetheless, as almost 44% of the rural population lives below a subsistence poverty
line (and even greater poverty is the norm in remote hill regions where community forestry is targeted), it
can be assumed that increased productivity of forests, especially in areas which had become critically
degraded, will increasingly benefit the poor: providing greater quantities of subsistence goods, improving
local farming conditions, improving the water supply situation, providing goods for sale and credit
(through FUG revolving funds) for addressing emergency needs.
. Women's involvement in community forestry: Women play a very active role in the use and
management of forest resources -forest protection, forest cleaning and other silviculture operations,
collection of forest products- and therefore it was assumed that they would be main beneficiaries of the
program. However, due to cultural issues in many FUGs, it has been difficult to encourage women to
play a central role in FUG decision-making and administration. Women also continue to be poorly
represented on the majority of FUG management committees: they represent about 20% of the committee
membership, but this varies considerably from groups with 100% representation to groups where no
women are represented. There is growing recognition in the DOF, however, that active participation of
women improves the quality of forest management and functioning of FUGs. To address this problem,
over the past several years training programs have included gender sensitization and efforts are made to
involve more women members in training activities.
- Relationship between DOF and communities in the Hills: one of the most significant achievement of
the project is the fundamental change in the relationship between DOF staff and rural forest users
suggesting that the social gains achieved under the project can be sustained and built upon in the future.
Environmental Impacts
25.        The project was designed with an environmental purpose: the conservation of forest resources
in the Hills. As previously discussed in Part B, this environmental objective was substantially achieved.
Large areas of formally degraded forests have been re-greened, and the community forestry arrangements
have established a FUG-based system for the management of forest resources. At the closing of the project,
more than 328,000 ha of forest lands were under sustainable management arrangements, which accounted
for 72% of the optimistic scenario projections given by the Forest Master Plan for year 2000-01 for the
mid-Hills region . Several pilot studies show increases of forest cover, ranging up to 1 1% in some districts
over periods of 15 years. And although much of this increase can be attributed to pine plantations with low
biodiversity value, the latest encouragement of natural regeneration (mostly of broadleaf species) is
contributing to improve this. There is still uncertainty, however, as to whether community forestry can
specifically conserve biodiversity, as CF is driven by the need to obtain sustainable outputs and services to
user groups rather than by the need to sustain biodiversity. Some preliminary observations, however, show
a quick duplication in the number of plant species after 10-12 years of natural regeneration. In addition, as
the focus of most management has been on protection, the quality of existent forests in terms of crown
cover and stems per hectare has increased. Community forest management also leads to reduced levels of
grazing, reduced incidence of fires and complete control of wildlife poaching. On the negative side,
The total area handed over, including other donor programs exceeds 468,000 ha, exceeding the targets established in
the Forest Sector Master Plan (453,000).
10



however, complaints about leopard attacks are increasing, as their habitat has been expanded. Finally, as
management operations become more relevant, the need for environmental assessments linked to
operational plans will need to be promoted, so that harvesting and management procedures would be
performed with minimum environmental impacts.
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
26.       Factors not generally subject to government (implementing agency) control. A significant
factor delaying project implementation during the early years was the political developments associated
with the democratization process and the abolition of the panchayat system. Its replacement by an elected
government however, led to a rapid increase in the level of awareness among rural communities of their
rights and powers, increasing the demands for forest hand-over. Another external factor was the fluctuation
on the US$/NRs exchange rate. The progressive devaluation of the Nepalese rupee has meant that there
have been no constraints on external financing. The initial credit amount of US$ 30.5 million was greater
than required, and part of the loan was cancelled at Mid Term Review. A third factor refers to the time
needed to implement a new policy/institutional framework. In this case, institutional and social changes
required time, regardless of the level of commitment of all stakeholders. Two one-year extensions were
approved by the Bank and provided the time needed to achieve major advances in implementation. Finally,
the geographical/topographical conditions of the country, especially in relation to difficult accessibility and
remoteness have affected the exchange of information and the dissemination of the program to the more
distant areas.
27.       Factors generally subject to government control. In 1993, the government passed the
legislation needed to provide a strong legal framework for community forestry. Delays in issuing the
associated regulations until 1995 slowed project implementation. Delays in providing staff and buildings,
together with frequent staff transfers have also affected implementation, as has the erratic targeting of staff
training. The Regional Training Centers have yet to be effectively incorporated into HMG institutions.
The short-lived research component suffered from a lack of HMG resources, as available resources were
committed to an existing bilateral project.
28.       Factors generally subject to implementing agency control. The weak linkage between field
staff and the Center has been a significant factor in project performance. The result has been that the flow
of information and guidance from the Center to the field has been deficient, as has that of monitoring
information from the field to the Center. An unexpected benefit has been that field staff has been able to
take imaginative initiatives, such as the involvement of local NGOs and CBOs. A second area where the
MESC could have performed better is in technical support to FUGs encouraging them to carry out more
silvicultural operations or to strengthen natural regeneration efforts instead of plantations.
29.       Costs. Total project costs equaled US$ 18.7 million, compared with appraisal estimates of
US$ 45.4 million. The biggest under-spending resulted in the Forest Resource Management
Component as a result of (i) the reduction in the seedling production and plantation establishment
targets, and (ii) the low costs of FUG establishment. Project implementation has shown that user
group formation and hand-over of forest land required minimal resources which were mainly provided
by the communities themselves. In addition to this, the depreciation of the Nepali rupee produced
significant savings on domestic costs in all components. At the recommendation of the MTR, SDR
13.1 million of the original SDR 25.3 million (52 percent of the original credit amount) was cancelled
in 1995, and a further SDR 3.48 million was cancelled in 1998. An undisbursed balance of SDR 0.43
million was also cancelled. Total disbursements amount SDR 6.49 million, equivalent to 28 percent of
the original credit amount. The project has been extended twice from its initial closing date of June
30, 1997.
D. SUSTAINABILITY
30.       Present indications are that the project is likely to be sustainable. The Community Forestry
Program was based on a strong policy and legal foundation, on which several thousand FUGs were
created. The CF policy framework is the core part of the Forest Sector Master Plan and the Forest Rules,
which have been governing the sector over the last decade. HMGN's commitment to the FUGs formation
11



process and the hand-over of forest lands is high, and it is currently the dominant approach to the
management of forests in the Hills, absorbing the large part of DOF staff time. Institutional sustainability,
however, could be improved by strengthening DOF's expertise in performance monitoring, budgeting and
marketing.
31.        At the FUGs level, the incentive framework to participate in community forestry is
appropriate, and it is essential that this be maintained to ensure sustainability in the long term. Success
with community forestry has led to a series of new problems and opportunities to be addressed in the
future, and which will impact the income generation capacity of FUGs. They include the need to develop a
marketing information system; to improve the regulatory framework to facilitate transportation of forest
products between districts; to remove certain subsidies and price control measures and to ensure an open
marketing system; and to strengthen independent non-government organizations that represent the interests
of the user groups. Financially, FUGs manage their own accounts and collectively agree on the activities to
be supported with their resources. Although currently most of the groups have small balances in these
accounts, there are several cases of self-sufficient user groups, especially in the sal forest areas.
E. WORLD BANK PERFORMANCE
32.        The performance of the Bank was satisfactory, with some shortcomings. The Bank responded
positively to HMGN request to implement the 1989 Forestry Sector Policy and Master Plan by supporting
the efforts of the Government to develop an appropriate legal, regulatory and institutional framework for
the implementation of community forestry. Conditions set at preparation, for example, provided the MFSC
with the leverage to push through a set of regulatory changes to be completed before loan effectiveness,
The project concept was built on innovative and successful pilot initiatives in community forestry in Nepal
and was, in general, consistent with recommendations from previous sector work and projects, with the
exception of the plantation and nurseries sub-component. The poor performance of the Bank in the design
of the plantation/nurseries activities and the research component was, however, counterbalanced by
superior perforrnance in assisting the adoption of crucial regulatory and institutional changes. The Bank
could have played a more constructive role in responding to the fragility of the arrangements in which the
project was partially dependent on others, such as M&E. Supervision of the project was regular and
diligent, with continuity of the supervision team (including the continuous participation of staff resident in
Kathmandu) and balanced skill mix, including economists, foresters, institutional experts and sociologists.
The MTR made significant and constructive changes to the project. Overall, the Bank showed a high
degree of flexibility in terms of adjusting the scope of activities financed in line with implementation
experience, as illustrated by the restructuring introduced in MTR and the cancellation of over 70 percent of
the Credit.
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
33.       Preparation and implementation. The performance of HMGN was satisfactory, with some
shortcomings. During preparation of the project, HMGN was willing to engage in a policy dialogue with
donors and to adopt dramatic changes to the legal framework of the forestry sector. HMGN was
consistently committed to transferring management responsibility of forest to local communities and
showed flexibility in incorporating lessons learned into the project. Implementation performance was
strong in the field, and mixed at the central level. Problems were encountered in the expansion of the
monitoring information system to incorporate an efficient bottom-up system to measure project outcomes,
the frequent transfer of staff that undermined the success of training activities, and some delays in the
implementation of the studies funded by the project, which prevented the early identification of problem
areas and, in the case of the plantation component, continued financing activities with poor economic
returns. Some delays in procurement of vehicles and hiring of consultants were also experienced due to
lengthy procurement procedures.
34.        Compliance with legal covenants. There was full compliance with all legal covenants.
Some covenants became irrelevant due to the modifications introduced at MTR.
12



G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
35.       The overall outcome of the project was satisfactory. The project achieved its main objective
of establishing a community-based forest management system, accomplished through the empowerment of
user groups through an active training and extension program, and the transfer of the management of forest
resources to them. This system is likely to be sustained while the existing policy, regulatory and incentive
frameworks persist. The project successfully introduced operational procedures for a user group approach
to forest restoration and management and radically altered the role of DOF from policing and direct control
to promoting and facilitating community management. These accomplishments more than counter
balanced the deficiencies of the plantation sub-component and the research component. Although there is
little quantitative information on the impact of interventions on forest condition and on people's
livelihoods, proxy indicators developed and monitored over the life of the project, field observations,
institutional changes and supervision evidence all suggest that the project had a significant impact on the
conservation and productivity of the forests in the Hills, on the capacity of DOF and on the lives of local
people.
H. PLAN FOR FUTURE OPERATION
36.       The MFSC has prepared a plan for the future operation of the project. The maintenance of
achieved outcomes and the self-sufficiency of FUG operations will be a primary responsibility of the
CPFD of MFSC. A Community Forestry and Field Implementation (CFFI) project of US$6.4 million has
recently been included in the on-going NARMSAP program of DANIDA. As the outputs and components
under the CFFI project follow the structure of the HCFP, it is important that its future activities build on
lessons learned from the design and implementation of HCFP, and ensure that: (i) program sustainability
achieved under HCFP will be maintained; and (ii) further investments will focus on new activities to
improve the quality of the hand-over and post-hand-over process, and the strengthening of the capacity of
government institutions, user groups and private sector service providers. Of particular relevance is the
need to ensure that the policy of subsidy reduction, that was enforced throughout the life of the project, is
maintained (seedling prices, nursery establishment, plantation establishment) as any attempt to increase
these subsidies will undermine the achievements on sustainability reached up to now.
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
37.       Reorientation of government institutions. The project has demonstrated that getting the
policy setting and legislation right is important, and that the Bank can play a constructive role in
supporting policy changes early in the project cycle. Given a favorable policy and legal framework, a
govemment forest department can evolve from one concemed mainly with policing to one which supports
local communities to manage forests. The project has illustrated how a forest department can work
successfully with local communities directly without the support of non-govemmental intermediaries.
However, the capacity of government institutions to support large-scale programs in the long term might
be questionable as the demand for post-formation support increases with the expansion of the program,
competing with the need to form new user groups. A solution to this could be to strengthen the
involvement of private sector providers in post formation support of FUGs, as this demand increases.
38.       Establishment of forest user groups. The empowerment of local communities, the formation
of FUG and the transfer of management responsibilities from DOF to local users have proven to be viable
mechanisms for sustainable forest management and conservation. Empowerment of communities to
manage forests as a group has also strengthened their capacity to act together in other spheres of
community development, such as improving education, rural water facilities, road access and establishing
sustainable financing mechanisms to support agricultural development. Potential boundary conflicts
between FUGs can be minimized by forming clusters of groups, to ensure that all the forest in an area is
managed by users rather than leaving some areas open access.
39.       Restoration of forest ecosystems. Protection and management of natural regeneration has
proven to be a more successful mechanism than plantation establishment to restore forest ecosystems. The
13



emphasis on protection suggests that local users value the flow of environmental services of forests, as
well as forest products; reduced soil erosion and improved water availability in the dry season have been
strong motivating factors for the formation of many FUGs. Local users adopted natural regeneration
because an appropriate set of measures and incentives was in place.
40.        Community fund management. The project has demonstrated that FUGs can manage their
financial accounts satisfactorily, with adequate community supervision, selecting within the FUG the
activities to be supported and openly choosing an independent auditing system. This openness in the
allocation of FUG resources strengthens FUG ownership, builds self-reliance and increases the capacity to
mobilize other development resources.
41.        Project design and implementation. Project design should incorporate mechanisms to
ensure effective coordination with parallel programs to which project outcomes are partially linked. These
mechanisms could include flexibility to adjust project activities, combined monitoring systems and reviews
during supervision. For projects based on community participation, design should also be process-oriented
and based on "rules of use" rather than a predetermined menu of investment activities, adaptable enough so
that each community group can design its own approach to forest management within the frame of agreed
rules.
42.        Sustainability and ownership. Community empowerment cannot be accelerated at a pace
beyond: (i) the capacity of the facilitating institution to manage the expansion; and (ii) the rate of learning
and behavioral changes required by forest users. Within this pace, an implementing agency may wish to
enter into partnerships with experienced NGOs to accelerate the handover process and to handle post-
handover capacity building. Self-sufficiency and sustainability are strengthened by the implementation of
site-specific operational plans based on local establishment of responsibilities and rules of use.
43.        Training. The reorientation of the DOF to the community forestry concept, policy and
regulatory setting is critical for the successful implementation of the program. By investing heavily in
training, the process of change in institutional culture in the public service was accelerated. At the local
level, building the capacity of the FUGs to manage forest resources and to strengthen skills in areas such as
accounting, networking, participatory decision-making and conflict resolution, among others, is the next
critical step.
44.        Financing. Community empowerment is achievable without large investments, but
requires more important administrative resources and implementation time. These issues need to be taken
into account in the design of community-based lending programs. Building the capacity of community
and government institutions (training and reorientation) seems to be the essential trigger to FUG
formation. Site-specific and community-driven forest planning requires flexibility across budget
categories to enable a quick, efficient response to needs and opportunities as they develop. Subsidies
under the project have not been successful and have resulted in over-investment in uneconomic
plantations as FUGs have produced and planted seedlings in order to maximize their financial returns.
45.        Governance: Community based projects can contribute to changing the relationship between
people and government. The increasing demand of services from empowered communities can also be an
important step to improve governance and strengthen the quality of the services provided by the private
and public sector. However, this could be accomplished only if this social pressure is complemented with
efforts to build the supply capacity, be it through strengthening of the public services or, -preferably,
through creation of a framework encouraging private service provision.
46.        Donor coordination. A government-led forum, which includes donors, can make a valuable
contribution to policy debate and development. Stakeholders should, however, be aware of the potential
fragility of arrangements in which the outcome of one project is partly dependent on the products of
another. In cases with a long history of donor assistance, donor exit strategies to move from expanded
operational support towards more quality-focused activities are needed to promote genuine and long-term
sustainability.
47.        Monitoring and evaluation. The weakness in monitoring and evaluation meant that
ineffective strategies and activities were supported for longer than they should have been, with associated
financial costs. Furthermore, it has proven difficult for program managers and policy-makers to assess
quantitative impacts across the Hills and to identify new constraints and opportunities. As a result,
14



inefficient monitoring led decision-makers to rely on qualitative measures and individual positive and
negative observations, which (in this latest case) where often given undue weight.
15






PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of objectives          Substantial     Partial    Negaigble  NotApplicable
Macro policies                                                   L I          Fzl
Sector policies                      ES             CI v 
Financial objectives                                            F L            LI
Institutional development            F              E                          LI
Physical objectives                  LI                          L             LI
Poverty reduction                    L              mI EL
Gender issues                         mI                        LI 0I
Community empowerment                                ]           LI            LI
Environmental objectives             13            0             0I
Public sector management               FI           W            L 
Private sector development                        F              L             LI
Participatory planning systems                     LI            L vI
B. Project sustainability            Likely       Unlikely    Uncertain
Highly
C. Bank performance              satisfacto     Satisfacto   Deficient
Identification                     L                          LI 
Preparation assistance             L             g]            L
Appraisal                           L            LI1
Supervision                         v                          LI
17



Highly
D. Borrower performance            satisfactory   Satisfacto   Deficient
Preparation                       II]            m            E
Implementation                     K]           F7
Covenant compliance                             E E]
Operation (if applicable)          K]                         K]
Highly                                       Highly
E. Assessment of outcome         satisfactory   Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory   unsatisfacto
(\1)         (i)             {C)             (i)
1 8                          0
1 8



Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/credit title                        Purpose                     Year of approval           Status
Preceding operations
1. Cr. 1008-NEP (US$17.0          Aimed to develop community forestry              1980                 Closed
million IDA Credit) Community   in the Hills by involving local
Forestry Development and          communities (Panchayats) in forest
Training Project                  management and protection.
2. Cr. 1400 NEP (US$18.0          Aimed to establish state, private,               1983                 Closed
million IDA Credit) Second        community and agro-forestry
Forestry Project                  plantations, and to improve selected
natural forests, in the Terai.
3. Cr. 1727-NEP Rasuwa-           Includes a forestry component.                   1987                 Closed
Nuwakot Rural Development
Project
4. Cr. 1769-NEP Structural        To develop appropriate policy                  1987-88                Closed
Adjustment Credit (SAC))          environment for Community Forestry
program in Nepal.
Following operations
NONE
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in project cycle                        Date planned                  Date actual/
latest estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)                                            October 1985
Preparation                                                                           Sept. 1987 FAO/CP
Appraisal                                                                             Nov./Dec.1987, April 1988
Negotiations                                                                          21 April 1989
Board presentation                                                                    30 May 1989
Signing                                                     8 August 1989             18 August 1989
Effectiveness                                                                         14 May 1990
Midterm review                                              March 1993                17 December 1993
Project completion                                          30June 1997               30 June 1999
Loan closing                                                30 June 1997              30 June 1999
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ million)
FY90  I FY91    FY92    FY93    FY94  l FY95    FY96    FY97    FY98    FY99    FY00
Appraisal        0.7   13.0         6.0       9.0      12.0      16.0     21.0      26.0     30.5      30.5     30.5
estimate               i
Actual            0       3.349    4.026    5.059     5.284     7.532    8.413     9.150     9.173    9.173    9.173
Actual as         0        112       67       56        44       47        41       35        30        30       30
percent of     percent   percent   percent   percent   percent   percent   percent   percent   percent   percent   percent
estimate                                                     I         I                  I         I        I ii
Date of final                                             November 23, 1999
disbursement
19



Table 5: Project Performance Indicators
Component                                 SAR expectation         MTR           Achievement
Institutional support
LRMP preparation and block maps (number)        36                 36               37
Forest demarcation (km)                         n/a                n/a             2,555
User group formation (number)                  4,000              4,000            6,654
Number of households                            n/a                n/a            464,511
Building construction (number)                  123                121              113
Forest resource management
Area under FUG management (hectares)          400,000            200,000          328,264
Plantation (hectares)                         56,300              10,000           13,166
(average stem
survival 26
DOF                                         9,600                0             percent)
Community                                   46,700             10,000            5,200
l_______________      7,357
Seedling production (m)                         117               70.8             77.2
DOF                                          n/a                63.3             61.0
FUGs                                         n/a                7.5              16.2
Number of nurseries                             n/a                516              473
DOF                                          n/a                 68               51
FUG                                          n/a                448              422
Training and Extension
Training Centers (number)                        5                  5                5
DOF regional staff attending training          7,700               nla             9,620
events*
FUG members attending district level
training events                                 n/a                n/a             54,000
Professional level training events              50                 n/a              110
Forest Ranger training events                   691                n/a              363
Forest Guard training events                    652                n/a              298
FUG training events                             542                n/a             2,052
Research
Research programs (number)                       7                  0                0
*  Staff attended more than one event
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
Not Applicable
20



Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Purpose as defined
Study                         at appraisal/redefined                 Status                   Results
1. Post-formation support for  The main purpose of the study was to       Complete                Completed in 1996 -
FUGs..                         explore  the scope  of providing  post-                       The  report  presents  an
fonmation support to the established Forest                   action  plan  to  provide
user Groups across Nepal.                                     postformation  support to
FUGs. Training proposals
were introduced in the
training         program,
Recommendations        to
involve other stakeholders
are being tested, but are still
at a pilot stage.
2.  Preparation of Biomass     - Prepare biomass table of 10 middle hill    Complete            Completed in 1996 Basic
table of ten preferred species  species of Nepal for first 10 years of                        information   relevant  to
by FOG in the hills of Nepal.  growth.                                                       guide yields and harvesting
practices established in the
- Study and recommend the appropriate                         operational plans.
size of most common mid-hill species at
out planting in different physiographic
zones.
-  Study and recommend management
techniques for community forests.
3. Simple survey techniques    The  purpose  of the  study  was  to        Complete             Completed  in  1996.
for  mapping   community    recommend  simple  survey  techniques                            Useful    document   to
forests in the hill districts.  which can be used to facilitate the mapping                  facilitate the demarcation of
of community forests in the hill districts.                   boundaries    and    site
monitoring in comnmunity
forests
4.  An assessment of the       The purpose of the study was to assess the  Complete             Completed   in   1996
condition   of  the  forest    improvement or degradation  of forest                         Originally   planned   to
resources in the hills.        resources in the hills with reference to                      contribute to the monitoring
selected districts.                                           of    outputs,    provides
qualitative data.
5.   Production  of simple     The purpose of the study was to produce     Complete             Completed   in   1996
management guidelines for    simple guidelines of five selected NTFP                         Guidelines were distributed
Non-Timber Forest Products    species of hill districts in Nepal for use by                  to field district offices for
(NTFP).                        DFO staff and users,, to enhance them to                      their implementation.  The
determine acceptable harvesting levels for                    document  will  provide
NTFP.                                                         guidance in an area with an
important need for expert
assistance.
6.      The   rights  and      The purpose of the study was to review      Complete             Completed in 1998 - too
responsibilities of each party  with the FUGs, DFO staff. NGOs and other                     soon to assess impact.
involved in the handing over    parties   about   their  rights   and
of forest to user groups.      responsibilities  in  community  forestry
specially in the handing over of forests to
FUGs and review the process of handing
over of forests addressing the equity issues
and conflict resolution.
7. Sample survey of forest    The purpose of the study was to:             Complete             Completed in 1998. Low
user group plantations.                                                                      survival rates and quality of
- Assess the state ofestablishment ofFUG                      plantations, as well as the
plantations in various ecological zones of                    good   achievements  in
the districts.                                                natural       regeneration,
confirmed the reorientation
- Evaluate the cost of these plantations                      of   this   subcomponent
including the costs of FUG contribution.                      towards this later activity.
- Recommend on the basis of the findings
for higher survival of plants in future
plantations.
21



Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal estimate (US$M)          Actual estimate (US$M)
Item               Local      Foreign      Total      Local   Foreign I  Total
costs      costs                  costs     costs  l           l
Institutional Support          6.86        0.82        7.68       6.27      0.29       6.56
Forest Resource Management     19.31       0.00        19.31      4.34      0.00       4.34
Training and Extension         3.30        4.02        7.32       3.74      2.29       6.03
Research                       0.33        0.02        0.35       0.00      0.00       0.00
Total Baseline Costs           29.80       4.86       34.66       14.35     2.58       16.93
Physical Contingencies       0.26       0.31        0.57
Price Contingencies          9.58       0.58        10.16                            1.48
Total Project Cost             39.64       5.75    -   45.39      14.35     2.58       18.41
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal estimate (USSM)       Actual/latest estimate (US$M)
Source              Local      Foreign     Total      Local      Foreign     Total
costs      costs                 costs       costs
IDA                            30.0        0.55       30.55      8.88        0.29       9.17
DANIDA                         2.16        4.69       6.85       3.74        2.29       6.03
UNDP                             0         0.51       0.51       0.14        0.5        0.64
HMG                            4.33                   4.33       2.57                   2.57
Forest User Groups             3.15                   3.15
Total                        39.64       5.75       45.39      15.33       3.08       18.41
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
SAR                   IICR
Area of Forest Handed Over                       400,000 hectares       328,264 hectares
Number of Forest User Groups                     4,000                  6,654
Increase in local employment                     100,000 years
(NRs500 million)
Increase in Production of Forest Products
Fuelwood                                         30.8 million tons      13.7 million green tons
over 30 years          over 30 years
Fodder                                           13.6 million tons      15.9 million green tons
over 30 years          over 30 years
Leaf litter                                      not calculated         11.2 million green tons
over 30 years
Timber and Poles                                 4.3 Mm5 over 30        7.4 million green tons
years                  over 30 years
ERR-Project                                      36 percent             18 percent
Plantation Component                             21 percent (NPV =    NPV = -NRs 166
l______________________________________ _  |NRs965   million)            million
22



Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Nepal
Hill Community Forestry Project
Original     Revised
Covenant type   Present    fulfillment   fulfillment    Description of covenant
Agreement         Section                      status       date         date                                  Comments
DCA            4.01(a)       accounts/audit     C                                 Maintain project records and   In compliance
accounts.
DCA            4.01(b)(iii)   accounts/audit    C                                 Submit unaudited accounts   In compliance
witbin 6 months after FY.
DCA            4.01(b)(ii)    accounts/audit    C                                 Submit audited accounts     In compliance
within 12 months after FY.
DCA            4.01(c)(iv)    accounts/audit    C                                 Submit separate audit opinion  In compliance
on SOEs.
SCH            4(1)         implementation      C        12115/1989               Identify community forestry   In compliance
areas to be handed to User
Groups on maps.
SCH            4(2)(a)       implementation     C                                 Establish User Groups.     In compliance
SCH            4(2)(b)       project funds      C                                 Disburse funds to FUGs, as   In compliance
agreed with IDA.
SCH            4(3)(a)       implementation     NC       12/15/1991               Undertake study on seedling   No longer
uptake.                     relevant
SCH            4(3)(c)       implementation     NC       06/15/1992               Implement seedling price    No longer
policy.                     relevant.
SCH            4(4)          sectoral           C        12/15/1989               Review Forest Department    In compliance
travel and field allowance
policy.
SCH            4(4)          sectoral           C                                 Implement the findings.    In compliance
SCH            4(5)         implementation      C        05/15/1993               Workshop among key staff   In compliance
and donors to discuss Mid-
term Review Report which
was completed in January
1994.
SCH            4(6)(a)       staffing           C        12/15/1989               Sanction and appoint key staff In compliance
to Regional Training Centers.
SCH            4(6)(b)       staffing           NC                                Sanction and appoint key staff No longer
to Research Division.       relevant
SCH            4(6)(c)       staffing           C                                 Sanction and appoint key staff In compliance
to CPFD
accountant/procurement
positions.
SCH            4(6)(d)       staffing           C                                 Sanction and appoint all other In compliance
project staff.
Status:
C     - Complied with
CD    - Compliance after Delay
NC    - Not Complied with
SOON - Compliance Expected in Reasonably Short Time
CP    - Complied with Partially
NYD - Not Yet Due
23



Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement number and title        I    Describe and comment on lack of compliance
There were no significant deviations from World Bank policies and procedures during implementation
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of                                  Actual
project cycle
Weeks              US$
Preparation to                 206.4               261,300
appraisal
Appraisal                       27.9                73,100
Negotiations through             8.2                21,500
Board approval
Supervision                    239.2               499,400
Completion                      15.5                54,400
TOTAL                         497.2               909,700
24



Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance rating
Stage of                   Number                        Specialized      Imple    Develo
project cycle      Month/       of        Days in          staff skills     mentati   pment          Types of
year     persons       field          represented         on     objectiv        problems
status     es
Through appraisal     a/
Appraisal through     a!
Board approval
Supervision - initial  08/89
summary
Supervision           02/90          2                    ECON, TM                na        na      na
07190         2                     ECON, TM                2         2
07/91         3                     ECON, CONS, PROG         3        2
12/911        1                    ECON                     3         2
04/92         4                     FOR, ECON (2)           3         2      administrative,
CONS.                                    technical, institutional
06/92          1          na        FOR                     3         2
04/93         3           na        FOR, SOC,FIN            3         2      institutional, technical
09/93                                                       3         3      na
Midterm Review        12/93          3           20       FOR, INST, SOC                            administrative,
technical, institutional,
implementation
04/94                                                        3        2
06/94         2                     FOR, ECON               U         S      na
12/94*                    na
06/95                     na        ECON                    S         S
09/95         1           na        ECON                    S         S
02/96         4           na        AG, PO, ECOL, FOR       S         S      implementation,
technical
06/96          1          na        AG                      S         S
11/96         2           na       AG, TM                   S         S      implementation,
technical, monitoring
06/97         3           na        FOR, ECOL, TM         S        S
Completion            06/98          5       8 weeks      ECOL, FOR (2),           S         S
ECON
a/ It is not possible to determine details of missions prior to supervisions based on information contained in project files.
* Indicates supervision reports not on file. Project ratings and information on missions taken from subsequent supervision reports.
na indicates data not available.
Key
AG                 agronomist/agriculturalist
CONS               consultant (unidentified)
ECOL               ecologist
ECON               economist
FIN               financial analyst
FOR                social forester
INST               institutional expert
PO                 program officer
SOC                sociologist
TM                 task manager (expertise unspecified)
25






APPENDIX A
HILL COMMUNITY FORESTRY PROJECT
Final Supervision / Completion Mission, June 1-10, 1999
AIDE-MEMOIRE
1.        A joint World Bank-FAO-DANIDA team' carried out the final supervision/ completion
mission for the above mentioned project between June 1 and June 10, 1999. This Aide-Memoire
provides a summary of the main findings of the mission, and presents a framework for further
processing of the ICR. It is based on field visits, discussions with the Ministry of Forests and Soil
Conservation (MFSC), the Ministry of Finance, community user groups and donors working in the
sector, as well as on the review of project documentation, other relevant studies and reports. The
Project Completion Report dated May 28, 1999 and the Project Operational Plan prepared by MFSC,
have been important sources of information. The Aide-Memoire was discussed at a wrap-up meeting
held on June 10, 1999, chaired by Mr. R.B. Bista, (Acting) Secretary, MFSC.
2.        Evaluation of project objectives and design. The main objective of the project was to
mobilize people and resources in the Hill districts to establish a forest management system which
would conserve and expand the forest resources needed to sustain traditional farming systems and
livelihood in the Hills. More specifically, the project was designed to: (i) conserve and stabilize
fragile ecosystems and regenerate and expand hill forest resources, (ii) increase the production of
fodder, fuelwood and timber needed by local communities, and (iii) increase the capability of
DOF to plan resource allocation and assist local user groups to manage and develop forests
(Section VII, A of SAR). To achieve this, the strategy adopted was to transfer management
responsibilities for forest resources to the local communities who share their use. The
implementation of this strategy required (i) building the capacity of the Department of Forest
(DoF) to implement community forestry with Forest User Groups (FUG), (ii) establishing and
training FUGs, (iii) investing in improved forest management, including plantation development,
and (iv) supporting research in silvicultural improvements and socio-economic analyses to
enhance community forestry planning.
3    Overall, the project objective was realistic and appropriate, as it was framed under the Forestry
Sector Policy and the Forest Master Plan, and it developed from the experiences of pilot efforts
supported by other donors. However, the project as structured overemphasised the role of plantations
for forest restoration, and failed to build on experience from earlier projects. The design was weak in
monitoring and evaluation, with no clear monitoring framework, and relying for this function on a
Unit which was not directly supported through the project. While there were on-going projects by
other donors strengthening the capacity of central units in MFSC, the project design failed to address
the risks associated with relying on other projects to support critical institutional development
requirements. Furthermore, the project design could have instituted a framework and mechanisms for
better lesson sharing between projects supported by different donors, e.g. allocating resources for
lesson sharing workshops and study tours.
4.        Project Achievements
* Support to Sector Policies. The project was intended to assist the community forestry component
of the Forestry Sector Master Plan of 1989. At the time of preparation, the WB facilitated a policy
dialogue between HMG and donors, and supported HMG to adopt changes to the legal framework,
E. Sennhauser (Mission Leader), J. Falconer (Social Forester), Nathalie Olsen (FAO-Economist), Desmond
Chaffey (FAO-Forester), Michael Ollgaard (DANIDA), Kumud Shrestha (Forester).



which allowed the operationalization of the community forestry policy. Conditions of the credit
covered the legal status of FUGs and the process of decentralization. Loan effectiveness was
dependent on preparation of the Operational Guidelines as it was felt that the legislation prevailing in
1989 did not provide sufficient incentives for FUGs to participate in community forestry. Credit
effectiveness was postponed twice as a number of covenants relating to the review of field and travel
allowances needed amendment. Despite the important role the Bank played in supporting policy
change at the time of preparation, the new Forest Act was not passed until 1993, and the Regulations
to interpret the act were only approved in 1995. The slow pace of implementation in the early years of
the project may have been partly due to the uncertainty on the part of DOF on how to implement the
new policy in the absence of clear guidelines.
0 Accomplishment of institutional objectives. The project successfully introduced the policy and
procedural framework necessary to establish a User Group- based approach to forest restoration and
management. The institutional development and re-orientation of the DoF at the field level to
implement FUG community forestry program has been effective. Implementation of community
forestry is now DOF's central approach to the management of forests in the Hills with most field staff
devoting most of their time to supporting forest users in their efforts to restore and manage forests.
The role of DOF has changed radically, from one of policing and direct control over forest access, to
one of promoting and facilitating local community efforts to manage forests. Through an effective
training program and based on a sound legal framework, the attitudinal shift of DOF staff at all levels
is significant. As a result, the relationship between DOF staff and communities has improved
tremendously.
* Improving the capacity of the Department of Forest (DoF) to implement community forestry.
The training component of the project, financed by DANIDA, has proved of central importance,
underpinning many of the gains in institutional development of DOF and FUG capacity and in
improvements to the forest management practices. Five regional training centers were established. At
the outset of the project training was concentrated on re-orientation of field staff at these Centers. By
the end of June 1998 more than 1000 officers and 9000 field staff had attended activities or been
trained in CF related matters2. In addition to training, the project has significantly improved the
extension efforts of the DOF, by an increased awareness and enhanced visibility of the program,
particularly amongst the rural communities. Extension activities included the active participation of
DOF in weekly radio broadcasts about the program, the implementation of a Puppet Theatre extension
program, and the production of documentaries, telecasts, bulletins, posters, calendars and information
pamphlets for FUG members and field staff. Transfers of DOF staff have been disruptive to the
training program; training needs assessments undertaken for annual planning purposes, are pointless
when staff are continuously moved around. Moreover, the continuity of the work with FUGs is
disrupted. A further difficulty has been that training and extension material is often not distributed to,
and used by, actual or potential trainees.
* FUG formation and training. Over the course of the project approximately 4,400 FUGs have
been established in 38 Districts (and more than 7550 FUGs have been formed in the total Hill areas)
thus exceeding the SAR target of 4,000 FUGs. This represents approximately 39% of the potential CF
households in these Districts (range between 13 to 89%). The area of forest handed over is
approximately 320,000 ha of national forest land, which is below the SAR estimate, reflecting mainly
that this estimate assumed that FUGs would manage larger blocks of forest than is actually the norm.
MTR reduced this target to 200.000 ha. After MTR, more emphasis has been placed on district-based
training and study tours to build the capacity of FUGs to function as effective forest managers and
community institutions. After 1995 training of users has focused more on field-based training near or
2 Frequents courses for Rangers are: CF Orientation, Training of Trainers and CF silvicultural management
Frequent courses for FGs are: CF Orientation, CF Management and Forest Guard Basic Training
28



in the users' own forest. By the end of June 1998 54,000 FUG members had participated in some kind
of CF related activity3.
* Forest restoration and management. (i) Plantations: At the outset of the program, forest
development had a strong focus on the restoration of degraded forest land through plantation
establishment. 12,557 ha of plantation were established under the project (far below the SAR target of
56,000 ha which was adjusted to 10,000 ha at MTR to reflect the change in strategy) although a recent
study suggests low survival rates in many of these areas. Over the course of the project, however,
effective community protection often resulted in rapid natural regeneration and this experience led to a
shift in approach to one which concentrated on protection and silvicultural treatment to promote
natural regeneration. (ii) Nurseries: the production of seedlings and the establishment of nurseries to
support the plantation program have been problematic. The SAR envisaged the production of 117
million seedlings, of which 99 million would be used to establish community plantations and the
remainder, would be distributed to farmers for planting on their private lands. However, the MTR
found that the SAR plantation target far exceeded the demand for plantations by FUGs and
consequently reduced the target to 71 million seedlings and shifted the focus from Departmentally
managed nurseries to FUG run nurseries. To the end of 1998 almost 75 million seedlings has been
produced (of which 15 million were produced by FUGs). Over the life of the project subsidy for plant
production and plantation establishment has been steadily reduced, and, as a result, interest in
plantations and nurseries has also declined. (iii) Operational plans: the FUG management system and
the preparation of site-specific operational plans, focuses on establishing local rules for restoration,
management and use of forests to ensure sustainability rather than investments per se. The emphasis
on management rules rather than activities has proved a highly cost effective means to managing these
vulnerable forest ecosystems. At the outset, FUGs often concentrated on protection to try and restore
vital environmental services of forest. It is only after a number of years and considerable support and
training by DoF staff that FUGs introduced management activities to improve the condition and
productivity of forests. Another trend over the project period has been the shift from a focus only on
firewood and fodder production to one which emphasizes management for a multitude of products,
including NTFPs.
- Research to improve silvicultural techniques and socio-economic analysis to improve
community forestry planning: The research component of the project was never implemented, mainly
because the forest research division was unable to increase its program (and staffing) beyond the level
required to implement an on-going ODA funded program. As a result, this component was cancelled
at MTR. It is unfortunate that no alternative approaches were identified during early implementation
of the project to ensure that specific and priority problems emanating from field implementation of the
community forestry program were addressed. In particular, it is unfortunate that altemative strategies
for assessing the socio-economic trends and impacts of FUG forestry were not developed.
5.        Project outcomes. Despite the project achievements discussed above, it is difficult to
assess the outcome of the project. There is little information on the impact of interventions on forest
condition and on people's livelihoods and no synthesis of implementation experience. However, the
indicators developed and monitored over the life of the project, field observations, institutional
changes and supervision evidence all suggest that the project has had major and significant impact on
the condition of forests in the Hills, on the capacity of DoF and on local people's lives.
6.         Status with past agreements. Progress made with actions agreed during the last
supervision mission is summarized in Attachment 2. Some progress has been achieved in reducing the
stagnation in the hand-over process through the involvement of forest guards, especially in the
identification of users. Other mechanisms to address this, such as the employment of consultants and
the temporary assignment of additional rangers to priority districts have been difficult to implement. A
strategy to address this in a more integrated way, built on the recommendations from the last Aide-
3 Frequent attended course types are: CF Seminars and Workshop (orientation about CF), Networking (Review
and Planning) WS and CF silvicultural management courses and studytours to other FUGs
29



Memoire has now been developed and has been included as part of the follow-up activities of this
project. For post-hand over support, several mechanisms to strengthen the process have already been
tested, such as the engagement of non-forest department rangers and the introduction of a
classification system to identify priority post-handover needs. However, the value of these
mechanisms is only clear to a limited number of field staff, and a stronger awareness is needed before
expanding these mechanisms to further areas and institutionalizing them as part of follow up activities.
7.         Coordination with other projects in the programs The CPFD was established not only
as the project management unit, but also to co-ordinate multilateral and bilateral community forestry
activities in Nepal. In practice, the activities of CPFD have been confined to the 38 districts, with an
overall role on policy matters. Co-ordination between donors has been weak. While the Forest Sector
Co-ordination Committee (FSCC) was established, much exchange of information and experiences
between donors is informal. Despite the fact that DANIDA has parallel financed the training
component of the project, the collaboration between DANIDA and the Bank has not been extensive
and has focused on contact during supervision and review missions. Co-ordination was greater in the
early part of the project, presumably due to donor pressure for legal and policy reforms.
8.         Social and environmental impacts. (i) Social impacts. The project did not include an
explicit social objective, although the aim was to improve rural people's lives. The strategy of handing
over forest to user groups aimed at building community-based institutional capacity and self-reliance.
Approximately 464,500 households, roughly 2.4 million people have joined in efforts to protect and
manage forests. As noted above, no regular monitoring of social impact was done by the project, thus
evidence comes from discussions with beneficiaries during supervision missions and studies in
districts supported by other donors. The demand for community forestry continues to grow, suggesting
that the majority of the rural populace increasingly appreciates the benefits. CF is underpinned by
several critical social principles: that all users of a forest be included in the FUG and contribute to
decision making, that benefits should be shared equitably between all members and that the first
priority in forest production should be to meet the basic needs of members. The project did not aim to
reduce poverty, although it did seek to improve the lives of the rural poor. Nonetheless, as almost 50%
of the rural population lives below a subsistence poverty line (and even greater poverty is the norm in
remote hill regions where community forestry is targeted), it can be assumed that increased
productivity of forests, especially in areas which had become critically degraded, has and will
increasingly benefit the poor. The formation and support to UGs has strengthened the capacity of the
community to work together for their own development in other spheres (e.g. supporting education,
improvement to water systems, and establishing rural credit schemes). Perhaps one of the greatest
achievements is the fundamental change in the relationship between DOF staff and forest users
suggesting that the social gains achieved under the project can be sustained and built upon. (ii)
Women's involvement in community forestry. Women play a very active role in the use and
management of forest resources and in the implementation of community forestry-in forest
protection, in forest cleaning and other silviculture operations, and in the collection of forest products.
However, in many FUGs it has been difficult to encourage women to play a central role in forest
management decision making and administration. In average, women represent about 20% of the
committee membership, with variations from 0% to 100%. There is growing recognition in the DOF,
however, that active participation of women improves the quality of forest management and
functioning of FUGs. Over the past several years, training programs have included gender
sensitization and efforts are made to involve more women FUG members in training.  (iii)
Environmental impacts. Again, while no impact studies have been conducted, supervision evidence,
field visits and discussions with FUGs all confirm a marked improvement in the condition of forests
managed by FUGs, particularly in those which were severely degraded at the outset. One study found
significant improvement in forest basal area (29%) after only three years of management. This has led
to improved forest regeneration, greater diversity, reduced soil erosion and improved water availability
in the dry season. In many places wildlife is increasing and management strategies are likely to be
needed in the future. There has been a marked decline in illegal felling, over-grazing and forest fire
incidence since the start of community forestry, with most DOF staff reporting little or no illegal
activity. It is clear in many areas that FUGs place significant importance on the environmental benefits
30



of good forest condition, often foregoing needed products for strict protection in order to rapidly
restore forest cover.
9.         Costs. Total project costs as envisaged at appraisal were US$30.5 million. More than 65
percent was allocated to the Forest Resource Management Component. At the recommendation of the
MTR, US$ 13.34 million (44 percent of the original credit amount) was cancelled in 1995, and a
further US$ 4.87 million was cancelled in 1998. While final disbursement has not yet taken place,
estimated expenditure to July 1999 is US$ 9.27 million, equivalent to 30 percent of theoriginal credit
amount. The project has been extended twice from its initial closing date of 30 June 1996. Project
costs are far lower than initially estimated because (a) seedling production and plantation
establishment targets have been reduced, (b) user group formation and hand-over of forest land require
few resources not provided by the communities themselves, and (c) the depreciation of the Nepali
rupee resulting in significant savings on domestic costs.
10.       Performance of the borrower. The performance of HMG has been satisfactory with
some shortcomings. During preparation of the project, HMG was willing to engage in a policy
dialogue with donors and to adopt dramatic changes to the legal framework of the forestry sector.
Despite slow implementation of the project in early years, HMG has consistently been committed to
transferring management responsibility of forest to local communities and has shown flexibility in
incorporating lessons leamed into the project. Implementation performance has been strong in the
field, and mixed at the central level. The lack of an effective monitoring and evaluation system has
continued throughout the project, despite consistent efforts to develop such a system. The staffing
policy of HMG, in particular frequent staff transfers, has undermined the success of training activities.
It would have been better if HMG had completed the study on survival rates in plantations early on in
the project (as scheduled), rather than in 1998; a result of this delay was continued financing of the
seedling production and distribution activities which the study showed were not cost-effective.
11.       Performance of IDA. The performance of the Bank has been satisfactory with some
shortcomings. During the preparation process, the Bank, supported HMGN's policy development and
the legal reforms needed for the implementation of the community forestry program. Conditionalities
at preparation provided the MFSC with the leverage to push through a set of regulatory changes to be
completed before loan effectiveness. However, project design failed to take account of lessons leamed
in previous projects with regard to the cost-effectiveness of plantation establishment. Supervision of
the project has been regular and diligent, and the MTR made significant and constructive changes to
the project. The Bank could have played a more constructive role in supporting the establishment of
an effective monitoring and evaluation system if the risk assessment of the preparation process had
recognized its importance and made provision for monitoring its establishment. Overall, the Bank has
shown a high degree of flexibility in terms of adjusting the scope of activities financed in line with
implementation experience, as illustrated by cancellation of over 50 percent of the credit, and the two
year extension of the date of credit closing.
12.       Sustainability. Present indications are that the project is likely to be sustainable.
Community forestry in Nepal is underpinned by a strong policy and legal foundation upon which have
been created several thousand FUGs. HMGN's commitment to community forestry is high, and is now
the Central approach to the management of forests in the Hills, involving most of the time of DOF
staff. It seems improbable that this achievement and the associated momentum in the demand for
forest to be handed over to communities could be easily reversed and there are no obvious reasons
why they should be. Possible threats to sustainability in the longer term could include (i) a break-down
in the democratic functioning of Forest User Groups leading to disaffection among community
members, (ii) constraints to harvesting and marketing of forest products and (iii) a lack of sufficient
professional capacity to support an increasing post-formation demand. HMG can help to address all of
these. In the longer term, the question of professional assistance will almost certainly be answered
partly from the private sector. More immediately priority should be given to training of Forest Guards.
31



13.        Future activities. The mission discussed with MFSC the plan for the project's future
operation, and a summary of MFSC's operational plan is attached to this Aide Memoire. The
maintenance of achieved outcomes and the self sufficiency of FUG operations will be a primary
responsibility of the Community and Private Forestry Division of MFSC. A Community Forestry and
Field Implementation (CFFI) project of U$ 6.4 mill has recently been included in the ongoing
NARMSAP program of DANIDA. As the outputs and components under this CFFI project follow the
structure of the HCFP, the mission strongly recommends that future operations under CFFI capitalize
on the lessons leamed from the design and implementation of HCFP, and ensure that (i) program
sustainability achieved under HCFP will be maintained, and (ii) further investments will be primarily
focused towards new activities to improve the quality of the hand-over and post hand-over process,
and the strengthening of the capacity of government institutions, user groups and private sector service
providers.
14.        Preliminary findings on lessons learned
*  Institutions: The empowerment of local communities, and the transfer of responsibility for forest
management from  DOF to communities, has proven to be an effective way to improve the
conservation of forest resources. This transfer does not reduce the demand for govemment services,
but rather the nature and function of the services changes from policing to facilitation, mediation and
provision of technical advice. Experience gained under this project has demonstrated that a reoriented
Government institution can be directly responsible for the formation of community groups and for
building their capacity, without the need of intermediary facilitators.
C Community development. Empowerment of communities to manage forests as a group has
strengthened their capacity to act together in other spheres of community development, such as
improving education, rural water facilities, road access and establishing sustainable financing
mechanisms to support agricultural development.
a Forest management practices: Management of natural regeneration has proven to be a more
successful mechanism than plantations to restore forest ecosystems. Experience gained under this
project has also shown that environmental benefits, particularly the reduction in soil erosion and the
improvement in water availability in the dry season, are significant motivating factors for the
formation of many FUGs. Potential degradation of national forest areas surrounding CF lands and
clustering the hand over process can minimize latent boundary conflicts.
* Sustainability and ownership. To enhance the sustainability and institutionalization of CF
processes, replication of successful approaches to community empowerment should not be pushed at a
pace beyond the capacity of the facilitating institution to manage the expansion. Self-sufficiency and
sustainability will also be strengthened by the design and implementation of site specific operational
plans based on establishing responsibilities and rules of use as a first priority, rather than focusing on
investments and activities. Another critical factor to improve the likelihood of program sustainability
has been the phasing out of project subsidies and the reduction of unit costs over the life of the project
(especially in plantations and nursery operations).
*  Training. Experience gained has shown that the reorientation of the DOF to the Community
Forestry concept, policy and regulatory setting was critical for the successful implementation of the
program, and therefore needs to have the first priority in a training program. Building the capacity of
the FUGs to manage forest resources and to strengthen their institutional skills in topics such as
accounting, representativeness, networking, decision making and conflict resolution, among others, is
the next critical step, and needs to be phased to follow the reorientation program.
* Flexibility: Site specific and community-driven forest planning requires flexibility across budget
categories to enable a quick, efficient response to new needs and opportunities.
32



* Costs: Community empowerment is achievable without large investments. Building the capacity
of both community and govemment institutions (training of local communities and reorientation) has
proven to be the most critical activity to trigger the user group formation process.
* Donor coordination: Experience gained under this project has shown that a forum for
govemment-donor coordination from project preparation to design of a sectoral program has been
crucial to the conceptualization of the community forestry policy. The forum is also important for
implementation of the program, as projects within the national program need an efficient mechanism
to coordinate implementation experiences and share lessons learned. Another important aspect of
donor coordination to be considered during project design and monitoring refers to the need for a
careful risk assessment of institutional development issues. This is particularly important where the
outcomes of some projects are critical for the successful implementation of other projects. When these
linkages occur, flexibility is required to adapt project activities to address critical institutional
development gaps if other projects fail to address them.
* Monitoring and evaluation: Monitoring should be linked to program planning, and not to the
auditing & achievement of physical and expenditure targets. The institutionalization of the system is
only possible if it serves as a planning tool at every decision making level.
15.       Follow-up actions. The ICR completion mission and MFSC have agreed with the
following action for furtlher processing of the ICR:
33



Issue               Action         AgencyResponsible    Completion Date
Finalize             Country Director to    Bank               End June 1999
Supervision/ICR Aide  provide written
Memoire              confirmation of the
Aide-Memoire to the
Borrower
HMGN's completion   Finalize MFSC's       MFSC - HMG           End August 1999
evaluation           completion
evaluation, obtain
HMGN's clearance
and send to the Bank.
Review of draft ICR    Bank transmits draft   Bank, MFSC.      Bank to transmit &
ICR to HMG. MFSC                          1HMG to distribute by
distributes draft ICR                     end September 1999
within HMG for
comments and
suggestions.
Comments on ICR      Compile              MFSC                 Mid October 1999
comments/suggestions
and send to the Bank.
Finalize ICR         Update the ICR to    Bank                 Early November 1999
reflect
recommendations
from all concerned,
and submit to print
shop
Final ICR document   The Bank transmits    Bank                January 2000
the ICR to the
Borrower and
implementing
agencies.
16.       Acknowledgements. The mission wishes to thank all members of MFSC for their
collaboration and help in the review of project activities both at headquarters and in the field and for
their generous and friendly hospitality.
34



Attachment I
Project Performance Indicators
Component                             SAR expectation        MTR          Achievement
Institutional support
LRMP preparation and block maps
(nos)                                       36                36               37
Forest demarcation (km)                     n/a               n/a             2297
User group formation (nos)                 4000              4000             4398
Number of households (nos)                  n/a               n/a            464511
Building construction (nos)                 123               121             113
Forest resource management
Area under FUG management (ha)            400000            200000           319713
Plantation (ha)                           56300              10000           12557
(average stem
survival 26%)
DoF                                     9600                0              5200
Community                               46700              10000            7357
Seedling production (m)                     119              70.8             74.7
DoF                                      n/a               63.3            59.9
FUGs                                     n/a               7.5              14.8
No of nurseries                             n/a               516             473
DoF                                      n/a                68              51
FUG                                      n/a               448              422
Training and Extension
Training Centers                             5                 5               5
(nos)
DoF regional staff attending training
events*
7700               n/a            9620
FUG members attending district level
training events
n/a               n/a            54000
Professional level training events
50               n/a              110
Forest Ranger training events
691               n/a             363
Forest Guard training events
652               n/a             298
FUG training events                         542               n/a             2052
Research
Research programs (nos)
7                 0               0
*     Staff attended more than one event
35



Attachment 2
Status of Actions Agreed during November 1998 Mission
Issue             Action            Agency       Status of Actions Taken since November
Responsible                98 Mission
Operational   FUGs willing to meet the  CPFD,      It was not possible to identify groups with
plans     costs of OP preparation,   MFSC       funds to contribute to the preparation of
either from their own                their operational plan. The follow-up
contributions or VDC                 program will be addressing this issue
funds, will be identified.           through (i) the provision of operational plan
A non-FD RO will be                  grants, and (ii) the establishment of a
assigned to prepare the              mechanism to ensure the availability of
OPs, and once approved               private rangers to provide the required
by the DFO, preparation              technical assistance.
costs will be reimbursed
to the FUGs.
Post         Guidelines for DFOs as   CPFD,        Guidelines were distributed to all DFOs.
Handover    to how the classification   MFSC       However, further training and awareness is
Support      will affect the support to            needed to complete the classification
be given to FUGs will be             process, as little improvement has been
developed.                           achieved in the implementation of these
guidelines at the district level. Classification
guidelines will be redistributed to district
offices, together with (i) a detailed
explanation of their potential use in
planning and management of field staff, and
(ii) a request to submit district reports,
including the results of the classification
process, and the actions to be taken
following these results.
Procurement  The recently procured   CPFD,         Vehicles were distributed to 7 districts: 2 in
seven pick-ups will be    MFSC       the far west, 1 in the west, I in the middle
assigned to districts                west and 3 in the central regions.
immediately after
customs clearance.
ICR          Prepare borrower's      CPFD,         A completion report and an operational plan
contribution to the ICR    MFSC      were presented to the Bank, and discussed
according to Guidelines              during the mission
36



Attachment 3
HILL COMMUNITY FORESTRY PROJECT
OPERATIONAL PLAN FOR FUTURE OPERATIONS
(Summary)
Development objective
Improved management of natural resources in the hills of Nepal, based on local participation and using
sustainable social, economic and environmental practices. Specifically this will include:
a) the continued formation of new FUGs
b) continued support to existing FUGs to strengthen their capacity to improve the quality of and
benefits from managed forest
c) further strengthening of DoF field staff to implement community forestry in 38 districts
d) establishment of an effective monitoring system to improve both field level operations and
coordination and decision making at the central level
Institutional arrangements to maintain the program and improve operational quality
Continuation of project operations will continue to be the regular activity of DoF staff, both at the
central and field levels. In addition, to further increase the capacity of FUGs and DoF staff, the
following activities will be implemented primarily through the NARMSAP program:
*  build capacity of private service providers to improve the hand-over and post formation
*  strengthen technical assistance to FUGs in management, marketing and silvicultural operations,
among others
*  improving self-sufficiency of FUGs
*  strengthening systems of administration and accountability within FUGs
e  strengthen capacity of Forest Guards for supporting FUGs
e  strengthen cooperation between FUGs within cluster area
Performance indicators
a) Formation of new user groups, and continuity of the hand over process: (i) percentage of
households in FUGs, (ii) number of FUGs, (iii) numbers of women and disadvantaged group members
in committees
b) Post-handover support: (i) FUGs' incomes, (ii) number of service agreements between FUGs
and private service providers, (iii) numbers of Operational Plans revised, (iv) percentage of FUGs
carrying out silvicultural operations, (v) forest benefits (as harvest) (vi) environmental quality
c) Strengthening ofDoFfield staff: (i) percentage of DoF staff trained, (ii) civil works, (iii) quantity of
field equipment distributed,
d) Establishment of an effective M&E system: (i) numbers of districts and range posts using the
monitoring and evaluation system agreed, (ii) number of recommendations from monitoring and
evaluation reports incorporated in annual plans at district and central levels
37



Focused impact studies needed for further operation
Immediate:
* achievements of implementation of community forestry in the hills at the national level,
particularly changes in forest condition and environmental impact
Future:
* review of FUG formation experience
* new dimension of FUG management: socio-economic factors, links to agricultural production
* biodiversity conservation strategy
* wildlife management strategy
* fire management strategy
Plan for monitoring and evaluation
1. Field based monitoring by DFOs:
By end of Year 1:
* review DFO monitoring systems currently operational
. agree common framework with DFOs
2. CPFD monitoring and planning
By end of Year 2:
* CPFD to take full responsibility for monitoring and planning of community forestry
program, based on field level monitoring ( and establish new posts if necessary)
. review role and function of Regional Directorates in monitoring process
Budget
The Operational Plan will be funded largely through HMG normal program funds and partly from the
DANIDA-supported NARMSAP. The estimated division of funding is given below.
.HMG                    NARMSAP
FY 1999-20000                                                 US 3,3 mill
38



APPENDIX B
Project Completion Report
Borrower's Submission
Hill Community Forestry Project
(Credit account 2028-NEP)
His Majesty Government of Nepal,
Ministry of Forests and Soil Conservation
Departnent of Forests
1999






Project Completion Report
1. INTRODUCTION:
Hill (Community Forestry Project was initiated in 1989 with an intention to help in
implementing the Community and Private Forestry Component of Forestry Sector Master
Plan (1988). The project covered 38 hill districts of Nepal.
2. OBJECTIVES:
The objectives of the project as reflected in the Staff Appraisal Report, 1989 (Report No
763 lb-Nep) were to;
1) Establish a system to conserve and expand forest resources to sustain traitional farming systems of
Nepal.
2) Form the Forest User Groups (FUGs) to protect, manage arid utilize the forests in vicinity.
3) Train the forestry staffs with an intention to provide technical and material assistance to enable FUGs to
properly manage the existing forests and establish and maintain new plantation in the degraded areas.
3. DESIGN
3.1 Component
In order to achieve the above objectives the following four components were envisaged;
a) institutional support component
b) Plantation establishment and management component
c) Training and extension component
d) Research component
A brief introduction of the components is given below:
a) Institutional Support Component:
This component intends to strengthen the Forest Department's organization to identify and establish
about 4,000 FUGs and transfer management for 400,000 ha. Of forest.
b) Plantation, Establishment and Management Component:
This component involves the establishment of 56,300 ha. Of forest and the distribution of 18 million
seedlings for private planting.
c) Training and Extension Component:
This component included the training and extension activities required for making aware of Community
Forest Policies to the Forestry Department staffs and the communities. It also included the packages for
improving the technical and management capability of both the Department and the Communities to
managed forest resources. This component was implemented with the co-financing of DANIDA
Community forestry Training Project (CFTP).
d) Research Component:
This Component was designed to assist the Department of Forest and Plant Resources (DFPR) for
improving the silvicultural techniques to conserve and increase productivity, socioeconomic information
on resource utilization for better planning.
41



Project Completi on Report
3.2 Project Completion:
The project was implemented during 1989- July 1999. Based on progress report of Hill
Community Forestry Project, July 1999, the major achievement of the project is summarized as
Box 1.
BOXI
- Block mapping in 37 hill districts
- Formation of 6,654 User Groups
- Preparation of Operational Plan 5,739 no, and hand-over of 328,264 hectare
forests to the local communities as Community Forests.
- 2297 kilometers of forest demarcation.
- Production of 61,005,004 seedlings through DFO nursery and 16,232,024
seedling through the FUG nursery.
- 13,166 hectare of plantation.
- Construction of a total of 113 buildings
- Production of 5,800,000 seedlings at central level for private distribution
The detail project achievements is shown in table 1, as indicators of project implementation.
42



Project Completion Report
Table 1: Indicators for Project Implementation
(based on progress reports till July 1999)
Target
Implementation Indicator               SAR                     MTR               Progress
1. Preparation of LRMP and
Block Maps (Sets)           36                                                             37
2. User group formation     4,000                                                       6,654
3. Seedlings production/    Distribution
distribution                a) Com. For.  99.1 million
b) Private pl.  17.8 million
3. 1. DFO nursery                                    119 million               61.0 million
3.2. FUG nursery                                     123 million               16.2 million
4. Building construction     123                                                          113
5. Plantation establishment  56,300 ha                   10,000 ha.                 13,166 ha.
6. Transfer of forest lands to    400,000 ha             200,000 ha                328,264aha.
user groups
7. District Level
7.1. Forest demarcation             As per need                                      2,555 km
7.2. Training, Workshop and         As per need                                         3,113
study tours
8. Central Level                    As per need                                     5.8 million
8.1. Seedlings production and
distribution
8.2. Ceremonial plantations                                                           16 times
8.3. Extension program              As per need
8.3.1. Calendar                                                                  300 thousand
8.3.2. Advertisements                                                                141 times
8.3.3. Diary production                                                           55 thousand
8.3.4. Poster/pamphlets                                                          300 thousand
8.3.5. CF bulletin                                                                      4,500
8.3.6. Audiovisual programs
8.3.6.1. Documentary films
a) Production
b) Telecast
8.3.6.2. Telespot production                                                                8
8.3.6.3. Radiospot production                                                              23
53
62
9. Accountant training                                       As per need                    8
10. Regional level Training,                                As per need                   461
workshop and study tours
a: Source - FUG database record available at MIS (July 16, 1999)
Besides the above physical achievements, the project supported several studies in various aspects of Community
forestry. A list of studies included in the project is given in Annex 1.
43



Project Completion Report
4. PROJECT COSTS
The estimated project cost at the time of appraisal was about US$ 45.39 million of which
US$ 30.55 million (23.5 million SDR) was proposed as IDA credit (about 67% of the total
project costs). The estimated total project cost at the time of credit closing on July 31 st, 1999
will be about 6.6 million SDR or 28% of the original estimate. A total of 16.58 million SDR
was cancelled from the original IDA credit agreement as per the recommendation of the
midterm evaluation mission. The disbursement status of IDA credit no 2028 NEP as of July
16, 1999 is included in Annex 2.
5. PROJECT BENEFITS
The project was expected to conserve, stabilize, regenerate and expand hill forest resources
and promote long-term forest management. It was also expected to increase production of
firewood, fodder and timber needed by the communities. The project is expected to fulfill the
local need of forest products in 38 hill districts of Nepal. Besides, the direct benefit that may
accrue through the increased availability of forest products, a considerable amount of indirect
benefit may occur through improved natural environment.
5.1 Implementation and Operational Experiences
The project was implemented as per the SAR except for plantation establishment, transfer of
forestland and silviculture and research component. Nevertheless, the aim of
institutionalizing Community Forestry was achieved. Presently, 4,540 FUGs are managing
3,28,264 hectares of community forests with 4,80,353 households as beneficiaries in the
project area (MIS as per July 16, 1999).
5.2 Implementation experiences
The project was implemented with a combined effort of local villagers, organized as forest
user groups and the forestry staffs. The Supervision Mission along with the co-operation of
Bank's resident office and headquarter created conducive environment for timely and
successful completion of the project. The recommendation and suggestions provided by the
supervision missions assisted in smooth implementation. The main recommendation of mid-
term review mission (MTR, 1993) is included as Annex 3.
H1MG/N and Ministry of Forest and Soil Conservation (MFSC) specially deserves credit for
timely formulating and implementing Forest Act and Rules and providing operational
guidelines and instructions on various aspects of Community Forestry. Furthermore, MFSC
made timely decision on most of the recommendations made by the supervision and review
missions. MFSC also supported to conduct workshop to discuss the issues raised by MTR,
and arranged academic level training for DFOs to enhance their capabilities.
The Forest Department assumed overall implementing responsibility while delegating a part
of monitoring and implementing responsibilities to the Regional Directors and District Forest
officers.
44



Project Completion Report
The Community and Private Forestry Division, Project Management Office, carried out the
coordinating activitics and ensured support in
Maps
- Planning data
- Technical assistance
- Research and other inputs
- Liaison with other Ministries, Department and Divisions for the timely
allocation of budget.
Furthermnore, CPFD co-ordinates in training and extension with other bilateral agencies.
CPFD expedited project activities by monitoring progress and reporting the concerned
agencies, maintaining and supervising accouts, procurement and disbursement and timely
hiring specialists as per the projects requirement. Community Forestry Training Project
(CFTP), a Danida co-financed project satisfactorily implemented Training and Extension
component and its performance is highly appreciated.
However, the most important contribution towards achieving the project objective came from the
DFO field-staffs, and the Forest User Group themselves. The FUG contributions in establishing
plantations alone in FY 2048/49 - 2053/54 is estimated at NRs 3,26,23,817 (minimum). It does
not include their direct contribution in forest protection.
5.3 Operational Experiences
One of the valuable experiences is related with the project design. At design, it was assumed
that the management of natural forest by User Groups might depend on:
* Readiness of communities to assume role in management.
i Responsiveness of FD staffs to relinquish control.
* Effectiveness in extension services in promoting changes in utilization and management
However, the operational experience of this project shows that;
* Communities are enthusiastic in assuming important role in forest management, often a role
traditionally assumed.
* With proper training and orientation, FD staffs accepts User Groups as an important stakeholder in
forest management.
* Effectie extension services can promote changes in utilization patterns and management.
The successful completion of the project has also defied earlier doubt regarding the ability of
User Group to ensure proper protection arrangements in the community forests. However, it
has proved that "Community Forestry being a learning process demands improvements in
project design, learning through the stories -- be it a successful or a failure".
Another important experience is related with plantation establishment. A study was carried
out to assess the rate of success a plantation in the project area and the summary of the report
is included (Annex 4). all plantations were regularly surveyed under the cxisting monitoring
system and the survival rates were reported. However, a comprehensive and separate study
45



Project Completion Report
on FUG plantations and contributions on plantations required the nomination of a consultant
service. The procedural mismatch, between the Bank and HMG for hiring consultants,
delayed the study. Nevertheless, the study was carried out and some important decisions were
made.
6. MAJOR FACTORS AFFFCTING THIE PROJECT
6.1 Factors not Generally Subjected to Control
Inadequate database at preparation stage adversely affected project design, also hampering
supervision and monitoring of the activities. The devaluation of currency and subsequent
major changes in the exchange rates consequently, affected the actual costs of the project
from the one, anticipated in SAR. Consultant service for Management Information System
(MIS) was not availed due to the procedural matter of DANIDA.
The requirement of higher percent of allocation of HMG fund (matching fund) for civil works
and constructions created a problem for resource allocation to the government.
6.2 Factors Generally Subjected to Control
The decision regarding the involvement of consultants in preparing operational plan of
Community forests was delayed till the whole attempt was aborted.
7. PERFORMANCE OF BORROWER
The project will be completed in July 1999 with almost all targets achieved. The mid-term
review mission reduced the overall new plantation areas to represent more realistically what
is required and what can be achieved through FUGs. A total indicative figure of 10,000 ha
was proposed for budgeting purpose only.
IDA provides a credit of US$ 30.55 to cover Institutional Support, Forest Resource
Management and Research Component of the project, DANIDA provided a grant of US$ 8.4
rmillion covering the Training and Extension Component and UNDP provided US$ 0.9
million for Technical Assistance part of an ongoing project. HMG/N's contribution was
equivalent to approximately US$ 4.6 million. However, despite commitment and support
from the donors the research component of the project could not materialize. As a result, this
component was cancelled at MTR.
A comparison between the project achievements or the assessment of overall progress against
targets of indicative project activities as outlined in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) by
using indicators is provided in Table 1. The activities were regularly monitored, by using the
formats that were approved by HMG   / Nepal, throughout the project period. The
performances were regularly reported to the concerned Ministry, and finally to the National
Planning Commission. The project besides obliging to the established HMG' s M&E, also
reported the Bank as per SAR and often as per the later's request. It is clearly reflected in the
following paradigm:
The project initially focused towards the establishment of plantations but later emphasis was
laid on the management of existing natural forests. Even in plantation establishment, the
emphasis of the project shifted away from DFO nurseries to FUG operated nurseries beyond
July 1993. This shift in management paradigm has a profound effect on project costs. Almost
all project targets were achieved except the one related with plantation establishment at an
expected cost amounting nearly one fourth of the original estimate.
46



Project Completion Report
8. PERFORMANCE OF THE BANK
The Bank's performance in the over all execution of the project is very positive. The Bank's
consent providing two extensions of the project period had been very crucial in consolidating
the progress made so far in the field activities.  The performance of the Bank is highly
appreciated as it maintained a fine working relationship with the co-financier i.e. Danida. It
helped in smooth implementation of project's activities specially the Training and Extension
component. The overall performance of the bank was satisfactory except for the following
anomalies;
=' The Bank's disbursement policy against civil-work (SAR, 1989 pp 28) gave a tough time for a
resource constrained' borrower to allocate the matching fund. It was a main hurdle for failing to
achieve the targeted construction of the building.
>   Lack of TA component in Bank's credit, further with an abrupt discontinuation of TA part from
UNDP in 1992, has to some extent influenced the projects achievements which otherwise may have been
more effective and efficient.
.. The mid-term and supervision mission lacked Borrower's representation and for that, often
recommendations tended to be one sided. Some examples of recommendations, to drop silviculture
research component (MTR, 1993 pp 20), inability to compare project achievements against as outlined in
SAR (MTR, 1993 pp 13), unaccounted seedlings and hastily and improperly formed FUGs (MTR, 1993 pp
18), inactive role of forestry staff in mitigating conflects (MTR, 1993 pp 27), authenticity of MIS (MTR,
1993 pp 21) etc.
=>    The Bank's procurement procedure was found to be very cumbersome because of which
procurement process takes quite a long time affecting the procurement activity.
9. LESSONS LEARNED
It is possible to mobilise people and the resources in the hill districts to establish a
forest management system. The system assists in conserving and expanding the forest
resources needed to sustain traditional farming systems and livelihood in the hills.
However,  prior to such an endeavour   (involving    technological innovation or
management regimes) that disrupts traditional      uses the altemative participatory
institutions are to be in place. People's involvement in the management of existing
forest through participatory institutions (through   state sponsored) substantially
mitigates environmental degradation. Thc management of existing forest rcsources is
important as the Plantation alone is not the solution of "environmental degradation" in
Nepal.
*      With appropriate training and extension, the capability of the Forestry Staffs can be
enhanced for assuming thc facilitators' roles. Furthermore, with training and technical
assistance the Forest User Groups (FUGs) can be enabled to protect, improve, arid
maintain existing forests, or establish  forests,  even, in the degraded areas. The
operational plan for community forests should be simple and easy to understand, as
the local people are going to implement it.
47



Project Completion Report
*     The FUGs should have the right to decide how to manage and utilise their respective forests.
This entitlement will give them the necessary incentives to manage their forest properly, besides,
ensuring that the resource is not depleted. The Forest Department must provide technical
assistance including post-formation support, as it ensures smooth management. The existing
district forest staffs, alone cannot provide all the support needed due to the lower number and
availability (as they are also engaged in other protection-related works). The present arrangement
of employment of private rangers by the FUGs for post-formation support can be a viable option
but it needs further observation. Hence, the possibilities of the post-formation sup[ort to the
FUGs through NGOs and CBOs need to be explored.
*     Handing-over forests to the Forest User Groups alone may not be sufficient to benefit the poor
and the disadvantaged people within the forest User Group. The implementation arrangement and
FUG uptake-needs should be closely monitored in order to ensure that the poor and the
disadvantaged people get a substantial benefit from the community forests.  The income
generation activities are to e carried out for benefiting the poor and the disadvantaged people of
the communities. Furthermore, the awareness about Community Forestry Policies and legislation
among women in Forest User Groups need to be aroused.
*     The Operational Plans, for regulating resource utilisation, should be simple and easy to
understand. The Forest Department should assist FUG with extension advice about appropriate
forest management techniques and formulate Plans, clearly stating the objectives and the
implementation arrangements. The capability of Forestry Staffs should be enhanced mainly in the
forest management aspects.
*     The implementation of different components of the Project through different Departments and
Institutions demand a close co-ordination.  There should be an adequate institutional and
legislative reform for creating a conducive environment for such a co-ordination.
48



Project Completion Report
Hill Community Forestry Project
PROJECT OPERATIONAL PLAN
(An action plan for the future operation phase of the project)
Hill Community Forestry Project was initiated in 1989 with the following objectives;
i)   Establish a system to conserve and expand forest resources to sustain traditional farning systems of
Nepal.
ii) Form Forest User Groups (FUGs) to protect, manage and utilize the forests in vicinity.
iii) Train the forestry staffs with an intetion to provide technical and material assistance, to enable
FUGs to properly manage existing forests and establish and maintain new plantation in the
degraded areas.
The project has been successful in materializing objectives in a satisfactory way, as is evident from the
achievements stated in the project completion report (PCR).
DANIDA significantly contributed especially in achieving the third objective of the project as a co-
financier.
Moreover, training facilities were also provided to the FUGs to enhance the utilization and management
aspects. Community and Private Forestry Component (CPFC) under NARMSAP, a DANIDA supported
programme, will continue the training and extension related activities of HCFP till FY 2002/03.
Other IDA supported activities such as formation and post formation support to FUGs, establishment of
plantations and related works, and civil works and constructions is proposed to be continued by the
Community Forestry Field Implementation Component (CFFIC) under NARMSAP from FY 1999/2000
to 2002/2003.
An appraisal mission has already visited Nepal in this connection and the process is almost at final stage.
49






Studies included in the Project                                                                                                                           Annex-I
STUDY                                                        PURPOSE                                                          IMPACT
1. Preparation of simple guideline for the   'fhe main purpose of the study was to explore the scope of providing post-formation support to The guideline identified the areas in which the
Post-formation support to the FUGs      the established forest user Groups across Nepal.                                    FUGs need to be supported for the smooth
*   Review of available literatures/reports/recommendations of seminars/workshops   implementation of community forest
*   Identification and analysis of the support needs of the existing FUGs using PRA tools  management plan. Furthermore, it helped to
*   Designing aisd translation of the post formation support plan into simple Nepali language  streamline various post-formation supports
to benefit FUGs. DFO staff and users                                           being provided by the different community
*   Listing the support that can be provided to or being provided by DOF and other similar   forestry projects.
projects
*   Recommendation of what and how the support could be provided by DOF
2. Preparation of Bio-mass table often  *   Prepare bio-mass table of 10 middle hill species of Nepal fbr first 10 years of growth  The Bio-mass table prepared for 13 preferred
preferred species by FUG in the hills of  *   Study and recommend the appropriate size of most common mid-hill species at out  species, in the hills, gave an estimate of yield
Nepal                                       planting in different physiographic zones                                       that can be extracted from the community
*   Study and recommend management techniques for community forests                 forests in a sustainable way. It pTovided an
impetus for technical backstopping for
preparing the management plans for the
community forests.
3. Simple survey techniques for mapping    The purpose of the study was to recommend simple survey techniques that can be used to  The study facilitated in increasing the
community forests in the hill districts  facilitate the mapping of community forests in the hill districts.                 efficiency of forestry staffs with an additional
*   The efficiency of various surveying tools compared                              advantage in accuracy of the survey
* Extensive consultation with forestry professionals regarding surveying techniques
* An appreciable literature review
A detail curriculum designed for training on surveying and mapping techniques
4. An assessment of the condition of the  The purpose of the study was to assess the improvement or degradation of forest resources in   An assessment of the condition of forest
forest resources in the hills          the hills with reference to selected districts                                       resources in one of the hill districts of Nepal
*   Determination of the maps, air photos anid other remote-sensing tools for the hill districts  found a substantial increase in the areas of
of Nepal                                                                       forest resources due to the successful
*   Comparison of LRMP maps with the most recent ones and determination of changes in   implementation of the Community Forestry
forest condition in Lalitpur district                                          Programme
*   A comment on thie methodology used, pattems of forest change observed and wider
application of the study and comparison of tle results with other studies
5. Production of simple managemenit     rhe purpose of the study was to produce simple management guidelines of five selected  The guidelines of Non-Tinber Forest Product
guidelines for Non timber Forest Products   NTFP species of hill districts in Nepal for use by DFO staff and users, to enhance them to  (NTFP) established the NTFP as an important
(NTFP)                                 determine acceptable harvesting levels for NTFP                                      forest resource of the community forest.
*   Review experiences and literatures with regards to NTFP utilization in Nepal and India   Besides the conventional forest products such
*   Interview of users, DOF staff and NC,O in selected hill districts               as firewood, fodder and timber. It helped in
*   Development of NTFP harvesting guidelines in consultation with the DOF staff, NGOs   facilitating the management of NTFP in
and User Groups                                                                community forestry



6. The rights and responsibilities of each    The purpose of the study was to review with the FUGs, DFO staff, NGOs and other parties  The study pinpointed the gaps in awareness of
party involved in the handing over of   about their rights and responsibilities in community forestry specially in the handing over of   community forestry policies and legislation
forest to user groups                   forests to FUGs and review the process of handing over of forests addressing the equity issues  among the FUGs. It enabled the Project to
and conflict resolution                                                               narrow down the gap in the awareness
*   Review of literature and experience relating to hand-over of community forests    programme
* Recommendation on the changes necessary in handing over process and the role of
private firms and NGOs in such processes
* Instances of conflicts in community forestry related with handing over issues and ways
to mitigate them with suggestions on legal aspects
7. Sample survey of forest user group   The purpose of the study was to:                                                      The study found that:
plantations                             *   Assess the state of establishment of FUG plantations in various ecological zones of the    I. Species selected were not site specific
districts                                                                        2. The nursery technique was poor
*   Evaluate the cost of these plantations including the costs of FUG contribution    3. The plantation technique was substandard
*   Recommend on the basis of the findihigs for higher survival of plants in future   Based on the reco fmendations more    an
plantations                                                                      was given on the quality of plantations with an
*   Identification and location of all established FUG plantations (from 2048/49 - 2053/54)   emphasis on the management of natural forest
*   Field surveys of the representative areas to assess their establishment and productivity  However, the study found that FUG plantations
by recording site conditions, cstablishment practices, percentage survival and growth by   are comparatively cost effective than the
species                                                                          Departmental. Nevertheless, the study reported
*   The reasons of low seedling survival with recommendations to improve seedling     a satisfactory condition of the private
survival and growth through post-establishment case. Furthermore, the assessment of    plantations.
survival rate of the seedlings distributed by DOF/DFOs
*   The condition of natural regeneration under plantation forests managed by FUGs



Annex-2
HILL COMMUNITY FORESTRY PROJECT
Estimated Project Costs and disbursement status
Cat No     Descnption      Original Credit    Canceled as of   After First    Canceled as of June   Net Credit      Disbursed as of    Balance        Requested     Actual Expend     Estimated       Requested      Total Expend
Amount          Aprtl 1995      Cancellation          1998           Amount 3-4)      July 16, 1999    (undisbursed)       for          to July 1998   Expend (FY          for         by July 1999
Credit Amount                                                              (5-6)       Disbursement        (6+8)         1998199)      Disbursement       (9+10)
(1-2)                                                                               (Up to FY                                         as of
_3 - 4 . 5 7    i1997/98)                                         (1998/99)
1                2                3                 4                  5                6                7               8               -9             tO             It1              12
Unall    Unallocated
2,350,00000      1,350,000 00     1,000,000 00         1,000,000 00                                -               -
I   Goods                   210,000 00      (470,000 00)      680,000 00           347,000 00       333,000 00       165,720 79      167,279 21      95,504 53       261,225 32      13,337 00                      274,562 32
2      Works                890,000 00      (450,000 00)     1,340,000 00          925,000 00       415,000 00       285,437 31      129,562 69       17,213 17       302,650 48     10,567 00                      313,217 48
3      User Group
Formataon anpd
Technical
Support            4,100,000 00     3,320,000 00       780,000 00           83,000 00       697,000 00        564,282 98      132,717 04              -       564,282 96    111,345 00        40,649 22      675,627 96
4      Forest Dept
Seddling
Production +
Plantation
Establishment      7,590,000 00     3,590,000 00      4,000,000 00            3,000 00     3,997,000 00     3,847,254 39      149,745 61              -      3,847,254 39    104,842 00       26,043 07    3,952,096 39
5      FUG SeediBng
U,                  Pomduction and
Plantation
Establishment      8,130,000 00     5,730,000.00      2,400,000 00         941,000 00      1,459,000.00      1,181,096 42    277,903 58       57,104 14      1,238,200 56    152,048 00                     1,390,248 56
6      Travel + Field
Allowance             80,000     0      0,00000 0-                                                           -                                        -                -0
7      Consultant
Service              150,000 00      (50,000 00)       200,000 00           101,000 00        19,0C00         18,496 03         503 97                        18,496 03                                      18,496 03
Special
Account                                                                                                       631,676 93    (631,676 93)                                                                  _ -
Total     23,500,000 00    13,100,000 00    10,400,00000         3,480,000 00      6,920,000 00     6,693,964 03     226,035 17      169,821 84     6,232,109 74    392,139 00        66,692 29    6,62i,248 74
Note
1 SDR = US $ 1.40
1 US $ = NPR 68.00






Annex-3
Recommendations made by Mid-term Review
I.   Planning and staff management training at executive level.
2.   Briefing to DFO and AFO on training content and subsequent implementation.
3.   DANIDA's district level training priority to regional level-endorsed.
4.   TOR on CF activities with emphasis on CF.
5.   DFO's close monitoring of FUG formation process through monthly meetings.
6.   FUG networking W/S.
7.   Forest Management demonstrations in CF as an impetus.
8.   Wide spread distributions of CF related rules and regulations.
9.   Stability in staffing especially in relation to frequent transfer.
10.  NGO's good undbrstanding of legal rights and responsibilities of FUGs
11.  Basic field equipment to forestry staffs.
12.  Finding for temporary range posts.
13.  Increased TA/DA for enhancing field staffs' role as extensionist and give post formation support.
14.   Standard system of monitoring FUG activities, linked with TA/DA release.
15.   Trimestral report to CPFD and RD should contain report based on ranger's monthly report.
16.   Annual submission of updated status of FUGs in the district to CPFD.
17.  Fund availed for a regular district level verification of CF activities by regional staffs.
18.   A computer assistant from TA component at CPFD to input data and MIS based on information
from trimestral and annual reports.
19.   A management analyst (on contract) for implementing proposed monitoring and MIS use.
20.   District annual workplan and budget should be based on range level or VDC level planning
exercise.
21.  A flat rate payment per hectare for plantation establishment (after successful plantation) and to be
phased out over the project period.
22.  No new subsidies for plantation after FY 1993/94
23.   Subsidies for nursery establishment and seedling production by FUGs as per the contracts.
24.   DFO Nursery at district and range level only for demonstration training and research prepared
with a limited seedlings distribution. Seedling production only through FUG nurseries.
25.   A total indicative figure of 10,000 ha is proposed for plantation only for budgeting purpose. The
original project target is drastically reduced to represent the requirement and potentiality of FUGs.
26.   A total of US$ 12-15.0 million be cancelled from the original IDA credit agreement.
55



--------------- -          ----------          -------------------



Annex-4
Sample Survey of FUG Plantations
Forest Research and Survey Centre (FRSC) undertook a sample survey of FUG plantations in
Mill Community Forestry Project area and submitted a report to CPFD, Department of
Forests.
1. Purpose of Study
The study mainly aimed to;
* Assess the state of establishment of FUG plantations in various ecological zones.
* Evaluate the cost of these plantations (including costs of FUG contribution) and
* Recommend on the basis of the finding for higher survival of plants in future plantations.
According to the terms of references, the specific objectives of the study were to;
1) Identifv and locate all established FUG plantations (FY 2048/49-2053/54)
2) Select plantations representative of the various ecological conditions and regions in the middle hills
with at least a 5% representation of total plantations.
3) Conduct field surveys of selected plantations to assess the establishment and productivity by
recording;
*  Site condition
e  Establishment practices
*  Percentage survival by species
*  Growth by species
4) Access the reason for low seedling survival
5) Calculate the cost of establishment including the cost of FUGs contributions.
6) Make recommendations to improving seedling survival and growth rate through post establishment
care.
7) Study of natural regeneration under plantation forest managed by FUGs.
8) Assess survival of seedlings distributed by Department of Forests, District Forest Offices.
2. Findings
2.1 Plantation Failure and its Causes
The study found that nearly half of the plantations have below 20% survival and only about
8% of plantations have more than 50% survival. Furthermore only 1.4% of the total sampled
FUG plantations have a 100% survival.
The main problems associated with plantation were'.
Natural calamities,
Lack of technology and
Institutional aspects.
However, the negligence in the part of management specially with site selection have also
lead to failure in certain sites.
However, the study found that nearly 60% of the FUG plantations had natural regeneration.
Moreover, the study reports that most of the broad leaf species succumb to harsher situation
within the first year of planting. The poor growth in plantation is attributed to the plantations
even without the site clearance and in majority of cases either only one weeding after
57



planting or none at all.
The survey also estimates an average success rate of 73% and 47% for the survival of DFO
distributed seedlings for private plantations in low and middle hills respectively.
2.2 Cost of Establishment, and FUG Contributions
The subsidy programs before FY 2051/52 plantations had a sharing ratio of 80% and 20% in
DFO and FUG contributions respectively. Plantations established in FY 2048/49, 2049/50
and 2050/51 were done remaining within the standard norms of MFSC. The revised subsidy
effective from FY 2051/52 subsidized plantations with NRs 2000/ha with addition of free
seedling (NR   1/Seedling) and poly-bags if the nursery was being run by the FUG.    The
plantations in following FY 2052/53 and 2053/54 subsidized with NRs 1000 and NRs 500
respectively. Free seedling and poly-bags were still availed.
Based on the standard norms of MFSC, a hectare of plantation require 87 to 133 man-days
thus with NRs 50/day labor rate, cost of these plantations range from NRs 4,350 to 6,650.
On the basis of above estimate a conservative calculation of the contribution of FUG to the
plantations in the stated years is NRs 3,.26,23,817/-.
3. Recommendations for Future
The study recommended the followings as necessities for a successful plantation in future;
1)  Subsidy scheme to suit the socio-economic status of the FUGs in various ecological zones of the
country.
2) Information to establish plantation in poor, exposed and denuded sites spreading all over the
country.
3) Effective awareness building mechanism in the DFO and FUG Institutions.
4) Planning in FUG plantation activities.
4. Conclusion
The survey concluded that the decision to cease subsidy on plantations was premature. In
addition to the issue of subsidy, the study, also recommended to improve the planning
process. The assessment of site conditions prior to plantation establishment and the need of
suitable training package in plantation establishment and management was stressed in the
study. The dissemination of success story in plantation establishment is also recommended by
the study for the benefit of FUGs in plantation management.
The study also emphasized on the need of promoting natural generation as a cost-effective
means of forest management.
58



APPENDIX C
Implementation Completion Report
Co-Financier's Submission
Hill Community Forestry Project
(Credit Account 2028-NEP)
Community Forestry Training Project (1989-1998)
DANIDA
This report contains restricted information
and is for official use only
Ref. No.: 104.NEP.4 (CFTP)
ABBREVIATIONS
APTO           Assistant Programme Training Officer, Programme Training Officer (Danida)
Bank           World Bank
CFTP           Community Forestry Training Project (CPFC from July 1998)



Hill Community Forestry Project - ICR (DANIDA)
CPFC/D         Community and Private Forestry Component/Division
Danida         Danish International Development Assistance
DFO            District Forest Office/Officer
DOF            Department of Forest (also FD - Forest Department)
DSCO           District Soil Conservation Office/Officer
DKK            Danish Kroner
FG             Forest Guard
FUG            Forest User Group
FY             Fiscal Year (from approx. 16 July to 15 July)
HCFP           Hill Community Forestry Project
HMG            His Majesty's Government of Nepal
MIS            Management Information System (for FUGs and Employment/Training)
NARMSAP        Natural Resource Management Sector Assistance Programme
RTC            Regional Forestry Training Centre (Official HMG name), Regional Training and Extension
Centre (NARMSAP Programme Document name)
RTA            Regional Training and Extension Advisor, Regional Programme Advisor (Danida)
RTO            Regional Training Officer (HMG)
SAR            Staff Appraisal Report of 10 May 1989
SLC            School Leaver Certificate (Qualification needed for entrance to University, an exam taken after
passing the class/grade 10 examination)
NOTES
Professional Titles in Nepal:
Officer        Holder of BSc Forestry from Tribhuwan University or higher degree from abroad employed as
Civil Servant by HMG or other institution (academic forest professional)
Ranger         Holder of at least ISc Forestry from Tribhuwan University employed as Civil Servant by HMG
or other institution (forest technician)
Forest Guard    Presently only the ability to read and write is needed for this job, but increasingly people with
SLC or even higher education are employed as FGs
Instructors    Rangers working as trainers at the RTCs
Naike          Person trained to care of a nursery
Heralu         Person employed to care and watch a forest
Peon           Office helper (only simple read and write needed)
1. INTRODUCTION
The Hill Community Forestry Project (HCFP) started in 1989. The Project was defined in the Staff Appraisal
Report (SAR) of 10 May 1989. Danida agreed to co-finance the Training and Extension Component with a grant
to HMG of DKK 32,704,000 (USD 4,240,000)1. The component was implemented from 1990 to 1998 under the
name Community Forestry Training Project (CFTP) and from July 1998 the Danida support has continued through
Year 1999 was financed under NARMSAP in an additional amount of USD 1.79 mill)
60



Hill Community Forestry Project - ICR (DANIDA)
the Community and Private Forestry Component (CPFC) and the Community Forestry Field Implementation
Component (CFFIC) under the Natural Resource Management Sector Assistance Programme (NARMSAP).
The Bank invited one representative from Danida to participate in the Final Supervision/Completion Mission from
01-10 June 1999. The present document is the co-financiers submission to the Implementation Completion Report
(ICR) from the World Bank and only includes the CFTP. It is to be read as supplementary information to the Aide-
Memoire of 10 June 1999 and the Borrower's Submission attached to the World Bank ICR. Further reference is
made to the Summary and Lessons Learnt chapter of the Project Completion Report of the Community Forestry
Training Project prepared by Danida in 1999 attached as an annex to this paper.
2. OBJECTIVES
During the life of the CFTP the formulation of the objectives were changed to mirror the actual situation. The bulk
of the grant has been spent under the objectives formulated in 1993 as follows:
Development Objective
People and resources in the Hill districts mobilised to establish aforest management system, which would
conserve and expand the forest resources, needed to sustain traditionalfarming systems and livelihood in the Hills
Immediate Objective
Improved technical and managerial capabilities of both DOF staff and communities involved in Community
Forestry to undertake Community Forestry in the Hill districts
3. DESIGN
The CFTP started with a Regional Training Officer (RTO) employed by His Majesty's Government (HMG) and a
Regional Training and Extension Advisor (RTA) from Danida located in each Regional Directorate. This set-up
proved difficult to operate and from 1993 Regional Forestry Training Centres (RTC) were established in each of
the five regions under CPFD in either rented buildings or in existing HMG offices. The Headquarters of CFTP was
established in the office of the Community & Private Forestry Division (CPFD) of the Departrnent of Forests
(DOF), where it remains until today. From the onset of NARMSAP the RTAs are working as Regional
Programme Advisors with responsibility for Danida's support to RTCs, DFOs and DSCOs. In the beginning of
1999 the RTCs were transferred back to the Regional Directorates.
The RTCs were never fully staffed by HMG to carry out the tasks assigned in the SAR and Review-Mission
Documents. Thus the post of accountant is still missing to make the RTCs fully operational as HMG institutions.
Consequently Danida allowed CFTP to hire the necessary staff. The staff situation by the end of CFTP at the
RTCs were (generally) as follows:
.~n .   . .    .=HMG                                          Danida
Regional Training Officer/Advisor                         I                         I
(Assistant) Programme Training Officers (APTOs)           0                         3
Instructors/Extension Organisers (Rangers)               3-5                       1-2           l
Assistant Programme Administrative Officer                0                         1
|Administrative Staff/Typist/Office Assistant             2                        0-1
Driver                                                    I
Peon/Guard                                               3-5                       0-1
The RTCs arrange training for the Department of Forest (DOF) field-staff at regional level. The training for
Ranger and Forest Guards is planned based on training need assessments carried out by the RTO, APTOs and on
requests from DFOs. Increasingly also staff from Department of Soil Conservation and Watershed Management
are among the trainees.
The RTCs support the planning and implementation of the training of users carried out by the staff of the DFOs.
61



Hill Community Forestry Project - ICR (DANIDA)
The RTA and the Danida staff assist in the planning and implementation of both training programmes. The RTA is
solely responsible for the allocation of all funds used at regional and district level for CFTP. This set-up
minimised RTAs free capacity for technical assistance, as he was caught up with a heavy administrative workload.
Because RTO did only have a minimal budget mainly for salaries, no financial staff and through unclear Terms-of-
Reference for the RTO the RTC were defacto perceived as Danida Training Centres. NARMSAP is in the process
of separating the Danida and HMG administration, and in the Western and Far-western Regions separate
NARMSAP Programme Offices have been set up.
The SAR envisaged the Training and Extension co-ordinator to work under the supervision of UNDP chief advisor
for six years. UNDP withdrew its support to the HCFP in 1992. The Regional Training and Extension Advisors
were initially postings for 3 years, but Danida extended the CFTP and the employment of Advisors several times
until the Project was absorbed by NARMSAP.
4. PROJECT ACHIEVEMENTS
The baseline study and the socio-economic study mentioned in the SAR were never done, and it is therefore
difficult to quantify the effect of the Project on community forestry development in the Project area. However, a
qualitative assessment of the effect can be done in many cases, and it is the opinion of the Project that the
immediate objectives, improved technical and managerial capabilities of both DOF staff and communities
involved in community forestry to undertake community forestry in the Hill districts has improved satisfactorily to
make an excellent platform for further follow-up by HMG, supported by NARMSAP in the futureCFTP was the
component responsible for training the DOF staff and for assisting DOF staff in training users in the aspects of
community forestry required to implement the HCFP-components in the field. Almost 5000 active FUGs have
been formed in the Project area, and although it is not possible to trace this fact as resulting from the one or other
component - or for that sake to HCFP the overall result of the Project is most encouraging. The reality of self-
determined and successful FUGs in Nepal must be seen as a result of a synergetic process carried through by many
stakeholders during the last 20 years.
The achievements of CFTP has been described in details in the Project Completion Report (June 98) and
summarised in the Aide-Memoire (June 1999). Including the data from s't and 2nd trimestre of Fiscal Year 2055/56
(1998/1999) presented in NARMSAP Progress report No 2 the achievements in training and extension are:
Tf1r~~..cateor                AR Tage         Aceved    Pricipnt               4l:ay
Officers - Overseas Training                3 39           56
Officers - National Training               50             110         1114
Rangers - National BsC stipends                            20           20
_ _ _  _ _   _ _  _ __  _ _______________________ -------------- -----   -     --------    -- __   -__ _ _   __  - -_  - ------    --------   - _______-____--_-___--______ 
Rangers - Overseas Training                  7              5
Rangers - National Training               691        _   363          4961_        52000
Forest Guards, Heralus and Naikes         652             298         4665         65000
Forest UserGroups                         542            2052        54094        175000
Leaders, Volunteers, Teachers,            963             263         4767         14000
Women Development Officers,
Schoolchildren, Motivators, etc
Note: Most HMG staff has participated in more than one type of training.
Through more than 3000 workshops, seminars, study tours and training events CFTP has increased the technical
capacity of DOF staff, other stakeholders and development workers, and the awareness and functionality of the
FUGs has been considerable improved.
More than 9,500 Rangers and FGs have received training. The number is higher than the number of staff as many
of the approximate 2000 staff several has participated in more than one course. The training has decisively
increased the capability of the DOF staff able to facilitate the identification and formation of FUGs. Specifically at
62



Hill Community Forestry Project - ICR (DANIDA)
Ranger level many staff members are now able to assist the FUGs with advisory service regarding silvicultural
operations.
A marked change in attitude of the DOF staff has been observed in the Project area during the implementation
period. From the role of policing the forest act, rules and regulations the staff has changed more towards being
facilitators in the processes related to community forestry. That development is far from finished, but the change
has been remarkable.
Almost 55,000 users have participated in some kind of training or extension activity. The number does not include
several thousands spectators of puppet shows, drama group performances and visitors to other extension activities.
FUGs' committees are generally informed and partly trained on Community Forestry policy and procedures. Some
FUGs are trained in carrying out forest management. Through increased focus on activities for women, a change to
more participation in FUG by women can be observed.
Co-ordination with other donors in the sector has improved through the Project period, but should be intensified.
CFTP staff and advisers participated in several working groups under the Forest Sector Co-ordination Committee
(FSCC) - a formal committee chaired by the Ministry of Forests and Soil Conservation (MFSC), as well as various
ad hoc working groups in the sector. A number of manuals, training guidelines and session plans have been
produced by CFTP, mainly for internal purposes. Approximate 50 officers have received 6-8 week training in
Community Forestry and extension in Denmark, and five officers have completed their MSc financed by Danida.
At the Institute of Forestry (IOF) NARMSAP is supporting 37 students with scholarship in the Bachelor of
Forestry course. The first batch supported since 4 year will finalise their BSc in summer 1999.
5. COSTS
The following table shows a breakdown of the 32.7million Danish Kroners equivalent to 326.8 million Nepali
Rupees occurred by CFTP during 10 years of activities.
DKK '000
_anidaAlloc*tion   A=ta;    |itur-         Variance
__-- ___--- _:_-     _   __KK__f 1  K DKK-  D                             .K:
Civil Works                    102 _  0.3 -       _27_    _ 0.1 __     75 -73.5
Equipment                     7256   23.4         6768     22.4      -488   -6.7
Publications                  1226     3.9         609      2.0      -617  -50.3
TechnicalAssistance            511      1.6        462      1.5       -49    -9.6
Salaries                      1321    4.2         4513     14.9      3192  241.6
Programme Expenses           16119   51.8        13938     46.1     -2181   -13.5
Operation & Maintenance       4621    14.8        3919     13.0       -702  -15.2
Subtotal    ___              31156   100.0       30236    100.0       920    -3.0
Contingencies                 1548                -166               1714
Grand Total                  32704               30070               2638    -8.1
The overall cost per participant/trainee is NRs 4,000 per course/activity. Analyses in the various progress reports
state values for costs per participant and day between NRs 75 for field based CF Management training, NRs 500
for Forest Guards Basic Training and NRs 1,200 for Women Motivators' Literacy Training. Activities for
programme staff and officers cost around NRs 2,500 per day, but these are few in numbers.
The costs for Danida employed advisors are paid directly from Denmark and not part of above cost-chart. A total
of 48 man-years has been spent supporting the programme.
As mentioned in chapter 3 (Design) only limited budgets from HMG mainly for salaries to RTC staff were
allocated.



Hill Community Forestry Project - ICR (DANIDA)
6. PERFORMANCE OF THE BORROWER
Overall the MFSC commitment to hill community forestry in general and the Project in particular has been good.
Although it was necessary to employ some Danida staff at regional level for technical support to the training
programmes the implementation throughout has been done mainly by MFSC staff, and the staff has - with more
success as might be expected - gone through the transition from policing the forest act, rules and regulations to
being facilitators in highly complex legal, technical and socio-economic processes reaching out to the most
remote areas of the Hills of Nepal. At the end of the Project the number of FUGs in the Project area has increased
from 61 FUGs to almost 6600 well in excess of the SAR target of 4000 FUGs, covering an area of 330,000 ha and
with participation of 465,000 households
However, the processes have not been without problems.
Unfortunately there has been an unclear staff policy regarding DFOs, Instructors and Rangers during the HCFP. A
major restructuring of the MFSC in 1993 decreased the number of Rangers by 170 in the Hills. The CFTP Project
Completion Report has on pages 7 to 10 a good analysis of HMG inputs and the risk assumptions from SAR.
The frequent staff transfers have been very damaging in the work with the communities and much institutional
memory and continuity in the work with the communities was lost in the process. Knowledge and understanding
of local factors (social as well as ecological - forest dynamics) can not be build up when staff is transferred
sometimes several times in a year, and it causes difficulties to establish and implement training plans. Training
need assessments, done for the annual planning, loose value after transfers, and the introduction and use of long
term planning tools is also difficult. Instructors at RTCs have not always been posted based on an interest for
training, and lack of female instructors has made activities with women in the communities more difficult.
The t*neframe of a posting was never clear, but the new Civil Service Act prescribes a minimum of two-year
posting. It is expected that HMG will now adhere to that rule.
The district staff have - given the existing difficult working conditions - delivered an increased quantity and
partly satisfactory quality of district training. However, non-professional factors (political, economical) or the not
respecting of local agricultural calendar hampers from time to time selection of participants for training.
Through the construction programme funded by the Bank all RTCs have now HMG buildings. Unfortunately the
quality of some of the buildings was not satisfactory making it necessary for NARMSAP to support extensive
repair and maintenance programme for the RTCs particularly in the Western and Mid-western Regions. Prescribed
building standards paid for have not been followed in these cases, presenting dangerous conditions for the staff.
HMG funds for running the RTCs (Operation &Maintenance) are still far from sufficient. As mentioned earlier
full staffing of RTCs (especially accounting staff) has not been reached.
7. PERFORMANCE OF DANIDA
The CFTP was extended twice financed through unspent funds to allow the initiated process to consolidate the
achievements made, and the posting of advisers was extended accordingly above the initial commitment.
Unfortunately the posting of new advisors is regularly delayed due to the cumbersome recruitment system of
Danida, and the advisers have often been acting in more than one region for several months stretching their
capacity to the limits. The Danida management of the Project has been good. The expenditure has been well
controlled, and the support from the Royal Danish Embassy on a day-to-day basis, and from Danida Copenhagen
through two Review missions and various consultancies, has been adequate. However, the monitoring activities
introduced by NARMSAP have revealed that the CFTP monitoring was unsatisfactory. Apart from the directly
project related support CFTP has supported the operation of the FUG Management Information Systems (MIS),
User Trainee Registers and Employee MIS for training. Field follow-ups and impact-studies are only recently
being incorporated in the work.
With a few reservations Danida has been satisfied with the overall achievements of the Project and has signed an
agreement with HMG for long term sector assistance to the MFSC, including a community forestry field
implementation component continuing the HCFP with some modifications.
8. PERFORMANCE OF THE BANK
At central level there was continued contact between the World Bank and Danida regarding HCFP. At the time
when the World Bank had resident staff allocated to the HCFP the contacts were at operational as well at strategic
6 4



Hill Community Forestry Project - ICR (DANIDA)
level. After the withdrawal of the resident representation the contacts was mainly limited to strategic issues, and
the various World Bank and Danida missions visiting the Project had routine meetings at central level. Only the
Project Closing and Implementation Completion Mission had joint participation by HMG, the World Bank, FAO
and Danida.
The regional advisors did not have much contact with staff of the Bank, apart from the occasionally visit to the
RTCs by a mission. Unfortunately only the last mission in connection with HCFP was arranged as ajoint
Worldbank-FAO-Danida mission. The experience was very fruitful and should be repeated in the future.
Apart from the unsatisfactory supervision of the building programme causing repair problems already few years
after the completion of some major buildings, from Danida's point of view the performance of the Bank has been
satisfactory in relation to the Danida supported part of the HCFP.
9. SUSTAINABILITY
CFTP should be seen as a 'booster' programme bringing DOF staff to a higher knowledge and awareness level,
from where they are able to continue themselves. The increase in Danida staff at the RTCs, continued under
NARMSAP, may not be sustainable seen isolated. However, this relatively modest external input has had a very
strong influence on the community forestry development in the Hill districts facilitating a major downstream
development with a high degree of sustainability. In the opinion of the Project the approach taken is fully justifyed
from an overall sustainability point of view.
The awareness and knowledge at user level (so far mainly at committee level) has increased the ability to manage
a self-determined development of forest in the communities.
The clearly visible increase in biomas in the Community Forest combined with better education promise a more
sustainable management of the handed over forests at village level.There are indications that in some cases there
may be a decrease in forest cover of National Forest not handed over (not under community forestry), particularly
in the sensitive upland forests. This issue will be specifically addressed under NARMSAP.
10. LESSONS LEARNT
The other ICR-documents have a serial of good observation on lessons learnt. Here are some additional or other
formulations of observations listed:
*  The legal framework must be in place before a project starts. The handover rate for community forests was
very low until the rules and regulations governing the forest act were passed, so that a suitable awareness and
training programme could be designed.
*  Already at this stage, where 39% of rural households are involved in community forestry, the DOF staff is
hard pressed to keep up with the demand for their services with regard to this program. It would appear that in
the future the DOF staff would concentrate on the statutory requirements involved in community forestry,
while the extension activities may increasingly have to be done by external service providers.
*  Being limited to a training project the CFTP was too narrow a scope with little influence on the capacity and
efficiency at field staff and community levels. Providing training manuals and materials and training the staff
does not automatically ensure that the field staff are doing their job, neither does it mean that materials are
necessarily used or even made available for training activities.
*  The training needs change over time in line with change in the level of awareness and skills created by the
training and other related activities, and the training programmes need to change accordingly. This was not
monitored systematically by CFTP, and it would probably have been possible to switch from awareness
raising of the FUG members and reorientation of the forestry staff to more technically oriented issues at an
earlier stage.
*  Preliminary assessments of the effect on the training programmes implemented by the Project indicate that
training efforts need to be spread in the future among general members of the FUGs, avoiding biases towards
village leaders and committee members.
*  Efficient monitoring of a project like this is necessary for assessment of impact and for fmancial control.
*  International advisors were more needed for professional and transparent project management, than for
relevant technical advice. The international advisers at field level are fully occupied with management of the
donor input at regional level, and cannot be expected to provide much technical advise. To the extent the
65



Hill Community Forestry Project - ICR (DANIDA)
FUGs and the DOF staff need it, such advise will have to be provided from central level, by skilled local
project staff or from external service providers.
*  District forest management plan (land use plan) is urgently needed for FUGs and National Forests, integrated
with other land-use plans , particularly watershed management plans.
*  Living and working conditions in most Range Posts are not adequate and should be improved to provide the
staff an incentive to stay and work at their duty station.
*  Change in status from Range Office to Range Post in 1993with limited authority and no budgeting
responsibilities has had a negative effect. The Rangers are now frequent absent from the field and working out
from Ilaka or District Forest Office. Range Posts should be Range Offices again.
*  Strong opposition from local political leaders to accept (and understand) the need for scientific silvicultural
management and operations (especially thinning, that implies the cutting of green trees) hampers the work of
many FUGs. Awareness raising is needed. Our motto: 'Protect the Forests, Plant Trees' need to be changed to
'Protect the Forest, Plant Trees, Harvest the Products'
The End
66



Hill Community Forestry Project - ICR (DANIDA)
Annex
Summary and Lessons Learnt
Summary
The CFTP was a component of the recently closed Hill Community Forest Project (HCFP) financed through a
World Bank loan. The HCFP intends to assist the Department of Forest (DoF) in implementing the community
forestry component of the Master Plan of 1988, and thereby contribute to stabilize the Hill ecosystems and to
increase forest production for the benefit of hill communities. DANIDA agreed to finance the training and
extension component of the HCFP and adopted HCFP objectives.
Throughout its operation, the CFTP covered the same area as the HCFP, i.e. those Hill Districts not covered by
other donor assistance, whether bilateral or multilateral. Initially this was 37 Districts (some of which had been
supported previously by other projects), but it was envisaged that the support could be extended to other hill
Districts, if other donors pulled out. Therefore the project area was adjusted several times in the course of the
project.
The HCFP and the CFTP were both to work within the Forest Act, which at the time of inception was under
review simultaneously with the preparation of the Master Plan for the Forest Sector, 1988. However, the new
Forest Act was passed by the government only in 1993, five years after the Master Plan, and the Regulations to
interpret the Act came only in 1995. This meant that community forestry development had to proceed under a
blanket of uncertainty in the first half of the project period. The DoF system was to some extent uncertain how to
implement the policy, and the administration of community forestry development without firm guidelines resulted
in variations in implementation between Districts, depending on the District Forest Officer and his staff's
perception of the policy and their attitude towards community forestry.
After 1995 the activity level accelerated, and at the end of the project period the targets set in the Staff Appraisal
Report (SAR) of the World Bank were all exceeded, (see Annex 8). Training was initially focused on re-
orientation of forestry staff to facilitate the change in function from policing the use of the forests to becoming
partners in community forestry development. At a later stage training was provided to staff as well as
communities in managing the forest hand-over process and post formation support to the user groups. Training
was also gradually switched from regionally located training to training conducted in the field.
Training was based at the Regional Training Centres (RTCs), which were fully staffed with operational staff, but
not with administrative staff. As the rate of activity increased, HMG capacity proved insufficient to handle the
workload related to community forestry. Following the review in 1993, the capacity of the RTCs was
supplemented by project-employed assistant training officers to support training activities. The effect of this is
less sustainability of the RTCs themselves, but a high degree of sustainability in the field, where more then 3,700
Forest User Groups (FUGs) were created under the guidance of trained HMG staff in the project area. It is widely
recognized that the deployment of project staff - three in each Region - has been crucial to the success of the
CFTP.
Unfortunately the rate of hand-over of community forests has stagnated. This is mainly due to the limitations of
the capacity of the DoF offices, to provide both had-over and post handover support. Increased involvement of
private sector providers will be supported under NARMSAP to address this.
A baseline study for the HCFP, including the CFTP, was planned, but never implemented. It is therefore not
possible to quantify the impact of the project with great accuracy. However, the impact of community forestry is
67



Hill Community Forestry Project - ICR (DANIDA)
visible countrywide, although the forests are still utilized below their capacity. By the end of the project, forests
were indeed sustaining traditional farming systems to a higher degree than they did before community forestry.
Forest users are generally becoming "richer" due to increased forest resources (although these assets are not
always fully utilised), and also in terms of other values such as shade, water and soil stabilisation. Forest cover is
improving where community forests have been established, grazing is formally under control, encroachment has
stopped, and a range of management systems are being implemented, particularly dealing with forest regeneration
and the use of young forests. Generally speaking, FUG members are benefiting from community forestry by easy
access to forest products, and many FUGs have accumulated considerable funds, which are being used for various
development works in the communities, such as paths, bridges, drinking water supply, schools, community houses
and forest development.
This development has taken place through the improved technical and managerial capabilities of both DoF staff
and local communities to manage forests, as stated in the immediate objectives of the project. There is still room
for improvement, but it is truly remarkable that in spite of the often low levels of skill and understanding of field
staff as well as the FUGs, community forestry has now gained momentum, powered by a strong drive in the
communities. Community forestry has entered a demand driven stage, which cannot be stopped.
Although this can only be assessed in more detail after a number of years, it is the general impression that the
objectives of the project are being fulfilled to the extent that could be expected, particularly in the traditionally
better developed parts of the country.
However, some handed-over forests are small, degraded and located on marginal lands and they cannot sustain the
basic requirements of the users. This may encourage the use of national forests not handed-over.. Similarly, it has
been suggested that community forestry does not automatically improve the living conditions of the weaker strata
of the FUGs if the forests are not utilised to their optimum. The often vigilant forest protection by local
communities particularly restricts women, who rely on daily supplies of fodder and bedding for their livestock,
and the lower strata of the communities who rely on forest products for input to various small scale production or
trading for subsistence.
11. LESSONS LEARNT
Several important lessons have been learnt through the CFTP:
For a project of this sort it is necessary to work within an appropriate legislative framework. The project
did not take off until the Forest Act had been passed and the Rules and Regulations prepared.
As the project gained momentum, a capacity problem emerged in the RTCs, which was tackled by
increasing the support by the Regional Project Advisers, and by employing a limited number of project
staff. This was done at the cost of the sustainability of the RTCs. However, such loss of sustainability,
limited to the RTCs only, was well justified by the dramatic increase in the rate of FUG formation, all
managed by HMG staff and the communities. It is important not to focus blindly on sustainability in
cases where limited support by projects in one place may lead to strong overall development.
The limitations of the capacity of the District Forest Offices (DFOs) is an intractable bottleneck, which
needs to be tackled with determination. The most accesible FUGs have now been formed, and the distant
cases are left to be addressed. An increasing number of disputes are arising. As there is already a
growing backlog of community forest awaiting hand-over due to insufficient capacity of the DFOs, it
should be expected that they will be fully occupied meeting the statutory requirements of their offices,
and have little time for post-formation support to FUGs. To avoid further stagnation of the community
forestry development other resources have to be identified and, if necessary, developed to maintain
6G



Hill Community Forestry Project - ICR (DANIDA)
momentum. This will be an important task for the Natural Resource Management Sector Assistance
Programme (NARMSAP).
Many of these issues have their roots in the repeated transfer of staff. It is difficult for the project to see
any rationale or professional reason for these transfers, which demotivate the staff and break all
continuity in District work.
Being limited to a training project, the CFTP had too narrow a scope with little influence on the
absorbtion capacity and efficiency at field staff and community levels, and on the back-up capacity at
central level. Providing training manuals and materials and training the staff does not automatically
ensure that the field staff are doing their job, neither does it mean that materials are necessarily used or
even made available for training activities.
Recent experiences have shown that project monitoring has been insufficient. Closer monitoring of the
activities is necessary as a management tool, and to ensure better adherence to agreed project strategies
and better financial control.
These issues have been addressed in the preparation of NARMSAP. A particular effort has been made to design
the community and private forestry component of the programme in a way that draws on the positive experiences
of the CFTP and gives due consideration to the negative ones.
59






APPENDIX D
ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
A. Introduction
1         The economic and financial re-evaluation contains two parts. The economic analysis in
the first section is based on the net benefits of natural forest management and plantation establishment.
Economic rates of return are calculated for the project as a whole, and separately for the plantation
component. An attempt is made to quantify benefits from the harvesting of non-timber forest products
and environmental benefits, including carbon sequestration, and reduced erosion/flooding resulting
from improved forest quality. The second section presents financial Hectare Activity Models for
plantation establishment and for natural forest management (protection and active management
regimes) in order to: (a) assess the retums to investment in plantations and the importance of the
subsidy on seedlings; and (b) to examine the financial disadvantages of forest management which
emphasizes protection rather than sustainable management.
2         The User Group database established under the project contains some basic information
on the community forestry program, including the area and condition of forest handed over and the
number of FUGs established. However, data on yields of forest products specific to forests in the
project area was not available. This analysis relies on estimates made by Sowerwine et al. (1994) in a
study on Nepal's forestry sector.
B. Assumptions
SAR
2.        The economic analysis of the SAR is based on the following methodology and
assumptions:
(a)  Scope of Analysis - Only direct costs and benefits from forest management,
plantation establishment and seedling distribution are estimated, i.e. increased
production of fuelwood, fodder and timber;
(b)  Economic Prices -inputs- All inputs except for unskilled labor are valued at
border prices, and the financial prices for non-traded inputs are adjusted with a
standard conversion factor of 0.9. Wages for labor engaged in maintenance and
protection (which is undertaken throughout the year) are adjusted by a conversion
factor of 0.6.
(c)  Economic Prices -outputs- the value of forest products is based on the value of
wages foregone in the time spent on collection. The economic price for fuelwood
is calculated assuming that two-thirds of fuelwood is collected during the off-
season and the remainder during the peak season (thus the annual average wage
rate is adjusted by a conversion factor of 0.6). Fodder is also estimated based on
labor time spent on its collection.
(d)  Incremental benefits. - The incremental benefits are estimated in terms of savings
in labor days in the collection of fuelwood and fodder. The assumption is that the
project would reduce the collection distances y 60% and hence the incremental
benefit of the project in stumpage value of fuelwood would be NR 150/ton.
Although the SAR calculates an economic price of fodder at NR 150 per ton, it



does not specify what the assumption is on the incremental benefits of the project
for fodder.
(e)  Other missing information. The project files do not specify the assumptions on
yields and inputs, nor do they include the detailed calculations for the rates of
return and net present value, hence it is not possible to replicate the appraisal
analysis with updated data.
ICR
3.         The economic analysis of the ICR is broadly based on the SAR methodology where
feasible, with a number of additional details. The assumptions made in the financial analysis (which
was not undertaken in the SAR) and in the economic analysis of the ICR are presented below with
detailed calculations in tables 1 to 12.
(a)  Financial prices (Table 4) for forest products vary greatly across the Hills of
Nepal, and are significantly distorted due to restrictions on marketing between
districts. Because market prices have not been collected on a systematic basis,
prices used in the analysis are taken from Sowerwine et al. (1994) and adjusted to
1998/99 values. The financial analysis should be treated with care and is intended
to illustrate the incentives for plantation establishment, and the relative benefits of
active management relative to protection of natural forest.
(b)  Economic prices the output of the project is not traded internationally and border
prices are not calculated. The economic price for fuelwood is estimated using the
indirect opportunity cost of labor method, as in the SAR. Fodder is valued on the
basis of the increased productivity of livestock attributable to incremental
production of fodder; it is more precise to measure incremental production than it
is to estimate the time families spend collecting fodder when the collection of
fodder is combined with the collection of other forest products and water. The
value of poles is derived from the ratio of the value of poles relative to fuelwood,
which is based on the relative price ratios estimated inKnowler and Canby (1998).
Economic prices used in the analysis are presented in Table 4.
(c)  Yields- Natural Forest.  To estimate yield, five types of natural forest are
identified: (i) sal (Shorea robusta), (ii) mixed low to mid-altitude broadleaf
(Schima and Castanopsis), (iii) Pinus roxbughii, (iv) high altitude broad-leaved and
(v) high altitude coniferous.  The area of each forest type has been further
classified by forest condition. Data on forest condition at handover for 625 FUGs
contained in the FUG database have been extrapolated to estimate the proportions
of each type of natural forest in "good" and "degraded" condition for total
community forest area. Data on forest area by type and condition are presented in
Table 5.
(d)  Yields - Plantation.  Forest land allocated for plantation (10,393 ha) was in
general the most degraded. Recorded stem survival is only 26 percent of the 1,600
seedlings planted per hectare. The plantation yield estimates (Table 10b) assume
that FUGs will harvest planted trees as poles as early as possible. It is assumed
that, apart from the harvest of 400 planted trees/ha in Year 12, plantation
productivity will in other respects be comparable to degraded sal.
(e)  Management Regime. Community forests are further classified according to the
type of management regime adopted by the User Group. FUGs have, to date,
preferred a form of management which emphasizes protection and which has,
while permitting minor interventions and the collection of products such as dead
72



wood and leaf litter, precluded the thinning and felling which would be part of
proactive management. Given the financial disadvantages (Tables I Oa-d) and
practical difficulties inherent in protection-biased management, it is assumed that
there will be a shift from protective to proactive management over time and that the
80 percent of FUGs practicing protective management in the first ten years will fall
to 40 percent after 10 years and to 20 percent after 20 years. Plantations are
assumed to be actively managed.
(f)   Changes in Condition. Accompanying this shift in management of natural forest
will be a gradual improvement in forest condition, i.e. the improvement of
"degraded" forest to "good" forest. Data show that 70 percent of forest was in
good condition at the time of handover; it is assumed that after 10 years, 90 percent
of community forests are in good condition, and that by Year 20 all forest land
classified as degraded at handover will have become good. Table 5 summarizes
the type, condition and management regime of natural forest handed over and
changes over time. The condition of plantation improves more slowly as this forest
land was in the worst condition at handover; plantation forest becomes good in
Year 17.
(g)  Without Project Scenario. Open access to forests has resulted in high harvesting
levels which are unsustainable and which will likely decline over time. The
Without Project Scenario (Table 6c) in the early years of the project is
characterized by levels of offtake which are higher than those of the FUGs
adopting protective management, but lower than those with active management
regime. Open access forests experience a 20 percent decline in yields after 10
years, and a further 20 percent decline after 20 years. A further trend affecting the
vegetation subject to continued open access exploitation is a decline in the
environmental value of the environmental services provided by forests (for
example, the regulation of aquifer levels) relative to both protected and managed
forest.
(h)  Costs - For the economic analysis, actual project costs (Table 1) are adjusted to
1998/99 values using GDP inflators for Nepal (Table 3). All project costs incurred
in local currency (i.e. all project costs except 40 percent of the Training and
Extension Component, Table 8b of Part II) are adjusted with a Standard
Conversion Factor of 0.9. Financial payments to beneficiary labor are removed,
and the economic value of beneficiary labor contribution is estimated based on
estimated labor inputs (Tables 10b-d) and the shadow wage rate. All project costs
are included in the economic analysis given the importance of training, extension
and institutional support to the success of local level management of forests. The
economic analysis for the plantation component is based on actual expenditure
under the Forest Resource Management Component and benefits accruing from
plantation establishment only.
C. Other Benefits
4.         Forest Products. Direct benefits are quantified in terms of per hectare offtake of poles
and timber, fuelwood, leaf and grass fodder and leaf litter (Table 6). Incremental production is
derived based on the parameters described above.
5.        Non-Timber Forest Products. The annual value of non-timber forest products (NTFPs)
in Nepal has been estimated at roughly US$2/ha (Knowler and Canby, 1998). This estimate is based
on the value of annual exports of NTFPs divided by Nepal's forest area. This analysis assumes that
the annual incremental value of NTFPs is US$1 (NRs6O) in Years 1-10, and US$2 thereafter; the
73



without project continuation of open access would significantly reduce opportunities for harvesting
NTFPs.
6.         Carbon Storage. Estimates of the capacity of forests to fix carbon are based on the
incremental production of poles and timber in actively managed natural forests (carbon is fixed in
wood which remains in the forest, not in wood that is burned, i.e. fuelwood is not included).Yield
figures from the "managed scenario" apply also to the "protected scenario" because while less timber
is harvested from protected forest, the carbon is fixed in the unharvested trees. It is assumed that 0.2
tons of carbon is fixed per ton of poles and timber produced (which is equivalent to 0.73 ton of carbon
dioxide). Estimates of the economic value per ton of fixed carbon range from US$10-70; this analysis
applies a value of US$20 per ton.
7.         Other environmental benefits include a reduction in downstream  sedimentation, a
reduction in flooding, a reduction in landslides and the regulation of water flow. While much
qualitative evidence exists, there is little quantitative data on these environmental services provided by
forests in Nepal. Knowler and Canby (1998) have reviewed the literature for Nepal, which provides
estimates of the present value of these environmental services of forests ranging from US$8-200/ha.
This analysis adopts a conservative estimate of US$2/ha/year (equivalent to a net present value of
US$11 over 30 years using a 12 percent discount rate).
D. Results
8.         The re-estimation of the project's returns as a whole resulted is an ERR of 18 percent
(Table 9), which is roughly half the appraisal estimate of 36 percent. The reduced ERR is attributable
to: (a) offtake from community forests has been less than envisaged at appraisal due to the adoption of
management regimes emphasizing protection rather than active management (although it is not clear
precisely how offtake differs or what the without project scenario was because the models on which
the SAR estimate is based are not presented in the SAR nor are they available in project files), (b) the
SAR did not include the costs of the Training and Research Components in the economic analysis; and
(c) actual area of forest handed over was 75 percent of the target set in the SAR (although a greater
number of User Groups was established). The different results are not due to significant differences in
the economic prices used in the SAR and in the ICR analyses, which are roughly similar when
adjusted to the same base year.
9.         The re-estimation of economic returns to the plantation component (Table 12) shows a
highly negative net present value of NRs -166 million compared to the SAR ERR of 21 percent. It
was recognized early in the project that investment in plantation establishment had negative returns;
only 10,394 ha of plantation have been established, instead of the 56,300 ha targeted in the SAR. It
has been costly for DOF to produce and distribute seedlings and to support FUGs to set up their own
nurseries. The survival rate of seedlings has been very low, at 26 percent. The low survival rate of
seedlings may be attributable to: (a) seedlings produced and paid for under the project may not have
actually been planted, and the missing seedlings appear in the mortality statistics; or (b) poor quality
planting and lack of proper maintenance. It seems that the subsidy on seedling production and on
seedling planting has encouraged User Groups to produce and plant seedlings, but the lack of
maintenance suggests that seedling planting was not necessary for forests to provide products
demanded by FUGs.
10.        The financial analysis (Tables 1Oa-d) based on Hectare Activity Models evaluates the role
of the seedling pricing policy and the financial incentives of the protective and active management
regimes. The financial returns from plantation establishment clearly depend on the seedling subsidy
offered to FUGs in the early years of the project. The NPV with the costs of seedlings fully subsidized
is just above NRs 11,000 per hectare. while the NPVs with a 50 percent subsidy and with no subsidy
are NRs 2,740 and NRs -4,730 per hectare, respectively (Table 10c and 10d). Another important
incentive for plantation establishment is the permission to clear the degraded forest land; this provides
a large harvest of fuelwood and fodder in the first year. In the absence of the seedling subsidy and
74



windfall gains from clearing the land, it is unlikely that FUGs would consider plantation
establishment. The Activity Models also indicate that there are strong financial incentives for FUGs to
shift from protective to more active management regimes. The NPV of activities in actively managed
forests (almost NRs. 20,000 per hectare) is more than three times the NPV of protected forest (roughly
NRs. 6,400 per hectare). The fact that FUGs emphasize protection may be due to social factors
affecting the behavior of the User Group, i.e. User Group Committees are dominated by the more
powerful, less poor members who may tend to set harvesting levels at levels too low to meet the needs
of the poorer members.
75






NEPAL: Hill Community Forestry Project
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix D: Financial and Economic Analysis
Table la: Total Project Costs in Financial Terms ( in '000 NRs)
Component                     FY89190   FY90/91   FY91/92   FY92/93   FY93/94   FY94195   FY95/96   FY96197   FY97/98   FY98/99     Total    US$ '000 a/
Institutional Support           40,436    14,889    15,258    37,411    54,257    41,439    48,633    34,166    49,557    23,575    359,622      12,444
Forest Resource Management      18,872    27,551    42,595    24,529    13,574     7,708    10,913    11,340    13,903    24,456    195,442       4,499
Training and Extension             35    16,500    16,400    20,000    29,000    38,000    53,000    50,000    27,000    56,578    306,513        5,833
Research                           -              -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -          -                -
Total                           59,343    58,940    74,253    81,940    96,831    87,146   112,547    95,507    90,460   104,609    861,677      22,776
Expenditure on labour          19,383    27,716    48,648    32,912    30,930    17,811    19,043    16,350    17,567    27,211    257,571
Total Project Cost Net of Labour
Paymnents                       39,961    31,224    25,605    49,028    65,901    69,335    93,504    79,157    72,894    77,398    604,006
ai In current pfiies converted at histoical exhange rates.



NEPAL: Hill Community Forestry Project
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix D: Financial and Economic Analysis
Table lb: Total Project Costs by Expenditure Category ('000 NRs.) a/
Category                      FY 89/90  FY 90/91  FY 91/92  FY 92/93  FY 93/94  FY 94/95  FY 95/96  FY 96/97  FY 97/98  FY 98/99    Total
Salaries and allowances         15,311     2,882     3,000     3,682     2,491     2,510     2,856      2,693     3,127     1,120     39,671
Travel                              28     1,531     2,011     2,587     4,679     6,421      7,553     7,525     9,740    10,600     52,674
Project operating costs         27,412     9,737     2,854    18,798    22,641    17,003    15,382    15,103    19,139      9,000    157,069
Vehicle/equipment                   16        27     1,161       361        34       384    13,835       473      2,190       100     18,580
Purchase of land                   157       -         -         -          40       200       277       -          -         -          674
Civil works                        548       177     6,494     9,214    18,620    10,839     8,721      5,374     3,935     2,755     66,676
C. W. forestry activites        21,546    31,454    48,630    28,102    15,627     8,799    12,459    12,947    15,698    24,456    219,720
Total Financial Costs           65,018    45,807    64,149    62,743    64,133    46,157    61,083    44,115    53,829    48,031     555,064
a/ Costs exclude Training and Extension Component financed by DANIDA.



NEPAL: Hill Community Forestry Project
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix D: Financial and Economic Analysis
Table 2: Economic Project Costs in Constant 1997198 NRs ('000) a/
Component                         FY89/90   FY90/91    FY91/92    FY92193   FY93/94   FY94/95    FY95196    FY96197    FY97/98    FY98/99             Total
Institutional Support               76,424     26,429      22,698     50,384      68,041     48,778     53,076      34,692     48,773      21,218     450,611
ForestResource Management           35,669     48,905      63,364     33,034      17,023      9,073     11,910      11,515     13,683      22,010     266,186
Training and Extension                  71      31,241     26,023     28,731      38,792     47,712     61,698      54,154     28,344      54,315     371,080
Research                               -           -          -          -           -          -           -          -          -           -
Subtotal                           112,164    106,576    112,084    112,148    123,855    105,562    126,684    100,362        90,799      97,543   1,087,777
Expenditure on labour bI           36,634     49,198      72,368     44,325      38,788     20,966     20,782      16,602     17,288      24,490     341,440
Total Project Cost Net of Financial
Payments to Labour                  75,530      57,378     39,716     67,824      85,067     84,596    105,902      83,760     73,511      73,053     746,337
Value of Farmer Contribution c/         45        313       5,037     13,971      31,210     60,263     72,271      87,429     95,130      95,914     461,583
Total Economic Cost                 75,575     57,691      44,753     81,794    116,277    134,859    178,173    171,189    168,641    168,967    1,197,920
a/ Financial project costs are adjusted to 1997/98 values using GDP infators and adjusted with Standard Conversion Factor of 0.9.
As almost all costs were incurred in local currency, all project costs except 40 percent of the Training and Extension component, have been adjusted by the SCF.
b/ The project hnancially supported User Groups for forest plantation and protection.
cl Incremental labour is estimated to be 10 days per hectare. The economic cost of labour is valued at a shadow wage rate of NRs. 30 per day, and is phased with area of forest hand-over.



NEPAL: Hill Community Forestry Project
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix D: Financial and Economic Analysis
Table 3: Exchange Rate and Inflation Indicators
Project    Consumer
Financial  Exchange   Price Inflator
Year       Rate    (1998/99=100)
89190           28.89          2.10
90191           31.19          1.97
91192           42.34          1.65
92/93           45.35          1.50
93/94           49.25          1.39
94/95           49.90          1.31
95/96           54.97          1.21
96/97           56.99          1.13
97/98           61.48          1.09
98/99           67.91          1.00
source: Nepal Rastra Bank
c2



NEPAL: Hill Community Forestry Project
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix D: Financial and Economic Analysis
Table 4: Prices Used in Economic Analysis (NRs)
(in constant prices of 1998199)
Source of
Financial         Economic            Economic
Unit                   Price  fI           Price               Price
Poles and Timber                 green ton                      1090                 740           al
Fuelwood                         green ton                       545                 529           bl
Leafigrass fodder                green ton                       436                 436           cl
Leaf Litter                      green ton                       218                 109           d/
Labour
male                           day                               65                 45
female                         day                               45                 20
children                       day                                                  10
weighted average               day                               50                 30           b/
skilled labour                 day                               60                 60
Seedlings                        unit                               3                   3
a/ 1.4 bmes the economic value of fuelwood
b/ Calculated based on opportunity cost of labour:
98/99 wage rate for adults has been adjusted by proportion of population underemployed
(male - 31%, female - 55%), and Ume spent on collection of fuetwood:
(female - 64%, male - 19%, children - 17%), employment and time allocation data from Knowler and Kengen (1998).
c/ Knowler and Kengen, this estimate is based on value of incremental milk production
arising from additional supplies of fodder
d/ 25% of value of leaf fodder
f/ financial prices are taken from Sowerwine et. al. (1994) adjusted to 98199 values.
31



NEPAL: Hill Community Forestry Project
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix D: Financial and Economic Analysis
Table 5: Changes in the Condition and Management of Forest Handed Over to
Communities (by hectare)
Condition
of Forest  Management
Type of Forest              a/       Regime b/       Year 1       Year 10       Year 20
Sal                    Good        All                  67,736       87,090        96,766
Protected           54,189        69,672       77,413
Managed             13,547        17,418        19,353
Degraded   All                  29,030         9,677           -
Protected           23,224         7,741
Managed              5,806         1,935           -
Mid Alt. Broadleaf     Good        All                  58,567       75,301        83,667
Protected           46,854        60,240       66,934
Managed             11,713        15,060        16,733
Degraded   All                  25,100         8,367           -
Protected           20,080         6,693
Managed              5,020         1,673           -
Pinus Roxb.            Good        All                  35,621       45,799        50,887
Protected           28,497        36,639       40,710
Managed              7,124         9,160        10,177
Degraded   All                  15,266         5,089           -
Protected           12,213         4,071
Managed              3,053         1,018           -
High Alt. Coniferous   Good        All                  26,703       34,332        38,147
Protected           21,362        27,466       30,517
Managed              5,341         6,866         7,629
Degraded   All                  11,444         3,815           -
Protected            9,155         3,052
Managed              2,289           763           -
High Alt. Broadleaf    Good        All                  27,897       35,867        39,852
Protected           22,317        28,694       31,882
Managed              5,579         7,173         7,970
Degraded   All                  11,956         3,985           -
Protected            9,565         3,188
Managed              2,391           797           -
Total                                                  309,320      309,320       309,320
notes
a/ The condition of forest at handover is roughly 70% good and 30% degraded.
This estimate is based on data collected by the project for 625 User Groups.
It is assumed that after 10 years, 90% of forest handed over is good, and that after 20 years
of community management there is no degraded forest land remaining.
b/ FUGs have to date shown a preference for a form of forest management which emphasises protection
over sustainable management. It is estimated that at handover, 80% of FUGs adopted protection,
while 20% opted for more active management. The emphasis on protection is assumed to decrease to 40%
of forest area handed over after 10 years of local level management, and to 20% after 20 years.
32



NEPAL: Hill Community Forestry Project
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix D: Financial and Economic Analysis
Table 6a: Forest Yields Under Different anagemnAt Systems (green ton/halyear)
Forest     Poles and
Forest Type          Condition       tinter  Fuelvood    Fodder Leaf Utter  Total Yield
1. Protected Forest
Sal                 Good               0.08       0.31       1.93      0.37       2.69
Degraded           0.05      0.18       1.16       0.22       1.61
Md Alt. Broadleaf   Good               0.42       1.69      2.95        1.8       6.86
Degraded           0.17      0.67       1.18       0.72       2.74
Pinus Roxb.         Good               0.84       0.34      0.15          1       2.33
DMraded            034       0.14       0.06        0.4       0.94
High At. Coniferous   Good             1.03        0.3      0.25        0.5       2.08
Degraded           0.41      0.12        0.1       0.2        0.83
HighAlt. Broadleaf    Good             0.13       0.64      0.82         2        3.59
Degraded           0.05      0.26       0.33        0.8       1.44
II. Actively Managed Forest
Sal                 Good               0.74         3       2.35       0.37       6.46
Degraded           0.45       1.79      1.41       0.22       3.87
MidAlt. Broadleaf   Good               1.58       6.33       4.4        3.6      15.92
Degraded           0.63      2.53       1.76       1.44       6.36
Pinus Roxb.         Good               4.19       0.63      0.15          1       5.97
Degraded           1.68      0.25       0.06       0.04       2.39
High Alt. Coniferous   Good            1.03        0.3      0.25        0.5       2.08
Degraded           0.41      0.12        0.1       0.2        0.83
HighAlt Broadleaf    Good              0.13       0.58       1.12        2        3.83
Degraded           0.05      0.23       0.45        0.8       1.53
33~



NEPAL: Hill Community Forestry Project
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix D: Financial and Economic Analysis
Table 6b: Changes in Forest Yields (green/ton/ha) - Without Project Situation
Year 1                                    Year 10 a/                             Year 20 onwards a/
Poles                                       Poles                                       Poles
Condition    and                         Leaf            and                        Leaf             and                         Leaf
Type of Forest     of Forest  timber  Fuelwood  Fodder  Litter    Total timber Fuelwood Fodder  Litter   Total  timber  Fuelwood  Fodder  Litter   Total
Sal                 Good           0.11      0.45      1.54    0.30    2.40    0.09      0.36    1.24    0.24     1.92     0.07       0.29    0.99    0.19    1.54
Degraded       0.06      2.78      0.93    0.18    3.95    0.05      2.23    0.74    0.14     3.16     0.04       1.78    0.59    0.11    2.53
Mid Alt. Broadleaf   Good          0.26      2.86      2.36    1.44    6.92    0.20      2.29    1.89     1.15    5.54     0.16       1.83    1.51    0.92    4.43
Degraded       0.10       1.14    0.94    0.58    2.76    0.08       0.92    0.76    0.46     2.21     0.06       0.73    0.60    0.37    1.77
Pinus Roxb.         Good           1.01      0.41      0.12    0.80    2.34    0.81      0.33    0.10    0.64     1.87     0.65       0.26    0.08    0.51    1.50
Degraded       0.40      0.16     0.05     0.32    0.93    0.32      0.13    0.04    0.26    0.74      0.26       0.10    0.03    0.20    0.59
High Alt. Coniferous Good          1.23      0.48     0.20     0.40    2.31    0.99      0.38    0.16    0.32     1.85     0.79       0.31    0.13    0.26    1.48
Degraded       0.50      0.19     0.08     0.16    0.93    0.40      0.15    0.06    0.13    0.74      0.32       0.12    0.05    0.10    0.59
High Alt. Broadleaf  Good          0.16      0.85      0.66    1.60    3.26    0.13      0.68    0.52     1.28    2.61     0.10       0.54    0.42    1.02    2.09
Degraded       0.06      0.34     0.26     0.64    1.30    0.05      0.27    0.21    0.51     1.04     0.04       0.22    0.17    0.41    0.83
notes
a/ A continued open access situation would result in a yield decrease of 20% after 10 years, and a further 20% decrease after 20 years.



NEPAL: Hill Community Forestry Project
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix D: Financial and Economic Analysis
Table 7a: Annual Production From Protected Forest (With Project) in green ton(yr
YEAR 1                                                              YEAR 10                                        YEAR 20 onwards
Poles                                                       Poles                                                      Poles
Type of    Condition          and                       Leaf           Condition           and                      Leaf          Condition           and                      Leaf
Forest    of Forest   Area  timber Fuelwood Fodder   Lifter    Total  of Forest  Area  timber Fuelwood Fodder  Lifter   Total  of Forest   Area  ftimber Fuelwood Fodder  Litter   Total
Sal       Good        54,189   4,335   16,799 104,585   20,050 145,769 Good       52,254   4,180    16,199 100,850  19,334 140,563 Good       38,706  3,097    11,999  74,704  14,321  104,120
Degraded   23,224   1,161    4,180  26,940    5,109  37,390 Degraded    5,806     290    1,045   6,735   1,277   9,348 Degraded         -                -       -       -       -
Mid Alt.
Broadleaf  Good       46,854  19,679   79,183 138,218   84,337 321,416 Good       45,180  18,976   76,355 133,282  81,325 309,937 Good        33,467 14,056    56,559  98,727  60,240 229,583
Degraded   20,080   3,414   13,454  23,695    14,458  55,020 Degraded    5,020    853    3,363   5,924   3,614  13,755 Degraded         -                -       -       -       -
Pinus
c   Roxb.     Good        28,497  23,937    9,689   4,275   28,497  66,398 Good       27,479  23,082    9,343   4,122  27,479  64,026 Good        20,355 17,098    6,921   3,053  20,355  47,427
Degraded   12,213   4,152    1,710     733    4,885  11,480 Degraded    3,053   1,038      427      183   1,221   2,870 Degraded        -               -        -       -       -
High Alt.
Coniferous Good       21,362  22,003    6,409   5,341   10,681  44,433 Good       20,599  21,217    6,180   5,150  10,300  42,846 Good        15,259 15,716    4,578   3,815   7,629  31,738
Degraded    9,155   3,754    1,099     916    1,831   7,599 Degraded    2,289     938      275     229      458   1,900 Degraded        -                -
High Alt.
Broadleaf  Good       22,317   2,901   14,283  18,300   44,635  80,119 Good       21,520   2,798   13,773  17,647  43,041  77,258 Good        15,941  2,072    10,202  13,072  31,882  57,228
Degraded    9,565    478    2,487   3,156    7,652  13,773 Degraded    2,391      120      622     789   1,913   3,443 Degraded         -                -       -       -       -
Total
Production          247,456  85,814  149,291 326,158  222,134 783,398            185,592  73,493  127,581  274,910 189,962 665,946           123,728 52,040    90,259 193,370 134,428 470,097



NEPAL: Hill Community Forestry Project
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix D: Financial and Economic Analysis
Table 7b: Annual Production From Actively Managed Forest (With Project) in green ton/yr
YEAR 1                                                     YEAR 10                                                     YEAR 20 onwards
Poles                                                       Poles                                                          Poles
Type of    Condition         and                       Leaf           Condition           and                       Leaf    Total  Condition            and                          Leaf
Forest     of Forest  Area  timber Fuelwood Fodder  Litter   Total  of Forest   Area   timber Fuelwood Fodder  Litter              of Forest   Area    timber Fuelwood  Fodder   Litter    Total
Sal        Good      13,547 10,025    30,075  70,676  26,150 168,930 Good        34,836  25,779   104,508  81,864   12,889 225,040 Good        58,060   42,964   174,179   136,440  21,482   375,066
Degraded   5,806  2,613    10,393   8,186    1,277  22,469 Degraded    3,871    1,742    6,928    5,458     852  14,979 Degraded                            -         -
Mid Alt.
Broadleaf  Good      11,713 18,507    74,146  51,539  42,168  186,478 Good       30,120  47,590   190,661  132,529 108,433 479,213 Good        50,200    79,317   317,769   220,882 180,721   798,608
Degraded   5,020  3,163    12,701    8,835   7,229  31,927 Degraded    3,347   2,108     8,467    5,890   4,819  21,285 Degraded                             -        -
Pinus
Roxb.      Good       7,124 29,850     4,488    1,069   7,124  42,532 Good       18,319  76,758    11,541    2,748   18,319  109,367 Good      30,532   127,931    19,235    4,580  30,532   182,278
Degraded   3,053  5,129      763      183     122   7,297 Degraded    2,035    3,420       509     122       81   4,132 Degraded                   -         -        -        -        -
High Alt.
Coniferous Good       5,341  5,501     1,602   1,335   2,670  11,108 Good        13,733  14,145     4,120    3,433   6,866  28,564 Good        22,888    23,575     6,866    5,722   11,444   47,607
Degraded   2,289    938      275      229     458   1,900 Degraded    1,526      626       183     153      305   1,266 Degraded                   -        -         -        -        -
High Alt
Broadleaf  Good       5,579    725     3,236   6,249   11,159  21,369 Good       14,347   1,865     8,321   16,068  28,694  54,948 Good        23,911     3,108    13,869    26,781   47,823    91,581
Degraded   2,391    120      550   1,076    1,913   3,658 Degraded    1,594       80       367     717   1,275   2,439 Degraded                    -        -                           -
Total
Production           61,664 76,571   138,229  149,378  100,271 497,669          123,728 174,112   335,605 248,983  182,534 941,234            185,592   276,895   531,918   394,405 292,003 1,495,220



NEPAL: Hill Community Forestry Project
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix D: Financial and Economic Analysis
Table 7c: Annual Production From Protected and Actively Managed Forest (With Project) In green tonlyr
YEAR 1                                                             YEAR 10                                                  YEAR 20 onwards
Type of                      Poles                                                      Poles                                                        Poles
Forest    Condition          and                      Leaf            Condition          and                      Leaf            Condition          and                        Leaf
of Forest    Area timber Fuelwood Fodder  Litter   Total  of Forest    Area timber Fuelwood Fodder  Litter    Total  of Forest Area    timber Fuelwood  Fodder   Litter   Total
Sal       Good       67,736  14,360   46,874 175,261  46,200  282,695 Good       87,090  29,959  120,706 182,714  32,223  365,602 Good       96,766  46,061   186,178  211,144  35,804  479,186
Degraded  29,030   3,774   14,573  35,126   6,387   59,860 Degraded   9,677   2,032    7,974  12,193   2,129   24,327 Degraded                 0        0         0       0
Mid Alt    Good      58,567  38,186  153,329 189,758 126,505  507,777 Good       75,301  66,566  267,016 265,811 189,758  789,150 Good       83,667  93,373  374,328  319,609 240,962
Broadleaf                                                                                                                                                                              1,028,272
Degraded  25,100   6,576   26,154  32,530  21,687   86,947 Degraded   8,367   2,962   11,831  11,814   8,434   35,040 Degraded                 0        0         0       0
Pinus     Good       35,621  53,788   14,177   5,343  35,621  108,929 Good       45,799  99,841   20,884   6,870  45,799  173,393 Good       50,887 145,029   26,156    7,633  50,887
Roxb.                                                                                                                                                                                   229,705
Degraded  15,266   9,282    2,473     916   5,007   17,678 Degraded   5,089   4$58        936     305   1,303    7,002 Degraded                0        0         0       0
HighAit   Good       26,703  27,504    8,011   6,676  13,351   55,542 Good       34,332  35,362   10,300   8,583  17,166   71,411 Good       38,147  39,291    11,444    9,537  19,073   79,345
Coniferous
Degraded   11,444   4,692    1,373   1,144   2,289    9,499 Degraded   3,815   1,564      458     381     763    3,166 Degraded                0        0         0       0        -
High Alt   Good      27,897   3,627   17,519  24,549  55,793  101,488 Good       35,867   4,663   22,094  33,715  71,734  132,206 Good       39,852   5,181   24,071    39,852  79,705  148,809
Broadleaf
Degraded   11,956    598    3,037   4,232   9,565   17,431 Degraded    3,985     199      988   1,506   3,188    5,882 Degraded                0        0         0       0        -
Total
Producion           309,320 162,386  287,520 475,535 322,405 1,247,846          309,320 247,606  463,187 523,893 372,496 1,607,180            309,32 328,934  622,177  587,775 426,431 1,965,317



NEPAL: Hill Community Forestry Project
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix D: Financial and Economic Analysis
Table 7d: Value of Annual Production From Protected and Actively Managed Forest (With Project) in '000 NRs.
YEAR I                                                                             YEAR 10                                              YEAR 20 onwards
Poles                                                                                                                            Poles
Condition     and                                                     Condition   Poles and                       Leaf              Condition   and                       Leaf
Type of Forest of Forest    timber      Fuelwood       Fodder  Leaf Litter   Total   of Forest    timber   Fuelwood  Fodder   Lifter       Total   of Forest  timber Fuelwood  Fodder  Lifter   Total
Sal           Good            10,628          24,780    76,414      5,036    116,857 Good           22,173     63,811   79,663     3,512   169,160 Good        34,090    98,423   92,059  3,903 228,474
Degraded        2,793           7,704    15,315        696     26,508 Degraded        1,504      4,215    5,316      232    11,267 Degraded         0         0        0      0        -
Mid Alt.       Good           28,262          81,057    82,734    13,789    205,842 Good            49,266    141,158  115,894   20,684   327,001 Good         69,106   197,888  139,350 26,265  432,609
Broadleaf
Degraded        4,867          13,827    14,183      2,364     35,241 Degraded        2,192      6,254    5,151      919    14,516 Degraded          0        0        0      0        -
PinusRoxb.   Good             39,809           7,495      2,330     3,883     53,516 Good           73,893     11,040    2,995    4,992    92,921 Good        107,337    13,827    3,328  5,547 130,039
co                 Degraded        6,870            1,307       399       546      9,122 Degraded        3,299        495      133       142     4,069 Degraded         0        0        0      0
Co
High Alt.     Good            20,356           4,235      2,911     1,455     28,957 Good           26,172      5,445    3,742     1,871    37,230 Good        29,080    6,050   4,158  2,079  41,367
Coniferous
Degraded        3,473             726       499        249      4,947 Degraded        1,158        242      166       83      1,649 Degraded         0        0        0      0        -
High Alt.     Good             2,684           9,261     10,703     6,081     28,730 Good            3,451     11,680   14,700    7,819    37,650 Good          3,834    12,725   17,376  8,688  42,623
Broadleaf
Degraded         442            1,605      1,845     1,043      4,936 Degraded          147        522      657      348      1,674 Degraded         0        0        0      0        -
Total
Production                   120,183         151,997   207,333    35,142    514,656                183,255    244,864  228,417   40,602   697,138             243,447   328,914 256,270 46,481 875,112



NEPAL: Hill Community Forestry Project
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix D: Financial and Economic Analysis
Table 8a: Annual Production From Open Access Forest (Without Project) In green ton/yr
Years 1-10                                                       Years 11-20                                               Years 21 and onwards
Type of                          Poles                                                            Poles                                                           Poles
Forest     Condition              and                         Leaf             Condition           and                         Leaf           Condition            and                       Leaf
of Forest      Area  timber  Fuelwood  Fodder   Litter    Total  of Forest    Area timber  Fuelwood  Fodder  Lifter   Total  of Forest Area    timber Fuelwood Fodder  Litter   Total
Sal
Good          67,736    7,586    30,346   104,585  20,050   162,567 Good       67,736    6,069     24,277  83,668   16,040  130,054 Good       67,736   4,855    19,421   66,934   12,832 104,043
Degraded     29,030     1,858    80,819    26,940   5,109   114,726 Degraded   29,030    1,486     64,655  21,552   4,087   91,781 Degraded   29,030    1,189    51,724   17,241    3,270  73,425
Mid Alt.
Broadleaf  Good          58,567    14,993   167,736   138,218  84,337   405,285 Good      58,567  11,995    134,189 110,575  67,469 324,228 Good          58,567    9,596   107,351   88,460   53,975 259,382
Degraded      25,100    2,410    28,715    23,695   14,458    69,277 Degraded   25,100    1,928    22,972  18,956   11,566   55,421 Degraded   25,100    1,542    18,377   15,165    9,253  44,337
Pinus
,  Roxb.      Good          35,621    35,906    14,533     4,275  28,497    83,211 Good       35,621   28,725    11,627   3,420  22,797   66,569 Good        35,621   22,980     9,301    2,736   18,238  53,255
Degraded      15,266    6,106     2,443      733   4,885    14,167 Degraded   15,266   4,885        1,954     586    3,908   11,334 Degraded   15,266   3,908     1,563     469    3,127   9,067
High Alt
Coniferous Good          26,703    32,898    12,817    5,341   10,681    61,737 Good      26,703  26,318      10,254   4,272    8,545  49,389 Good        26,703  21,055     8,203   3,418    6,836  39,512
Degraded      11,444    5,676     2,197      916   1,831    10,620 Degraded   11,444   4,541        1,758    732    1,465   8,496 Degraded   11,444    3,633      1,406     586    1,172   6,797
High Alt.
Broadleaf  Good          27,897     4,463    23,656    18,300  44,635    91,055 Good      27,897   3,571      18,925  14,640  35,708   72,844 Good        27,897   2,857    15,140   11,712  28,566  58,275
Degraded      11,956      765     4,017     3,156   7,652    15,590 Degraded   11,956     612       3,214   2,525    6,121   12,472 Degraded   11,956     490     2,571    2,020   4,897   9,978
Total
Production              309,320   112,662   367,280   326,158 222,134 1,028,234          309,320  90,130    293,824 260,926  177,707 822,587             309,320  72,104   235,059 208,741  142,168  658,070



NEPAL: Hill Community Forestry Project
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix D: Financial and Economic Analysis
Table 8b: Value of Annual Production From Open Access Forests (Without Project) in '000 NRs
Poles                                              Poles
Type of     Condition of  and                     Leaf           Condition   and                     Leaf          Condition of                       Leaf
Forest     Forest       timber Fuelwood Fodder  Lifter   Total of Forest  timber Fuelwood Fodder  Lifter  Total Forest             Fuelwood Fodder  LItter   Total
Sal        Good           5,615   16,042  45,599   2,185  69,442 Good        4,492   12,834  36,479  1,748  55,553 Good      3,593    10,267  29,183   1,399  44,443
Degraded      1,375   42,725  11,746     557  56,403 Degraded    1,100   34,180   9,397   446  45,122 Degraded    880    27,344   7,517      356  36,098
Mid Alt.   Good          11,097   88,674  60,263   9,193 169,226 Good        8,877   70,939  48,211  7,354 135,381 Good      7,102    56,751  38,568   5,883 108,305
Broadleaf
Degraded      1,783   15,180  10,331   1,576  28,870 Degraded    1,427   12,144   8,265  1,261  23,096 Degraded  1,141     9,715   6,612   1,009  18,477
Pinus Roxb. Good         26,574    7,683   1,864   3,106  39,227 Good       21,260    6,146   1,491  2,485  31,382 Good     17,008     4,917   1,193   1,988  25,106
Degraded      4,519    1,291     319     532   6,663 Degraded    3,616    1,033     256   426   5,330 Degraded  2,892        826     204     341   4,264
High Alt.    Good        24,348    6,776   2,328   1,164  34,617 Good       19,478    5,421   1,863   931  27,693 Good      15,583     4,337   1,490     745  22,155
Coniferous
Degraded      4,201    1,162     399     200   5,961 Degraded    3,361      929     319    160   4,769 Degraded  2,689      743      255     128   3,815
High Alt.    Good         3,303   12,506   7,979   4,865  28,653 Good        2,643   10,005   6,383  3,892  22,923 Good      2,114     8,004   5,106   3,114  18,338
Broadleaf
Degraded       566    2,124   1,376      834   4,900 Degraded     453    1,699   1,101    667   3,920 Degraded    362      1,359     881     534   3,136
Total
Production               83,383  194,163 142,205  24,213 443,962            66,706  155,330 113,764 19,370 355,170          53,365   124,264  91,011  15,496 284,136



Table 9: Economic CostVBenefit Flows (in '000 NRs)
Project  Economic  Fomst Area Forest  Value of  Forest Area   Value of Off.   Value ot Off-    Value of  Value of     Value of   Quantity  Quantity of  Quantity of   Value of    Value of  Value of    Total Net
Year  Invustrent   handed    Area   Ofe-take   Remaining      take ono     taco From      Without    Incemmental  tncrmemntat of Carbon   Corbee   tocremental Incremental  NTFP Wokh        other     Eco.nomic
and      over(%)  Handed   from    Opemn Access   Remaining    Prjt Area   Prject Off-  Off-th aFrm  Off-tke from   Fixle,       Find    Carbon Fiood   Carbon   Project (000 envirnmemta  Bentfls
Operuting              Over  Communi       (t)      Open Access  (With Project      take     Natuel Forests  Piuntations    with    Wtithout    (tons)    Flxed (000    NRs) f/    I benefhi  ('000 NR.)
Costs a/              (ha)  ty Foests    l*l          Land cl       Offtake)    (Continued     tiCH9)qo                 project   Project     ()e(k4-CI)    NRs.) f1     (            (P)    (ltfoto..i..
$5)                         (ooo                      it         (91ii Mdit     Open                                 (tons) d1  (tons) ef              (n)-)e x20
NiRs) b/                                            Access)                                  OC        C6                      NRC
14                                                 th)
1tosino     75,575     0.05%     144       240        100%        443,755       443,995      443,062            33            0    28.199     28,156          33           4            9           17    .75,512
1990191     57,691       0.33   1,011    1,682        100%        442,512       444,193      443,962           231            0    28.397     28,160         231          20          61          121    -57,250
1991192     44,753        5%   16,246    27,030        95%        420,645       447,675      443,962          3.713       6.723    31.882     28,166        3,717        446         975         1,949    -30,947
1992193     81.794       15%   45,055   74.964         85%        379,296       454,260      443,962         10,297       5,579    30.473     20,166       10,307      1.237        2,703        5,407    -S6,572
t993/94    116,277       33%  100,652   167.468        67%        299,499       465.966      443,902         23,004       2,355    51.192     2.,166       23,027      2.763        6,039       12.078    -70,039
1994/99    134,859       52%  162,097   269.702        48%        211,307       481,009      443,962         37,047        -361    65,249     28,166       37.084      4,450        9,726       19,452     464,546
1995/96    178.173       75%  233,073   387,794        25%        109,436        497.230     443,962         53,260      -2,805    81,487     28,160       03,321      6,399       13,984       27,69    -79,328
1996/S7    171,189       91%  281,955   469,125         9%         39,277        508,402     443,962        64,440        -3,893    92,670    28,100       64.504      7,740       10,917       33,35    -52,150
1997/98    168,641       99%  300.793   510,452         1%          3,627       514,079      443,902         70,116       -9.409    98,352    28.160       70.18d      8,422       18,408       36,815    -44,289
1998/99    16809.7      100%  309,320   514,656        0%                       514,656      443,962        70,604        -9,409    98,930    28,166       70,764      8,492       37,118       37,110    -24,954
1999)200     95,914      100%  309,320   514,742                                  514,742     355.170        159,572       .6,672    90.930    22.532       76,398      9,168       37.118       37,118    140,390
2000/01     95,914      100%  309,320   515,253                                  515,253     355,170        160,083       -6,097    98,930    22,532       76,390      9,168       37,118       37,118    141,476
2001102     85,914      100%  309,320   524,240                                  524,240     355,170        169,071       -5.461    98.930    22,932       76,398      9,168       37,118       37,118    151,100
i-h               2800213     95,914      100%  309,320   541,236                                  641,230     355,170        18d,066       13,133    98,930    22,532       76,398      9,160       37,118       37,118    186,690
2003104     95,914      190%  309.320   574,035                                  574,035     355,170        218,065      15,475    90,930     22,532       76,390      9,163       37,118       37,118    221,821
2084/05     95,914      100%  309.320   610,284                                  610,264     355,170        255.115      12,604    98,930     22,532       76,398      9,168       37,118       37,110    255,269
2008/08     95.914      100%  309,320   652,156                                  652.156     305,170        296,986      10,354    98,930     22,532       76,398      9,166       37,118       37,118   234,S31
2006/07     95,914      100%  309,320   680,994                                  680,994     355,170        325,024       7,665    98,930     22,532       76.398      9,160       37,118       37,118    320,980
200710     95,914      100%  309,320   695,007                                  695,647     355,170        340.477       7,878    98,930     22,532       76,390      9,168       37.118       37.118    335,415 NPV      00,755
2009809     95,914      100%  309,320  6897,138                                  697,138     355,170       341,908       -2,015    98,935     22,532       76,398      9,168       37,118       37,118    326.644 ERR        14%
2009110     95,914      100%  309,320   097,221                                  697,221     264,138        413,085         401    98,930     18,026       90,904      9,708       37,118       37,118    401,018t  20yrs
2810111     95,914      100%  309,320   697,719                                 697,719      284,136       413.583        1,265    98,930     18,025       00,804      9,708       37,118       37,118    402,879
2011)12     95.914      100%  309,320   706,485                                  706,485     284,1356      422,349        1,990    98,930     18,026       80,S94      9,708       37,118       37;118    4t2,370
2012113     95,914      100%  309,320   723,061                                  723,0d1     284,136        430,925       2,577    98,930     18,026      80,904       9,708       37,118       37,118    429,534
2013M14     95,914      100%  309,320   755,050                                  755,050     284,136        470,914       3,175    98,030     18,026       80,904      9,700       37,118       37,118    462.120
2014/15     95,914      100%  309,320   790,404                                  790,404     284,136        506,268       3,175    90.930     15,026       80,904      9,708       37,118       37,118    497,474
2015/16     95,914      100%  309,320   031,242                                  831,242     284,136        547,106       3,175    98.930     18,026       80,904      9,708       37,118       37,118    538,312
2016/17    90,914       100%  309,320   859,367                                  859,367     284,136        575,231       3,175    98.930     18,028       00,904      9,708       37,118       37,118    566,437 NPV     337,354
2017M18     95,914      1N0%  309,320   873,608                                  073,665     284,136        009,522       3,175   98,930      18,028       80,804      9,708       37,118       37,118    580,728 ERR         18%
2018119     95,914      100%  309,320   875,112                                  875,112     294,136        090,976       3,175    98,930     18,0256      80,904      9,708       37,118       37,118    592,182  30ym
rr t.e 6000)0 eoifek 6 b rredone tos nb rFUG0heaooo Th.bbn)re .r^ozistre b etys3ts.7t3 to; effus deuisshe pr4e Ottesri ci
offiske Cent treet rarided user elton ndbwro*hkhn  n p r ufttnr
ci bsofenamne. twrC9n OsdwpOy20tn b erm seor 8                             fdt e    hrr l 7  er ykr- 0
to lheosny o cror Codksesmsteto,Oe.s   cerkccoebeotrio toutdpiertoheedieanrectnre rodthotstaoCoshtseqdstto 0.73tn.olrarotoneto0eC
er ae   Thretesoe onit kissd eobns eursoe  .d totes f trettto*t)frsr rtoe o (res dnd* offlh due bn reflec orsi hle btD  proecud ih res rrt
i carton oed ennprmnmmedebtsio  bo;fere ro  %eioorkra b f trnd: A.stbecotsce nwrntaOefsnbry 2090eftryentro, noesdSer2hrzikstarysar2s
rrStsdowprtaupertsrbediroo en hrweoneilesitensmotcmperta  llhssmleteeseranbe r S Orertbn
rsnd Rn <ssrsisnnwbw dtherrerrsbnrehordeinlsarthrg,SO   0reonrhnbodedmr_eorg9elmef
ttrstrrdere CiE  son ross  nb0m orSeeracnstotndnlsmtrrbetun reof2fe Corn 0Osrtete )nrerts
Thumaoluatptu)a rk*rso estts nb2pehectsperysrlpenerostsetSttet rAataootorstn






NEPAL: Hill Community Forestry Project
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix D: Financial and Economic Analysis
Table 10a: Financial Net Present Values of Activity Models
NPV with 50%    NPV with no
seedling subsidy seedling
Activity Model                         NPV a/              b/               subsidy b/  IRR
Plantation                                         11,202            2,738        -4,727
Actively Managed Natural Forest                    19,837
Protected Natural Forest                            6,372
a/ The financial NPV for plantation applies to the baseline case where seedlings were free.
b/ The seedling subsidy applies only to plantation works.



NEPAL: Hill Community Forestry Project
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix D: Financial and Economic Analysis
Table 1 Ob: Financial Activity Model - Plantation (one hectare) a/
Year I            Year 2             Year 3            Years 4-9            Years 10-11             Year 12            Years 13-17          Years 18-30
Unit  Unit Quantity  Value  Quantity   Value                        Quantity    Value    Quantity     Value    Quantity    Value    Quantity    Value   Quantity   Value
Output                     Price
Timber and poles   tons             0.16    174.4    0.05       54.5    0.05       54.5       0.05      54.5       0.05       54.5        12      13080        0.05      54.5        0.1      109
Fuelwood            tons   1,090       7    3815       0.1      54.5      0.1     54.5         0.1      54.5        0.2        109       0.2        109         0.2       109        0.3    163.5
Tree fodder        tons    545      1.75      763      0.7    305.2       0.7    305.2         0.7    305.2         1.2      523.2        1.2      523.2        1.2    523.2          2       872
Leaf litter        tons    436      0.25    54.5    0.15       32.7    0.15       32.7       0.15      32.7       0.25        54.5      0.25       54.5        0.25      54.5       0.4      87.2
Gross Revenue                218            4806.9              446.9              446.9                446.9                 741.2                13767                 741.2               1231.7
Inputs
Seedlings c/        no.             1600        0     800         0        0         0          0          0                     0                     0                    0                   0
Labour- FUG
Site survey         days               2        0                 0                  0                    0                      0                     0                    0                   0
Site clearing       days       -       5        0                 0                  0                    0                      0                     0                    0                   0
Seedlingtransport  days               11        0       6         0                  0                    0                      0                    0                     0                   0
Pitting             days              40        0                 0                  0                    0                      0                    0                     0                   0
Planting            days       -      20        0       5         0                  0                    0                      0                    0                     0                   0
Weeding             days       -      15        0      15         0                  0                    0                      0                    0                     0                   0
ID  Cleaning, thinning,  days      -    35.8        0     0.75        0     0.75         0        0.75        0        1.25          0        61          0        1.25         0         2         0
.i: felling
Fodderandlitter    days               10        0     4.25        0     4.25         0        4.25        0        7.25          0      7.25          0        7.25         0        12         0
collection
Sub-total FUG                      138.8       0       31         0        5         0          5         0        8.5          0      68.25          0         8.5        0         14        0
labour
Labour - hired b/
Professional        days               2        0       1         0        1         0          1        50           1         50         2        100           1        50         1        50
services
Watcher             days               5        0       5         0        5         0          5       250           5        250        10        500           5       250         5       250
Sub-total hired               -       7        0                 0        6         0          6       300                    300                  600                   300                 300
labour
Total labour                        145.8               31                 11                   11                   8.5                68.25                    8.5                  14
Gross Value of Inputs NRs                        0                 0                  0                  300                    300                  600                   300                 300
Net Benefit                                  4807                447                447                  147                    441                13167                   441                 932
Returns to FUG                                  35                14                 89                   29                     52                  193                    52                  67
labour
Net Present Value    NRs.          11,202
Financial Rate of    %
Return
Notes
at Assuming that only the worst sites are used for plantaoion, estimates are based on degraded sal coppice up to year 17. and on good sal copice thereafter.
bl Professional services and wages of the watcher for the first three years are not paid for by the User Group.
c/ The cost of seedlings was fully subsidised under the project.



NEPAL: Hill Community Forestry Project
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix D: Financial and Economic Analysis
Table 10c: Financial Activity Model - Actively Managed Forest (one hectare) al
Year 1-3           Years 4- 10         Year 11 - 30
Unit  Price  Quantity    Value    Quantity  Value    Quantity  Value
Output
Timber and poles             tons    1,090         0.45      491       0.45      491       0.74      807
Fuelwood                     tons      545         1.79      976       1.79      976         3      1635
Tree fodder                  tons      436         1.41      615       1.41      615       2.35     1025
Leaf lltter                 tons      218         0.22        48      0.22        48      0.37        81
Gross Revenue                                                2129                2129                3547
Inputs
Seedlings                    no.         -                      0                  0                    0
Labour - FUG
Site survey                  days        -                      0                  0                   0
Site clearing                days        -                      0                  0                   0
Seedling transport           days        -                      0                  0                   0
Pitting                      days        -                      0                  0                   0
Planting                     days        -                      0                  0                   0
Weeding                      days        -                      0                  0                   0
Cleaning, thinning, felling  days        -         11.2         0      11.2        0       18.7         0
Fodder and litter collection    days     -         8.15        0       8.15        0       13.6        0
Sub-total FUG labour                             19.35         0     19.35         0      32.3         0
Labour - hired bI
Professional services        days        -            1         0         1       50          1       so
Watcher                      days        -            5         0         5      250          5      250
Sub-total hired labour                               6        0         6       300         6       300
Total labour                                       25.35               25.35                38.3
Gross Value of Inputs         NRs                                0                300                 300
Net Benefit                                                  2129                1829                3247
Returns to FUG labour                                          110                 95                 101
Net Present Value             NRs.               19,837
Financial Rate of Return
Notes
a/ The actively managed natural forest model is based on sal forest yields (actively managed).  Degraded sal forest
yields are taken for the first ten years, after which the condition of the forest improves and produces yields of good sal forest.
bi Professional services and wages of the watcher for the first three years are not paid for by the User Group.



NEPAL: Hill Community Forestry Project
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix D: Financial and Economic Analysis
Table 10d: Financial Activity Model - Protected Forest (one hectare) at
Year 1-3             Year 4-10            Year 11 -30
Unit   Price   Quantity    Value      Quantity  Value       Quantity  Value
Output
Timber and poles               tons    1,090           0.05        55       0.05        55        0.1        109
Fuelwood                       tons      545            0.2       109        0.2       109        0.3       164
Tree fodder                    tons      436            1.2       523        1.2       523       1.95       850
Leaf litter                    tons      218           0.2        44        0.2        44         0.4        87
Gross Revenue                                                      730                  730                  1210
Inputs
Seedlings                      no.          -                       0                    0                     0
Labour - FUG
Site survey                    days         -0                                           0                     0
Site clearing                  days         -                       0                    0                     0
Seedling transport             days         -0                                           0                     0
Pitting                        days         -                       0                    0                     0
Planting                       days         -                       0                    0                     0
Weeding                        days         -                       0                    0                     0
Cleaning, thinning, felling    days         -          1.25         0       1.25         0          2          0
Fodder and litter collection   days         -            7          0          7         0      11.75          0
Sub-total FUG labour                                  8.25         0       8.25          0     13.75          0
Labour-hired  b/
Professional services          days         -             1         0          1        50          1        50
Watcher                        days         -             5         0          5       250          5       250
Sub-total hired labour                                  6          0         6        300          6       300
Total labour                                           14.25                14.25                19.75
Gross Value of Inputs           NRs                                  0                  300                   300
Net Benefit                                                        730                  430                 909.9
Returns to FUG labour                                               89                   52             66.17455
Net Present Value               NRs                   6,372
Financial Rate of Return        %
a/ The protected natural forest model is based on sal forest yields (actively managed). Degraded sal forest
yields are taken for the first ten years, after which the condition of the forest improves and produces yields of good sal forest.
b/ Professional services and wages of the watcher for the first three years are not paid for by the User Group.



Table 11. Economic Activity Model - Plantation (one hectare ) a/
Year 1              Year 2              Year 3               Years 4-9              Years 10-11           Year 12            Years 13-17          Years 18-30
Unit  Quantity Price Value Quantity Price Value Quantity Price  Value Quantity  Price  Value Quantity Price Value Quantity Price Value Quantity Price Value Quantity  Price  Value
Output
Timber and poles          tons       0.2  740  118       0.1  740   37        0.1  740      37      0.1    740     37      0.1  740   37       12.0  740 8,881      O.1  740   37        0.1   740       74
Fuelwood                  tons       7.0  529 3,701       0.1  529   53       0.1  529      53      0.1    529     53      0.2  529   106       0.2  529   106      0.2  529  106        0.3   529    159
Tree fodder               tons       1.8  436  763        0.7  438  305       0.7  436    305       0.7   436    305       4.2  436  523       102  436  523         1.2  436  523       2 0    436    872
Leaf litter               tons       0.3  109   27       0.2  109   16       0.2  109      16      0.2   109       16      0.3  109   27       0 3   109   27       0.3  109   27        0 4    109     44
Gross Revenue                                   4,609                 411                   411                    411                  693                9,538                 693                   1,14B
Inputs
Seedlings cl              no.      1,600    3 4,800      800    3 2,400              3                       3                     3                   3                    3                     3
Labour - FUG
Site survey               days         2   30   60              30                  30                      30                    30                  30                   30                    30
Site clearing             days         S   30  150              30                  30                      30                    30                  30                   30                    30
Seedling transport        days        1 1   30  330        6   30  180              30                      30                    30                  30                   30                    30
Pitting                   days        40   30 1,200             30                  30                      30                    30                  30                   30                    30
Planting                  days        20   30  600         5   30  150              30                      30                    30                  30                   30                    30
Weeding                   days        15   30  450        15   30  450              30                      30                    30                  30                   30                    30
Cleaning, thinning, felling    days   36   30 1,074        1   30   23          1   30      23        1     30     23        1   30   38        61   30 1,930         1   30   38          2     30     60
'42       Fodder and litter collection   days   10   30  300         4   30  128          4   30    128         4     30    128        7   30  218          7   30  218         7   30  218         12     30    360
Sub-total FUG labour                139       4,164       31        930        5          150        5            150       9         255       68       2,048       9         255       14            420
Labour - hired bi
Professional services     days         2   60  120         1   60   60         1   60       60        1     60     60        1   60   60         2   60   120         1   60   60          1     60     60
Watcher                   days         5   60  300         5   60  300         5   60    300          5     60    300        5   60  300        10   60  600          5   60  300          5     60    300
Sub-total hired labour                7        420                  360       6           360       6            360                  360                 720                  360                    360
Total labour                          146                  31                   11                    11                      9                  68                    9                   14
Gross Value of Inputs      NRs                  9,384               3,690                   510                    510                  615                2,769                 615                    790
Net Benefit                                     4,775               3,279                    99                     99                  78                 6,770                  78                    368
Retums to FUG labour                              34                  106                  - 20                  -  20                    9                  99                    9                     26
notes
a/ Assuming that only the worst sites are used for plantation, astimates are based on degraded sal coppice up to year 17, and on good sal copice thereafter.
b/ Professional services and wages of the watcher for the first three years are not paid for by the User Group.
c/ The cost of seedlings was fully subsidised under the project.



NEPAL: Hill Community Forestry Project
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix D: Financial and Economic Analysis
Table 12: Economic Returns to Plantation Component (in 000 NRs unless otherwise specified)
Value of
Offtake With            Total Value
Value of               Project in              of Without   Value of
Area of    Offtake from   Area      Remaining  Total Value Project Off- Incremental    Net
Plantation    Plantation   Remaining   Open       of With    take (Full    Off-take   Economic
Component Cost  Established  Forest ('000    Open        Access      Project      Open        From       Benefits
Project Year              ('000 Nrs.)        (ha)        Nrs) a/   Access (ha)   Forest   Offtake c/ Access) b/ Plantations  ('000 NRs.)
a               b            c           d           e         f=c+e         9         h=f-g       l=h-a
1989190                        35,669                                 10,393     13,685       13,685     13,685            0     -35,669
1990191                        48,905                                 10,393     13,685       13,685     13,685            0     -48,905
1991/92                        63.364          2,042      9,412        8,351     10,996       20,408     13,685        6,723     -56,641
1992193                        33,034          2,256     11,239        6,095      8,026       19,264     13,685        5,579     -27,455
1993/94                        17,023          1,897     10,512        4,198      5,528       16,040     13,685        2,355     -14,668
1994/98                         9,073          1,594      9,896        2,604      3,429       13,325     13,685         -361      -9,433
1995196                        11,910          1,290      9,150        1,314      1,730       10,881     13,685       -2,805     -14,715
1996/97                        11,515          1,314      9,792            0        -          9,792     13,685       -3,893     -15,409
1997/98                        13,683                     4,276                     -          4,276     13,685       -9,409     -23,092
r;o                          1998/99                        22,010                      4,276                               4,276      13,685       -9,409     -31,420
1999/2000                                                  4,276                                4,276     10,948       -6,672       -6,672
2000/01                                                   4,851                                4,851     10,948       -6,097      -6,097
2001/02                                                   5,487                                5,487     10,948       -5,461      -5,461
2002/03                                                  24,082                               24,082     10,94B       13,133      13,133
2003/04                                                  26,423                               26,423     10,948       15,475      15,475
2004/05                                                  23,612                               23,612     10,948       12,664      12,664
2006106                                                  21,302                               21,302     10,948       10,354      10,354
2006/07                                                  18,613                               18,613     10,948        7,665       7,665
200718                                                   18,826                              18,826      10,948        7,878       7,878
2008/09                                                   8,133                                8,133     10,948       -2,815      -2,815
2009/10                                                   9,160                                9,160      8,759          401         401
2010/11                                                  10,023                               10,023      8,759        1,265       1,265
2011/12                                                  10,748                               10,748      8,759        1,990       1,990
2012/13                                                  11.335                               11,335      8,759        2,577       2,577
2013/14                                                  11,933                               11,933      8,759        3,175       3,175
2014/15                                                  11,933                               11,933      8,759        3,175       3,175
2016/16                                                  11,933                               11,933      8,759        3,175       3,175
2016/17                                                  11,933                               11,933      8,759        3,175       3,175
2017/18                                                  11,933                               11,933      6,759        3,175       3,175 NPV     (165,732)
2018119                                                  11,933                               11,933      8,759        3,175       3,175 ERR
Total Plantation Area Established                          10,393
a/ based on Plantation Activity Model.
b/ the open access (WOP) yields drop by 20% after year 10 and a further 20% after year 20
c/ Production with project is a combination of plantation and open access production until 1996197 when all area identified for plantation has been established.



APPENDIX E
OPERATIONAL PLAN FOR FUTURE OPERATIONS
1. Development Objective
1.        Improved management of natural resources in the hills of Nepal, based on local
participation and using sustainable social, economic and environmental practices. Specifically this
will include:
(a)  the continued formation of new FUGs;
(b)  continued support to existing FUGs to strengthen their capacity to improve the
quality of and benefits from managed forest;
(c)  further strengthening of DOF field staff to implement community forestry in 38
districts;
(d)  establishment of an effective monitoring system to improve both field level
operations and co-ordination and decision making at the central level.
2. Institutional Arrangements to Maintain the Program and Improve Operational Quality
2.        Continuation of project operations will continue to be the regular activity of DOF staff,
both at the central and field levels. In addition, to further increase the capacity of FUGs and DOF
staff, the following activities will be implemented primarily through the NARMSAP program:
(a)  build capacity of private service providers to improve the hand-over and post
formation;
(b)  strengthen technical assistance to FUGs in management, marketing and
silvicultural operations, among others;
(c)  improving self-sufficiency of FUGs;
(d)  strengthening systems of administration and accountability within FUGs;
(e)  strengthen capacity of Forest Guards for supporting FUGs;
(f)  strengthen Cupertino between FUGs within cluster area.
3. Performance Indicators
3.        Formation of new user groups, and continuity of the hand over process:
(a)  percentage of households in FUGs;
(b)  number of FUGs;
(c)   numbers of women and disadvantaged group members in committees.



4.        Post-handover support:
(a)  FUGs' incomes;
(b)  number of service agreements between FUGs and private service providers;
(c)  numbers of Operational Plans revised;
(d)  percentage of FUGs carrying out silvicultural operations;
(e)  forest benefits (as harvest);
(f)  environmental quality.
5.        Strengthening of DOFfield staff:
(a)  percentage of DOF staff trained;
(b)  civil works;
(c)  quantity of field equipment distributed.
6.        Establishment of an effective M&E system:
(a)  numbers of districts and range posts using the monitoring and evaluation system
agreed;
(b)  number of recommendations from monitoring and evaluation reports incorporated
in annual plans at district and central levels.
4. Focused Impact Studies Needed for Further Operation
(1) Immediate:
-    achievements of implementation of community forestry in the hills at the national level,
particularly changes in forest condition and environmental impact.
(2) Future:
review of FUG formation experience;
new dimension of FUG management: socio-economic factors, links to agricultural production;
biodiversity conservation strategy;
wildlife management strategy;
fire management strategy;
5. Plan for Monitoring and Evaluation
(1) Field Based Monitoring by DFOs:
100



(a)  By end of Year l:
(i)  review DFO monitoring systems currently operational;
(ii) agree common framework with DFOs.
(2) CPFD Monitoring and Planning
(a)  By end of Year 2:
(i)   CPFD to take full responsibility for monitoring and planning of community forestry program,
based on field level monitoring (and establish new posts if necessary);
(ii)  review role and function of Regional Directorates in monitoring process.
(3) Budget
7.        The Operational Plan will be funded largely through HMG normal program. funds and
partly from the DANIDA-supported NARMSAP. The estimated division of funding is given below.
lHMG                NARMSAP
FY1999-2000                                US 3,3 million
101






IBRD 21 343R1
80                                                           82'                                                            54                                                                88'                                                              88
NEPAL
-j                                                                                                                                      HILL COMMUNITY FORESTRY PROJECT
-.ti,-x  o!'   x                                                                                                                        PROJECT AREA
)            h             HUMLA          )      C
30, A/                                                                                                                                                                                                       HILL DISTRICTS WITHIN PROJECT AREA
050,ioik.f                                                                                                                                       HILL DISTRICTS PRESENTLY OUTSIDE PROJECT AREA
/,.~   DARCHULA                                                 \ '.       4                                                                                                             TERAI DISTRICTS OUTSIDE PROJECT AREA
'r                                                                                                                                                                                      13  BHANG  I  - k7  REGIONAL FOREST HEADQUARTERS
AR<    fI                -n      l    M                                                                                                                             IN    DISTRICT FOREST CENTERS
I  E,,on               A o.         - A JURA         d,O         ,                                                                                                                             DISTRICT HEADQUARTERS
U~~~~~
BAITADI                                               (-    ZONE HEADQUARTERS
|Id                            I KL                                                                                                                                      NATIONAL CAPITAL
L.I dS           SJr,dnrldos,dh,ole .{(nJ                    
SASOIGHURA /W b               ANISHAM InLIT p. o. dA vHrA                                                                                                                                          INTERNATIONAL AIRPORTS
DOTI   '  088o,no   '     M   I ,D                 ~~~~~OLPA
bvr Ij            Ns~oIo                             -, -f                                                                                                                            DOMESTIC AIRPORTS (PAVED)
GIOUV                                                                                                                                                                               -    -    -   - -   -N EE   R  N  DISTRICT   SOUNDAR   ES
'2 80                                                                                                                    -. C\ bOND-NMUATANJ  ZONE ROUNDARIES
~~R3ANCHANT'UE                   DAILEK,8  / ~~JAJARKOT
KANCHANI`W~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-'  KH ~~~~~~~~~~~~~DEVELOPMENT REGION BOUNDARIRS
Rodipkh ,'UK--                                                                                                                               - -      INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
FT'  ill  N/                                    I~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 0'     -5t  MANNG 
RARDERA ~   ~      ILYIIYAD                                                 s     $.,  C    f    -'               )
ZZ'    ~ ~ ~    ~    Lbs8KASKI    ; LAMSJUNG                                           G ORKHA
U  6    RANKE             ~~~~~~ROLPA          DA\o8SGLUNr                      1,-0Phhs                           RIIASEHA~
B.DI ~ ~   ~     ~      ~    ~     I~~Uo,(r              ' t 
8%                    ARHIACI           To  oU          1      TNHU88008CoSo                                                  DL-                               
i    PYUTHANLF~ N                                                AINS~ h8o&                                               O[KIMU.
RSR~RS  8Jh~H~    8VId8SP8F4 --~s                                                       )oio             ~        ,       SP<UASH                  ALJN
449                                                 110E`id~~~~~~~~~~~~~'  X SINDHUPA/LCHOK'-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5'                       '
N~~WAKQT  !       8      T                              ; S     " .kMo8    TR#, 
KHANCHI  ~ ~ ~  ~      ~      ~      ~      ~      A rl   0~~~~       DHfOIA                              InooA
APAM                                                           TAPLEJLJNAGTSI   ogoh,
0  20  45  55   lID       155 lIlIES                                                                                                                                                      -'    -  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 5.8 Dhk5'-S          .)
S.11.d~~~~~~~~~ E K
~~~~~ &t0pD85&S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~hip.iThS1TIl)WRE                                                                                               w7
iOK~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
~~~~~~~~~%~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/ .4,~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~WNU  PLNI                                                                     t,~
Awo~~~~~~~~~EPESE 188



