Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
I t a0;28e_w;2.
Report No. 763lb-NEP
STAFF APPRAISAL RE.PO7T
NEPAL
HILL COMMUNITY FORESTRY PROJECT
MAY 10, 1989
Agriculture Operations Division
Asia Region
Country Department I
This document has a restricted distibution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their offlcifl duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorizaton.



CURRENCY AND EQUIVALENT UNITS
Nepalese Rupee (NR)            = 100 paise
US$1.00 (January 6, 1989)      - NRs 25.50
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)                    = 1.09 yards (yd) = 3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)               - 0.62 miles (mi)
1 square kilometer (km2)       = 100 hectares (ha)
1 hectare (ha)                 = 10,000 m2 (0.01 km2) = 2.4)1 acre (ac)
1 cubic meter (m3)             = 35.315 cubic feet (ft3)
1 kilogram (kg)                = 2.2 pounds (lb)
1 metric ton (m ton)           = 1,000 kg = 2,205 lb
ABBREVIATIONS
ADAB      - Australian Development Assistance Bureau
ADB       - Asian Development Bank
CFDD      -  Community Forestry Development Division (of FD)
CFO       -  Community Forestry Officer
CIDA      -  Canadian International Development Agency
DANIDA    -  Danish International Development Agency
DFO       -  District Forest Officer
DFPR      -  Department of Forestry aud Plant Research (of MFSC)
DGF       -  Director General of Forests, also the Project
Coordinator
EEC       -  European Economic Community
FAO/CP    -  Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations/
Cooperative Program
PD        -  Forest Department (of MFSC)
FINNIDA   -  Finnish Tnternational Development Agency
GTZ       -  Deutsche Gesellschaft Fur Technische Zusammenarbeit
HMG       -  His Majesty's Government of Nepal
IFAD      -  International Fund for Agricultural Development
LRMP      -  CTDA-assisted Land Resources Mapping Project
MFSC           Aistry of Forests and Soil Conservation
MPLD             istry of Panchayat and Local Development
ODA           -erseas Development Administration of the Government of
the United Kingdom
Panchayat -  2lected Local Administration at District, Town and
Village Levels
PF        -  Panchayat Forest lands
PPF       -  Panchayat Protected Forest lands
SAC       -  Structural Adjustment Credit provided by IDA
SATA      -  Swiss Agency for Technical Assistance
TD        -  Training Division (of MFSC)
UNDP      - United Nations Development Programme
USAID     -  United States Agency for International Development
FISCAL YEAR
July 16 - July 15



FOR OFFICUIL USE ONLY
NEPAL
HILL COMMUNITY FORESTRY PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY .............................................. i
I.    INTRODUCTION .............................     ............... 1
II. BACKGROUND ..                                                   1
A.  General Economic Situation and Forestry Sector ........ _1
B. HMG's Strategy for Forestry Development ................... 2
C.  Forestry Institutions .................................... 5
D. External Assistance ...................................... 6
E.  IDA's Strategy for Forestry Deveiopment .................. 7
F. Rationale for IDA Involvement .10
III.    THE PROJECT ................................................ 10
A, Project Area   .                  .10
B.  Project Objectives and General Description      . .11
C. Project Components               ..                      12
D. Project Implementation       .         .                 21
IV.    PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING. AND DISBURSEMENTS        . .    24
A.  Project Cost Estimates .........................        24
B. Financing Plan .................                         25
C. Procurement .25
D. Disbursements .28
E. Accounts and Audit .29
V.  ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT    .             .30
A. Project Organization .30
B. Monitoring and Evaluation .34
C.  Review and Coordination among Staff and Donors .35
VI.    DEMAND, PRODUCTION, AND FINANCIAL IMPLICATIONS . .35
A. Demand and Usage of Forest Products .35
B. Production and Yields .36
C. Cost Recovery .37
VII.    BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION. AND RISKS            .      .        38
A.  Project Benefits ....................................... 38
B. Economic Analysis ....................................... 39
C. Environmental Impact .................................... 42
D. Risks and Remedies ...................................... 43
VIII.    AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ...................... 44
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which consisted
of Ms. Ai-Chin Wee (mission leader), Messrs. Orhan Baykal, Ajit Banerjee, and
William Magrath (IDA), Ms. Kirsten Evers-Andersen. Messrs. Henrik
Hvidberg-Hansen and Erling Nielsen (DANIDA), and Mr. Mark Treacy (Consultant).
This document has arestricteeddistribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise bedisclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLES IN THE TEXT
3.1  Foreign Technical Assistance Requirement              ..      .    21
3.2  Indicative Phasing of Project Activities               ..       .  23
4.1  Project Cost Summary ...................................... .   ... 24
4.2 Proposed Financing Plan                      .... 25
4.3  Procurement   .     ... ....        ..................... ..... ... 26
7.1  Rate of Return and Sensitivity Analysis               ..       .   42
ANNEXES
1.  Ongoing Community Forestry-Related Projects in the Hills ...... 46
2.  Cases of Successful Village Forest Management ................. 47
3.  List of Pro3ect Districts         ..        ............ 51
4.  Detailed Cost Tables
Table 1: Institutional Support                    ... 52
2:  Forest Resource Management .......................... 55
3:  Training and Extension .      . ............................ 56
4:  Research .......................... . ..    .     ... .60
5.  Training Program                 ..      .........          .    .... 61
6. Operational Action Program                    ..           ... 62
7.  Terms of Reference for Expatriate Consultants ............. 65
8. Project Cost Summary
Table l:  Project Components by   Year                 ....... 72
2:  Summary Accounts by Froject Components .............. 73
3:  Summary Accounts by Year ......                ... .. 74
9. Project Financing
Table 1:  Financing Plan by Proiect Components              .... 75
2:  Financing Plan by Summary Accounts .................. 76
3:  Proposed Credit Allocation . ......................... 77
4:  Disbursements of Financiers by Semester ............. 78
10.  Incremental Staff Requirement .        . ............................... 79
11.  Documents and Data Available in Project File            .... 80
CHARTS
1.  Organization Chart 1 - The Principal Functions of MFSC ........ 82
2. Organization Chart 2 - PD                   . ...... 83
MAP
IBRD 21343Rs Project Area



- i -
NEPAL
HILL COMMUNITY FORESTRY PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:             Kingdom of Nepal
Beneficiaries:        Ministry of Forests and Soil Conservation (MFSC)
Department of Forests (PD)
Department of Forest and Plant Research (DFPR)
Forest User Groups
Amount:                SDR 23.5 million (US$30.5 million equivalent)
Terms:                 Standard, with 40 years' maturity.
Cofinanciers:         DANIDA will provide a grant of US$6.9 million, and UNDP
will provide a grant of US$0.5 million, as part of an
ongoing US$2.3 million project.
Project Description:  The proposed project would help His Majesty's
Government implement important components of its
Forestry Master Plan and Forestry Sector Policy, by
helping to establish a system to conserve and expand
the forest resources which sustain traditional farming
systems in the Hills. Forest User Groups would be
formed among villagers to protect, manage, and utilize
areas of State-owned forests in their vicinity. FD
staff would be trained to provide technical and materi-
al assistance to enable these Groups to properly manage
the existing forests and establish and maintain new
plantations in degraded areas.
The project would be implemented by MFSC, FD, DFPR and
the User Groups over a period of seven years in the
Hill Districts of Nepal. The project would consist of
four components: (a) An Institutional Support com-
ponent which would strengthen FD's organization to
enable it to identify and establish about 4,000 User
Groups and transfer management responsibility for some
400,000 ha of forest land to them; (b) a Plantation
Establishment and Management component, under which at
least 56,300 ha of forest would be established, and
about 18 million seedlings would be distributed to
farmers for private planting; (c) a Training and
Extension component which would communicate HMG's
Community Forestry policy to FD staff and the Lommun-
ities, and improve the technical and managerial capa-
bility of both FD and the communities to manage the
forest resource; and (d) a Research component which



- ii -
would help DFPR to generate improved silvicultural
techniques to conserve and increase the productivity of
forest resources, and socio-economic information on
resource utilization to permit better planning. The
project would provide technical assistance, civil
works, vehicles, equipment, materials, and additional
staff.  IDA would provide retroactive financing of
US$3.0 million to procure materials and equipment, and
to initiate plantation establishment.
Benefits and Risks:   With these inputs, the project would conserve and
stabilize a fragile ecosystem, as well as regenerate
and expand Nepal's hill forest resources by promoting
fLrest resource management over some 400,000 ha of
forest land and 56,300 ha of new plantations. Over
100,000 years equivalent of full-time employment would
be generated in the incremental production of some 45
milliorL tons of fuelwood and fodder and 4.3 million m3
of timber.
The project would help reduce erosion, sedimentation,
and the severity of flash flooding, often attributed to
the removal of forest cover in the Hills. Providing
improved access to fuelwood and fodder to local users
would also benefit women, who spend increasingly long
hours collecting these and other forest products to
provide for farm and family. By enabling a guaranteed
supply of needed products, the project would improve
the living and working conditions of rural women.
The main project risks are that (a) FD staff may
inadequately implement HMG's community forestry policy,
although to mitigate this risk, MFSC would issue clear
procedures and instructions to its staff, undertake an
intensive training and reorientation program, and
create a strong monitoring system to supervise the
effort; (b) local communities and User Groups may be
slow in anderstanding the new policy or in assuming
related responsibilities, although extension activities
and provision of incentives would minimize this risk;
and (c) local bureaucracies and User Groups may face
conflict of interest for the use and management of
forest resources--this risk would be minimized by
clearly defining the role and functions of User Groups,
their benefits from participation, and technical and
financial support for their forestry development activ-
ities. Measures to mitigate th6se risks and introduce
-ecessary incentives have been included in the project
sesign and conditionalities as required.



- iii 
Proiect Cost: 1/
Project Component                              Local    Foreign    Total
C- (USS million) -----
Institutional Support                           6.86       0.82       7.68
Forest Resource Management                     19.31       -         19.31
Training and Extension                          3.30       4.02       7.32
Research                                         0.33      0.02       0.35
Total Baseline Costs                           29.80       4.86      34.66
Physical Contingencies                        0.26       0.31       0.57
Price Contingencies                           9.58       0.58      10.16
Total Project Cost                             39.64       5.75      45.39
1/ Net of taxes and duties, which are negligible.
Financing Plan
Financier                                      Local    Foreign    Total
----- (US$ million) -----
IDA                                            30.00      0.55       30.55
DANIDA                                          2.16      4.69        6.85
UNDP                                            -         0.51        0.51
HMG                                             4.33      -           4.33
User Groups                                     3.15      -           3.15
Total                                          39.64      5.75       45.39



- iv -
Estimated IDA Disbursements:
FY90   FY91   FY92   FY93   FY94   FY95   FY96   FY97   FY98
------------------------(US$ million)-----------------------
Annual            0.7    2.3    3.0    3.0    3.0    4.0    5.0    5.0    4.5
Cumulative        0.7    3.0    6.0    9.0   12.0   16.0   21.0   26.0   30.5
Economic Rate of Return: 36Z



NEPAL
HILL COMMUNITY FORESTRY PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.1      In line with its major concern to sustain Hill farming systems and
arrest forest depletion and environmental degradation, His Majesty's Govern-
ment (1MG) requested IDA's assistance to implement its Community Forestry
program in the Hills. The first IDA..assisted Community Forestry Development
and Training Project started in 1980 in response to HMG's intention to place
most of the country's resources under the management of local communities.
The Forest Rules of 1978, the Decentralization Act of 1982 and Rules of 1984,
subsequent modifications through the Amendments of 1988, as well as the new
Forestry Master Plan and Forestry Sector Policy have defined HMG's intentions
in increasing detail (para. 2.7). The local communaities, in particular the
Forest User Groups, would be responsible for utilizing, protecting, and man-
aging those forest areas which they have traditionally accessed for their
needs and which would now be assigned to them formally. Recognizing security
of tenure as a condition for interest in resource protection and maintenance,
the proposed project envisages a large-scale transfer of management responsi-
bility over forest lands to the communities, thereby establishing a resource
base for social, economic, and environmental betterment in the Hills. The
proposed project would also be the first major effort to implement the new
Forestry Master Plan and Forestry Sector Policy. It would provide imple-
menting agencies and communities with the financial, technical, and organ-
izational sutpport needed to institutionalize community forestry as a long-term
resource management system in the Hills.
II. BACKGROUND
A. General Economic Situation and Forestry Sector
2.1      Landlocked between China and India, Nepal occupies an area of 147,484
km2.  Nepal's population was estimated at 17.' million in 1987, and growing at
2.72 p.a. Nepal's overall population density with respect to cultivable land
(590 persons per km2) substantially exceeds that of Bangladesh, India, and
Pakistan. Despite 30 years of organized development efforts supported by
growing external assistance, Nepal lags behind most other Asian countries in
terms of almost all indicators of economic and social welfare, and remains one
of the poorest and least developed countries in the world. Per capita GNP in
1987 amounted to only US$160.
2.2      Nepal can be roughly divided into three broad ecological regions:
the Terai (lowlands), the Hills, and the Mountains, covering 172, 68Z, and
15Z, respectively of the country's total area. The resource base for crop
production is severely limited by the rugged terrain. About 21Z of total land
area is under agriculture, which contributes nearly 602 of total GDP and



- 2 -
sustains 90Z of the population. Another 35Z is under natural forest (34Z) and
forest plantation (1X), 52 under degraded forests and shrublands, 112 under
grasslands, and the remaining 282 under park reserves, barren land or
otherwise uncultivated.
2.3      In the Hills, where 48? of the population lives, forests are an
integral part of the subsistence farming system and provide 402 of the fodder
for livestock, leaf litter for livestock bedding and compost making, and fuel-
wood for household energy. The Forestry Master Plan estimated annual fodder
and fuelvood consumption in the Hills to be 3.8 and 3.3 million m tons,
growing at 1.72 and 2.02, respectively. Population pressure has resulted in
the cultivation of marginal lands, a decline in soil fertility, and the rapid
depletion of grasslands and forests as sources of fodder and fuel. Up to 682
of forest and pasture land in the Hills and 182 of that in the Terai are now
classiried as degraded as a result of over-utilization, mainly for fuelwood
and fodder.l/   Over the next 25 years, it is estimated that about 600,000 ha
of natural fo-ests will be lost to deforestation, overgrazing, and expansion
of agricultural land, despite the projected development of about 1.1 million
ha of plantation and unmanaged natural forest.2/
2.4      Due to the wide range of climatic and topographic conditions across
the country, almost every known forest type (except for tropical rain forest)
is found in Nepal. Forests above an altitude of 2,600 m consist mainly of
conifers with some hardwoods, but much of this forest is overmature and in-
acceseible. The forests between 300 m and 2,600 m are quite diverse, compris-
ing blue pine (Pinus sp.) and oak (Quercus sp.) which predominate at higher
altitudes, gradually giving way to chir pine (Pinus roxburghii), Prunus,
Castanopsis, Schima, and Alnus spp. at medium elevations, and to sal (Shorea
robusta), a hardwood, at lower elevations. Hill forests, despite being frag-
mented and overharvested, have gcod regeneration capacity and potential value.
The sal forest of the Terai, comprising 0.5 million ha or about 9? of total
forest area in Nepal, is the only remaining forest of commercial significance
in Nepal. It also supplies the bulk of the fuelwood used in urban areas.
Many hardwood species can easily be coppiced and therefore, if managed
properly, can provide fuelwood and fodder almost indefinitely at very low
cost.
B. HMG's Strategy for Forestry Development
2.5      Forest Legislation.  Under the Private Forest Act of 1957, Nepal
nationalized practically all of its private forests except for small tracts of
isolated woodlots. However, it was the Forestry Act of 1961, with its sub-
sequent amendments and subsidiary rules, that became the basic law governing
forest administration in Nepal. It established a strong State authority over
the forests, and incorporated traditional forest laws which deal with the
demarcation of State forests, exclusion of private rights in State forests,
1/ Nield, R., Fuelvood and Fodder Problems and Policy, Water and
Energy Commission Secretariat, Kathmandu, Nepal, 1985.
2/ According to Forestry Master Plan (para. 2.7).



- 3 -
sale and distribution of forest products, and offenses relating to State
forests. The Forest Protection (Special Arrangements) Act of 1967 attempted
to further strengthen the State authority, but it has never be.n enforced.
Although these rigorous laws still remain on Nepal's statute books, forest
policy became more relaxed in the mid-1970s, and three sets of rules--the
Panchayat Forest (PF), Panchayat Protected Forest (PPF), and Leasehold Forest
Rules--were passed in 1978 to involve communities and private concerns in the
development, management, and protection of forests. The first two sets of
rules enable the handing-over of denuded forest lands or areas of State
forests to nearby Panchayats either as PF (degraded forest areas that need to
be repianted and protected to re-establish forest cover) or PPF (forested
areas), for their protection and management, and suggest modes for the distri-
bution of forest products or the proceeds from their sale. These Rules en-
abled the implementation of the first IDA-assisted Community Forestry Project,
but are now considered inadequate to devolve responsibility and incentive for
protection dorm to the level of the local forest users.
2.6      Forestry Sector Policy.  HMG's Forestry Sector Policy, first declared
in the Sixth Five-Year Development Plan (1981-85), emphasizes the protection
and improvement of the forest areas and protection of the environment.
Special emphasis was placed on having the community participate in achieving
these objectives, particularly in the management, conservation, and utiliza-
tion of forest resources. Since 1978, the Forest Rules have been amended to
reflect HMG's increasing recognition that sustainable community forest devel-
opment can only be achieved by devolving forest management to the level ef the
forest User Groups and their committees. This belief, which echoes HMG's
recent Decentralization Policy, is again highlighted in HHG's new Forestry
Sector Policy of 19E8 (Annex 11, item 1). The new Policy stresses people's
participation in forestry resource development, management and conservation,
and the legal and organizi.tional frameworK needed to enhance the contributions
of communities and forestry institutions to forestry devclopment. It states
unequivocally that the PF and PPF Rules of 1978 need to be improved to promote
true community forestry in the spirit of decentralization, and proposes the
following strategy:
(a) phased handing-over of all accossible hill forests to the com-
munities which are willing and able to manage them;
(b) Panchayats to entrust the task of protecting and managing the
forests to User Groups, who would receive the revenue arising
from this forest resource and spend it on forest improvement;
(c) formulation of management plans and simple management agree-
ments to reguiate harvesting, management, and reforestation;
(d) exercise of daily management decisions by users' committees, of
which at least one-third of the members should be women; and
(e) retraining of MFSC staff for their new role as advisors and
extensionists.
2.7      Forestry Sector Development Plans.  The first plan for forestry
developrent in Nepal was implemented frem 1957, the year in which all forests



- 4 -
were nationalized without compensation. It recognized the critical demand for
forest products and made the provision of fuelwood for people a priority goal
of Government. The strategy was ^to maintain a proper balance between nature,
population and environment.' Huwever, it was not until the Fifth Five Year
Plan (1975-80) that it was recognized that forestry development in the densely
populated Hills depended on cooperation with the local population. In 1980,
the concept of community forestry was put into effect through the first IDA-
supported Community Forestry Developm%ie and Training Project (Credh
1008-NEP). Assisted by ADB and FINNIDA, HHG completed and adopted in 1983 a
Forestry Master Plan for the next 22 years (Annex 11, item 2) which identified
ways to expand and manage the forest resource to meet the basic fuelwood,
fodder, and timber requirements of the people of Nepal. The plan proposed to
do this throughs
(a) improving the productivity of some 1.1 million ha of existing
forests through intensive forest management by the State and
communities;
(b) expanding the wood production base by establishing some 0.5
million ha of State, community, and private plantations; and
(c) reducing the rate of growth of demand for fuelwood by
introducing alternative fuels and energy-efficient stoves.
2.8      The Forestry Master Plan and Forestry Sector Policy have the major
objective of meeting the basic needs of the people for fuelwood, fodder and
timber. This is an appropriate objective for a society -where most of the
population ib rural and lives at subsistence levels. The emphasis on decen-
tralized community forestry is also appropriate since demand for fuelwood and
fodder is dispersed and has to be met within a short distance of a very large
number of human settlements, unlike large urban concentrations of demand which
can be more easily supplie,d from state-controlled forests and depots. Both
the Forestry Master Plan and Forestry Sector Policy acknowledge the nature of
the forest-based rural economy in Nepal and advocate a transitionary stage of
strong St&te involvement in establishing and institutionalizing community-
managed forestry for the longer-term. They ;all for a review of the existing
forestry program and projects to bring them into line with the long-term de-
velopment objectives for the sector. The Ministry of Forests and Soil
Conservation (MFSC) and its Departments would continue to maintain, screen and
guide new development projects to ensure that they are compatible with these
long-term objectives.
2.9      HMG has demonstrated i.s commitment to the cause of community foras-
try by clearly declaring its Forestry Sector Policy, effecting changes in its
Forestry Rules, reorganizing MFSC and FD in line with the development objec-
tives of the Master Plan, and setting development targets in its Forestry
Master Plan. However, while the Panchayat Farest and Panchayat Protected
Forest Rules devolved responsibility and control over forest protection and
management from the FD to the level of the Panchayats, this still inhibits
wholehearted efforts to develop awareness and responsibility at the level of
the forest users, who ultimately will determine the success of the program.



2.10     In 1982, HMG enacted Nepal's Decentralization Act, which sought to
decentralize governmental authority in order to enable people to take deci-
sions dnd make arrangements themselves in matters relating to their day-to-day
needs. The Act describes the context of HMG's intentions, while the Rules or
Working Arrangements of 1984 and subsequent amendments to the Rules provide
the detailed procedures for implementation. The original aim of introducing
the user group ("Consumers' Committee") concept in the Decentralization Act
was to ensure the local population's participation in, and subsequent commit-
ment to, the maintenance of infrastructure created through HMG investments in
the districts. It was thought then that such participation and commitment
could be generated by putting a liability on the local village Panchayat to
form user groups to execute partic-ilar development schemes.
2.11     The Decentralization Act and Rules thus went beyond the original
Forest Act and Rules of 1978, which designated the village Parchayat as the
local institution for forest management. A 1988 amendment to the Panchayat
Forest and Pan'shayat Protected Forest Rules of 1978 subsequently adopted the
concept of the user group by making a reference to current decentralization
law. This, however, still endows the village Panchayat with the right *o form
user groups and their committees, which would be chaired by ward or Panchayat
chairmen, with no provision to form the user's committee through election from
among the beneficiaries. The Rules also empower the Panchayat to formulate
Working Plans and utilize forestry revenues for forestry activities. Addi-
tionally if activities are not carried out as per the Working Plan, the
Panchayat can dissolve the users' committee and form another one to take its
place. Local experience has found these provisions to be powerful disincen-
tives to local users' full participation in the protection and management of
the forest resource, a commitment which is fundamentally important for long-
term sustainabil.ty. In general, the Village Panchayat is usually too large a
unit and too far removed to supervise and manage local forests which are util-
ized by local inhab'cants. The proposed project therefore seeks to devolve
the level of participation and decision-making to that of the actual users who
would be formed into forest User Groups (paras. 3.8-3.10, and 5.9-5.10).
C. Forestry Institutions
2.12     MFSC is responsible for managing and protecting forest resources in
Nepal. MFSC has four Departments reporting to an Additional Secretary; these
are: (a) Department of Forests (FD); (b) Department of Forestry and Plant
Research (DFPR); (c) Department of Soil Conservation and Watershed Management;
and (d) Department of National Parks and Wildlife Conservation. MFSC also
supervises the Forest Products Development Board, the Nepal Rosin and
Turpentine Industry Ltd., and the Herbs Production and Processing Company Ltd.
At headquarters, MPSC has four Divisions (Training, Communication and
Extension, Monitoring and Evaluation, Survey and Statistics) which report to a
second Additional Secretary, and a Planning and Administration Division which
reports directly to the Secretary (see Organization Chart 3).
2.13     FD is the oldest and by far the largest of MFSC's Departments and has
an extensive field organization (Chart 2). It is headed by the Director
General of Forests (DGF), who oversees four Division Chiefs in charge of



- 6 -
Planning, Forest Administration, Forest Management and Utilization, and
Community Forestry Development. The field organization consists of five
Regional Directorates headed by Regional Directors, and 75 forest Districts,
each headed by a District Forest Officer (DFO). Each District forest office
supervises two to five Ranges. There are a total of 222 Range Offices, each
headed by a Ranger, who is responsible for all forestry operations within his
territory and has some administrative and judicial authority with respect to
forest regulations. Ranges are further divided into beats, each under the
charge of an Assistant Ranger. Existing Range offices handle territorial
duties which include policing to protect the state's forest estate. As an
important departure from this tradition, the Forestry Master Plan envisages
the eventual establishment of 453 Forest Service Centers which, being
dispersed, would be better placed to perform extension services to promote
private and community forestry. There are a total of 5,915 approved staff
posts in FD. These include 150 professional foresters, 521 forest rangers,
1,043 assistant rangers, 2,476 forest guards, and 1,725 administrative staff.
2.14     At the field level, the DFO is the member-Secretary of the Industry,
Forest and Soil Conservation Committee, which is one of five sectoral Plan
Formulation Committees responsible for preparing inputs for the District
Annual Development Plan. In this capacity, the DFO compiles funding require-
ments for forestry sector development based on development plans for community
forests (under PF or PPF) or national forests under his jurisdiction. At
present, the furctions of FD's Regional Directors are not well defined, with
the result that they are not fully integrated into the chain of command be-
tween DGF aad DFO. The project proposes to strengthen the Regional
Directorates as an important intermediate level between headquarters and the
district level for organizing, coordinating, and supervising the implemen-
tation of the forestry development program (para. 5.4).
2.15     Forestry Training.  The first professional forestry course was estab-
lished at the Hetauda campus of the Institute of Forestry in 1981 and was
later transferred to the Pokhara campus. The Institute offers a three-year
Bachelor's program in forestry for about 40 students each year. Forest tech-
nicians obtain training at the two-year certificate course in Pokhara and
Hetauda Forestry Schools. Both schools are adequately staffed and equipped.
About 110 students are admitted to each of these schools every year, and grad-
uates enter the forest service as Assistant Rangers. In-service training is
provided by MFSC's Training Division (TD), which was established in 1980.
D. External Assistance
2.16     Since the early 1970s, the international community has become in-
creasingly interested in helping Nepal develop its forest resources, espe-
cially in the Lills. At present, twelve externally-assisted projects provide
support for community forestry development activities in Nepal. IDA, ADB,
USAID, ADAB, EEC, UNDP, FINNIDA, IFAD, ODA, CIDA, GTZ and SATA are the main
supporters of the forestry development prograums in Nepal (Annex 1). The as-
sistance provided by these agencies is either channeled through projects con-
sisting only of forestry activities or others in which forestry activities are
part of a multisectoral development project. Tihe forestry projects supported



by these agencieb cover areas of work such as forest sector planning, commer-
cial forestry operations, community forestry, resource inventory, and forestry
research. In training, the Institute of Forestry is assisted by USAID, while
FINNIDA has recently proposed a comprehensive program to provide training
assistance for staff at all levels.
2.17     External assistance to the forestry subsector has been marked by lack
of coordination among the donors. However, regular informal meetings of these
donors have recently been initiated in Kathmandu. A more coordinated approach
is evolving through the recent adoption by HMG of the new Forestry Master
Plan, under which umbrella, development inputs and programs are identified for
donor assistance. To implement the Master Plan, a strong Planning Division,
and a Monitoring and Eval_-..tion Division would be established within MFSC, a
development proposed to be su ported by FINNIDA and USAID. This proposed
project would become the lead vehicle to implement the community forestry
program as proposed in the Master Plan and Forestry Sector Policy. By helping
to develop operational procedures for involving local er Groups in its im-
plementation,  the project would enable both the lmplemeuting agencies and
donors to cootdinate their approaches towards community forestry development
in Nepal, along the lines envisaged by HKG.
E. IDA's Strategy for Forestry Development
2.18     IDA's Forestry Sector ReW'ew of 1978 identified two key problems
which are still relevant today--the rural energy crisis, and the environmental
deterioration caused by overutilization of forests--and recommended stepping
up rural afforestation by encouraging local community participation. Apart
from population pressure in the Hills, the main constraints to forestry dev-
elopment were identified as shortages of trained forestry staff and resources
to initiate and maintain a large-scale forest resource development program.
IDA's strategy ror assisting forestry development in Nepal has evolved from
funding investment programs (mainly plantations, training and extension), to
policy interventions, attempts to help HMG integrate its policy pronouncements
with its operational procedures and instructions to its field staff, and
assistance to implement sound forest management strategies that take into
account the valuable experience gained by various donor efforts to date.
IDA's particular concern in assisting a strong community forestry development
effort stems from the experience of previous assistance projects (paras.
2.19-2.24), but also from observations of successful local community forestry
management (Annex 2).
2.19     Credit 1008-NEP.  IDA's assistance in Nepal's forestry sector began
in 1980 through this US$17.0 million Credit for the Community Forestry
Development and Training Project. The project aimed to develop community
forestry in the Hills by involving local communities (Panchayats) in forest
management and protection. To enable this, training and institutional support
was provided. Started in 1980, this project covered 29 Hill Districts and has
established community forests on 15,000 ha (compared to target of 12,000 ha)
of denuded forest land as PF, and has been able to hand over only 18,000 ha
(compared to 39,000 ha) of degraded natural forest as PPF. These plantations
were established by the FD using local contract labor, and planted according



- 8 -
to FD designs which did not always reflect the needs or preferences of local
users. The plantations and other PPF forest areas that were handed over by FD
to the Panchayats effectively excluded the common villager from decision-
making regarding the use -^ the resource and revenues generated therefrom,
sustaining the notion that local users could not be entrusted with protection
of the forest estate. Therefore, while FD formally vested these responsibil-
ities with the Panchayats, the local users continued to use, and often deplete
a resource which was necessary for their livelihood. Although the management
of PF and PPP was nominally handed over to Panchayats, in fact FD undertook
the establisnmeat, maintenance, and protection of these areas. About 3.7
million (compared to a target of 0.9 million) seedlings were also distributed
to farmers for private planting, and 16,000 fuel-efficient cookstoves were
installed. A new division, the Community Forestry and Afforestation Division
(CFAD),3/ was created to organize project implementation. The project also
provided assistance for improving training facilities at Hetauda and Pokhara
campuses and in Kathmandu. This five-year project, which was extended by two
years, was completed on January 6, 1989. The Project Completion Report is yet
to be prepared.
2.20     The project successfully attained most of its physical targets and
institutionalized ths community forestry approach within Nepal through a net-
work of nurseries and plantations. It also successfully instituted a monitor-
ing and ev.alation system, communications and publicity support, silvicultural
manuals and regular workshops and training sessions. However, the project was
less successful in transferring management responsibilities to the Panchayats.
One reason for this is that the procedures used by FD to demarcate and hand
over areas as community forests were restrictive and cumbersome. (HKG has
since removed the acreage ceilings set on land that can be transferred from
the state forest areas into PF and PPF areas.) Second, the Panchayat, an
administrative organization, was not the appropriate body for managing local
community forests which were generally small and rarely coincided with
Panchayat boundaries. Third, it took time to build up and orient the exten-
sion capability of FD towards working with local users. Fourth, the forest
management plans formulated by FD were not always appropriate to the tradi-
tional utilization patterns of the communities nor simple enough to allow
communities to take over responsibilities for their implementation. Fifth,
there was a lack of clear instructions and operational guidelines for FD staff
to devolve their authority and management responsibility to the level of the
local community.
2.21     Despite these shortcomings, HMG recognizes that community forestry
remains the only means of sustainirg the Hill farmer and reversing environmen-
tal degradation in the Hills, and that the impediments to more successful
implementation can be removed. A move in this direction is already under way.
The Decentralization Act of 1982 and its Rules of 1984 introduced the concept
of the user group ("Consumers' Committee"), whose needs would form the basis
for ational development programs. While this concept is a major departure
from that of the community being represented by the Panchayat, community par-
ticipation still needs to devolve to the level of the local users. If suc-
cessful, this approach would lead to a large-scale and systematic allocation
of forests to user groups which would induce the communities to claim and
3/ This has since been renamed Community Forestry Development
Division (CFDD).



- 9 -
manage the forests which they regularly utilize. Improved extension efforts
frcm the FD would likewise induce user groups to come forward to assist in
plantation establishment on denuded areas. MFSC and FD would thus be enjoined
by both higher-level decision makers and the user groups to fully implement
the Community Forestry policy of HMG in response to the communities' needs.
While there have been significant positive changes in the attitudes of the FD
towards community forestry, there needs to be further development of the
skills they need to work with local groups.
2.22     Credit 1400-NEP.  IDA's involvement in the forestry sector continued
with this US$18.0 million Credit for a Second Forestry Project in 1983. This
six-year project covers 14 administrative Districts in the Terai. The project
aimed to establish State, private, community and agro-forestry plantations and
to improve selected natural forests in the Terai. During the past three
years, progress in implementing seedling distribution for private planting,
and in establishing road and canalside plantations has been good. However,
very little progress has been made on improving existing forests and estab-
lishing agro-forestry plantations. This shortcoming is partly due to certain
design problems, including lack of a clear HMG policy regarding allocation of
land for PF and PPF plantations; FD reluctance to hand over PF and strip plan-
tations to Panchayats/User Groups; and problems of administration and liaison
between project and FD headquarters. Project performance is expected to
improve significantly following the Mid-Term Review in 1988, during which HMG
agreed to implement proposals to resolve current problems. Lessons learned
from Credit 1400-NEP which would be avoided in the proposed project include
(a) the need to clearly identify areas to be handed over (para. 3.7); (b)
agreement on policy issues regarding formation and handing over lands to User
Group management (para. 3.10); and (c) details of support to User Groups
(para. 3.11).
2.23     Credit 1727-NEP.  This IDA-assisted Rasuwa-Nuwakot Rural Development
Project, which became operational in 1987, includes a forestry component that
reflects HMG's Community Forestry policy. FD is responsible for implementing
the forestry component, which would be guided by and administratively inte-
grated with the proposed Hill Community Forestry Project when this becomes
operatior.l.
2.24     Credit 1769-NEP.  Through this first Structural Adjustment Credit
(SAC), which became effective in 1987 and was completed in 1988, IDA was in-
volved in developing an appropriate policy environment for the implementation
of the Community Forestry program in Nepal. The conditionalities of this
Credit included the following, which were achieved:
(a) removal of ceilings on land that could be allocated from state
forests to PF or PPF;
(b)  a study by HMG of the effects of regulations governing the use of
forest products grown on private land with a view to reducing such
controls;
(c) modification of legal and administrative regulations concerning
revenue collection to allow Panchayats to retain the entire revenue
realized from the sale of forest products; and



- 10 -
(d) entitlement of Forest Committees formed within the Panchayats to
control forest revenues.
The results of (a) and (b) have beenT to enable a better rationalization of
the use of forest land and resources from restrictive state guardianship
towards greater decision-making by the communities. Items (c) and (d) have
devolved such decision-making to the Panchayats. A later attempt to modify
this by asking that User Groups be empowered to retain sales revenues and
enter into work contracts was agreed to by HMG, but not fully incorporated
into the subsequent 1988 amendments to PF and PPF Rules which clearly retain
these powers in the hands of the Panchayats.
F. Rationale for IDA Involvement
2.25     The proposed project would support the single most important measure
to be undertaken by HMG in its attempt to arrest environmental and agricul-
tural deterioration in the Hills. In line with HMG's Forestry Master Ilan and
Forestry Sector Policy, it would promote active local participation and con-
tribution by local forest users towards the development of community forests.
This would be achieved by a large-scale transfer to forest User Groups of
responsibility for the protection and management of those Hill forests which
hill farmers rely upon to sustain their livelihood. The project would extend
and build on successful examples of this, which exist on a smaller scale all
over Nepal (Annex 2). The responsibilities of FD staff will change signif-
icantly from protecting the forest resource to encouraging and facilitating
local communities to -ssume this role. Such a change requires substantial
reorientation of attitudes and functions on the part of implementing agencies
to ensure that meaningful solutions are found to redress development problems
at the local level. Building on existing working relationships with the
implementing agencies, IDA's involvement and support for implementation of
this program will help to ensure that these far-reaching changes will start to
be realized.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Project Area
3.1      The proposed project would support a program activity iui an area of
about 5.6 million ha in the Hill Districts. Initially, it would be concen-
trated in 37 out of 55 Hill Districts which do not presently have Community
Forestry projects supported by other donors (Annex 3). However, its coverage
could be extended into any of the other Hill Districts where User Groups can
be formed and forest areas transferred in accordance with the Operational
Guidelines being developed by MFSC (para. 3.11). The terrain in these Hill
Districts is rugged, due to the numerous hills which rise gradually toward the
north and merge with the main Himalayan range. Most of the valleys are
sparsely inhabited, partly because malaria has been a problem and partly
because the valley floors tend to be very narrow. However, the hillslopes



- 11 -
between 1,000 and 2,000 m elevation are mostly under intensive terrace culti-
vation and are among the most densely inhabited parts of Nepal. Such areas
have little remaining productive forest apart from shrubs. Above 2,000 m,
cultivation occurs in dispersed locations and settlements are scattered.
Above 2,400 m, large-scale cultivation almost ceases. The combined population
of the Districts in the project area is 5.4 million with an average density of
96 persons per km2-
3.2      About 242 of the project area is under cultivation.  Another 50?
comprises forests and shrublands, and the remainder is grassland. The eco-
logical conditions vary greatly, and about 30 types of vegetation are found in
the area. The Hill farming system relies on close integration between fores-
try and farming. Forests provide fodder and leaf litter for animals, which
generate compost for the fields. The present human and livestock population
has resulted in over-intensive land use, which has accelerated the natural
geological process of erosion and run-off, especially where the soils are
fragile. Forests have to be conserved and replenished to enable sustained
livelihood in the Hills.
3.3      There are few roads in the project area, and several days' travel on
foot is needed to reach many of the Panchayats.  Telephone contact is also
limited.  These factors explain in part the low level of commercial activity
in the project azea.
B. Project Obiectives and General Description
3.4      The main objective of the project is to mobilize people and resources
in the Hill Districts to establish a forest management system which would
conserve and expand the forest resources needed to sustain traditional farming
systems and livelihood in the Hills. To this end, FD extension staff would
identify and assist farmers to organize themselves into User Groups estab-
lished with rights of use over State-owned forest lands which they have tradi-
tionally used. Since 1956, these lands have remained under government protec-
tion and local inhabitants have been allowed limited access. One of the basic
instruments of HMG's new community forestry policy is a return of management
responsibility over forest resources to the local communities which share
their use. FD would also train and provide technical and financial assistance
to enable User Groups to protect, improve, and maintain existing forests, or
establish forests in degraded areas that they would manage. These efforts
would improve the Hill villager's access to fuelwood for energy, supplementary
forage (tree fodder and grass), leaf litter for compost, and timbar for con-
struction. They would also help to rehabilitate over-utilized areas, improve
the vegetative cover which is essential for conserving soil and regulating
water regimes, and protect the environment.
3.5      Under the project, User Groups would have the right to decide how to
manage and utilize their respective fore'ts, and be provided technical assis-
tance from FD. Because the users are heavily dependent on forest products,
this entitlement would give them incentive to manage their forests properly
and should ensure that this resource is not depleted. Resource utilizatiorn
would be regulated by simple Operational Plans to be drawn up in agreement be-



- 12 -
tween User Groups and FD. FD would assist User Groups with extension advice
about appropriate forest management techniques and options open to them, and
assist the Groups to formulate Operational Plans which state the objectives
and implementation arrangements. Financial assistance would be provided to
help User Groups employ local villuge foresters to manage and protect the
forests and to implement the Operational Plans; this assistance is only for
the initial three years during the transition from FD to User Group manage-
ment. The implementation arrangements and User Group uptake would be closely
monitored and evaluated throughout the project.
3.6      The project would be implemented over a period of seven years by MFSC
through its Training Division, its FD, and its DFPR and User Groups. In line
with its objectives, the project would include the following four components:
(a) Institutional Support to PD, including support for identifi-
caticn of Community Forestry lands and User Group formation;
(b) Forest Resource Management, including Seedling Production and
Distribution, Plantation Establishment, Forest Management, and
Management of Plantations established under the previous
project (Credit 1008-NEP);
(c) Training and Extension; and
(d) Research.
Details of each of these components are given in Part C below, and in
Annex 4, Tables 1-4.
C. Project Components
Institutional Support (US$9.96 million)
3.7      Identification of Lands for Community Forestry.  It is expected that
at least 400,000 ha of forest land, both Panchayat Forest (PF) and Panchayat
Protected Forest (PPF), would come under community management during the pro-
ject period; this will represent about 352 of the forest areas that are reg-
ularly accessed by rural communities in the Hills. To enable and accelerate
the handing-over process, FD would obtain LRMP land use maps which are avail-
able from the Topographic Survey Branch; obtain planning information for each
project District; and, using these, fairly rapidly identify those areas of
state forests that would be handed over for management by local forest User
Groups to be formed for this purpose. The rest of the forest meanwhile would
continue to be maintained as National forests by the territorial staff of FD.
FP would initially concentrate extension efforts and User Group formation in
five Districts, one in each region. Agreement was reached at negotiations
that, by December 31, 1989, MFSC would obtain LRMP maps and relevant planning
information for all project Districts and identify those areas of State
forests which will be handed over to local User Groups (para. 8.1(a)).



- 13 -
3.8      Formation of Forest User Groups.  The project would support the for-
mation of forest User Groups, formed around their shared interest in the es-
tablishment, protection, and sustained use of their forest resources. These
Groups would consist of those individuals recognized as having traditional
rights for the use and management of a particular forest area, hence the size
of Groups in different localities would vary. Groups could be formed to
manage PF and/or PPF lands as follows:
(a) Groups comprising traditional users of existing forest (PPF).
Here the Group would agree to protect, maintain and utilize the
forest in ways acceptable to the FD, and as defined in the
Operat!onal Plan, in return for FD recognizing their rights for
continued access, use, and sale of excess products;
(b) Groups formed to replant, protect, and manage degraded forest
areas that need to be replanted and protected to re-establish
forest cover (PF). Here the Group would contribute labor for
all operations (for which they would receive support payments
(paras. 3.15, 3.19)) in return for being able to utilize the
forest products as specified in the agreed Operational Plan.
3.9      At the local level, the DFO, Forest Ranger, Local Development
Officers, and community leaders would explain HMG's Community Forestry policy
and prog.ams, and how groups would be formed. In many cases, User Group for-
mation is a matter of recognizing groups that already exist. The Ranger/DFO
would confirm his lists of interested participants witil the concerned Village
Panchayats, which serve as a clearinghouse to determine legitimate interest,
decide equitable access for affected households, and resolve any potentially
conflicting claims. On the basis of User Group request and the Ranger*s
recommendation, the DFO would issue a Certificate to the Panchayat, describing
the area to be assigned. The Panchayat would, in turn, endorse the
Certificate to the Users' Committee, so that the authority of the User Group
within its assigned forest lands would be clearly established. Attached to
this Certificate would be a sketch map and a list of all the households com-
prising the Group. The Certificate would be registered with the Panchayat.
The Ranger would then assist the Group to formulate a simple Operational Plan
for its assigned forest area. The Operational Plan (described in more detail
in the Guidelines discussed below) would contain basic information about the
forest resources and condition in the designated area, the Group's management
objectives and desired outputs. It would describe the agreed modes of protec-
tion, silvicultural treatment, and harvesting of a given forested area or an
area to be planted, according to local needs. The Operational Plan would also
describe the Group's consensus on modes of benefit distribution, potential
sales, and individual household labor contribution. These Operational Plans
could be modified from time to time.  Within these Plans, annual activities
would be defined.  The DFO would include a suimmary of these activities in the
Annual Village Panchayat Development Plan and reflect them in the budget
(para. 3.12). The Ranger would help the DFO to estimate the nature and amount
of HMG funding required to support User Group activity in the following year.
These estimates would be submitted to headquarters by each December in time
for budget provisions for the next fiscal year starting in July. Where plan-
tations are to be established by User Groups, a Management Contract would also
be drawn up between FD and the User Group, represented by its Committee.



- 14 -
3.10     The size of the Groups vary, depending on their acknowledged interest
in the common area of forest land. Each Group would be represented by an
elected Committee, and would be recognized by the Panchayat, as well as by PD.
Whereas the Decentralization and Forestry Rules at present empower the
Panchayats to appoint or replace Users' Committees, which have been formed to
deter User Group initiatives (para. 2.11), MFSC has informed IDA that (a) the
forest User Groups proposed under the project can be authorized under MFSC's
Guidelines, and (b) their roles and functions would be clearly defined in the
Guidelines (para. 3.11). The Guidelines would contain detailed operational
procedures and instructions for the implementation of the Community Forestry
program, and lay down the procedures for identifying and forming User Groups
and their Committees. It would detail their members..ip, powers, and functions
in ways which would provide incentives for such Groups to form voluntarily and
undertake the activities proposed under the project, including the autonomy to
manage their financial and other affairs, their authority to sell forest
products and deposit the funds in their own accounts, and the ability to take
decisions that would ensu-e their continued functioning and interest over the
longer term (subject to the technical safeguards they are subject to under
their approved Operational Plans). Agreement was reached at negotiations that
during the project period, MFSC would cause to be established forest User
Groups with membership, functions, and powers in accordance with such criteria
which are acceptable to IDA (para. 8.1(b)).
3.11     In order to undertake the above program and guide the establishment
of User Groups and their formulation of Operational Plans, detailed Guidelines
for implementing this program would be formulated by MFSC. The broad contents
of the Guidelines containing detailed Procedures and Instructions for imple-
menting the Community Forestry program was agreed during negotiations. These
Guidelines would be issued by MFSC, with HMG approval, and would have general
application to all concerned with the Community Forestry program. In its
final form, the Guidelines would also include a clear delegation of authority
for the transfer of individual areas of forest lands, within the areas identi-
fied as in pars. 3.7 above, from the Secretary of Forests to the DFOs, to
accelerate the program of handing over forest lands for community forestry
development. Agreement was reached at negotiations that, as a condition of
effectiveness, the Guidelines would be finalized and distributed to FD's field
staff and all concerned, after taking into account IDA's comments (para. 8.2).
The provisions of these Guidelines would also be thoroughly explained and
discussed in the Reorientation Workshops to be held for FD and other HMG staff
and community leaders at project start-up (Annex 5 and Operational Action
Program, Annex 6).
3.12     PD would provide technical assistance as well as financial support by
way of compensation or contract payments to be made to the Group for labor it
contributes to plantation establishment and protection for the initial three
years. Project funds would be released in the form of compensation or con-
tractual payments to User Groups through FD. Such funds would be placed under
a separate budget head and HMG would ensure that adequate funds would be made
available for project implementation (para. 4.3). Agreement was reached at
negotiations that disbursement of funds allocated to User Groups would be in
accordance with terms and conditions agreed with by IDA (paras. 4.10 (d) and
(e), and 8.1 (b)).



- 15 -
Forest Resource Management (US$25.94 million)
3.13     Seedling Production and Distribution, The project would produce
about 117 million seedlings, about 99 million of which would be used to estab-
lish and maintain community plantations, and the remaining 18 million seed-
lings would be distributed to farmers for private planting. FD would initial-
ly maintain a number of temporary nurseries at the District, Panchayat, and
Range level. However, local persons or groups would be encouraged to estab-
lish private nurseries to take over seedling production. FD would assist them
by eupplying seed collected locally in the case of indigenous species, or
supplied by FD's Seed Center in the case of coniferous and other imported
seed. FD would also supply polyethylene containers and the che.emicals needed
for seedling production. The cost of these inputs would be recovered when FD
pays the private nurseries for seedlings which it buys back for the planting
program as well as for sale to farmers under the Private Planting program.
This purchase price will be based on FD's own seedling production cost. FD
would institute a system of nursery registers and keep records of seedling
production costs, survival, and uptake by local villagers.
3.14     The project would finance the establishment of temporary nurseries by
FD and seedling production costs. Seedlinigs would be supplied free of charge
to User Groups implementing tne Community Forestry program. A nominal charge
of Rs 0.10 would initially be charged on seedlings required by farmers for
private planting.  During the project period, MFSC would undertake a study of
seedling uptake and formulate a draft seedling pricing policy aimed at
creating market conditions that would induce privatization of seedling produc-
tion in the medium- and longer-term. Agreement was reached at negotiations
that MFSC would, by December 31, 1991, undertake a study on seedling uptake
and submit the results of the study as well as the draft pricing policy to IDA
for review; and by June 30, 1992 implement such a policy, taking into account
IDA's comments (para. 8.1 (c)).
3.15     Plantation Establishment.  The project would support the estab-
lishment, protection, and maintenance of some 56,300 ha, of which 46,700 ha
would be new plantations established by User Groups, and 9,600 ha by FD in the
first project year which would thereafter be handed over to the User Groups.
Additional acreages may be established, depending on project progress as well
as the ability of User Groups over time to accept lower compensation payments
for the cost of their labor in establishing and maintaining plantations. For
plantation establishment, the Groups' labor contribution would be in kind, and
estimated at about 20? of the total cost, based on FD's established norms and
estimated per hectare cost. Local arrangements for protection would be the
responsibility of these Groups; the project would support plantation protec-
tion by local village foresters who would be recruited by User Groups.
Support would cover 80 of estimated wages for one local village forester per
User Group for three years only. The effectiveness of this support would be
monitored closely and evaluated during the Mid-Term Review. MFSC would, over
the project period, seek an increasing share of local resources to finance the
Community Forestry program activities, taking into account the periodic
assessments of the rate of program uptake and the level of incentive support
payments necessary to encourage User Group interest in the program
(para. 3.28 (c)).



- 16 -
3.16     Denuded forest areas and poorly regenerated areas would be planted
with suitable tree species desired by the communities according to their
Operational Plans. These plans would emphasize planting of multipurpose
species that could provide fodder, fuelvood, timber, and fruit. However,
final species selection would depend on the site characteristics, User Group
preferences for particular outputs, outcomes including soil conservation,
requirements for forage and other desired outputs, and the preferences of the
women who depend on forest products for running the farm and household. A
silvicultural consultant would be provided for 24 months to research improved
nursery and planting techniques and to train staff (Table 3.1). The consul-
tant would be assisted by five associate experts provided by UNDP, and
stationed in one of the five regions for three years. The silviculturist
would work with FD staff during the first two years of the project to develop
new technical models, such as silvopastoral models which more adequately
address environmental and sustainable local forage needs (Operational Action
Program, Annex 6).
3.17     As lead time is required to train FD staff and form User Groups,
expectations of planting that would be achieved by User Groups have been kept
modest in the early years (starting with 1,200 and 3,200 ha respectively in
Years 2 and 3), increasing to 12,000 ha annually by the seventh year. As an
interim activity, FD would plant some 9,600 ha in Year 1 only, using seedlings
produced under Credit 1008-NEP (para. 3.15).
3.18     Management of Forested Areas.  It is expected that, during the
project period, at least 400,000 ha of forests would be handed over to User
Groups with traditional rights of access to these areas. Large parts of these
forests, comprising such species as Schima wallichi, Castanopsis spp., Quercus
app., Machilus spp., Pinus roxburghii, are at present subject to unsystematic
cutting for fuelvood, overgrazing by cattle, and intentional burning annually
to obtain fresh grass growth. Where there is a nearby market, trees are often
removed for sale. Much of this forest is therefore degraded.
3.19     Studies have shown, however, that such forests hav- the potential for
revival if acientifically managed. There are local examples in Nepal where
the people themselves have been able to halt the degradation and restore the
forests by protecting them for a few years; some of these cases are described
in Annex 2. FD's Rangers would assist the forest User Groups to prepare ap-
propriate Operational Plans for the areas under forest cover to be handed over
to these Groups. These plans would prescribe harvesting options which would
permit srstained utilization of the forests and expansion of the forest
resource over time. Management methods include simple coppice 4/ or coppice-
with-standard 5/ systems as well as silvipastoral systems to provide forage
for livestock. A forest management consultant would be provided for 12 months
to help FD develop management options and guidelines, according to the
principles of community forestry management (Table 3.1). As in the case of
the PF plantatic-'s (para. 3.15), PPF User Groups would also be provided
4/ For certain broad-leaved species, stems are cut at stump level to
permit regrowth from the stumps.
5/ A modified coppice system in which some trees are allowed to grow
to timber size, while the balance are cut at shorter intervals to
permit regrowth from the stumps.



- 17 -
financial assistance for three years to hire a local village forester to
implement the management plan and heip protect the PPF forest until such time
as it regenerates sufficiently to produce adequate income.
3.20     Management of Plantations previously established by PD.  Plantations
which were previously established under the earlier IDA-assisted project (Cre-
dit 1008-NEP) are mostly of pine of varying ages and uneven quality.
Depending on the preferences of the User Group, these plantations can be main-
tained as such or, if degraded, can be converted into broadleaved plantations
over a few years. PD would offer technical assistance to the User Group in
preparing appropriate Operational Plans to attain the Group's objectives. The
Operational Plan would prescribe appropriate measures for maintenance, in-
cluding a plan specifying which trees to harvest and which to retain in
different years. Silvopastoral systems involving cut-and-carry of forage or
controlled grazing would be emphasized and incorporated into plantation
design. Where it is intended to convert from pine to broadleaved plantation,
underplanting with broadleaved species would be undertaken. Where substantial
underplanting or replacement planting is required, prescribed pl.anting tech-
niques would be followed, and the Group would be compensated as if these were
plantations on PF lands (para. 3.15).
3.21     The area under existing plantations established under the previous
project (Credit 1008-NEP) totais 30,000 ha. It is estimated that much of this
would be handed over for management by User Groups during the project period,
while any remain'.ng areas would continue to be under Pp's management.  The
User Group would be expected to take over responsibility for plantation pro-
tection. Wherever PD may previously have hired local forest watchers, these
watchers would, together with the plantations, become the responsibility of
the User Group. However, they would now have expanded management responsi-
bilities as village foresters. It would be up to the Group to negotiate
contract terms and arrangements with the forest watchers at the time FD hands
over the plantations to the Group.
Training and Extension (US$9.04 million)
3.22     Training.  The training program would communicate to PD staff and
local officials the objectives of HMG's Community Forestry policy and its
operating environment, and would concentrate on improving the technical and
managerial capability of both PD and the communities to undertake community
forestry systematically. The training program would be coordinated by the
Community Forestry Development Division (CFDD) of FD, and implemented by the
Training Division (TD) of MFSC and five Regional Training Centers. Agreement
was reached at negotiations that five Trainir- Officers will be posted, one to
each Regional Training Center, by December 31, 1989 (para. 8.1 (d)).
3.23     Locally, the program aims to train approximately 7,700 FD staff
throug-i a series of courses and workshops. A hostel to accommodate 40 train-
ees for the TD would be built in Kathmandu. Three regional training centers
with the capacity for 30 trainees each would be constructed in the Eastern and
Mid-Western and Par-Western Regions. Facilities at Hetauda and Pokhara
Campuses would be used for regional-level training for the Central and Western



- 18 -
Regions. The project would provide training materials and equipment, a senior
Training and Extension Coordinator and one Training Consultant for 84 and 24
months respectively, stationed within CFDD, and five Training and Extension
Advisors, one to be stationed at each of the five regional training centers
for three years each. The training experts would also draw upon the findings
of the Benchmark Survey and the Socio-economic Study (para. 3.28), and would
design training course material to increase the awareness among FD staff of
the role of women in community forestry.
3.24     Outside Nepal. the project would also provide for 532 weeks of study
tours, mainly in neighboring Asian countries, covering subjects relevant to
community forestry. Details of the proposed training and study tours are
given in Annex 4 Table 3, and Annex 5.
3.25     Extension.  FD would maintain a continuous field extension program to
inform rural communities about the objectives of the Community Forestry pro-
gram and the provisions under the project. At the national level, the
Extension and Communication Section of CFDD would coordinate the extension
program and support the Regions by providing them with general guidance and
printed material. The Regional Training and Extension officer would formulate
extension programs and implement them through the Training and Extension
officers at the District level. At the Range level, Assistant Rangers would
implement the extension programs, and selected forest guards would be trained
to ascist the Assistant Rangers. At the local level, extension staff would
assist in identifying and forming local Groups, and help them to define their
goals and manage their assigned forests and plantations for sustained produc-
tion. The scope and intensity of extension coverage would gradually increase
as new information becomes available through technical and socio-economic
research, and as field experience is gained and disseminated through training
sessions.
3.26     The Training and Extension component makes provision for buildings,
vehicles, training materials and equipment, staff travel allowances and train-
ing expenses. Staff mobility is crucial and HMG/MFSC would review their
travel and field allowance policy to ensure its consistency with the field
work that FD staff need to undertake, including any expenses associated with
developing Operational Plans such as nominal compensation for arranging
village meetings and local help to make simple sketch maps for the Operational
Plans as prescribed in the Guidelines (para. 3.11). Agreement was reached at
negotiations that HMG/MFSC would, by December 31, 1989, have reviewed FD
travel and field allowance policy and thereafter take steps to implement the
findings, taking into account IDA's comments (para. 8.1 (e)).
Research (US$0.45 million)
3.27     The Silvicultural Research program would be implemented by the
Forestry Research Division (V'RD) of the Department of Forest and Plant
Research (DFPR) which has been receiving substantial technical and financial
assistance from ODA. The project would only provide additional staff and
facilities to supplement an extensive ongoing research program to include
additional trials and observations on (a) local si;--opastoral practices;
(b) cases of effective natural forest management; (c) successful establishment
and management of plantations, particularly those planted with indigenous



- 19 -
species; and (d) development of new models emphasizing silvopastoral and
environmental requirements. Silvicultural research on native hardwood species
would also be emphasized. A detailed community forestry research program is
being prepared by FRD and would incorporate these requirements. Proposed
trials and experiments would be located near Kathmandu where FRD has its head-
quarters, and in the Eastern and Midwestern regions where two new research
stations were recently constructed. Agreeiz-nts were reached at negotiations
that HMG/MFSC would ensure that, by December 31, 1989, key staff including
four Senior Research Officers and seven Junior Research Officers would be
sanctioned and appointed to their ps_s  and that all other project staff
would be sanctioned and appointed to their posts as specified in the
Operationa;- Action Program (para. 8.1 (d)).
3.28     The Socio-economic Research program would be implemented by CFDD with
the advice of a Monitoring and Evaluation Expert to be recruited under UNDP
assistance (Table 3.1). The Drogram should be undertaken jointly or in close
consultation with (a) the Monitoring and Evaluation Division (MED) of MFSC, as
well as FRD's Community Forestry Research Programme 1990-95 Lo ensure comple-
mentarity of efforts. A major goal is to understand the socio-economic deter-
minants of successful community management of common property. Ongoing com-
munity development projects would be periodically reviewed and evaluated to
gain relevant experience of community interactions. The villagers' need for
forest products would also be assessed and measured in order to avoid indis-
criminate pilferage in forests that shouxld be retained as National forests.
To help CFDD staff design and implement these socio-economic research pro-
grams, local consultants would be recruited to undertake the following
studies and surveys under the direction of CFDD in close coordination with MED
and FRD:
(a)   Benchmark Survey.  A research team would repeat the 900-house-
hold survey carried out at the start of the ongoing Community
Forestry Development and Training Project (Credit 1008-NEP) in
the Hills, using that earlier study as a baseline. The study
would determine the impact of the first Community Forestry
Project on the supply of needed forest products in the Hills.
The survey findings would suggest lessons to be learned for
meeting the requirements in the target areas. The team would
comprise a research coordinator for seven months, an assistant
research coordinator for four months, eight enumerators for
three months each, two enumerators-cum-data-processors for
seven months each, and secretarial support. The team would be
recruited by December 1, 1989 and the study would be completed
by August 31, 1990.
(b)   Socio-economic Study.  A research team would conduct a study
of the socio-economic aspects of utilization of forest pro-
ducts, including usage and collection patterns, local needs
and preferred tree species, and related factors that should be
considered in project design and to guide or improve the form-
ulation of Operational Plans. The team would comprise a
forester, a sociologist, and a specialist on the participation
of women in forestry activities, for eight months each. The
team woulC be recruited by June 30, 1990 and the study would
be completed by March 31, 1991.



- 20 -
(c)   Periodic Assessment Studies.  A survey team to conduct per-
iodic evaluation of the rate of program uptake in the Hill
Districts, including an assessment of the approaches cf var-
ious ongoing Community Forestry projects.  This team would
consist of two foresters and two social scientists (six months
each). The team would complete their first evaluation by June
30, 1992 and subsequent evaluations each second year there-
after (1994, 1996).  These studies would assist MFSC to assess
the responsiveneris of the hill communities and the extent to
which it can seek an increasing share of lcal resources to
finance Community Forestry program activities in Nepal
(para. 3.15).
The conduct of these studies is included in the Operational Action Program
(Anner 6). Studies may be undertaken from time to time, and advisers re-
cruited as necessary using the 18 months of unspecified consultancies which
would be provided by UNDP and DANIDA (Table 3.1).
3.29     Civil Works, Equipment and TA (included in Prolect Components).  The
project would finance the construction of offices, training facilities and
staff accommodation, as well as vehicles, equipment, maps, additional staff
and travel allowances, and other facilities required for project implemen-
tation. It would also provide tecnnical assistance to support MFSC, the
Department of Forestry and Plant Research, and FD in conducting extension and
training activities, establishing technical guidelines, and planning program
development.
3.30     Civil Works.  The civil works to be funded under the project would
consist of (a) buildings under the Institutional Support Component, which
comprise one FD annex building to house CFDD, 16 DFO offices and and 20 DFO
residences, 40 Range offices, 30 Range quarters and 3 guest quarters;
(b) buildings under the Training component which comprise a Training Division
hostel in Kathmandu and, at the Regional headquarters, 3 training buildings, 3
hostels, and 6 residences for training officers and instructors. The cost of
civil works is estimated at US$3.45 million.
3.31     Vehicles and Equipment.  To increase staff mobility, the project
would provide 6 minibuses, 6/ 20 four-wheel-drive pick-ups, 71 90
motorcycles, 8/ 70 bicycles, and 16 horses for the use of project staff. The
total cost of these vehicles and conveyances is estimated at US$0.57 million.
In addition, equipment and furniture for field operations, training, extension
and research would be provided under the project, at an estimated cost of
US$0.16 million.
3.32     Technical Assistance.  The project requires technical assistance
totalling 190 months of international specialists, estimated to cost US$3.12
million. About 52 months of this would be provided under an ongoing UNDP
6/ One for each of five Regional Training Centers, and one for the
Training Division at Kathmandu.
7/ One in each of the 20 Districts where there are motorable roads.
8/ Four motorcycles in each of the 20 Districts with motorable roads,
plus 2 in each of five Regional Training Centers.



- 21 -
Community Forestry Development Project (NEP/8S/017) designed to strengthen
CFDD and FD's field offices so that they can coordinate Community Forestry
program activities more effectively. DANIDA would finance 138 months of
specialists to help implement the Training and Extension component under a
separate grant agreement. The foreign technical assistance requirement of the
proposed project is shown in Table 3.1. Besides consultant specialists,
Associate Experts and Advisors would also be provided. These technical assis-
tance requirements are. dictated by the decentralized management and the diffi-
cult terrain to be covered by project personnel and advisors. HMG would
undertake to recruit the required expatriate Lonsultants in a timely manner
(Operational Action Program, Annex 6). Terms of reference for additional
expatriate specialists are included in Annex 7. Local consultants would also
be required; the project will finance 21 local consultants for a total of 159
months to undertake the studies and surveys described in para. 3.28 (see also
Annex 4, Table 1).
Table 8.1: FOREW4 TECMNICAL ASSISTANCE REqUIREUENT
(months)
Total           ongoing          Proposed
Project        UNDP-Coomunity      DANIDA
Spectalization                             Requirement     Forestry Project     Support
(NEP/56/017)/l
Forest Manaqement Specialist                   9                 9
Monitoring and Evaluation Specialist          12                12
Land Use Planning Specialist                                     8-
Si Iviculturit                               24                 ^               24/2
Training and Extension Coordinator            84                                 84/3
Training Consultant                           24                                 24
Mid-Te rm Review Consultante                  11                11               -
Unspecified Consultants                       1S                 12               6
Total                                    190                 62              138
/1 The project totals US82.8 million and supports development of Community Forestry activities in
Nepal. The months listed hereunder are only pert of the project provisions.
/2 Five Associate Exprts would be recruited under UNDP assistance to assist the SIlviculturist, and
would be sttioned In each Region for 2 years each (para. 8.10).
/8 Five Training and Extension Advisors would be recruited, one In each of the Regional Training and
Extension offices for S years each, to be sponsored by DANIDA (para. 3.2B).
D. Pro1ect Implementation
3.33      The phasing of project activities is shown in Table 3.2.  Project
indicative targets are based on the assumption thLt, despite experience gained
under Credit 1008-NEP and other forestry projects in plantation establishment,



- 22 -
the new, increased emphasis on community participation would maintain the pace
of new (community-managed) plantation establishment at roughly the same level
as that achieved during the previous project (Credit 1008-NEP). The rate at
which natural forest can be brought under improved management by User Groups
would depend on the readiness of the communities to take over management res-
ponsibilities for these areas, the responsiveness of FD staff to relinquish
their control over the-forest estate, and the effectiveness of the extension
services in promoting changes in forest utilization and management practices.
The organizational measures and incentives to ensure such responsiveness are
described in Chapter V below.



- 23 -
Table 8.2: INDICATIVE PHASING OF PROJECT ACTIVITIES /
Activity                  Unit    Year 1   Year 2   Year a   Year 4   Year 6   Year 6   Yoar 7   Total
1. Preparation of LRMP
District maps on
1:126,000 scale        Setn         86        -        -        -         -        -        -      36
2. Preparation of
Block maps on
1:60,000 scale         Sots          -      600      600      700        -         -        -   1,800
3 Indicntive progres of
User Group Formation    No.        100      200      850     60        700      900    1,160   4,000
4. Transfer of Forest
Lands to User
Groups V            '000 he        6.0     15.0     29.0     61.0     79.0      95.0    125.0   400.0
5. Plantation
Establishment by
(a) FD (as carry-
over from previous
project)            '000 ha       9.6         -        -        -        -         -        -     9.6
(b) User Group   ! 000 ha           -      1.2       8.2      7.2     10.0     12.1      12.1    46.7
6. Seedling
Distribution
(e) for Community
Forestry              Mill.    16.90J    2.1#/       5.6     12.7     19.2      21.8     21.8    99.1
(b) for Private
Planting              Mill.        1.9      2.1      2.8      2.6       2.7      8.0      8.8    17.8
/ For details of Training Activities, smo Annex 4.
y Simple Operational Plans would be drawn up by User Groups with the assitance of FD. Similar Plans
would be drawn up for Plantations to be transferred to User Groups.
E/ Planting by FD on Panchayat Forest land, a continuation of activities under the previous project
(Cr. 1008-NEP).
!Y Expected uptake by User Groups, for Year 2 and thereafter.



- 24 -
IV. PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING, AND DISBURSEMENTS
A. Project Cost Estimates
4.1     The total cost of the seven-year project is estimated at NR 1,157
million (US$45.39 million), including price and physical contingencies.
Foreign exchange costs amount to NR 146.6 million (US$5.75 million), or about
13Z of total project costs. The cost estimates are summarized below in Table
4.1, and in Annex 8, Tables 1-3.
4.2     Cost estimates are based on October 1988 prices, adjusted to April
1989, the date of negotiations. Physical contingencies of 102 have been
applied to the cost of civil works and training; 5Z to the cost of equipment,
vehicles, and technical assistance. No physical contingency has been applied
to the cost of studies and surveys, forest establishment and management, sal-
aries and allowances, materials, and O&M costs. Price contingencies are based
on the Bank's projections as follows: 62 for local costs, and 5Z for 1989-90
and 4.1Z thereafter in respect of foreign exchange costs. Project costs are
estimated net of duties and taxes, which are negligible and from which
Government procurements are exempt; the bulk of project costs include forest
establishment by local labor, travel allowances, and technical assistance.
Ta a4.1: PRAJWT COST SMARY
as of
OM  A; II tenl      tM  i I lltonl  bacn
Project Component   Lacel  Foreign  Total  Local   Foreign    Total  Ict
Institutional Support  174.9  20.9  195.0  6.9   0.6   7.7   22
Foret Resoure- #anageunt  492.4  -  492.4  19.8   -   19.8   6
Training and Eatension  65.1  102.5  167.6  8.8  4.0   7.8   21
Resnrch                8.6    0.4     9.0   0.8   -    0.3    1
Total Boel ine Costs  761.0  12S38  6811.8  28.8  4.8  84.7  100
Physical Contingencies  6.6  7.8    14.4  0.2   0.8   0.8    2
Price Contingencies  244.2  18.0   259.2  9.6   0.6  10.2   29
Teenl Preieet ^At  1.010.8  146.6  1.157.4  89.6  8.7  48.4  181



- 25 _
B. Financing Plan
4.3      The proposed IDA credit of US$30.55 million would finance about 67Z
of total project costs, including 10? of foreign exchange costs, and 76? of
local costs. Of this, US$30.45 million is for investment costs, and US$0.10
million for recurrent costs. DANIDA has agreed to finance the Training and
Extension component under a grant, and would contribute US$6.85 million or 15?
of total project costs. UNDP would contribute US$0.51 million for technical
assistance or 1X of total project costs. Local User Groups would contribute
US$3.15 million or 7Z of total project costs. HMG's contribution would be
US$4.33 million (10X); during the project period, HMG would undertake to
reflect the total project cost in its annual budget and make timely and
adequate budget allocations to ensure that the project is implemented on
schedule. The Ministry of Finance has established a Special Operation Fund
for timely releases of project funds to enable smooth implementation of
project activities which span different fiscal periods. The proposed project
financing is shown in Table 4.2 below, and in Annex 9, Tables 1-4. IDA would
provide retroactive financing in the amount of US$3.0 million for expenditures
incurred after October 31, 1988 for procurement of materials and equipment and
to initiate plantation establishment, under the categories to be financed
under the project.
Table 4.2: PROPOSED FINANCING PLAN
(US$ million)
Financiers               Local         Foreign       Total    Percent
IDA                        30.0          0.5         30.5        67
DANIDA                      2.2          4.7          6.9        15
UNDP a/                     -            0.5          0.5         1
HMG                         4.4          -            4.4        10
User Groups b/              3.1          -            3.1         7
Total                     39.7          5.7         45.4       100
a/  UNDP contribution here reflects only part of the US$2.3 million, allocated
under the Community Forestry Development Project (NEP/85/017).
bl User Group contribution in kind, and in the form of labor for plantation
establishment and forest protection.
C. Procurement
4.4      The total procurements expected to be made, by procurement method,
are indicLted in Table 4.3. All figures include contingencies.



- 26 -
Table 4.3: PROCUREMENT
(USS million)
Procurement Method
Not          Total
Category                   ICB          LCB     Other   Applicable   Cost
1.  Works                        -          -         3.45       -          3.45
(1.26)                (1.26)
2. Goods
Vehicles                    0.58        -         -          -          0.58
(0.22)                                     (0.22)
Equipment                   0.14        0.02      -          -          0.16
(0.06)     (0.02)                          (0.08)
Materials a/                -           -         1.11       -          1.11
3.  Services
Technical Assistance        -           -         3.12       -          3.12
Training                    -           -         1.65       -          1.65
Studies & Surveys           -           -         0.21                  0.21
(0.21)      -         (0.21)
4. Labor
Staff Costs b/              -           -         -          2.30       2.30
Staff Travel, User          -           -         6.88       -          6.88
Group Formation and                            (6.07)                (6.07)
Technical Support c/
Plantation Labor
and Management d/         -           -        -          25.93      25.93
(22.71)   (22.71)
TOTAL                  0.72        0.02    16.42       28.23      45.39
(0.28)     (0.02)   (7.54)    (22.71)   (30.55)
Note: Figures in parentheses are the amounts to be financed by IDA.
a/  Includes materials, OWM.
bi  Includes salaries and training allowances.
c/  These expenditures pertain to extension and travel associated with Group
formation and are considered as investment costs (para. 3.9); includes
travel and field allowances for research staff (US$0.1 million).
d/  These expenditures include compensation payments made to User Groups for
plantations to be established under contract with FD; support for initial
protection of plantations and forests (para. 3.15 ant 3.19) and Forest
Manaaement Awards (para. 5.10).



- 27 -
4.5      Works.  IDA would finance US$1.26 million of the works, costing
approximately US$3.45 mlllion. All the works would either be too small (none
would exceed US$0.5 million), scattered over too wide an area, or schedulea
too far apart to be of interest to foreign firms. The major items are one
office annex building and four training hostels. However, ever these five
buildings are minor, as they would cost no more than US$1.0 million in total.
4.6      Goods.  Vehicles (US$0.58 million) and most of the equipment
(totalling US$0.16 million) would be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding (ICB). A margin of preference equal to 15Z of the CIF bid
price of imported goods, or the actual custom duties and import taxes, which-
ever is less, would be allowed domestic manufacturers on the US$0.28 million
worth of goods under ICB to be financed by IDA. The remaining US$0.02 million
of goods to be financed by IDA is too small to be of interest to foreign firms
and will be procured under local competitive bidding procedures acceptable to
IDA.
4.7      Services.  All the services, estimated to cost US$4.98 million except
for the US$21C,000 for studies and surveys, would be financed by donors other
than IDA and employed under procedures acceptable to their agencies. The
firms needed to perform the US$210,000 of studies and surveys will be selected
in accordance with Bank guidelines.
4.8      Labor.  IDA would finance approximately US$28.78 million of the total
incremental costs of labor for plantation establishment, out of the US$35.11
million of incremental staff and labor costs required under the project. This
US$28.78 million includes (a) US$6.07 million of staff travel required as an
investment cost to establish User Groups and provide technical support for
their initiation, and (b) US$22.71 million to compensate User Groups for labor
required to establish plantations, following Operational Plans to be executed
by User Groups as well as to undertake Forest and Plantation protection for
three years. Because this labor would be scattered throughout the Hills and
would require specialized organization by FD staff, who monitor and give the
Groups technical supervision, these works are not suitable for contracting.
The remainder of the project labor would be financed by User Groups themselves
(US$3.15 million) and carried out in the same manner as the IDA-financed
labor.
4.9      All goods and services would be packaged whenever practicable to
attract competition. All ICB goods to be procured under IDA financing would
be subject to IDA prior review. The remaining US$20,000 of contracts for
equipment, vehicles, goods and furniture would be procured under LCB and would
be subject to IDA's post-award review. Items to be financed by DANIDA would
be procured under its own guidelines.



- 28 -
D. Disbursements
4.10     Disbursement of IDA funds would be against:
(a) 100? of foreign expenditures for directly imported equipment,
furniture, and vehicles; 1002 of local expenditures (ex-factory
cost) for locally manufactured goods; and 75Z of local expen-
ditures for goods procured locally (US$0.30 million):
(b) 402 of expenditures for civil works (US$1.26 million);
(c) 100? of expenditures for staff travel, User Group formation and
technical support (US$5.97 million);
(d) 1002 of expenditures for seedling production and plantation
establishment by FD (US$9.84 million);
(e) 80? of expenditures for plantation establishment by User Groups
(US$9.91 million);
(f) 80? of expenditures for Forest and Plantation protection by
User Groups (US$2.96 million);
Cg) 1002 of expenditures for travel and field allowances for
research staff (US$0.10 million); and
Ch) 1002 of expenditures for consultant services for studies and
surveys (US$0.21 million).
(See Annex 9, Table 3.)
4.11     Disbursements against (a) equipment, vehicles, goods, and furniture
contracts above US$20,000 would be fully documented; for those below
US$20,000, itemized statements of expenditure would be used and the documenta-
tion retained at CFDD and made available for review by IDA supervision mis-
sions. Disbursements against (b) civil works would be fully documented.
Disbursements for (c) Group formation and technical support would be made
against statements of expenditure. Disbursements against (d) and (e), plan-
tation activities, would be made against statements of expenditure which would
have to be submitted with details of plantations, including location; area
planted or managed; type of expenditures; and whether plantations were estab-
lished under force account or by contract (following individual Operational
Plans) with User Groups. Statements of expenditure would be prepared by the
Ranger in charge of the area where plantations are located and would be cer-
tified by the DFO. Disbursements for (f) forest and plantation protection;
and (g) travel and field allowances would be made against statements of expen-
diture. Disbursemeits against (h), all consultant services, would be fully
documented. Documents supporting statements of expenditure (including, in the
case of User Group plantations, copies of their Certificates and Operational
Plans) would not be submitted to IDA for review, but would be retained at CFDD
and would be made available for inspection and review by IDA representatives



- 29 -
during project supervision. To the extent possible, withdrawal applications
would be aggregated in amounts of US$50,000 or more prior to submission to
IDA.
4.12     The project would be implemented over a seven-year period, and build
on the existing institutional base established during the first Community
Forestry project (Credit 1008-NEP). Project implementation is expected to be
slower during the first two years because of tLe time required to train exten-
sion staff, promote the concept of community forestry within the communities,
and help form and train the User Groups to take over their assigned forests.
The experience from the ongoing Community Forestry projects in Nepal indicates
that once the system is established, the pace of project implementation and
hence the rate of disbursement would be faster than IDA's ten-year average
disbursement profile for Nepal. For this project, the expected disbursement
period is 8.5 years, given the time lag between implenentation and disburse-
ments. In order to facilitate disbursements, IDA would set up a Special
Account in the amount of US$1.5 million, representing an estimated 4 months'
expenditure, with the Nepal Rastra Bank to cover the categories funded by IDA
(Annex 9, Table 3). Funds from this Account would be withdrawn in proportion
to the categories financed. An indicative disbursements schedule is shown in
Annex 9. Table 4. The estimated Completion Date for the proposed project is
December 31, 1996, and the estimated Closing Date is December 31, 1997.
E. Accounts and Audit
4.13     Accounts.  HMG would require the implementing agencies--MFSC
(Training Division), Department of Forestry and Plant Research (Forestry
Research Division), and Forest Department--to maintain separate accounts and
records of project expenditures, including separate records for the Special
Account and for items disbursed against statements of expenditures, by project
component and subcomponent. All records of expendituares, deliveries, and
payments should be retained until one year after the Closing Date and made
available for inspection by IDA. HMG would establish funds under a separate
budget head for compensation and support payments to User Groups for plan-
tation establishment, forest protection, and Forest Management awards.
4.14     Audit.  The Auditor General is responsible for auditing all accounts.
HMG undertakes to ensure that all accounts are maintained according to sound
accounting principles and that the scope of the audit is sufficient to eval-
uate the economy, efficiency, and effectiveness of public expenditure. The
performance of HMG in fulfilling IDA accounting and audit requirements has
improved in recent years but in many instances the submission of audited pro-
ject accounts has been late. This is because (a) the projects are audited by
the Auditor General as part of the overall financial records of the imple-
menting department; and (b) the Auditor General does not release his full
audit report to IDA until it is cleared through several steps including as a
final step, presentation to the National Panchayat.
4.15     To facilitate compliance with covenants related to auditing require-
ments in IDA-supported projects, an IDA consultant would be available to



- 30 -
assist project accounting staff to prepare separate wcoject accounts in the
detail and format required. IDA has also agreed wit. HHG on the draft format
and content of the auditor's report on accounts. These can be prepared by an
independent auditor acceptable to IDA, without waiting for the full audit
report of the Auditor General on the concerned depactment's overall annual
financial accounts. Similar procedures would be instituted, as necessary, for
specific audit certification of all withdrawal applications based on
statements of expenditure.
4.16     At negotiations, agreement was reached that MFSC would (a) maintain
separate records and accounts for all project expenditures, by individual
project component and subcomponent, and in accordance with appropriate ac-
counting principles; (b) within six months of the end of each fiscal year,
submit to IDA copies of the project accounts (including the Special Account),
certified as to their authenticity and accuracy by the Auditor General or such
other independent auditor au he may delegate to; (c) within twelve months
after the end of each fiscal year, submit to IDA certified copies of the
annual audit reports as well as audit opinions on both the project accounts
(including the Special Account) und the statements of expenditure
(para. 8.1(f)); and (d) furnish to IDA such other information concerning
audits and accounts as IDA shall from time to time reasonably request.
Included in the annual audit reports would be a separate opinion from the
auditor as to whether the disbursements made on the basis of statements of
expenditure submitted during the fiscal year were incurred for the purposes of
the project, and whether the procedures and internal controls involved in the
preparatio-. of these statements can be relied upon to support the related
withdrawals.
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Project Organization
5.1      The proposed project would be the main vehicle for implementing
MFSC's Hill Community forestry program. Although the project would initially
concentrate on 37 out of 55 Hill Districts (Annex 3), it would have consider-
ably wider impact on the implementation of the Community Forestry program
through its support to FD in the areas of planning, training and extension,
and monitoring and evaluation, and to DFPR in the area of forestry research.
Project activities can be undertaken in any of the other Hill Districts,
should their existing programs discontinue or prove inadequate. The role of
FD staff in project organization is discussed below and details of existing
staff and incremental staff requirements are given in Annex 10.
5.2      The Director General of Forests (DGF) would be designated as the
Project Coordinator and would have overall responsibility for implementing the
project. He would be assisted by the Community Forestry Development Division
(CFDD) to oversee project implementation and monitor project progress. DGF
would also delegate responsibility for day-to-day project implementation to
the five Regional Directors; this would allow him to concentrate on central
issues such as program development; budgetary support; staff deployment and



- 31 -
training; coordinationi with other line Ministries and other relevant agencies;
assessment of program impact on local communities; incentives, extension
support and pricing policy issues.
5.3      CFDD.  CFDD, one of the four Divisions of FD, is responsible for
coordinating the implementation of Community Forestry programs at the national
level, and ensuring that the activities carried out in the Districts conform
with the policy guidelines and targets of HMG's Forestry Sector Policy. CFDD
would ensure that the field organization is supported in its work with maps,
planning data, technical assistance, and research and other inputs from
related projects, as well as the findings of special studies and vurveys to
help improve technical standards of operations. Under the proposed project,
CFDD functions as the secretariat of DGF, assisting him to oversee project
implementation. Among its duties, CFDD would liaise with relevant Ministries
to ensure timely budgetary allocations and smooth flow of funds; coordinate
training and extension activities with other agencies and other bilatercl-
funded community forestry projects; monitor project progress and project
accounts, and handle procurement and disbursement matters; and hire special-
ists as needed from time to time. CFDD would be headed by an officer at the
Deputy DG level, and would have three specialized Sections: (a) the Community
and Private Forestry Section; (b) the Afforestation Section; and (c) the
Extension and Communication Section. It would be strengthened by the addition
of a Senior Accountant/Procurement Officer to be seconded from FD's Financial
Administration Section; agreement was reached at negotiations that he would be
in post by December 31, 1989 (para. 8.1 (d)). Technical specialists recruited
under the project will also be attached to CFDD and work closely with the
Forest Research Division of DFPR; they include the land use, forest manage-
ment, and monitoring and evaluation specialists, as well as others recruited
to undertake the various studies and surveys (para. 3.28).
5.4      Regional Directors.  The Regional Directors w,ould act as Regional
Project Coordinators within their respective territories. They would
(a) review district forestry development proposals prepared by DFOs to ensure
that they are technically and economically sound, and conform to the Community
Forestry policy of HMG; (b) supervise program implementation; (c) undertake
and prepare pariodic monitoring and evaluation reports to be submitted to DGF
and copied to the DFOs under their charge. Each of the five Regional Direc-
tors would be assisted by three Assistant Forest Officers responsible for
Training and Extension, Monitoring and Evaluation, and Forest Management,
respectively.
5.5      The DFO vould be responsible for implementing the project at the
District level. He would identify the areas of State forest land in his
District which can be transferred to local community management at PF and PPF,
and verify with the Panchayat that these lands are not under dispute and can
be transferred according to FD-established criteria. The Procedures and
Instructions for doing this would be described in the Guidelines which MFSC is
developing. The Guidelines would also authorize the DFO, in consultation with
the Regional Directors, to authorize such transfers of individual areas of
forest lands into PF and PPF (para. 3.12). DFO is also responsible for
assessing program uptake, the number of Groups expected to form in his area,
and the areas to be planted or handed over. This assessment forms the basis
of FD's budgetary projections for the following year, which becomes indicative



- 32 -
ceilings for expenditures under a separate PF or PPF Operational Plans pro-
posed by individual User Groups (paras. 3.13 and 3.14).
5.6      Each of the DFOs in the project area would be assisted by an Attached
Officer (Gazetted III), who will be designated as Community Forestry Officer
(CFO).  The category A and B Districts, which already have Attached Officers,
will designate these as CFOs with tto additional tusk of Community Forestry
organization, training and extension. In the category C Districts, the DFO
will be assisted by a Ranger in performing these duties. In these category C
Districts (the less developed Districts), the DFOs would concentrate more on
community forests, as national forests in these Districts would be of minor
importance. If at a later stage these DFOs are called on to do tasks other
than Community Forestry, the FD will assign an Attached Officer to the
District. At the field level, the DFO would be assisted by his Forest Rangers
and Field Assistants.
5.7      Field Staff.  The Forest Ranger, Assistant Ranger and Fleld Assistant
would perform the tasks of initiating Community Forestry organization, pro-
viding technical support to User Groups, and encouraging private planting.
Through extension work and village-level discussions, the Ranger would create
the init'al awareness of the provisions of the Community Forestry program. As
Groups form, the Ranger would register their applications as statements of
interest in and commitment to the protection, maintenance and astablishment of
specific forest areas, and would submit these to the Panchayat for clearance
and endorsement (para. 3.9). When this is completed, the Ranger ensures that
the Group, through the Panchayat, receives a Certificate from FD (para. 3.9).
The ganger then helps the Group to draw up a simple Operational Plan, advising
the Group on technical options (species, spacing, harvesting modes and rota-
tional patterns for utilization of fuelwood and fodder), and any improvement3
over indigenous management systems. The Ranger would facilitate group consen-
sus on User Group labor contribution, and protection and harvesting measures.
The DPO and Ranger would maintain close contact with established User Groups
through routine visits, and assess progress of field work in order to author-
ize compensation payments and provision of agreed inputs according to the
Operational Plan (which includes d Management Contract between the User Group
and FD for plantation establishment) and according to rates for compensation
payments set by FD under individual work Contracts with User Groups.
5.8      In accordance with FD's intentions, territorial Forest Rangers at
present assigned to the protection of National forests would gradually trans-
fer from solely territorial functions to Community Forestry functions as in-
creasing areas of National forests are handed over to the User Groups. The
Forestry Master Plan envisages the designation of 222 Range offices as ter-i-
torial offices (whose functions are mainly to safeguard and regulate activi-
ties in National forests), and 453 Range offices as "Forest Service Centers,
which would function as extension and service centers to assist local cormuni-
ties to undertake community and private forestry activities. In the Hill
Districts, it is envisaged that more and more territorial Range offices would
gradually transform into Service Centers over time, in recognition of the
dependence of the Hill population on the forestry resource. Eventually, a
minimal number of Range offices would retain territorial duties over those
areas of stFte forest lands which are to be retained as National forests.



- 33 -
5.9      User Groups.  The proposed project calls for the establishment of up
to 4,000 or so User Groups as functionally operative entities which would
implement the bulk of project plantation and forest resource management activ-
ities. The User Group concept is a mecharism that has the flexibility to
incorporate actual forest users into program and project implementation,
reflect traditional usage patterns, and thereby potentially harness the incen-
tive of the local population to develop and enhance the forest resource to
which their traditional access can be recognized and safeguarded. Group mem-
bers may reside within one, or a combination of Wards and Panchayats. The
important feature of the Group as a behavioral unit is its shared interest in
resource management; its cohesiveness is reinforced by the realities of daily
social interacticn as members go about utilizing a shared resource according
to recognized informal ground rules for maintenance, protection, and utiliza-
tion. The Groups vary in size, and comprise those households having a vested
interest in the shared resource. Such organizations are known throughout
Nepal, and have persisted even despite previous efforts of officialdom and
various forestry projects to manage and improve what is legally a State-owned
forest estate. Cases of successful village forest management by local User
Groups are documented in Annex 2.
5.10     EMG's Community Forestry policy now recognizes that sustained devel-
opment of the Hill forest resource can only be achieved by full participation
and cuoperation of local users. In accord8nce with this, there is a need to
develop vehiclus for local participation and representation which are formed
at the grassroot level, even lower than that of the Panchayat or Ward. The
social groupings that already exist would therefore be recognized and for-
malized and their roles and functions would be clearly defined.  As a body
entrusted with the management of a valuable aset, the User Groups will enable
sustained lotal resource mobilization so that the rural communities can even-
tually share the cost of rural and community forestry development with
Government, according to HMG's stated intentions. During the establisbment
phase, the Ue.r Groups would be told that they could apply for financial
assistance of up to three years to employ local village foresters to help
implement their Operational Plan and protect the forest. This arrangement is
deliberately kept temporary, and is only to give additional incentive for User
Groups to form and participate in project activities. Once convinced of the
importance and benefits of protection and management, it is envisaged that
local Groups would work out their own arrangements for protection and manage-
ment, including labor contributions by individual member-household, or tradi-
tional remuneration for the continued services of a village forester using
mani-pathiV (Annex 2).   Where more than one village forester may be
required, the User Group twould provide the additional personnel as a matching
contribution. The estimate for number of village foresters (Annex 4, Table 2)
is based on a phased estimate of one foreater per User Group for three years.
As an additional incentive, Forest Management Awards would be given to indi-
vidual User Groups which make good progress in implementing their Operational
Plans. This system has been found to be very effective and generates con-
siderable local interest, recognition, and pride in local achievements. FD
would work out the mode for giving these Axards.



- 34 -
B. Monitoring and Evaluation
5.11     An important aspect of the project would be the monitoring and eval-
uation of project activities at a number of administrative levels. At hea-
dquarters, a monitoring and information system would be designed by the
Monitoring ard Evaluation Division (MED) of MFSC in collaboration with CFDD,
and with the assistance of the Monitoring and Evaluation consultant. Drawing
upon the experience gained from the first IDA-financed Community Forestry
project and from other donor-assisted projects, the Monitoring and Evaluation
specialist and MED would help CFDD, Regional and District forest offices to
develop a simple, integrated system of record-keeping based on measurable
indications of project progress which can be maintained at the relevant levels
of operation and which would funnel from the field through the Regional
Directorates, to CFDD. With this system, MFSC and FD would also be able to
monitor the overall condition of the forest, the required baseline information
for which would be recorded by FD's field staff in the Operational Plans prior
to the handing-over of management responsibility of the forest to the User
Group. Copies of the Operational Plans would be kept in the DFO's office.
5.12     At the Regional level, Regional Directors would be responsible for
monitoring. They would each be assisted by a Monitoring and Evaluation
Section, headed by one officer of DFO grade, and five Forest Rangers. Members
of the Section would visit the Districts regularly to evaluate the progress of
program implementation, prepare progress reports every six months, and submit
them to DGF, with copies tc the concerned Districts. Based on these Regional
reports, CFDD would prepare a consolidated semi-annual progress report (cover-
ing each six-month period ending every July 15 and January 15) for review and
approval by DGF and the Senior AccountantlProcurement Officer in DGF's office.
The report would then be submitted to IDA every March 15 and September 15.
The report would include indicators of physical and financial progress,
including procurements; disbursements; progress in formation of User Groups;
formulation of Operational Plans; extension training and research activities;
performance of the nurseries, including seedling survival, seedling demand and
distribution; User Group response to level of compensation payments made as
well as support for the hiring of local village foresters; and comments on
program uptake and general performanre. The reports would also include
actions taken, further recommendations by the Regional Directors and follow-up
actions decided by DGF. Submission of these semi-annual reports is a require-
ment under the Operational Action Program (Annex 6).
5.13     Mid-Term Review Report and Workshop.  A Mid-Term Review of the
project would be carried out by MFSC 'Monitoring and Evaluation Division) and
FD (CFDD) to assess the effectiveness of project implementation, taking into
account the progress indicators included in the semi-annual reports
(para. 5.12) as well as the Periodic Assessment Studies (para. 3.28 (c)). It
would recommend adjustments in project scope, strategy, or implementation
targets as necessary. Both foreign and local consultants would be recruited
for this task. The Mid-Term Review report and recommendations would be sub-
mitted to IDA and DANIDA by Marcn 15, 1993. Following this Review, MFSC would
conduct a Workshop to which key project staff and donors would be invited.
The Workshop would discuss the Report and Recommendations of the Mid-Term
Review, project status, and suggestiots for implementation arrangements in the



- 35 -
remaining project period. Agreement was reached at negotiations that MFSC
would hold this Coordinating Workshop no later than May 1, 1993
(para. 8.1 (g)).
5.14     Project Completion Report.  At project completion, a Project Comple-
tion Report would similarly be submitted to IDA and DANIDA by MFSC no later
than six months after project closing. Submission of the Mid-Term, Review
Report and Project Completion Report is incladed in the Operational Action
Program (Annex 6).
C. Review and Coordination among Staff and Donors
5.15     To enable the sharing of experiences between the various Hill
Districts, at least one day of the Reorientation workshops to be held for
DFOS, CFOs, LDOs and Rangers (Annex 5) will be devoted to reviewing progress
in their respective Districts on Group formation, formulation of Operational
Plans, and implementation arrangements. Such workshops have been found bene-
ficial in the past, especially where new programs are being introduced. These
workshops would be held at Katbmandu or at the regional training centers.
Donors and relevant agencies would be invited to observe and contribute to
these discussions. The Training Division would ensure that these reviews
would form an integral part of those Reorientation workshops held after
January 1, 1990 (Operational Action Program, Annex 6).
VI. DEMAND, PRODUCTION, AND FINANCIAL IMPLICATIONS
A. Demand and Usage of Forest Products
6.1      Fuelwood.  The annual per capita household energy requirement is
approximately equivalent to 708 kg fuelwood, 53Z of which is collected at no
monetary cost frca public forests, and the balance from privately-owned land
in the form of fuelvood and agricultural residues. The total household
energy requirement of the project area, expressed in terms of fuelwood equiv-
alent, is about 3.8 million tons. About 0.5 million tons of this is supplied
from agricultural residues, while 3.3 million tons is fuelwood, of which 2.0
million tons is obtained from forests, with the rest coming from private
lands. According to Central Bureau of Statistics projections, the population
in the Hills is estimated to grow at 2Z annually. Assuming that the current
per capita consumption of fuelwood remains unchanged, demand for energy in
the project area will reach 5.9 million tons by the year 2010. Within the
same period, projected annual incremental fuelwood output of the project
would be about 2.2 million tons. This would bring the totai fuelwood output
of forests to 4.2 million tons, which would meet about 71% of demand. At
this level of production, the share of forests in fuelwood supply is esti-
mated to increase about 8Z. The Hill farmer's energy needs would require
about a 32 annual increase in agricultural residues and supply of fuelvood
from non-forest areas. Commercial markets account for only a small portion
of total fuelwood consumption in the Hills. However, markets for fuelwood do



- 36 -
exist. Data obtained from the Nepal Rastra Bank show that prices for fuel-
wood in Hill towns has risen in real terms at an annual rate of over 6z over
the last 17 years, largely reflecting the cost of collection from more remote
areas. Given the rates of population growth and depletion of forest
resources, this trend can be expected to accelerate.
6.2      Fodder.  The livestock population of the project area includes ap-
proximately 2.4 million cattle, 1.0 million buffaloes, and 1.7 million goats
and sheep. According to Master Plan estimates, fodder requirements for these
numbers total more than 3.8 million tons of digestible nutrients (TDN) per
year and are expected to grow at a rate of about 1.72 per year. Leaf fodder
obtained from forests comprises about 212 of the total fodder supply.
Projected incremental fodder production of the project would reach and level
off at 0.8 million tons of TDN by Year 15. Although this is a 212 increase
over the current supply of fodder, the fodder deficit in the Hills would
continue to grow unless drastic measures are taken to produce feed in the
agriculture sector and reduce livestock population ' the Hills. Like fuel-
wood, fodder is also collected from public lands, and is frequently a strong
incentive for both improved community management of forest lands, as well as
a switch to stall-feeding.
6.3      Leaf Litter.  Dry leaves gathered from the forest floor are used
extensively for livestock bedding and for mixing with manure for compost.
Reliable data are not available on the volume of biomass removed from the
forest in this way. Data on compost use on cropland suggest that, on aver-
age, more than two tons of manure and leaf litter is applied per hectare to
cultivated land in the Hills. It is estimated that more than 502 of total
litter production is removed from the Hill forests; this seriously impedes
the nutrient cycle and results in transfer of soil fertility from the forest
to the fields in the long run.
6.4      Timber and Building Poles.  Consumption of wood for home and farm
construction, agricultural implements, and other uses amounts to about 0.04
tons/person per year.
B. Production and Yields
6.5      Under the project, fuelwood plantations are expected to yield mean
annual increments (MAI) of 6.9 tGns of solid wood and 0.7 tons of fodder per
hs over thirty years. Forage yields will initially be at least 2.1
tons/ha/year due to rapid establishment of undergrowth. As canopy closure
occurs (Year 6), yields may fall to about 0.5 tons/ha/year by Year 6.
However, it is expected that new silvopastoral models developed under the
project will allow yields to be maintained at initial high levels. Fuelwood
harvested will primarily be from regular thinning, pruning and singling oper-
ations, with major harvests at longer intervals, say Years 15, 20, 25 and 30.
Timber harvested will total 251 of solid wood extracted and is estimated to
also take place in Years 15, 20, 25 and 30. Yields from private planting of
seedlings distributed under the project are assumed to parallel those of
plantations. For private plantings, a seedling survival rate of 752 and
stocking rate of 540 seedlings per ha are used to estimate plantation area



- 37 -
equivalence; planting would usually be supplemental and often designed to
maintain ground cover, grasses, and understorey species. Minor forest
products such as grass for thatching, medicinal plants, and edible products
would be additional benefits from the project. Under the project, individual
Operational Plans would be established according to User Group requirements.
6.6      Species planted under the project would include chir pine (Pinus
roxburghii), utis (Alnus nepalensis), Lapsi (Choerospondias axillaris) and
other species. The reliance during the first Community Forestry project
(Credit 1008-NEP) on coniferous species would be reduced and greater emphasis
placed on broadleaved species, which are valued by communities for fodder
production and for high quality fuelwood. However, pines would continue to
be important because of their better performance in difficult environments.
6.7      In existing natural forests, management practices promoted under the
project will enhance yield and hopefully reverse yield declines due to over-
cutting. Natural forests which are normally stocked currently yield 2.3
tons/ha/year, while degraded forests currently yield about 0.7 tons/ha/year.
Over the project period, yields are expected to rise in both types of areas
to 5.5 tons/ha/year over a thirty-year period.  In addition, the project
would prevent the degradation of the more accessible parts of the normally
stocked forest that would otherwise be threatened by overutilization.
.Avoidance of these losses is tantamount to an additional yield ranging from
2.3 to 0.7 tons (averaging 1.6 tcns) per ha per year for the area to be
brought under management each year. Improved management is expected to
result in an increased fodder yield of 0.5 tons/ha/year, and an average
incremental yield of 0.2 tons/ha/year of timber. Environmental and social
concerns would be addressed over the course of the project through developing
new silvopastoral methods which would maintain vegetative ground cover and
understorey species.
6.8      New silvopastoral models will be required to be developed during
initial project years which can better meet environmental needs and forage
requirements through improving forage production and maintaining vegetative
ground cover and understorey shrubs and bushes by decreasing the number of
trees per hectare and making use of contour planting technologies. These new
models would also provide more sustainable supplies of desired products.
Overall, the incremental production from the project is expected to total
43.0 million tons of fuelwood, 17.6 million tons of fodder, and 6.2 million
tons of timber over a thirty-year period.
C. Cost Recovery
6.9      Poverty is widespread in the project area.  Project output would
supplement the fuel and fodder which is traditionally collected without pay-
ment from public forests, and it is not feasible to institute a pricing mech-
anism or to expect full cost recovery at the outset. In lieu of direct cost
recovery, the project is designed to intensify community involvement in plan-
tation management and forest establishment, which would result in cost-shar-
ing by the communities. As community forestry becomes institutionalized, and
as benefits from community forests are realized, the financial assistance



- 38 -
initially extended by HKG to User Groups in the form of plantation estab-
lishment and initial protection costs would decrease. The rate at which User
Groups form and are able to undertake afforestation and forest protection
will be assessed periodically, with the objective of reducing HMG's financial
support to the community forestry program over time. As labor comprises 75Z
of plantation establishment costs, a principal indicator of the long-term
success and sustainability of the project would be the extent to which com-
munity participation evolves to absorb a share of plantation costs. HKG
would also monitor seedling uptake as a basi.s for gradually increasing seed-
ling prices charged to the community, and creating market conditions condu-
cive to privatization of seedling production in the longer term (para. 3.14).
VII. BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
A. Project Benefits
7.1      The proposed project would help Nepal establish a forest management
system that would conserve and expand the forest resources needed to sustain
the traditional farming systems in the Hills. Specifically, it would do this
by helping to:
(a)   conserve and stabilize a fragile ecosystem, as well as  regen-
erate and expand Nepal's Hill forest resources, and promote
long-term forest resource management. Environmental benefits
would accrue from the protection and improved management of at
least 400,000 ha of forest lands and -he establishment of some
56,300 ha of new plantations following the introduction of new
models which include silvopastoral and ground cover consider-
ations. This would guard against overutilization and help
stabilize the fragile mountain soils that characterize the
Hills region (paras. 7.9-7.10). Local strategies for the
management of these forests would be developed, and areas
assigned as National and Community Forests would be clearly
identified so that the needs for each, and the responsibil-
ities for their management, may be clearly defined;
(b)   increase the production of fuelwood, fodder, and timber needed
by the local communities. The direct benefits to the popula-
tion of the target area include the production of some 30.8
million m tons of fuelwood, 13.6 million m tons of fodder, and
4.3 million m3 of timber and poles over a thirty-year period.
Other direct benefits include the generation of over 100,000
years of full-time employment with total wage payments exceed-
ing NR 0.5 billion. The women who traditionally collect fuel
and fodder would benefit from the improved supply and access
to renewed sources. An important benefit would be the acceD-
tance of the rights of local users to much-needed forest
produce, the harvesting of which currently puts them in tech-
nical violation of existing forest regulations. By systemat-
ically implementing HMG's stated Forestry Sector policy and



- 39 -
enabling the orderly transfer of forest land to local commun-
ities, the project would reduce a major source of friction
between the people and government authorities and support the
livelihood of the rural poor;
(C)   increase the capability of FD to plan resource allocation and
assist local User Groups to manage and develop forests. This
would be achieved, inter alia, througt the provision of inten-
sive staff training which would increase staff productivity in
the medium- and long-term, as well as detailed maps, a basic
tool to aid program planning. The project would create the
facilities and policy environment to permit improved develop-
ment plann.ng and implementation. The project does not en-
visage any radical change in the existing institutions. It
supports the intensive redeployment and retraining of FD sta1.f
and reorientation of FD's forest management and program imple-
mentation priorities in the Hills.
B. Economic Analysis
7.2      The economic analysis is estimated only on the direct benefits from
forest management, plantation establishment, and seedling distribution.  Bene-
fits resulting from institution building and environmental protection and
improvement, although substantial, are difficult to quantify and have not been
included in the analysis.
7.3      Input Prices.  All inputs, except for unskilled labor, are valued at
border prices using the standard conversion factor of 0.9 for non-traded
inputs. Wages for labor engaged in plantation establishment (which generally
occurs during peak agricultural periods) currently valued at NR 28 per day,
are adjusted by a conversion factor of 0.9. Wages for labor engaged in main-
tenance and protection (which is done throughout the year) are adjusted by a
conversion factor of 0.6. Taxes and duties have been excluded from the
analysis.
7.4      Output Prices.  Most forest products that would be produced under the
project are currently collected by family members at no cost other than the
time and labor involved. Alternative approaches to calculating economic
prices were considered: these included using the price of substitutable com-
mercial fuels, the productive value of non-traded substitutes such as cattle
dung, and the value of labor expended in collection of forest products. The
first two alternatives were rejected for the following reasonst the use of
alternative fuels such as kerosene is extremely limited in the project area
and it is generally used only for purposes such as lighting and not for cook-
ing or space heating; and surveys conducted under the first project also show
that, contrary to expectations, only negligible amounts of cattle dung are
burned as fuel in the Hills. Consequently, the value of forest products has
been based on the value of wages foregone for collection. The assumption is
that true willingness to pay for a good would at least equal and possibly
exceed the value of resources foregone in its procurement. This yields an
estimate of the value of wood at the farmgate which is used directly as the



-40 -
value of wood produced from the private planting component. Economic prices
are therefore valued in terms of labor expended, using the wage rates and
conversion factors (shadow prices) mentioned in para. 7.3. In the base case,
prices are assumed to rise 62 per annum in real terms along the trend of the
last 17 years (para. 6.1).9/
7.5      Fuelwood.  Estimates of the time that Hill families devote to fuel-
wood collection vary tremendously, from about 75 staff-days of labor per year
to over 130 for collection of approximately 4 tons of firewood. According to
Shrestha (1982) and Joshee (1986), perhaps one-third of this work is performed
by children.10/   Fuelwood collection takes place throughout the year, thus
minimizing conflicts with peak agricultural periods. Available information
indicates that two-thirds of fuelwood is collected during the off-season. and
the remainder during the peak season. Accordingly, using the wage rates dis-
cussed in para. 7.3 above, fuelwood is valued at NR 262/ton 11/ at the farm-
gate.   This estimate compares with NR 867/ton as calculated for the appraisal
of the first project using a cattle dung equivalency approach and with NR
917/ton as calculated by the FAO/CP preparation team also using a dung equiv-
alency approach. This comparison is reasonable and consistent with the find-
ing that dung is not used as fuel. The economic prices are considerably below
the urban market prices. This is reasonable, given high transportation and
marketing costs and the monopolistic structure of the major urban markets. To
account for transport costs, plantation output and incremental yields from
natural forest management are valued on the stump at NR 150/ton; this is equi-
valent to assuming that plantations are located so as to reduce the distance
travelled to collect wood by about 60Z.
7.6      Fodder.  Data from a number of farm management studies indicate that
the time devoted to fodder collection by the average family is 250 staff-days
per year. This labor requirement varies by season, with most collection being
done during the late summer and autumn months. Fodder collection during this
period may fall short of nutritional requirements, reducing milk yields.
Consequently, valuing fodder on the basis of labor time is a conservative
approach and probably understates the real value of fodder. Assuming that
one-half of collection takes place during peak periods and using the wage
rates and conversion factors (shadow prices) given above, the economic price
of fodder is NR 150 per ton of fodder.12/
9/ This assumes that the observed price increase is due to the
dimunition of forest cover and the need to travel and transport
wood over greater distances.
10/ Child labor has been valued the same as adult labor because
children often perform other farm tasks, especially animal feeding
and tending, which substitute for adult labor, and because other
pursuits, including schooling, may actually present higher social
opportunity costs.
11/ 50 days x NR 20/day X .6 - 600, plus 25 days X NR 20/day X .9 - NR
450, equals NR 1050. NR 1050 divided by 4 tons - NR 262/ton.
12/ 125 days X NR 20/day X .9 - NR 2250 plus 125 days X NR 20/day X .6
= NR 1500, equals NR 3750 divided by 25 tons = NR 150/ton.



- 41 -
7.7      Rates of Return and Net Present Value.  The economic analysis
compared direct incremental output with directly productive investment costs,
thereby excluding the costs of the Training and Research Components. The
Training and Research components were excluded from the analysis because the
primary benefits of these investments will be mainly institution building and
human resource development, which are difficult to quantify. The evaluation
indicated an overall economic rate of return (ERR) of 36Z. Plantation com-
ponent benefits and direct costs were also analyzed and found to yield a rate
of return of 21Z.
The economic rates of return (ERR) and net present values (NPV) are as
follows:
ERR                   NPV
I            (at IOZ in NR million)
Project                              36                   5058
Plantation (Benefits and
direct costs)                        21                    965
7.8      Sensitivity Analysis.  The sensitivity of the rate of return esti-
mates was studied by allowing for changes as follows: (a) a more conservative
rate of output price increases; (b) a lower initial level of prices; (c) in-
crease in the overall level of costs; and (d) delayed onset of project bene-
fits due to slower than anticipated rate of User Group formation. The resuilts
of this analysis are shown below in Table 7.1.



- 42 -
Table 7.1 - Rate of Return and
Sensitivity Analysis
(1)                           (2)
Scenarios                                                    Plantation
Project                       Component
1. Base case                     36?                              21?
(assumes 6Z p.a.
real price
increase)
2. Sensitivity
Analysis,
assuming:
(a) 3? p.a. real
price increase                 31?                             16Z
(b) initial
output price
level at 60? of
base case                      29?                             17?
(c) total cost
increase by 70?                28?                             17?
td) delayed onset
of benefits by 2
years                          29?                             16?
The ERR is relatively insensitive to cost and benefit changes, largely due to
the Forest Management component which yields high benefits in return for minimal
direct costs, except for that of institutional support and extension staff over-
heads. The analyksis nhows that even with large changes in the assumptions used
in project design, the project would remain economically viable.
C. Environmental Impact
7.9      Loss of forest cover has been the dominant form of environmental
degradation in Nepal during recent years. The proposed project will help to
reverse this degradation through direct investment and by furthering HMG's
policy of decentralizing control over forest resources in heavily populated
areas to enlist the cooperation of local villagers. Institutional support to
FD and the provision of detailed maps for planning, will improve PD capability
to monitor and plan the development of the forest resource. The emphasis on



- 43 -
extension and the obligation to seek out and work with local forest users will
also ensure that the community forestry program is solidly based with support
at the grassroot level.
7.10     The investments and activities in the proposed project will enable
reforestation of degraded land and improvement of existing forests. These
results will help to reduce erosion, sedimentation, and the severity of flash
flooding often attributed to the removal of fore't cnver in the Hills. Since
soil and water erosion can still take place in plantations and forests where
there is no ground cover, environmental rehabilitation will also be addressed
through developing new silvicultural models which decrease spacing of trees,
encourage grass, shrub, bush, and other understorey growth, and through exper-
iments with contour planting of trees and grasses.
D. Risks and Remedies
7.11     The main risks of the project and proposed remedial measures are as
follows:
(a)  Forest Department policy and staff.  FD staff may inadequately
implement HHG's Community Forestry policy, due to insufficient
clarity of objectives, and inadequate organization and moti-
vation of FD staff. This risk would be minimized by (i) ensur-
ing that the responsibilities of ?D and entitlements of local
User Groups are clearly defined; (ii) simplifying the adminis-
trative procedures and establishing clear implementation
targets and performance indicators for PD staff; (iii) develop-
ing and implementing effective training programs for FD staff
and local communities; and (iv) strengthening the monitoring,
evaluation and supervision capabilities of FD. Remedies for
these risks are provided for under the project through the
proposed organizational, structure of the project, the required
Guidelines incorporating operational procedures and instruc-
tions for FD staff, & strong monitoring and evaluation system,
and an intensive training program, as described in Chapter III
and in conditions to be met during the implementation of the
project (Chapter VIII).
(b)  The local communities and User Groups.   Local communities and
User Groups may not fully understand the new policy or may be
slow in assuming related responsibilities. To minimize this
risk, the project provides for intensive extension and training
of the FD staff as well as communities, and in particular, the
User Groups.
(c)  Potential conflict of interest between local bureaucracies
(Panchayats) and User Groups to cooperatively manage the forest
resources. Political interests at the Panchayat level to
retain a source of revenue and the needs at the local village
level for forest products may work against co-neration for
longer-term conservation. There is currently no incentive for



- 44 -
communities to manage the forests they utilize while effective
management is well beyond the means of the Forest Department.
However, experience from various community forestry projects in
Nepal indicates that rural forest users have responded to in-
centivea such as clear management responsibilities for forest
areas which they have protected, direct control over the choice
of silvopastoral models which are relevant to local needs, and
the ability to use products thereby generated. The project
seeks to vest these powers in the hands of local forest users
so that the incentives to protect and maintain forest areas are
not negated by bureaucratic control. Measures proposed to
mitigate this risk include clear definition of User G-oups'
role and functions, their benefits from participation, and
technical and financial support for their forestry d'velopment
activities. These measures and the necessary incentives have
been iLcluded in the project design and conditionalities below.
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATICNS
8.1      Agreement was reached at negotiations that:
(a) MFSC would, by December 31, 1989, ootain LRMP land use maps;
obtain planning information for each project district; and
identify those areas of state forests that would be handed over
to local forest User Groups to be formed for this purpose
(para. 3.7);
(b) MFSC would, during the project period, cause to be established
forest User Groups with membership, functions, and powers ac-
ceptable to IDA (para. 3.10), and that disbursement of funds
allocated to User Groups would be in accordance with terms and
conditions agreed with IDA (para. 3.12);
(c) MFSC would, by December 31, 1991, undertake a study on seedling
uptake and submit the results of that study and a draft seed-
ling pricing policy to IDA for review and by June 30, 1992
implement such a policy, taking into account IDA's comments
(para. 3.14);
(d)  HMG/MFSC would ensure that by December 31, 1989, the following
key project staff would have been sanctioned and appointed to
their posts: at the Regional Training Centers of MFSC, five
Training Officers (para. 3.22); at the Forestry Research
Division of the Department of Forest and Plant Research, four
Senior Research Officers and seven Junior Research Officers
(para. 3.27); at CFDD, a Senior Accountantl Procurement Officer
(para. 5.3); and that all other necessary project staff would
be sanctioned and appointed as specified in the Operational
Action Program (Annex 6 and Annex 10);



- 45 -
(e) HMG/MFSC would, by December 31, 1989, carry out a review of
their travel and field allowance policy and thereafter take
steps to implement the findings, taking into account IDA's
comments (para. 3.26);
(f) MFSC would (i) maintain separate records and accounts for all
project expenditures, by individual project component and sub-
component, and in accordance with appropriate accounting prin-
ciples; (ii) within six months of the end of each fiscal year,
submit to IDA copies of project accounts, (including the
Special Account) certified as to their authenticity and accur-
acy by the Auditor-General or such other independent auditor as
he may delegate to; (iii) within twelve months after the end or
each fiscal year, submit to IDA certified copies of annual
audit reports and audit opinions on the project accounts (in-
cluding the Special Account), and on statements of expenditure;
and (iv) furnish t' IDA such other information concerning
audits and accounts as IDA shall from time to time reasonably
request (para. 4.16); and
(g) HMG/MFSC would, by May 1, 1993, conduct a Workehop among key
staff and donors to discuss the Mid-Term Review Report to be
submitted to IDA and DANIDA by March 15, 1993 (para. 5.13).
8.2      HMG agreed that, as a condition of effectiveness, MFSC would be
caused to finalize and distribute to its field staff the agreed Guidelines
containing operational procedures and instructions for the implementation of
the Community Forestry program (para. 3.11).
8.3      With the above conditions and assurances, the project would be suit-
able for an IDA Credit of SDR 23.5 million (US$30.55 million equivalent) to
HMG. The Credit would be provided on standard IDA terms with 40 years'
maturity.



NEPAL
HILL COMMUNITY FORESTRY PROJECT
Onaoinn Community Forestry-Related Projects In the Hills
Date of        Expected
Project                              Donor         Coverage                 Total Cost        Effectiveness  Completion Date
Community Forestry Development and   IDA/UNDP      29 Hill Districts        US$17 million     Sopt. 1980     June 1989
Training Project
Second Forestry Project (Teral)      IDA/EEC       14 Teora  Districts      US$18 million     Nov. 1983      June 1990
Rasusa Nuwakot Integrated Rural      IDA           Rasuwa and Nuwakot       USS19.1 million   Nov. 1987      Dec. 199k
Dovelopmnt Project (RNIROP)                        Districts
Hill Forestry Development Project   ADB/FINNIDA   Kathkandu,                US$19.2 million   Juno 1984      June 1990
(HFDP)                                            Bhaktapur, Lalitpur,
Kaski Districts
Rapti Area Development Program II   USAID          Dangdeokhuri, Pyuthmn,   USt1.89 million   July 1987      July 1995
(RADP)                                            Sallyan, Rolpa and
RUkum Districts
Nepal-Australia Forestry Project    ADAD           Sindhu-Pulchowk and      A$7.4 million     1988           Dec. 1990
(NAFP)                                            Kabre Districts
Kernali-Sherl Intetrated Rural       CIDA          Surkhot, Dellekh and     NR 246.6 million  July 1986      July 1990
Development Project (K-BIRDP)                      Jumla Districts.
Kosi Hill Ares Rural Development    ODA            Dhankuta, Tehrathum,                       1996           1991
Project OKNARDEP)                                  Bhojpur e-.
Sankhusabha Districts
Tinau Waterohed Project (TV)         SATA/OTZ      Palpa District           NR 67 million     1978           1993
Integrated Hill Development Project  SATA         Dolakhe District          SF 45 million     1976           1990
(DP)
Comunity Forestry-Related Projects
Recently Completed
Sagarmatha Intograted Rural          AD8/IFAD      Siraha, Saptaerl, and    NR 4.6 million    1979           1988
Development Project (SIRDP)                        Udayapur Districts
Resource Conservation and            USAID         Oorkha, Myaqdl and                                        1988
Utilization Project (RCUP)                         Mustang Districts
NEPAL



- 47 -
ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 4
NEPAL
HILL COMMUNITY FORESTRY PROJECT
Cases of Successful Village Forest Management
1.       Support for User Groups to manage local forest resources is a concept
that has grown out of the collective experience of the FD, various Community
Forestry projects, and other researchers and observers. Belief is widespread
that consistent forest management for sustained production is best guaranteed
by the participation of the local population in forest development and protec-
tion. This experience has been shaped through various stages of development,
evolving from public response to the nationalization of the forests in 1957,
through the initial attempts of various Community Forestry projects to insti-
tutionalize Panchayat-based forestry, and to the growing realization that
traditional management systems have persisted (and even emerged) despite nat-
ionalization and the efforts of various forestry development projects.
Current thinking acknowledges, learns from, and seeks to enhance traditional
systems in the areas where they still exist, and to build new systems on the
same principles where they do not exist.
2.       HMG's attempts to control the utilization of forest resources through
nationalization effectively disenfranchized the earlier traditional management
systems in many areas, especially those in closer proximity to HHG control. A
case in point is the isolated "Big Pine Forest' (salleri) near Galleshor, in
Ghatan Panchayat, Myagdi District. Local tradition dates the origin of the
protection and utilization system back to about sixty years to one individual.
This man encouraged villagers to preserve about 75 ha of degraded, burnt-over
pine forest to allow it to regenerate naturally. In time, the renewed pine
forest was opened, for a fee, to cutting of dead and dying trees. The fees
plus payments of grain (mana-pathi) from each household paid for a watchman to
monitor cutting and watch for fires. With nationalization, the forest became
state property, but local management remained intact until the 1970s. Local
management collapsed when the DFO was pressured to sell timber permits to
build the nearby booming district headquarters of Beni. The forest is
presently selectively cut and indiscriminately grazed; both uses do not favor
reproduction of pine, and the stock is gradually diminishing.
3.       From the early 1980's, the Community Forestry projects ventured to
interpret the 1978 PF/PPF legislation into various forms of community organ-
ization for forest development. Most of these forms were variations of a
model developed by the first IDA-assisted Community Forestry Project (Credit
1008-NEP) of Panchayat-based, FD-advocated technical prescriptions with min-
imal user involvement. Typical of the top-down paternalistic approach which
was current at that time was the FD's initial effort in Myagdi District again
in Ghatan Panchayat, to hand over an FD-administered forest to become a PPF in
1982, which would be administered by the Panchayat for its own use. A 125 ha
mixed broadleaf forest of predominantly Alnus sp., Schima sp., and Engelhartia
sp. was deemed appropriate by the DFO to become a PPF. A Panchayat mAeeting
was called to represent all asers, though ultimately only the elected offi-



- 48 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 4
cials were involved in the formulation of the management plan. A Ranger wrote
a management plan after making measurements and describing the growing stock,
harvesting, and distribution schemes in foresters' terms. The p'an was agreed
upon by a Panchayat forest committee and filed, but never implemented. Later,
men from one of the villages in the Panchayat nearest the forest, announcing
that they would exact what they perceived to be their due share since they
were part of the Panchayat, razed a portion of the forest for logs and
firewood.
4.       The experience of Ghatan Panchayat was repeated in numerous cases
across Nepal. P. B. Chand, DFO of Darchula, compared his earlier unsuccessful
attempts at group organization in Huti Panchayat with a later, more successful
case in Hikili Panchavat, and analyzed the different group organization fac-
tors operating in each case. The negative factors in Huti Panchayat were:
(a) the forest committee was established by DFO without any discus-
sion with local villages of its role;
(b) the committee's purpose was never fully understood, therefore
the community hesitated to support its decisions; and
(c) a management plan was prepared by the Ranger according to a
prescribed official format, with limited ground observation and
without further consultation with the committee. The plan was
neither technically acceptable nor intelligible to villagers.
The positive factors in Hikili Panchayat were:
(a)  the fo_est users (mainly women), together with prominent
members of the community, decided how to manage a natural
forest, wrote a simple agreement regarding protection, harvest,
and distribution, and made it well publicized to all village!s;
(b) the committee was elected and accepted with unanimous support;
(c) the people who were to implement the plan wrote it themselves;
and
(d) the DFO sanctioned the management agreement after a trial
period of several months.
5.       These trial-and-error lessons emerged together with the growing rec-
ognition of the existence and efficacy of village-initiated management
systems, many formed independently in the past decade despite nationalization
and Community Forestry programs. One such system exists in Chasa, Lete
Panchayat, Hustang District. There, the villagers recognized in the 1960s the
need to conserve a rapidly deteriorating pine forest. They closed off about 5
ha to allow regeneration, and contro:led access with patrolling by members of
a local committee. Grazing access has been forbidden to sheep and goats since
1974, though larger animals may enter. Poles and timber may be cut for public
use (e.g. school construction, bridge repair) by permission of the committee,



- 49 -
ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 4
though cutting fuelvood and building material by individuals is prohibited
under threat of fines levied by the committee. Litter is collected by each
househG'.d each winter for cattle bedding and to reduce fire risk. When Forest
Department suggested that this forest should become PPF with an accompanying
management plan, villagers declined for fear of losing control, preferring tc
manage the forest without outside interference.
6.       A more recent system has begun, flourished, and even spread to neigh-
boring Panchayats in recent years in Dhading District. Eight villages have
been inspired by the example of a protected, regenerating sal and chilaune
forest in Gimirigaun, Nilkanta Panchayat.  All forests have their own rita-
tional protection systems. In Gimirigaun, the forest committee has identified
the areas to be replanted, made a map indicating a scheme for rotational pro-
tection and utilization, and even started to construct its own nursery facil-
ities, all without any outside assistance. The villagers here also express
concern about dubbing these protected areas as PPF for fear of forfeiting a
local resource to the whole Panchayat.
7.       The most recent and successful approaches to community organization
for forest management have acknowledged the capacity of the villagers, as
survival experts, to cope with their forestry situation wisely. With this
approach is an appreciation of the need to learn from any local tradition of
organization where it exists, or to work with local users to evolve ideas for
management, where no local tradition exists as yet. Any development scheme
can only be based on a thorough understanding of local priorities and usage
patterns, and should be presented in terms understood by the villagers. Such
an approach calls for an extension approach which is very sensitive to and
respectful of the rights of local communities.
8.       Localized examples of FD's efforts to legitimize and support trad-
itional usage were instituted during the first IDA-assisted project and are
now becoming apparent. Ir one case, traditional management rights to a small
sal forest in Bagmari Panchayat by members of neighboring Danauri Panchayat in
Dang District were recently abandoned due to difficulties they faced in having
to contend with forest guards whose job it was to protect the State forest.
The DFO, Y. B. Thapa, recognized the value of the traditional system, and
formally reinstated villagers' rights as a User Group to manage the resource.
In Darauni Pokhari Panchayat of Kabhre District, DFO M. R. Maharjan directed
extension efforts to help a traditional User Group to assume responsibility
for a project-supported nursery and afforestation program. This group has
formed a subcommittee that will work with the Ranger towards developing a
utilization strategy for a maturing PP plantation.
9.       Similarly, appropriate systems are being devised in many areas where
no traditional systems have existed.  In Naudanda village of Kaski District,
DFO B. K. Khanal encouraged locals to devise a simple, four-compartment rota-
tional fodder and fuel system for about 15 ha of mixed broadleaf forest. In
Sejwal Thakura Panchayat of Sallyan District, DFO G. Serchan helped to put in
place a two-tiered local structure in accordance with recent HMG efforts at
decentralization: the Panchayat forest committee handles the overall judicial
and accounting functions, while the User Group executive subcommittee has
installed a rotational fodder grass cutting scheme in a plantation area with
shared benefits to all users.



- 50 -
ANNEX 2
Page 4 of 4
10.      This recent experience is especially encouraging, and suggests pos-
sibilities for recognizing and encouraging the legitimate role of local Users
in Community Forestry development in Nepal. The initial fervor to impose
management regimes from FD to the Panchayats is gradually giving way to a more
sensitive approach which trusts local experience and seeks to enhance local
capability. Trust between the FD and some communities is beginning to form,
but is still fragile. An enormous challenge lies ahead for FD to build on
this base, and work to spread realistic sustainable forest management through-
out the country. The proposed Hill Community Forestry Project is designed to
assist this development. Recognizable elements of this project take off from
the lessons learned and efforts initiated during the first project; these
include the need to train and reorient FD staff towards community forestry
goals, the need for intensive extension activities, the organization of local
User Groups and recognition and technical support for the formulation of their
Workplans, through which the project will substantially be implemented.



_ 51 -
ANNEX 3
NEPAL
HILL COMMUNITY FORESTRY PROJECT
List of Proiect Districts
Region                         Proiect Districts
Far Western               1    Darchula                    B
2    Baitadi                     A
3    Dandeldhura                 A
4    Bajhang                     C
5    Doti                        A
6    Bajura                      C
7    Achaam                      B
Mid Western               8    Humla                       C
9    Muga                        C
10    Dolpa                       C
11    Jumla                       B
12    Jarjakot                    C
13    Kalikot
14    Mustang                     C
15    Myagdi                      C
16    Baglung                     B
17    Gulmi                       B
18    Arghakhanchi                B
19    Manang                      C
20    Parbat                      B
21    Kaski                       A
22    Lamjung                     B
23    Syangja                     B
24    Tanahu                      A
25    Gorkha                      A
Central                  26    Dhading                     B
27    Kathmandu                   A
28    Bhaktapur                   B
29    Lalitpur                    A
30    Sindhula                    A
Eastern                  31    Solokhumbu                  B
32    Okhaldunga                  B
33    Khotang                     B
34    Taplejung                   C
35    Panchtar                    C
36    Ilam                        A
37    Udayapur                    A
Associated Districts 1/  1    Rasuwa                       B
2    Nuwakot                     A
1/ Presently covered by IDA-assisted Rural Development Project
(Credit 1727-NEP).



HILL Como IT F51KL02 310421
966it1. fi, tEtolruI tamt
0tiatjld got ltl.
A.  elm    ONTO
FOIP  MD  &M,                                   .              0.3    0.5    0.3                -      -        I     It=0               450.0   900.0   450.0                -            300.0        0.1    a        0      co
NO WAIUS                                      oh.                a     t0       4       -                      1 I      6M             1 1,200.0  6,00.0  2,40.0                           9,66.0       5.3    0        0      M0
WOhlIu CS                                     ML                        5       9       6              -       20       525                 -USA2.4sl.0 3I130.0               -          10.50.0       Sd1    S         0      co
007151CE                                   U.                IS      Is     Is               -              0        250         -2,50.0  3,25.0  31509.0          -       -            0,000.0      0.1    0        0      co
OR  GMC                                       U.                IS      Is                                     W 3      250            3100  ,.0   0         -        -   -                7,100.0      0.3    0        0      00
iNuM ima                                                         I       0 I                                    3        00         - 40.0400.0   600.0               -       -        -3 0.            0.106           0      to
h-IO3I 5235 NM                                                                                                                             50.0 11,62.0 11#11.1 J.IMO.           -       -412.0
*una P                                                  14       -                                             1 ,      uo0  4200.0 6                                                      4,200.0    0.05    I         0      
memo0                                                   30      20                                             la7        2    100.0    400          -       --                        -    30.        .5      I        0      9
16                                                    1 6       50    40.0                  -                                       00.10    0.5               0      9
14-..   No.C5                                                                                                               4.U.        0.0        -       -        -                -400.
C. 3ZAL?                                                                                                         '0 001
EUm                                           SET        I       -                      -.                      3        5      21.0        -        -                                      250.0     0.0  0.?          0      a0
005310 5735                                   Kr         -       0       7      .                               7        II         - 30. 18.0 0MO-                                         306.0    0.05  0.9          0     to0t
160-1.3.1 LEAL? P            to 90n0                                                                                                        80.0   326.0        -        -. -    ,               0t 
S. 3I T1ELT            0 (090
on-D t O                                     O.          I                                             - 1                      3 -  -  -It-PIPTIt                    -       -        -    3-24.0    0.05    3         0      tt
1311089010 4I0.                                          -      -                       - s  4  -     -       20        525 -  - 5  30  -50 .0      0-   -          -- - -    -     --     50.0       0.0 0             0    0
IIIICE It       7l9t         -- Eau"                                                                                               34 10.0                    0          -       -        -   10.0
1.  WS
35 t  11tt  9  5l 43   5 1                 -0                                      - -              - 3              'tOO  h200.         - -              -        -       -        -  * 250.0    0,05  0.0          0      9
t         4t 300KI)                        UT               no0    -0   10               -          -   I0         02        I-       *0.9      -.            -        -        -     IR  I.0    0.05  109           0 
S-tttt                                                                                                                          2 Xt 00    1.9   346.1 -  M.         -                          o -    150.0
3,0-9.W. tCi1n31   E1(5                                                                                                            250.0    Mr   140.1   194.4                                  50.0
F. t3u, 0Qtt f
9500        9031M 9035311                                     I                             -                        200   1,6080.  0,4:0.0       -22.                                             0.05    1        0      10
inMl33       M .[f.                         U                 6                      -                       2       200 1.000  3,00.                                                   3.360.0    0.05    I        0      to       6
LA tt      50I.-1- 00                                                               - -  - -                               22.0                           -        -       -           2240.0    o.a    I           0      10      50
we sn u                                     U         -       6      6               -              -       12       20         - 1100.4  W.WI0           -                            3 0.0    0,05    I           0      la
-    .   ..    ..       .....   ..     .....    .... ...-.--                                     4   .
-otul  IEITON        tH 0U                                                                                                    2540.0  4,20.0  1,0,0          -        -       -       - O11480.0                                           a'
2.L     aST0 t    E-l
t  i330                                     U         6         -            -                               2 t0             40.0     0.0                -        -       -        '      20. 0.050                0      II O    tA
tat-loa OiNK  TO                                                                                                                60.0    00.0        -        -       -        -        -    320.
%*totol   tENC.i                                                                                                                5,460.0  4,260.0  ,0.0          -       -        -       -    71,40.0



tabl a. oMnhwK gvmi
h14,0.d Cest Iask
45100lo)
otI   09   90ne     9119 VIM 0   9119   9,/11   05/9   lowa   00.t COt  09/o   90/9    911    Im2/9    9 93          4/91   V1'9     Octal       aeL.
.. m umnm xwsm was nwmo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. .. ...... .....
535 - OM                                          Di     L  3.5 3       3.5    Ls    3.1 35    2 4.5           LIS       131 3.1111  13.1    13.1    13.1 11.1 0.  32    5.       90.9       0    0        0    a;
61536T50  gm5                             a       LS    L.S    3.1    3.S    3.5    3.1    3.5    24.S            3      10.5    10.1    1043   10.5   1004    00.  100.5    72.5            a    0        0    WI
=MIT Mo11ti 5115                          a        .      .       . 34 L   34  3        4 .5 LS4LS 33                   10.5     504$ID  1004    00.  100    00.5 1.      004     734        0    0        0    55I
AM1.       51T1TFO 0                      a       L  3.1     3.5    3.5    3.5 L4   3.5 34            4.1       2.4      0.4     0.4      0.4     3.  04  0.4  0A .4              3.         0    4        0    51
M=      (3MOTO OF1153                M       3S    LS    3  3. 1 3.5    3          433.  3S    244           3      1004    00.5    10,1    0045   10.  1  004    10,5       72.5       0    0        0    at
SIOSTU  a3 111I  SF=5                    .a       343   .3,    3.1    LS1   345    34         34.5 3.50043              i        10.1    004    044    50.1    50.1    i04        n.5        a    I        0    in
11111. usuousim wrm                       U       3.5    34  .5         34LS   3- 3. 5 2 1 5         2415       2.4      3.4     34  .4 3      .4     0.4 4    .4  04     4.4     53.        0    0        0    51
am                             a~~~ A            d      6       1      01     6      A       42       0.0     50.0    10,0    10.0    104    101.0     0.0.    10.0     15.6       00       0   a     Sr
111311. ~                                01     a       A      6      a       6      6       42       5.0      00     1. 10. as 1.    0ILI    10.0    00.0    10.0    15.6         00              o f
1531?M                                           LS3.1     3 13.5    iS    L  3.1     3.1 3.    24.5            0.  1.3      3.3 %J       .S     5.3     1.3     1.3      5.2     20.       I    I        0    of
lam90                                     U        20     31      3      n      25    2n       2      04n       1.1     25.1    3.5.    21.1    3514    3I.5    3145    21.5  10.1           0   0         a050
66-5otu  an                                                                                                               10.3   050.3   130.1   030.2   130.1   520.3   020.3    911.9
2. ni        053(4001
53146  31000                              M      02.5102.1   02.    0.J   02.5152.1   02.1    974              2415    40.9    46.9    46.9    46,9    46.9    46,9    40.9    33.0         0    0         0    VI
wOM  11111011K 101uzm                     a        a      Is      Is     Is     55    51       Is     us5      3.15     *1    e.ge4..    41*             *.9    90.690,0         341.3      0   0             o f
an ["A"1111111153F                 a        a0      a      30     U       2  30 a       a       no         3      00.   090.0    90.      00.090.09".              90.     WA0.       I 0           ao fT
IWO 131 Fi53                              a        30  30  20  20  00   3    30  250                              3 s9.00.9.00.90090.0                     A "    10.0620.                   0 0           0  of
53                             U~       ~~      ~ ~~~~ ~~ ~ 6 A  6  6  6  6  0       0      42        2.4     14.4    14,4    04.4    04.4    14.4    04.4    04.4    000.0       004           0    UfT
100.IfiOiIEaIBk~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- 21.  200  9.  290.  20.  29.0 290.0 2.03.2
2.3553   11051=111053M;                                                                                                            M
310135?    P 15111360                     M        12    IV      I12    I12   012      13    LI2   004H                40.0   40.0   45.0   O0.    450.0   406.0   406.0  3,192.0           0    0         0    5
Aofl    OFF53                             a       is     su    to4    040    la0        0     04  90       0     .64   20o.0  Ioo.0   24.0   3o.,.  3a4..   204.    264.0  2443.0           0    0         0    at
5wTote0ut F13    M"53  SfIC53                                                                                            5.0   53.0   02..0 804   42.0   5.    USA   5,740.0
4. UK  -N11
IN    2.4     2.00   Lo00   3#2010  2,0  3.40   low0  2240*0          2.4  6.31440  6,720.0 7.2000 740-0.  0,1000 0.4040  90120.0  913.01.0       0    0        0    VI
AM?. am                                   00    2,00    ,000  3.0   316M   3.53 b  3.53    3.022,4              2,4   WHA34.0   6,2.7.40.0  7,600.  S0*10.0 3,0.0 9.020J  Sh11.04.          a    *         4    55
000p-Total   n5115                                                                                                     02,76.0 01.46. 04.5.0 01,401.0 16.5. 37#1110.0 10#0..0 201,0010.0
900-TOtal W  FOROICI M              01Wa 9    414/00                                                                      04.46.314,400.  11;40. 00.06. 17.WJ ;.2 032.2941012016.30D.1
o. sf a KM ussMO
stium   t)a                                         2                                                    1                                                                          a               
9100833111000                                                                 .2                                   0     0440       :                                         04.             000                 1
2. sxIO*    l  389"00?0
I= 55501                                  U         -           ..                                               o0        -     00                                         -     0.        0   0         0     a1
m31F113=        05111130S                                                                                         0           0 .                            -       -       -     0.            00               1
F013M   (2)                                   1~~*      2             02            52      20        1o                     020.0       -020.0          -020.  340.0             4  0         0      St
1513.0015 (102                            M         -             2             1 2     -      2       30        10        .       - 20.0          -0200            102.0.0 .WA0              00          0     Si
hItaid 05131050551153.                                                                                                                .    0.             20.              240.0    7220.01



tn O   Ittt FDISIRW MM
tAble 1. tpslStuTtouil  !Afflm
TbXl. I.     t 19TUt12U  901
rtstilid Cat lotl
(aIs 't1010
Di"ittss                                                                                           ~
_     -   -       -    s -     -- -- --     -oo --  -  -- - - - -       -                    . . .    ........  .. oo  _  .- -  . .-.- o   - ... ...     -   .-... ............fat.............................S.....  -
*.        KMERI
It1 SI  -  -  -  1  1                                                                              -  -           sT
| _ 2    .                                                                                    .         ,o -       A                -7.0--- 20e   e                                                        o o     osT
Glib-Tu)A   l -i    G"r                                                                                                        33sO         240    240.0 hlOOe        2e0    -   240.0  *,n-o
low     roo    CI                                                                                                              2596u0.3 29Ben.2XvQ8Ono lit,n.7  2b50.3 1te,O.1 19sm.3 110,10.
11.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ptee IEXl or
It.  Cos~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I. Cs,9.
1. cmD
MT   s. OFFICER                      sa     c  e    I       I      I       I       I      I     t   s              a0      It.O.    ae.0  3s.0    30.0        0.0 *    0.0    210.0      c1   I  s           su
NWmm1                                     0                  e     I        t I     I    I       I       7        1                  -ao   11- .0 tO.O    IS.O       l.0            sU 12O.0    0    I         0   Sa
ritn                                     e          I                     2 I  I                 1       7 2       i      1I.0    114      tl-O    11.0    1I.0    11.0    1100 0n.0    0o 0                   0   GU
mint                                     llu        -      4      S a     I              e      e                  u         -    4           - 1 .e 00     4.U.e    U.O               9.0      e    I         o   qu
FEOII                                    111        2      2       2      2       2      2       2      U          t      U. U.0   24.0    U0                 .0 100    U0 U42.0 24.0  2        a 
oa   tl CFOt                                                                                                               753.0   118.0 4IU-   8,1. 25.1   IU.O   IU.O 209.e .
2. Datswt FlSt lUtS
IAm.   fw    *.0T211                      ?               It    Is       I   1          Is    Is        9          0    120.0    30.0   130.0   410.0   4.0   10.0   450.0  2*10.0              0    0         0   GU
M.   0CD    8g                           N                         1.1           15  U       U           1        a       10,0  U9.0    100    10.0    20.0           0.0    8. e      50.0 826. 0 0           0  oJ
mtInS                                     r         ,     to    1U       14      1      14      U       a         11         -   110.0   12.0   15,0    14.0    28.0    12.0    ue.o            *    o         0o S
SuletoUl DISTRICT FZI lUFF1S                                                                                                s70.0 l0f44.0   *,.0  1*+.0  1935.0    09.0  13.0    64.0              0              011
-Total URt                                                                                                                      15,0     9,0     1.0   262.0   1627.0   86s37.0  UD7.0  #8s9.0
2. DilIT    S  WVICISt
1. VMlltit
03 PM                                  MT.        U4     14      14     14      14     14      14      IS         80    -210       0    154. 0    15. 4 .0   54.0   2.0    8.5 24.0     .0 0         o        a      an
Ca-Total OlSIRICI FinS? 091                                                                                                 610.0 42o ,190e-0  2.34.0  2.1S4.0  1.34.0e  s204.0  425.o   240.0o
FlliToa    MM1                                                                                                           945.    10.  -  -  - -5I  I  I  1 30     2 - -1,0  12.0.  l -e  9 . 0W
VD 0  . -    -1 2 02                                                             Id              IdU               to                      20.0   120.0       .             HIA       Am.       S *   o              W
4    2                                  00         14                     5 44          24      24      Sp         10    40.0 -0.0    M0                                    420o0 2 s9.0        01   0         0     M
AM!gt mm1                                                          4o20.0 0                              ls                        43.    42.0C  42.0   43.0   420.    400              M-1940.t
am                                      leau  0.                  Is-    3        A      8       1       3         26s        -       -       0       -3.     6.0 100.00100.0?L                  000
am   WAD                     ~~09.        -                     2      84     20      2       12         20        -       -        *    20.0    240.0    3110200.0           O0      00             064=
0                                       0.          -      -      20             40o                                                                 Z0  4     o e 5  -  -  M.  M.0 8250   200.0  42,0 0  m.o  o@ o o
116-111_1          _AIEM                                                                                                 42U .  -  -  U5  1  5 10  10  15  5  -  -    175.0 0.023.02i0  I.0   615.0  00         0oo
1815                                     U .        -    -    I   2    2    1    1    32    80                               -    -  20.0  3.0   10,020.03483.0                                 00             064
Ca-Total EIUtIUS                                                                                                                -       -   855.O   4s.0 216o.0          .0   772.0  2,m.0UM
90
TOlWll     1t 641                                                                                                                21635,0  1,129.0 2,0en-0  2,Z2.,0  2s6530  2sfl1,0  2e?83.0  55,6610                                       W 0 1 
totall                                                                                                                           26,75.43. 29s0.2 37s570,0 14,m  7 221. 1 21,603. 3 lIsil),2 2M294.31 `5,155.1                                 0    X
NW  ooo "W_1 2seta tis1a... Vt......i.s......                   a.-
a 5, 890  12511



Tale 2. "      1 t         1913
099lid  Cost Tabl
ttm 'wOI
-a  VW . Cts
.___ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~_____ ____p.3m  .  m
lUN&   41/90"Ml9 91/011 "M9   am9  949"M        59 ISM ot.l   069 Ct   094 RAO     9 999 "MJ"M      9mm    4     949      g5m9    lg1    his ft&.  061   imm
M. "           v n I    S    aUp rMw  u    M    ac                               6   Is   29       59     79      95    925    U                    -       -       -       -       -         -        -              O    0         *    n
,.  mM   nm a suintwan
1- FM Itllt RAIUII
.. _. .m ...19
34ff3400                                                     516O     0.4  0.4  0.5    0.5    0.5    0.6    0.7    3.6           M0     4.0   336.0   36.0   4.0  42.0    3.0    53    240.0                 0    *        I    E
1D34                                                            NIU  I    1.9   1.5  6 .1     2    2.2    2.4    2.6   14.2    1t200  1,014.0  26.0  2.2101.10 2346.0 2512.0  2,11.0  3,10.0 17,61.10           I    0         0    E
ft-atOl USR  9 9U1  tI9                                                                                                                     2.620 2.32.0 25.0  2,.1.0  3.0    33. 0  3 .0  m9M6.
Z. FM     TItv fWSIit 1MAtl                                        mumE  16.9  2.1  5.6   12.t  t9.2   21.l   21.3   "9.l              t150 .5.0  24.5 5t343.5 12*05.5 10.223.0 t2J4.0  223.0 94123.5              0    0         0     M
li-lOW   3LIII  mm.U  a 325lT100                                                                                                              10,11 t .0 4.30.5 ?1,94.5 94,43.5 21.24.0  23455.0 232932.0 9t947t,5
t.PMATINgtmiALI ulPn                                                  M00       9.6    -    -       -      -       -           9.6      43241.2             -       -        -1-              -        - 46,195.2     0    0         0    E
3. RIOTlO mIIIE 0 n
1. go    11         12  to                                         000U        -  V.6    -       -      -9.6                                     - ..024.0 a-                              -        -    0.0       0    0         0    EM
2.43972  MILAtI    (OTIAru    VEW1 390             IMINT) /b
13 a 2                                                          USO E     5.2       -      -          -      -       -    5.2        M     1 *.1       -       -       -        -        -        -  4W.0       0    0        0    on
FIN 3                                                           00          6  5.2    -       -       -      - S         11.2         3  24401.0 2,121.6               -         *                   459.6              0     0    32
li-14&t D11711101 91*320t1  91iEA M   33333   PSUII lb                                                                                              211.                                                 91
li-tdow  tElI. OmiOlll  IT Ftn,                                                                                                                           4 $                .                     -      t I  .UtL
1. 916111      m a_3IUN   tim          (69361 t     4345nc  1 # 147
I.3 3.43. I                                                        0615 a        * .2  1.2    7.2   10.9t  12t1   92.    46.7        4,404"         54.3 14r2.3 19. 4s.  *.46        536.4  3234 4215,64.3          0    0        0   FM
2.6       2. W 9t50                                                XO              -    -      3. 5.2    7.2   10.9   12.1   34.5      32        -        -       *.i  9.m.4 31.4         s.m.u  6,0.6  1b3s.23     0    0        0    M
ta-to         193t3 4                      1tO5       .      1     5                                                                                   530-.3, ,  3.4 .2 5 4.0 55,W.9 59195.0 224.042.9
F. Am. lC     053                                                        .      94 tO 50  O  n    d       7tO 90  t,50 400                                                   -       - -                -       -      0    0        0    t
. LIM 0I.1 Ff141    /c                                                 go.    t16oo U0  656  1.95   9o   2.3    2.71e  3.34o              na     75.0  2.2ao.059 72.5  3m-,5 22.5  1i.4.  21.41.  637.30.0             0    0        *    LW
II ftt41 1 SW                                                        000         -    -  1.2    3.2    7.2   90.9   12.1   34.6          t0         -       -   730.0  ,.0  430.0   650.0   .2.0               .0      0    0        S    E
Idd            CM IIIEIII alBl5                                                                                                                  *=.*w.2 2St. 2       .2 ;;%-L2                    111 0e03l-. 2043 4
91.         COST
"M 1             sDt                                                   M.      too  toes         2ce    Roo         14     1 56           2    216.0   216.0   216.0   216.0   216.0           216.0  9.5220          0 n           *   31
letl          MMs n.e   2U.0                                                                                                                                            216.0   216.0   216.0    21.0   nn6.0  15192.0
vi.:                                                                                                                                              12,695.2 23,297.9 23,564.2 sm59 .2 90.2 3.5. 906,24.9 112SJ.5 42.32.4
-.- ----
*wo_   -   _ v _ s- * --- _ _ _ _ --- * - * - o o - *~~~~ -     --_ _   ------- -----w-- ---  - -    -- --- ----- --------- ---------------- o =     ,* ,,,   ,   . ^-                                                     to  Z  
r. tWllE        i1 3  re Qlt3 ft 73
/b^ 3304. 961 tE mI Z     lUlft2lE      ttEf91t3 1_lD3431001336                                                                                                                                                                             _
i     te                    onn   gm F 0r1Z 1r                .  31 10u0r-                             00   0  M . 11191 fD             [    0 0        nURl F13tD
,,,,_,,,,_,.  .  ...............,  ,_..,    _  ...    ....   .                                              --...-.-.-.-.-.---.--



KILL 0uU1.IT *1.9183? 9658? ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~     ~      ~    ~     ~     ~    ~ ~ ~          -------
Tot).) 1.56kw IS 118f1.
bit  W919   Ism1    91/9    92/9        39    94/911  91/9     lowa        Ai taCt    69/6    mm9    9119M     91 92M     14   9/9     91/9     Total    Rit  Each.   Wie        es
I. MUM161 isUm
mom 611l.                                              0.2     0.5      0.3                        .                       23          304,0  t.26.0   716.0                         -205)0.0   0.1.  0.1.                  0      a
Cub-fatl 1.193  1911                                                                                                                      1040  134.    1356.0         -23.
usia                            a.        ~ ~~           ~    ~ ~~ ~~~~2 1.                            3     41.0      5.0i     .0 2..1.0    .                                        .0..    0.1.  0.1.      0      1
am  umx0 .                                               2        I                                                  S               1...      34.0         -                .       -         a,s1.0.1  Li                  0     19
car111 m.       mm                                       2                -                                                           ,30      3.                                                1.1.       ..020                  1
.   airn:mlwe 01c
IIEL  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~fl                    .~~~~     .        .       I                                      1.   4                            .      0.0       -        -              10.0.60.9               0      co                4
u.1.mm        en                               so1.E                                                                                                                                                                                 El           0 30-        .  .  .    
CFO an I   8L tt                                in                  2       .-                       -3                          p           -00.00- 30.09                                                                     0 1
M. w  mnm                                    61         0.                       .-                                                    0,0-.                                                -     3.   0.6    t.o0
as.M.   m                            ET                                                                              a             111.0                   -       -        -       -     6.06.                        
Cu-faal 16551                                                                                                                 I261.0     20.0    .0.0    .0.0  S"1301.0  06 &
4upI~~~~~~    6.         1        .       -                -        .       -        5        301~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~42 lo.34            -                -        -0  SMA.0.6    a.              0      6
313011951  3.  1.0  -             -                                 i@        42       420.0       -       -        -       -        -       -    420.00.6         I        0      6~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~bla0  005     t
Cu-fotal 651um   M.1.0 MM00                                                                                                                                                                              MG  6.4 .0  
3470.6~~~~~~~~~~
51913630    g fs   i-                                                                          .        .  a                                4.0         -       -                         -       -     410.0 .090                      U           .
8396131E3031a                      El          -       2        .       -       .        .                 3                    -   1.00  41.0            -                        -     19.        0.0.9         0
Cu-Iota) 33j~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3~~~~~                                                               4~~~0.0   244.0   1.34.0    ds54                            1.03.0



lIRl cmUllt roomlli FllUC
tble 3. 1lotUu mm  P,lCII
bttiklad Cost 1*2.
tostb                                                                           BaCat                                    1.
_a.  ann.  a.na ..  sa.  _n.....  _.n..a ..n.a. _   asa.,,., .anta. _.s..a .flas anna anna  nsa,. ,as..   nnS ,,'flSfl  nan **sS. Sfl..........
-|i - - --------- -K ------ -6 ------ -btF ---------------------                                                                   ---;---- -------W    fr,tatetax Swmbb
(i    PAD  OM             Z g WM               94M      W6            ol$  Oni ta     11M       _M      "     F   _m       _e       * *  Z       9 fou     I g gExc.bs             @gXBmsw gA
1. rmmat !lSen l
W    .a  M.      1191                             U        22      12       12      t2      22       22      22        94       2a0    1,360.0 20.0   21160.0  120.  50 .0  3.260.0  2.,O-0  M222O  0,.e              2        0      TI
tlI - 03It                                       U         22      -2                        -        -                24       220    2.60,0 2.60.0          *        *       -        -       -5.20.00.6            I        0      t
Etlmm  rNus          2 1             M(                    60      t0       40               -                        29       2It0    6,610.0 61..0  tt640.           *9.. -           -0.                           I         0     la
02L1U211U                                                          122                                                 24       M9      2.60,02.0.0  2.99697290   0.65    I                                                     0     10
IUSCI-I-o                                                                                    - -                              -.-loh.                         *                                     I Wu      0.0.    I         S     it
90404.1 109223. HIISUtU                                                                                                              14,2910.0 21,40,4 164. .0.      0  2.540.0  2.0.0   21160.0 P.09.0
2. $gff S                                        U.I                         I       2                                        1-230           -  9210.4 02.80.02,0.0                                3 2.8.0   0.t    I          0      a9
2. VWTt
51       5 I   L     fr VIM   OSEBS           90.       16       M       16      1s       76      76       ?6      52         30     28.0 2.811.0 2b200  2.20.0  23.0  2,290.0 2.210.0 e          5. 11100    0.2   I        0      to
am                                i.        s      n        U       U        J       D       a        266        29       760.0  70.0   10.0    ?6 0 ,01            070.0   76.0.20.00  .t    I                 a      is
D             - teI.                                              2       2      I                          I        I        9         00    2.    20.0   W0o.0 .0               290.0   290.   140.0   0.1    I            0      to
ITIIK                        t             - F O                  *                                                  2 I   2,2             -2.215.0         t2.25.0      1      1,215.0           3.I S.0   0.2     I        0  It
9Sb-otdn   (113    1                                                        193 h22.0 4h4t5.0  22e40.0 4h415.0 3h240.0  445.0 2A29s.0  26295.0
2. 9923-                                                            -        -       *   -        -           -         -                 ego.   a.o.    mc.o    * .o    tO..   tt.o   *c.o  2,990.0   0.2            I        0      20       
3.             IS4 11.11  06.   400.0 610.0  2640.0  4 0.6  40,0  24_.0   N.0                                                                                                                                             I        0      to
totl 1MINE1 lsr                                                                                                                              4210. J,W0.  27,430  9.Wo0  7,090.o    1?5.  79.0 22 .03.0
rp, .am
Oa. SES
0.       .      _        _1_
030"   (FF92                                                             a.   I           2   I       I             1   I          I I   1.01".0  0              10.0    29.0   2910       20    260.0        00             0   tatoo
tOm1I                                         m         t    I    I    I    I    I    I                             1         o         u0.0e   U e 1.o  n.                2 U.0 H         MO   n.0    00 0o  o 1
F.E1291S                                      9'        I                I       I        I                         1         21        22.0    23L0    13.0    22.0    U.        12.0    13.0      "91.      0   0          09ski
am53                                          aT        I                I       I        I                   I     1         It        2.9   1U.0    21.0    U.0    U.0    11.            11.0      7.0    0o        0o. s
a          t                                  W                 2        2       2        2       2        2       24        1          2.0-   22.0    21.0    22.0    21.0    22.        2.      254.0     0 0             0   .2
4Tr.I as 12o9. 2  3w1     9l212.0  t1720    212.0   tn.0   272.0   212.0   2120   I2n2.0
2.   _    tE. ,IIR
2A629   M 02o                                 W1        -       n5               5       25 n             iS        0 o      U            -   2      020.0       7       1.0  0-   2 3 R .0 21110.10 2429.0   0 0            09 10
fa I1111                                                  I * s    Is      Is       3       is       Is                                   V4.    V6. Meo 7o 7X o    MA        &      V1.1 Iqt4    .41    0    0         O   stI
19.95Om.                                    91         5       5       S        S       5        5       5        29        14          0.0  70.0 70.0 70.0    X.0    111.010,94940.0                          00Sk
279                                                     5       5        S       5       I        5       5        5         2s5        15.9    15.0    15.0   71.0   75.0   75.9          15.0     a.*       0  0               t:  
inp                                           tt       10       20      20      10       10      10       10       la         It       220.0   220.0   220.0   Ito.0    U0,0   120.0   220.0   170.0                 0 0     0   Ka g@
ll1                                          Nt    5    S    S    S    S    5 5s                                       5               151 1   .020 2.00 3.0 55.0 5.0  91 .0    00                                          0 9t c0
am111                                          t        -        -       2       1        2       a        2       24         I1           -       -    22.0    3.0       22.0    #2 1.0    254.0             0 0              90       t4
USl0                                          Xt1       -   -            2       2        2       2        2       24         0                   -    26-0   24.0  2.0  2t.02 n.e4112.0 222.9               00             0    ax2"
FM                                            a        10       2o 0     0       to 2     o 0     0       20        0          I        9e.0 100.0    00.0        0.0     0.09 1.0         0.050.0                0     0         S IO'. X t
IT-               -        2       114 1                                                                  16.0    2.0    24.0   24.0  24.0    112.0            00              0   902 tD  >C
ttUS  91  -                2       3        I       I       1        14         0                             1622.0 0. 24.0   24.02          0      22 112.0   0              0 90:
sl.        Er        *                                20       s0                   10      10   0                           It       220.0   100   2        0  200  210.0 I      20, 0    20.l    M70.0     0    0              O
sumoa  f124  M9. am11                                                                                                                61.0   9200   990.0  2,485.0  2.48.0  2,0.0 2.0 0o   6,40.0
90-total 9025                                                                                                                                922.0 -----2--- - *---- **-- .02.0  1,262.0  2,297.0....................... --2.   2,297,0 . 2...7.... ...   0..
e2.e 102.0 1#1.0t. t.m.o 1m-o9. It.7.0 109.0. 706"A*



MLU inUUIY 10011101 1 Ctt
table . MolSDE aD EltE
bAl3.d Cost I.oI.
lt '000)
pa,amlers
-0-,-------- - ------                                 - -- - ------- - c1  0For.  f" TO s
unit  "no0t             91/      "2M      VIM                u    lo         dt cat    one                        nm                        am      2t lo      ad    Ec.  bte kor
1. WADt=lSDM
-.--MU-01015--
FE 1SSt StArr                                  a        2n0     305      14      145      t45      4o      145     ItPO         0.9       292.0    94.5  11.5   330.5   130.5   130.5   130.5    099.0            0    0         0      tl
Knowi tn     IUul im                          10        160   .1320       40      40                0       40 Z Z l6O          0.3        4.0    3.0    12.0    12.0    12.0    12.0    32.0    504.0             0    0         0   ai
M*-totl mo01m D0I3S3                                                                                                                          30.0   41.5   142.1   342.5   142.5   142.5   142.1  113.0
2. D035330  3I011 DFEft
Us  - NW. SIrN                                 0      1,1    10545    6,1429   21#65   25,145  29,13    33,515  3IP,2t0         0.1       1M3.0  1,51.5  3632.5  2.106.5  2,514.5 2,913.5  1.37.5  I3,70.0         0    0         0   MU
WWI03 0I51t1  tOWN OrntE                                                                                                                      113.0  3,s0.1  3,6.5  23015  25314.5 29913.3  1357.   3,l7o.0
1*-Iot    tMD   310/03                                                                                                                          4*11.0  ,1M45.0  1,005.0  2,24.0  2,657.0  3,016.0  3,1S00.  I5,22.0
C. IfDllS
1. INI101S DIOISION
potsSrn star                                            M 20    2a5      135       5        -        -       -       745        0.9       210.0   392 3.5            33.5        -        -        -    610.       0    a          0    tax
-oVal MUNID1  1I3I0     0                                                                                                                     234.0    3.5   32.5        2,5             -            -    670.5
2. el31z n0. cENm                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             a
sJ- NW. STIrr                                  M        310     215      13       1         -        -        -      63         0.6         "o.    1229.0     1.0      3.0       -        -        -       3.0     0    0          0t 11
1Tot^l  I*NL Too. muER                                                                                                                         "0.0   129.0    03.0       3.0       -        -        -    303.0
1, OMS. M00.  7C1E
Fi-fe . 510F                                0     2sto   4at       St 51330   5335*130   S.30   5,330    32,1!0             0.2        420.0   906.0e  l2.0  3,06.0 12.0  3,026.0  3,026.0  1,536.0             0    0         0    mu
1*-otal DIST. ns. 5F7f3                                                                                                                         e.0o    94.0  1,0260  3,u.0  3,02.0 126.0    2.O   6.516,0
*-Total 0emS3                                                                                                                                    744.0  123.5  021.5  1922x.s  I2.0  1,02.0 l302.0   717.5
0.31mm
f      l333   TAr!                             a        260    2a3        is      135     135      3ls      35      3,350       0.5        330.0   107.5    a7.5      0.5    67.5        .5     6.5       75.0      0    0         0  06TL
1*-Totdl 106D016 MhSIC                                                                                                                        130.0   107.5      7.      67.6767.5    67.5    67.5    575.0
2. WIL M". COM
- cr. STAFF                                    0        ISo    3,360   1960   3*960   1096O   13960    3900    33,3t3           0.3         45.0   408.0    13.0   530.0   a10,0   5a.0    90.0  3,3M.0             0    0         0    ttU
-Total            M.                                                                                                                           45.0   40.0    5.0   1i.0   5u0.0   1o11.0   500.0, 3o3.0
3. 601. M. OF3IC                                  W      2,300   4,3    SPIN    5.130    510    5130   5.130   32,00               0.3        630.0  ,44.0  3,51.0  I,5.0  3w,53.0 I3,.0 l3,5.0  974.0                 0    0         0   1tax
toutalI R1S                                                                                                                                      05.0  1964.5  2M S.1  2,314.5  2,194.5         s ,30.5  2 .  33.742.0                              W 
1. t10A01  stfi3A 1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 O
3. AULS0U61                                      SEIT                -        -        -       -                 -        -                   360.0   300.0   300.0    3o0 .0 3            oo.0   300.0    700.0       0    0          0     a03
2. 106le DI3ISI3013                                                                                                                                                                                                                              .   U'
ES aK0   SEIf Sy                                        260      215     135      135     135      135      135     3,13        0.3          26.0    23.5    133.    33.5          13.     5 IJ.S    u3.5    315.0  0    0          0    a0x
91*-Totl 10613 0192l                                                                                                                           26.0    21.5    13.5    13.5    13.5    13.5    13.5    115.0



Nlu arn now "Wa
lt4l 3. 19ANlG  a  21mI5
latated Cost Table
llGild ted lFb ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~h,mtt
_ * ----- ____-_- _ _- -_- ---_- -- __--- ---- - -----------                                                                                    Wh. fTV. 11M    nS   WB
tesit, orm  nm    "             3 am         W"t Is                                98w z      Wl   W tCos "AO   m   nm    sV am  wts                          l bd . . 
bi   _91    09         31       29    939    *41    95/9    lo^    ht" too   _99    _09                   11       29       3A     915 9/6           It)      lt   at.Rt             em
3. E0IG   M1. 1
P1 -w. 0lio 3t RI                                          103.3         low.    2.96  0          f,S0     S10 a    .uo         0.          15.0 u.    .    1   19t.0    94             1     .0   0     913.0     0    0          0     W3
tota  1            Ml. (11.1110                                                                                                                 5.0    1.0   t9w.0   9wo         9.0        .0       .0       l.0
4. KS. M.  FrlR
3  - fff. 913f                                11    2.10e   4.30    hl3        5430    5.130   5j    S130    n.o325            0.1         210.0   41.0    513.    511.0   513.0  S%LO    533.0  3.3.0              0    0         0    fin
W otal OM. IL  Off                                                                                                         *                  21F0    4o 0.0   513        3.0 5e3. So    513 C     33.0  3.3;0
s60o-1.t.  Talk=1398132M                                                                                                                         311.0    405     0.5      02.5   120.    114.5   7:4.5  4.801.0
F. inmtt IID 1m111m
I. N81S0 MINIMUCIE
fL610* DOIVS  INCSil                          9.         - -          -            -        I        1       I         3        SO             -                                                    00 0 0- -e
womu  1                                       98          - *              2                        34                          90                                       0 I  3s0.0   210.0   210.0   27.0   270.0  10214.0  0    0  a    (M
3111811 Nit                                               -       -        2       3        3        3       I        14         SO            -        -1 9o   e u-13 u.0  1    *10.01 31.0     .       10.0       0    0         0    aim
Ul1     0111,    t t8.                                   -       -        2       J        I        J       3         4         to0           -        -    20.0    30.0    30.0    30.0    30.0    198.0          o    0          0    o
IPUPM SIN   K       ttC at.o                             -        -       2        a        3       J        J        14         tO            -        -    20.0    30.0    30.0       a0,    30.0    140. 00    0                     M
lb-otal   U1S VAINttt                                                                                                                             -        -    320.0     .0    530.0    s0   -W0.0   2390.0
2. UDllE tlM0
O 511ttt 11F1R1N9T8   1                       NO.        30      60       60       0        0       60      60       30           2         60.0e t     .01 I.1t20.0  120.0 320.01I 071.0                           0   0          01 a
C1t 4 a 3PM                                   lo.        S        S        5       5        5        5       5        31         30         TWO  1035.0   ts1e.o   u0.0   150.0 e      u0.0    uee.0  I0.0          9  0           0  13
Ut UOEtS                                      te.         6       6        6       6        6        6       6        4          30         uo.0o   0.01 0.0 0.0 u             0.09 ue-  .      111u.ol.200.0       0   0           0 13
He tutO     ts                                98.        12      30       30       30      30       30      A0       i9           2          240 e     0.8 e    .0    e.0e    0.0    0.0    0             Wit        00  0e               o
0*-total 1001111 U1111J1                                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                    ~ ~~~~4314.0   51.  100 50.  1.0.0  .0-    510.0  3,474.0
114-low' to       St tt.e #.    see St-                                                                                                                                           O        t.e    SOO    A.
3. WICE 331113(m
tt8119S t_t                                              I        I        II  I                         I                       so 3       30.0    30.0    30.       30.0      o.4    30.*      n.0   2a0.0        0    0          0    w1
3613  ("to1                                              5        S        3       2        2        2       2        21         lo           0.0   D.03    .0         20.0    !%f    20.0    20.0   210.0                0         0    a. to
1sign 3a0g1:81111TE                            e                  -        2       3        J        3       3        22         20         00.0              2.00 0, 30.0              30.0    30.0    220.0            0          0     M  to
lb-fetal 39210 036116 (MIMES                                                                             140.0   3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--1-.0    00.-0.0   -0A  98 0 98.0  ,0-0.0    64.01
witoeltFFt ttTItt    llS*eo                                                                                                                         e.                 .      ee       e twoe            o                                  tD)   3
4. NEW - 3B0133  (1S                                       5        5        3       2        2       2        2        2a       too         900.0   s00.0   54o0.    360.0    30.0   34000    30.0   3M.0            0     0         0    1    >  CD
Otbfola 01981198t is Alt2                                                                                                                      13474.0  l.40.0  3,450.0 12430.0  3400.0  1.40.0  1*480.0  I0.24.0                                   0    -  1x
toul           cu tJIS                                                                                                                             4    0      .15  18.6625  9,123.5  9,275.0  9.60.0 10.112.0  59,66.5                                     w   t
I--- 1-       sezs - -    ,sg -   --   -----   S         -    -
4142.0 43a2t9.5 2XM.5 110621.5 1692.0 11,04.0 PoR2.0 16,45.5
in 5. 39   12123



IILL COmTY Frn19 FSCT
time 4. EE
AtM1ed Cat r.*e
~t1bt                                            km Casts                       lb.
oat                                                    C. for. st.  To cm
At OM 90 illN912 lt ill 9        NM     .   C.t  W"0  O         9192  92M   W3     "mS  99  ToW    Du  Etah. St            I
t ~ ~ ~ ~~~gs Ill- -lit                  -  ut  I   tltIitS                   t       I       t       ttsIlSt             il   tl iUII   I
A. EMIl DE
400fl3'                U.      I              I                   230    300.0            -     -      -     -     -N- eMo.05    1          0    
t a now -U-A- - -                                                   I                 -      -     -     -            -  1AI
mot                             - .    .    .    .           -     -        3.0   0.0  30.0       -     -     -      -  100I0  0.5  .9       0     Ua
tebl DEUIIOt amD                                                               3.0  40.  0.0         - t-     410.0
MM EUEE   73           WT     4  4    4   4  4    4   4    3  34130.030.010. 013.01me   .0 136.0130.0   9.0    0  0                        0  Su3
mmEEWImm               a        7?      77    ?777              4930       i   n#  ii   no.200200*.0* niot0.u2*.01.470.0      0  0         OKi 
mmlhm0at mmIU   WI   2  2  22  222    *41It30.031.030.0e0.03U.03so0 Us.030.0   0 0    0 Mi                                                                                   0
mmUam                  NY   2 2  22 2 22   1418 360.5.0 30.0 30.505.0 UeUe   6202.0   0 0    0 31
ANINfU                 I T    4   4   44    4 4 4               3o It  44044 044 .   44.044.04  4.0 4000                      0   0        0 3
AI* 11hUC              11T    4   4   4   4   4   474 7         4 3 20 10.0   0.0  10.10 20.0 lose  le  "o.0 w0.0    0   0                 0 3.
mIMIIT                        4  4    4   4   4   4   4    21 U 22.0  72.0  72.0  72.0   2.0  12.0   7 e2004.0    0  0                     0  Gu
QiIWtEn        U       I      4l4    4   44    44  a                 t  72.07  2.0   2.0   .2.0  .072.0  72.0 504.0    0  0                0  Su
NS T.5 1t                     I 3  6      80 I01                Si *0 44. 14 4.  144.0  44.0*  44         .0  *441090.0          00        C MI
swam LM                     400  40400  400  400  0   400  2.600 0.e3   12.0  12.0  12.0  *2.0  12.0  12.0  12.0  04.0    0   0            0   MI
mm                     a      2 2   2      2 2 2 2              14 1* .0 .0.03.0   22.0  22.0    .0  22.0 15.                 00              MI a
ToW         1                                                               Bus. 0o6.0e  361.0  0".0  006.  366.0  306.0 6O0M2.0
*. N*M     TAM)
ME    IUK OFZI    M          16 U     16  16U   1 6     16   1U2 375   0.0  60.0  60.0  40.0   0.0  60.0   0.o M42.           0   0        0o 
AWN           mum           2N 24  24  24  24  24  24   IN    I   R.    n.0 n.7.0 MO.   n.e   n.e   n.0 504.0   0e0  0o                     
U     24  24  24  24  24  24  24  1*6 11.    43.2    2   4.2  43.2  4W2   4.2  43.2 3024    00                          Ku
Nt.                    a 0    40    00 40 0        4    0      J1 31.3    00.4       .4 6.40.40 .4 0 .4 3 .4  4o.0            0        0       au
I30S1                  U     12  12  12  12  12  12  12    O4 1.5 *8.0   8.0*3 .0 o0.0*3 0                0*0 .0 *     .0    0o0           0 o  1
S-Tta&d AL   5     (TAM                                                     279.6       27 9.6  2179.  2179. 279 2.6  2796 195792
C. WTim as MUITEIME
4 U IS          e       .     I   I   I   I   I   I   1          7 30  30.0 3e0 0 30.03   .030     3000 .0220.0e         o         e       O
vm   movns              . -    -    -    -    -    -    -    --    - see 00wo s e.0      010s.0    w       se 0    .se. 0    0  0          0    W03
M-TW  UM11U MD   U9                                                          3.    30. 00.0 "A0.0 00 .0 SK    .0 lo .0  500.0
towtt5. 1206 -                                                     -     -    W-      -IO   -      -     - MAlr#
-       --                 -     -S 111-1-1 101M ltt



NEPAL
HILL COMMNITY FORESTRY PROJECT
Tranlng Program (my Year/Quarter)
COURSE                    1989        1990         19S1         1992          1994 1994 1995                       96    Approx. no of  Duration
a   4   1 2 8  4   1  2 8   4   1  2 8  4   1  2 8  4   1 2 8  4   1  2  8 4   1  2    participants   of course
DFO:
Reorientatlon Workhop      2           1            1            1             1            1            1             1       20(10) 3/      I uk
Forest Mana gsuII                         1            1            1             1            1             1                    15          Iwk
CFO* and TEORs:
Reorletation Workshop      2              1            1            1             1            1             1                    20          2  k
Reerlentatlon Folloeup                           2            2             2            2            2             2             20          a *
Traln. A Ext. bmthodology  1   1             1            1            1             1            1             1              2000) a/      a *k
LW A OPbO:
Comm. Foer. Orientatlon                          6                          5                         6                           16         J ay
Ranr/Ast. Ranger:
Reorientation Workshop         2   6  10 10 10                                                                                  1 ODitr      2wk
R.rientr tion Followup                       8   101 o  0o 8   10  10 10    1 0o 1o 8   1         8   10 10108   101o           I Dltr       Iwk
Tralners Training                   2  4 6 8  89      2             1             1            1             1                    is bf       2 wk
Comm. For. Mgt. Training                         55     6 5  5    6          5 6   C  6  a     2            2                     16         4 rk
ScO   Collection                                 2            2             2            2            2             2             20          2 wk
Agroforestry I                                   S            5             6        6            6             6                 20          2wk
Survey A Mapping Training                           S            5             5            6            5             6          16         4*k
Forest Guards:
Orientation                            s 888                                                                                      16         2wk
Coaunity Training                                      88           88            88           as           88                    16          2.k
Forest Guard Training                     1            1            1             1            1             1                    15         12 *k
Agroforestry II                                    88           as            88           88           a8           8s           15         1*k
Women Extenion Worker:
Forestry Training                   6            5            5             5                            6                        15          2wk
iik e:
Nursry Training                     a8          as            8s            a            88           88            as            1s           IWk
Coamnity Leaders:
ComC. For. Orientation              8  10 2888asa 88888888        88888888  88888        88888888                                                        asssssUss2 8888888 8  88880  20  lwk
Accountants:
Accounting   B Dookkeeping                          6                                             6                                8          2 *k
*/ 20 participant. In the lot year, and 10 the following yres.
b   2-3 from each of the districts wher, the rangers have undergon  'Reorientation".



NEPAL
HILL COMIMIUNITY FORESTRY PROJECT
Operational Action Program
Responsible                          Frequency/Timing
Action                                           Agency                             *nd Completion date
(1)     HllO would undertake to recruit the following
Staff and Consultants by the following dates:
(a) Recruitment of key local staff
CFDD (fD)
Accountant/Procuroment Officer                                 MFSC/FD                            By December 81, 1989
District Forest Offices (PD)
CFO (7)                                                        IFSC/FD                            By December 81  1869
CFO  4)                                                                                           By December t, 109
CFO 54                                                                                            By Decemer 81, 1991
Senior Accountants (26)                                                                           By    March 81, 1990
Tralning Division (MFSC)
Training/Extenslon Officers                                      MFSC                             By Decmbr  81, 1969
(In Reglonal Offic") (6)
Instructors (15)                                                   *                              By September 30, 1990
Forestry Reserch Division (DFPR)
Sr. Reserch Officer (4)                                        MFSC/DFPR                          By Deceber 31, 1989
Jr. Research Officer (7)                                           *                              By December 81, 1989
(b) Recruitment of Foreign Consultants 1/
- -- -- -- - - - -- - - - - - - - - - -       
Forest Management Specialist             9 m                     CFDD                             By Decembr 81, 1989
Monitoring and Evaluation Specialist    12 m                                                      By Decomber 31, 1989
Land Use Specialist                      8 6m                                                     Already in pIlce
Silviculturist 2/                       24 -                       *                              By December 31, 19089
Mid-!srm Review Consultant              11 am                                                     By June 30, 1992
Unspecified Consultants                 16 am                                                     As required.
Training and Extension Coordinator 8/   84 m                        *                             By February 1, 1990
Training Consultant                     24 am                                                     By February 1, 1990                    to
000
1/ To be supported by UNDP and DANIDA Grant assistance.
2/ To be supported by five Asocoite Expert., one In each Region, for two years each.
8/ To be supported by five Regional Training and Extension Advisors, one In each Region, for 3 years each.



NEPAL
HILL COMMUNITY FORESTRY POJECT
Op,ratlionel Acti on Progrm
Responsible                           Froquency/Timing
Action                                            Agency                             and Completion date
(ce) Recruitment of Local Consultante
(1) For Benchmark Survey
Reserch Coordinator                  7 -                    CFDO                               By December 1, 1099
Aest. Reserch Coordinator           4m                                                         By Dec_mber 1, 1989
Enumarators                   8 at  a _                                                        By December 1, 1989
Enumerators/Dats Processors   2 at 7 -                                                         By Decmber 1. 19089
(it) For Soclo-Economlc Study
Forester                            9                                                          By June so, 1090
Soclologslt                         8 _                                                        Cy June 30, 1990
Specalelet on womn In forestry      8 _                                                        By June 30, 1n00
(III) Periodic Asessment Studies
Foresters                     2 at  6 -                       *                                June 80, 1991, 1993 & 1996
Social scientist              2 at 8 _
(2)     Training/Reorientation Workshops:
To Include one day for review of progress and                Training Division to arrange            During all Reorientation Work-
experlence% from various Hill Districts on                   Reoriantation Workshops, help           shops held after January 1,
forest User Group formtion, Workpian formula-                participants prepare their              1990.
tion and implementation arrangemients.  DFOs,                presentations, and invite obser-
CFOs, Rangers and LDOs would participate.                    vers.
Donors and relevant agencies would be invited.
(8)     Seedling Production and Distribution
Nursery registers and records of production                  CFDO/Fiold Rangers                      As nursries are established.
costs, survival rates, and uptake by local
villagers.
(4)     Rates for Compensation Payments to Usor Group                 FD to set, in agreement with IDA.       Before disbursements to User            0
-----------------------------------------------                            Groups can be made. 
o 0l



NEPAL
HILL COMUMITY FORESTRY PROJECT
Operational Action Progrm
Responsible                           Freque_y/Timing
Action                                            Agncy                              and Completion date
(5)     To derelop -m Silvipsteral and Envl.'on-                      FD, with support from DRPR              Draft models by Sept. 990,
mantl protection models for plantations (Pf)                 and Silvicultural expert.               and eontinuingi
and *snansmeet of oxisting fonot (PPf).
(a)     Stdioes  nd ieports
(a) Bcnc8 srk Survey to determine the lipset of                       CFDO                               August 81, 1990
Credit 1008-NEP on the supply of forest products
In the Hills.
(b) Socio-Economic Study on utiliztion of forest products.            CFDD                               March 81, 1991
(c) Monitoring and Evaluation                                                                                                                         C-
Selannual progrs  reports for perlods ending                 CFDO to compile, DOFWs office
January 16 and July 15.                                      to review, CFDO to submit to IDA.       Every March 16 and September 15.
(d) Periodic Assessment Studies
To evoluoa  project progres pertaining to                         CFDD                               June 80 of 1998, 1994, A 1W6.
extension, Group formation, Woriplan
formulation, and Implementation, Seedling
Distribution.
(e) Mid-Term Review                                             h1Sc/                                    January, 1993
(f) Mid-Term Review Reprt and RecommadsdtionI MFSC/FD to submit to IDA                                   March 15, 1996
(g) Projet Completion Report                                     MFSC/FD to submit to IDA.               Six months after project closing.
- --          ------
04
(7)     Workshop
To discuss results of Mid-Term Review                        MFSC/FD                                 By May 1, 1993                           0
wcff



- 65 -
ANNEX 7
Page 1 of 7
NEPAL
HILL COMMUNITY FORESTRY PROJECT
Terms of Referenci
TRAINING AND EXTENSION COORDINATOR
(One post)
Duties
Under the guidance of the CTA (UNDP project), and in close cooperation
with CFDD staff, the Training and Extension Coordinator will:
(1)   coordinate the work of the five Training and Extension advisers
at regional level;
(2)   analyze the need for in-service training and extension work in
the project area;
(3)   assist in the development of syllabuses, manuals and other
training materials for relevant courses;
(4)   assist in the planning and running of courses, seminars,
excursions and workshops;
(5)   support Training and Extension Officers, instructors, Training
and Extension Advisers at district and regional levels;
(6)   assist in the implementation of the building programme
(Training Division and RTC);
(7)   at the beginning, put s-,:ecial emphasis on the implementation of
courses for trainers and instructors;
(8)   cooperate closely with all relevant institutions,
organizations, projects and individuals;
(9)   analyze the need and scope for overseas training programmes and
assist in their implementation;
(10)   assist in the establishment of monitoring and evaluation
systems for training and extension;
(11)   evaluate all courses, and extension work; and
(12)   collect relevant books and materials (national and
international) and assist in establishing libraries for the
staff.
The Training and Extension Coordinator will travel regularly to get
acquainted with the situation in the districts, and to support training and
extension work at regional and district levels.



- 66 -                                 ANNEX 7
Page 2 of 7
Qualifications
The Training and Extension Coordinator shall be an internationally
recruited forestry officer with at least six years of experience--of which
three should have been in a developing country--in the specialized field of
forestry education, training and extension work. Fluency in English is
required.
Duty Station: CFDD, Kathmandu.
Duration: Six years.



- 67 -
ANNEX 7
Page 3 of 7
NEPAL
HILL COMMUNITY FORESTRY PROJECT
Terms of Reference
TRAINING AND EXTENSION ADVISER
(Five posts)
Duties
Under the guidance of the Training and Extension Coordinator at CFDD
and in close cooperation with the Regional Training and Extension Officer
and the staff at the Regional Training Centers (RTC), the TraininS and
Extension Adviser will assist in the coordination of the overall training
and extension programme within the Region.
In particular, he/she will:
(1)   analyze the need for courses and extension work within the
Region;
(2)   assist in the planning and implementation of courses, field
trips, seminars and workshops;
(3)   support the district CFO's;
(4)   assist in providing materials for courses, extension work,
etc.;
(5)   assist iD the preparation and running of lessons on specific
subjects;
(6)   assist in the implementation of the RTC building programme;
(7)   cooperate w-ch all relevant institutions and projects;
(8)   initially give special attention to the training of trainers;
and
(9)   evaluate all courses and extension work.
The Training and Extension Adviser shall liaise closely with the
Training and Extension Officer at the Regional Forestry Directorate, and is
expected to travel regularly to districts and to remote areas to get
acquainted with the needs of the villagers and in order to support CFOs,
Rangers/Assistant Rangers and Field Assistants in the implementation of the
training and extension work.



- 68 -                                ANNEX 7
Page 4 of 7
Qualifications
The Adviser shall be an internationally recruited forestry/training
officer with at least three years' experience in the field of forestry
training and extension work. Fluency in English. and preferably some
Nepali, is required.
Duty Station: Regional Training Centers (Dhankuta, Hetauda, Pokhara,
Suiket and Deepal).
Duration: Three years.



- 69 -
ANNEX 7
Page 5 of 7
NEPAL
HILL COMMUNITY 17ORESTRY PROJECT
Terms of Reference
TRAINING CONSULTANT
(One post)
Duties
Under the guidance of the Training and Extension Coordinator, and in
close cooperation with CFDD and TD staff, the Training Consultant will
assist in:
(1)   the identification of training needs;
(2)   the development of course material;
(3)   organizing training at central and regional levels;
(4)   the development of extension methods and packages;
(5)   building up monitoring and evaluation systems for training and
extension; and
(6)   performing the necessary tasks for implementing the training
and extension programme.
The Consultant will travel within the project area to support ongoing
activities when and where necessary.
Qualifications
Forestry or training officer with experience in forestry/community
training and extension.
Duty Station: Kathmandu
Duration: Two years.



- 70 -                                ANNEX 7
Page 6 of 7
NEPAL
HILL COMMUNITY FORESTRY PROJECT
Terms of Reference
SILVICULTURIST
(One post)
Duties
The output of the Silviculturist at the end of his consultancy period
should be a Technical Afforestation Manual dealing with various aspects of
bare land planting, enrichment planting, replanting and agro-forestry in
different parts of the hills of Nepal. The Manual should discuss and make
recommendations for nursery operations, ground preparation, soil treatment,
species selection, planting techniques, maintenance, management, including
estimated costs of plantations of various categories. These
recommendations will be arrived at from the existing state of knowledge on
the subject in Nepal, the visual and experimental observations made by the
Silviculturist and his associates during the consultancy period and from
the discussions that the Silviculturist should have with the forest
officers in the Forest Department.
In order to carry out the above task, the Silviculturist should:
(1)   take into account the various agro-climatic zones of Nepal,
complete a literature review of the above-mentioned subjects
for each zone and determine which areas and which aspects of
plantations in these areas need most attention to improve upon
the present technology;
(2)   make field visits to these problem areas and make observations
as to what technology could be most suited. If necessary and
if less than two years' time is sufficient, he/she might lay
out small field-level experiments with the help of the five
Associate Experts and the District Forest Officers to arrive at
some reliable conclusions. If the experimental time required
is more than two years, he/she should pass on the problems to
the Department of Forest and Plant Research for necessary
action;
(3)   meet with the forest research workers in the MFSC, research
organizations, and the universities to collect available data
from the ongoing experiments. He/she should also meet with the
local forest officers and obtain their field experiences as
inputs for the Manual;
(4)   contact as many farmers as possible to note their experience
and perception of agro-forestry issues and should deal with
them in the Manual;



- 71-
ANNEX 7
Page 7 of 7
(5)   complete the Manual six months in advance of his/her term
completion and circulate it to the Ministry and Department of
Forests, and different donor agencies for their review; and
(6)   in collaboration with the Department of Forests, organize a
technical seminar of forestry experts to consider the Manual
and to edit the Manual in the light of their recommendations.
Qualifications
The incumbent should be a graduate in forestry with at least ten
years' experience in planting and management of plantation forestry of
broad-leaved species and conifers in tropical mountains of Asia. He/she
should have some experience in community forestry and in agro-forestry.
Research experience will be considered as an added qualification. He/she
should have to his/her credit some publications on plantation forestry.
Duty Station: The Silviculturist would report to the Director General of
Forests and be based in Kathmandu, with frequent travel to the field.
Duration: 24 months.



Pv.iKt Causal. by Tmr
Total imelisi bwinImwel.                                           Tials Imeluil  CwA1e1u,
a   I'M)                                                           (US '63)
ff/N    91/9     91i      92/9    9194      949      95/      Tota       RM9  9WU9  91/     92M9   GM/9   94/9   GM/   ToW
A, IIWITII.l SUlUR           2X,640.2 346*3  47,247  *4u.1X m0 2 .; 3          4  z4.3u4,h75 77 a.1 1,20.2 32IPW               1,73. ItmW   1,364 1.3464   ,9o5
Is 9W3 NU=  UEAWf             76130.0 2,524.7 34,0.7  760.7  ,917s  514W0.  71461*6  461306 2.9M3 1,62 1,9.0 2t*,4 4,. 6,016.0 6,.3 292.0
C. I51A=9  S EDWIN            52,490.6 5300.5 31,476.7 2370.6  23.617,1 25,159.65 2.4N3.  2151.7 2,0.l 191.13 154.4   1.3  X*  99.7  "7.2 t,3.7
3. MSIE=                       1,642.6  1,440.9    ,.   15 .0   1,46.5   1,76.6  1,65.l        11494.9    64.4   55   59.7   61.6   6,         9.4   73.6   0.6
Toal RWCt cIum                 IlPtlI 4 11342.64 115,21.6 146,51.3 1733.2 20195.6 233U3.2  1.71.404.8 6t2397 4440.2 459.7 5746.5 79019.0 6,274.3 9,4.0 634                     s
In5, St 1     1212
'UE



- 73 -
ANNEX 8
Table 2
NEPAL
nuLL COIUMUY FORESTRY PRl ECT
Sanw  kAou t by Projct Cwaunt
(IU '000)
(ouical
FOREST                                   Continfzic.
INSTITUTIOIMI  RESURCE  TRAINING AND
SUPPMT       _NN  t  EXTENSION   RESENREK   Total      I   Amownt
_  u              =  _ u _.___
I. INVESTHff COSTS
A. LOCALLY PURCHASED EUDIPIENT                   1,306.0         -      1,804.0    100.0     h 210.0  S.0   160.5
P. INTERNATIONWALLY PIRCHASED EWIPIEWT             374.0         -            -        -       374.0  S.0    18.7
C. CIVIL MORKS                                  41,200.0         -       70o0oo        -    66290*0 10.0 6,829.0
D. VUHICLES                                      4,820.0         -      8,430.0   300.0   130550.0  S.0   677.5
E. TECHNICAL ASSISTAIIC                         11,600.0         -      57Z000.0       -    68400.0  5.0 3.430.0
F. TRAINING                                           -          -      32755.0        -    32755.0 10.0 3,275.5
6. STUDIES AND SUEYS                             4m9.0           -            -        -     4,398.0  0.0     0.0
H. P ATION ESTABLIT 3Y FD                             -  19950.3              -        -   199,506.3  0.0     0.0
I. PLATION ESTAILISET Of USR                          -  224,.1               -        -   2240W.1  0.0       0.0
Jo. iROU FORIATION AND TECIIICAL s T           116940.1                     -              116.490.1  0.0     0.0
K. FOREST/FLANTATION MTECTION T USER 6U                -   67,320.0           -        -    670320.0  0.0     0.0
Total INESTNT COSTS                               180,169.1  490,870.4    127079.0   4?4.0   7U8,537.5  1.8 14,391.2
II.  RENT COSTS
^A SALIES                                       t,839.0         -       7864.0  64062,0    23,765.0  0.0     0.0
B. ALOIAC  (TAD)                                      -         -       S223.0  1,957.2   17,16.2  0.0       0.0
C. TRAININ6 NATERMIIS                                 -          -      44886.0       -     4,886.0  0.0      0.0
B. OPERATION AID MINTENMICE                    S%m.o             -     1028.0    560.0    16672.0  0.0        0.0
E. TRAINING ALLOWM                                    -          -     21,309.5       -    21,30.5  0.0       0.0
F. FOREST  _ rM   AM                                       I12.0             -        -      1,512.0  0.0     0.0
Total RECRN  COSTS                                 1,667.0    1,S12.0     t5 6.5  8,57.2   865324.7  0.         0.0
total SASELIIE COSTS                               195,86.1  492132.4    186,645.   8,7.2   883,862.2  1.6 14391.2
PhNicIl Continimi                                   0s2o5.0       -       9,3U6.2    20.0    14,391.2  0.0     0.0
Price Contingrcis                                52,2997,6  I9138#2    34,520.0  2.49.7   259,t1.4  0.8 2.108.9
Total PROJECT COSTS                                253,877.7  661,20.6    230,S11.7 11,494.9 1I7,404.8  1.4 16,SO.1
Foteign E-At"                                    23.319,9         -    122,820.9    425.1   146,54.9  6.0 8763.4
11v St 1989 12:12



uuL e_m11 fRM w
Sun   Keauto bw TYr
Ttal$l Imlabirs  Ctl, lln                                           mbs  w1_ CmU    nn
(aS 1000                                                            (o  'NO)
09/9     0          M      92M      994    94"         5       Total     /n         m    nm     92/3      94  94/5  9T5/9   Toutn
im_m  men             :_K                                                         gas== _ a_   c         a c           C= _
I. tILUT FUIOhK   EWOiT                       1"99.6    M.t    f.e    334D.            -         -        -    3PS9.6    79.4   27.1   21,0   13.3        -       -      -   141.1
1. INIUTIW.LY P0tI 333 EIPIlI                  349.2     56.6        -        -        -         -        -      45.9    13.7    2.2       -       -      -       -      -    15.
C. CM IW1S                                   19457.4 224165 2405"#46 16956.6  4,19.9             -        -    7w54.9   763.0   7.1  9.0  66.0  1U5.1             -      - 349.2
*. VI1UU                                     12.750.?  194.4         -        -        -         -        -   14.07.3   560.0   76.3        -      -       -             -   576.4
E. 1EC1 A6S9I9TA                            21,493.3 24,796.6 15735.5  46132.1  4931.5   4M477.9  46U1.4   79.33.3   642.9  m9o   17.1  162.0  lU.   13.6  132.0 3,121.1
F. NAME                                       4,110.1  7,190.2  6651.9  7,913,9  4oW..0  6,7M2.5  52904   42,060.    161.2  292.0  237.3  306.   191.4  263.6  207.5  1,649.4
6. 6111316 fU 15                                34.9      232    291.0  3,63.1    76.9           -    367,3    5,246.4    13.9   10.7   11,4  142.5   12.6        -   14.4   265.7
N. PIC*TIU ESTA TISHM    BY FD               75s299.9 17,4.3  10,479.8 2,532.9 34.6234 43521.3  4773.2  25103U4.  2P952.9  692.1  412.0  344.4 1U36.6 1.706.3 t72.1 9644.5
1. LMTOIATlI ESTAIUIEtl   BY USR T In              -  6.016.7  17.569 42,9M350  7N.5*9  59s284.1  91,394.5  314695.0         -  236.0  700.3 601,.7 274.9 3344.5 3,594.1m22317.5
J.GM FOT IN D MIEDM0CAL SOFT                 14.717 16733.5 16960.9  21,332.2 23919.  26741.1 29614.9  152,19t   576.0  655.   743.6  836.6  9.0 1t0.7 1,169.2 59.3                                 1
1. FNST/MATJIIOIECTID P USER 9R1                903.3  2.612.9  6,029.2  114305.2 l7PA93.0 24.300.5 32pl1.2   94,2.0    31.5  102.5  2364  443.3  674.3  93.0 1262.7  3,703.6
Tt  IhT1T camS                                 ts52327.3 100,370.6 100,66.2 129#M.5 S60tM.9 191037.4 2119464.9  04.314#s 5934.4 3,931.1 33M.9 S,03.2 6,304.9 7491.7 9M.7 4092.7
11. fT3 CamT
A. "mES                                      2764.7  30739.5  4.297.6  4.600.5  4376.5  St169.2  5.479#2   30".7.1   165.4  145.9  16.5  IN.   191.2  202.7  214.9 1.232.Q
3. AItES  TA/Im)                               725.3  2,077.3  2,527.2  3.249.4  4.006.3  4.916.2  57914.7   233905.0    29.4   615 "     .1  127.4  156.9  383.9  226.9   909.0
C. 1M811  rATERIALS                            368.6   043.1    997.1  1.057.0    91.4  2,031.7  1493.#6    63723    14.5   33.1   39.1   41.4   3.5   40.5   42.9   24.9
I. 1919 I AIND NMINTIM                       2.072.7  2.265.6  2553.9  3,077.7  3.672.4  379.3  4,219.1   21,837.7    93.3   U.8  100.3  120.7  144.0  156.1  265.4   956.4
1. lIADIIK M MallEZS                         1.626.5  3,703.5  4149.7  4939e.7  4.3a86.   4650.0  4.s,29      27,644.3    63.9  145.2  162.7  1n.5  372.0   82.4  193.3  190919.
F. F13T rA    ET   WAR                         226.8    245.9    261.9    277.6    294.2    311.9    330.6   13M.49       6.9    9.6   10.3   30.9   11.5   12.2   13.0    76.4
Total  OiJT  03STS                             7h7B4.3 12,54.9  4,75.tM    16.6609  IB211.4 19,959.2 23335.2  112,090.3   305.3  504.1  579.e  653.4  714.2  72.7  956.3  49395.7
Total "AMCT CI15                                159111.4 1139225.6 115,251.6 146536.3 118.94.2 210.995,6 233,300.2 1,157404.8 6,239.7 4,440.2 4,519.? 5746.5 7019.0 9.274,3 9,349.0 45.3B.4
_______-__-----___------__---__ ------          -----  _ _ _-               -*-
N  5w 1     12:13
O.- t.



HIU  CWITY FORESTRY PROJECT
Financinsir Plan b Poeo Cm mts
(UP '000)
DSSH
INTHERTIM  INhMATII. UNITED NATIONS             LOCAL      HIS IAST
VEYOWW        IYElNEVELOlNT   0EWOT    COTIIJUTION Y    _WUt  F
ASSIITIIO       AENCY PtIAM                SLER  NW           mA            Total
Local -(Excl. DAtis tI
ousmt  I    AmoiZt  Z        h_mt                    Z Amo_t   Awimt  2   At   I   For. Exch.    Taxes)           Taxes 
=:======  =       2    :-2         =:=                as:=_      =  2-=  :   G     __ 2=2==           I=:=5S  ___
A INSTITUTIWIAL SU               , 6452#3 64.      -   ^    506.3  5.1            -    -  2P997.4 30.1  9,95.0  21.9         914.5      91041.5         -
t. FOREST RESCURtE NAMAGEIENT   22.717.8 87.6      -   -          -    -   3.147,8  12.1      76.4 0.3 25t942.0 57.2             -     2592.0           -
C. TRAININ  A  EXTENSION        1,263.9 14.0  6,954.1 75.8        -    -          -    -    M.6 10.2  9t039.7  19.9    4,816.5          4,223.2
It RESEARCH                       116.1 25.7       -   -          -    -          -    -    334.7 74,3    450.8  1.0          16.7        434,1         -
total Disbursesent               30,550.0 67.3  6,854.1 15*1    506.3  1.1   3,147.8  6.9  49330.1  9.1  45388.4 tO0.O    59747.7        394640.7        -
Nov 5 19S9 12:12
TX z
1tn
ox



HILL UIUTT NY FpawECT
Fincirn  Plan bi Simon   Ats
(ts 1000)
ITlElATRISt  IlUMYTIaSL  UITE  NATIONS           LCAL        HIS NAESm
KMIWIT         tELWEtEIT      EEOPNEIT  CEUTRIUTIIDN BY 6U4E             IIf
MUCI*TIU         mI           FUh3E          on   mm 6           .Total
LOcal (Excl   WetiK 
_urt   I   A3 mat   I         A_t   2        burt   I   burt   2    burt   I   For. Exch.    lam)I   lu
1.~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~Bx= =IIIESTIEIIT11ltTS
4. LOCALtL  P   1  E    i0                       63.0  44.6    78*1 55.4          -    -          -    -         -    -    141.1  0.3        126.4         14.7         -
I. INIETIOULJ FI;MD   TEUYEN                       15.9 100.0       -                                                         15.9  00         15.9            -        -
Cs CIVIL                                        1263.9  36.6                  -            -    -           219533 63.4  3,449.2  7.6         122.4      3,326.8        -
8. liN nOB                                        21.5 JtA    359*9 6.4                                                -    576.4  1.3        576.4            -         -
E. ITCAIlUt MSISTAU                                  -    - 214.3  93.8    506.3  16.2             -    -         -    -  3t1n21   6.9    3.115.7            5.4        -
F. TI ll                                              -       1649.4 100.0         -                                   -  1,649.4  3.6    1.649.4              -         -
e. SlUDIS    1111s5                               23.7 1000         -      -        -      -        -             -    -    205,7  0.5        141.5         64.3        -
U. ITATIO ESTLIET 3 FO                         9,944.5 1000         -   -          - -             -- - 9,844.5 21.7                              -    9,644.5          -
to N ATIC(I ESTMSUl T BonE GEm                 9M9o     00.5                 -              2,407.1  19.5      0.0  0*0  12e317.5 27.1           -     12,317.5        -
J, NWEli  FW I         EIIIU   I M MT           5,96.3 100.0                        -    -           - -   _    _ -    -  5,96.3  13.1            -      5,96.3         -
K. FREST/MANTATIO  FE I   Y UM  MA              292.9  3.0          -                           740.7   20.0    0.0  0.0  3.703.6  8.2            -      3970.6 
Total AIW       COMST                            300451.1  74.3 4,702.2 11.5    506.3  1.2   3147.6  7.7 2,195,?  U., 4,2.7 90,3   53,4707                 35,245.0
11. mIEI muB
A. SIES                                                   -                                                1,212.0 100.0  1,212.0  2.7           -      14212.0        -
so LIIER  (TAM)                                  96.9  10.9   810.19.1           -    -                         -    -     M90.0  2.0           -        909.0        -
C. T        Nun"                                     -    -   249.9 100.0                                        -    -    249.9  0.6            -        249.9        -
so OWE1T11 An      u                                        - --05h4 100.0    I56.4  1.9                                                         -        156.4
E. T      11.                                       -    - 1,091.9 100.0                -               -        -    -  IP,09.9  2.4            -      1,0.9          -
F. FMERYT MEII  MM                                                                                            76.4 100.0     76.4  0.2           -         76.4        -
otal IE01     Cllt                                   99.9  2.3 2,151*9 49.0          -    -          -    - 2,144.  43.6  4W395.7  9.7              -      4,395.7
Ttal Plluint                                       30,550.0 67.3 64,541 15.1    506.3  1.1   3,147.6  6.9 46320.1  9,5  45,39.4 1009    5,747.7             39,640.7
-~  -            -mn  cmn 230         mm.0   mim -           am mmm0= m. a       x mm. mammaininm    mm
NW 5, 19   12t
Mr
to%
_ ~ ~~~~~~~~                      ~         ~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .      __      



- 77 -                              ANNEX 9
Table 3
NEPAL
HILL COMMUNITY FORESTRY PROJECT
Proposed Credit Allocation
(USS million)
Percentage of Expenditures
Expenditure Category        IDA   DANIDA   UNDP    to be Financed by IDA
Goods
Vehicles and Equipment   0.28    0.44    -        11002 of foreign
)expenditures; 1002 of local
)expenditures (ex-factory
)cost); and 75Z of local
)expenditures for goods
)procured locally.
Works                       1.00                           40?
User Group Form* ion
and Technical Support    4.60    -        -             100?
Seedling Production and
Plantation Establishment
by FD                     9.00    -       -o00
User Group Activities
Plantation Establishment
by User Groups          9.48    -       -              80?
Forest (and Plantation)
Protection by
User Groups             2.80    -       -              80?
Travel, Field and Training
Allowances                0.10/a  1.90    -             bOX/a
Consultants' Services
(Studies and Surveys)    0.19    -        -             100?
Materials and Supplies      -       0.25    -
Technical Assistance        -       2.61    0.51
Training                    -       1.65    -
Unallocated                 3.10
TOTAL                30.55    6.85    0.51
/a  Comprises 100? of travel and field allowances for research staff, financed
by IDA.



- 78 -                                       ANNEX 9
Table 4
NEPAL
HILL COMMUNITY FORESTRY PROJECT
Disbursement by Financiers by Semester
(USS million)
Cumulative
IDA                                        Disbursements                        Disbursements
Fiscal Year     Semester                IDA        DANIDA        UNDP            IDA     DANIDA     UNDP
1990             1                   0.3          0.7         0.2             0.3       0.7       0.2
2                  0.4          0.7          0.2            0.7       1.4       0.4
1991              1                  0.8          0.7         0.1             1.5       2.1       0.6
2                   1.5         0.7          -              3.0       2.8       0.5
1992              1                   1.6         0.6          -              4.6       3.3       -
2                   1.6         0.3          -              6.0       3.8       -
1993             1                   1.6          0.3          -              7.6       3.9       -
2                   1.6         0.3          -              9.0       4.2       -
1994             1                   1.5          0.3          -             10.6       4.5       -
2                   1.6         0.3          -             12.0       4.8       -
1995             1                   2.0          0.3         -              14.0       5.1       -
2                   2.0         0.3          -             16.0       5.4       -
1996             1                   2.5          0.3         -              18.5       5.7       -
2                   2.6         0.3          -             21.0       6.0       -
1997             1                   2.6          0.3          -             23.6       8.3       -
2                   2.5         0.3          -             28.0       6.6       -
1998             1                   4.6          0.3          -             30.6       6.9       0.6
Completion date: December 31, 1996
Closing date: December 31, 1997



- 79 -                                                          ANNEX 10
NEPAL
HILL COMI4.NrTy FORESTRY PROJECT
Incresental Staff Requiroment
No. of E.isting Posts
Total                            Incremental No. Required
Crade    Year: 1    2   3   4   5   6   7    Sanctioned    Filled    Vacant    o,er total sanctioned
I FOREST DEPARTMENT
CFDD
Accountant/Procurement Officer          CA III           I                 - -   -  -        -       -                                  I
Head Clark                               NOA I           1    -    -    -    -    -    --                  -          -                 1
Typist                                   NCA             1    -   -    -    -    -    -                                                 1
Driver                                   NCA             2                         -          -            -          -                 2
Peon                                        -           2    -   -    -    -    -             -            -          -                 2
Regional Forest Directorates (RFD)
Director                                 CT I                                                    -         S                            -
Deputy Director                          CT II-                                               6            5
Assistant Foreat Officer 1/              CT III                             -1                            7          8
Section Officer                          CA III          -                                        -           - 5
Assistant Ranger                        NOT I            -    -    -    -    -    -    -     15            9          6
Chief Training Officer                   CT II           -    -    -    -    -    -    -      5            -          S
District Forest Offices
OFO                                      CT II/III       -    -   -                          38           38          -                 -
CFO 2/                                   CT III          7    4   4   -   -   -              12           10          2                15
Accountant                               CA III         25    -    -    -    -    -    -     37           37          -                25
Ranger                                   NaT I           -    -    -    -    -    -    -    lS          115          -                 -
Assistant Ranger 3/                     NCA                   -    -    -    -    -    -    608          431        177                 -
Driver                                   IOA             -   14                               -            -          -                14
Subtot;el                                                                                                                 61
II. MFSC
Training Division
Training/Extension Officer               CT III                               -        -      - -   -   -  -  -  -                      5
Instructors                             NaT I           -   1S   -    -    -    -    -        -            -          -                15
Head Clerk                               NOA I           5                                  - - --
Jr. Accountant                          NGA I           5    -    -    -    -                 -            -          - 
Typist                                   NCA            10        -- -                                                                 10
Driver                                  NOA             10---                            -    -                                        10
Storekeeper                              NGA             5 -               --                              -    -5
Peon                                        -           10                                  -            -          -                10
Warden                                      --  3 - - - -                                     -            -          -3
Cooek                                      3_ 
Cleaner                                                       _ 3   _   _                                                               3
Watcher                                     --3 - - - -    -                                               -    -
Subtotal                                                                                                                 82
IL.  DEFT. OF FOREST A PLANT RESEARCH
Forestry Research Division
*   Sr. h'esearchOfficer                 CT II           4--                                               -          _                 4
Jr. Research Officer                    CT III           7-7
Administrative Officer                  CA III           2                          -        -       -                                  2
Sr. Clrk                                NOA I            2    -    -    -           -        -       -                                  2
Jr. Clerk                               NOA I            4                          -       - -   -   -                                 4
Lob Technician                          NOT I            4    -    -    -    -    -    -      -            -                            4
Rangers                                  NT I            4    -    -    -    -    -    -      -            -          -                 4
Jr. Lab Technician                      NOT II          4-- -                      --                                                  4
Assistant Rangers                        NGT I                             - -   -    -    -    -    -  -                               8
Driver                                   NOA             2-                            -  -   -   -  -  -  -                            2
Subtotal                                                                                                                 41
TOTAL                                                                                                                184
1/  Including Training end Extension Officers.
2/ For A and 8 class Dietricts only. 2 in A class, and 1 each in 8 class.
3/ Two rangers each in C clas Districts.



- 80 -                                ANNEX 11
Page 1 of 2
NEPAL
HILL COMMUNITY FORESTRY PROJECT
Documents and Data Available in Project File
1.       Master Plan for the Forestry Sector of Nepal, FINNIDA and ADB,
December 1988
(a) Country Background;
(b) Forest Development Plan for the Supply of Main Forest Products;
(c) Forest Resources Information Status and Development Plan; and
(d) Soil Conservation and Watershed Management Plan.
2.       Nepal - Forest Sector Policy, Ministry of Forests and Soil
Conservation, Nepal, January 1989.
3.       Decentralization Act, 1982 and Decentralization (Working
Arrangements) Rules, 1984, Nepal Miscellaneous Series Vol. 6/87 and Nepal
Recorder, Regmi Research Ltd., Kathmandu, Nepal. May 20, 1987.
4.       Panchayat Forest Rules and Pancheyat-Protected Forest Rules, Nepal
Miscellaneous Series, Vol. 7/88, Regmi Research Ltd., Kathmandu, Nepal.
May 30, 1988.
5.       Clients' Percertions, Opinions and Attitudes towards the Services and
Activities of the Forest Research and Information Centre, study done for the
Nepal-UK Forestry Research Project, New ERA, Maharajgunj, Kathmandu, Nepal,
November, 1988.
6.       Mahat, T. B. S., Forestry - Farming Linkages in the Mountains,
International Center for Integrated Mountain Development (ICIMOD) Occasional
Paper No. 7, Kathmandu, Nepal, March 1989.
7.       Applegate, G. B., and Gilmour, D. A., Operational Experiences in
Forest Management Development in the Hills of Nepal, ICIMOD Occasional Pap.r
No. 6, January, 1987.
8.       Dani, Anis A., and Campbell, J. Gabriel, Sustaining Upland Resources
- People's Participation in Watershed Management, ICIMOD Occasional Paper
No. 3, July 1986.
9.       Fisher, R. J., and Malla, Y. B., Forestry Work in Villages:  A Guide
for Field Workers, Nepal-Australia Forestry Project, Technical Note 3/87,
July, 1987.
10.      Gronow, J., Becoming Concerned with People Toc-:  The Forest
Department Starting Extension Forestry in Dolakha, Parts I and II,
HMG/SATA/IHDP, June 1987.



- 81 -
ANNEX 11
Page 2 of 2
11.      Hudson, John, New Forestry Research in Nepal - 1987, FRIC Occasional
Paper No. 1/88, Forest Research and Information Centre, Forest Department.
Kathmandu, Nepal, May 1988.
12.      Kishore, K. C., Participatory Inputs in Community Forestry - A Case
Study of Chhang Village Panchayat of Tanahu District, HMG-USAID-GTZ-IDRC-FORD-
WINROCK Project, Forestry Research Paper Series, No. 12, September 1988.
13.      Wallace, Michael B., For st Degradation in Nepal:  Institutional
Context and Policy Alternatives, HMG-USAID-GTZ-IDRC-FORD-WINROCK Project,
Forestry Research Paper Series, No. 6, Research Report Series, March 1988.
14.      Pelinck, E., Shrestha, R., and de Pater, C. H., Guidelines for the
Use of Materials in Support of Extensive Training and Administration of
Community Forestry at District and Village Level in Nepal, Field Document No.
8, HMG/UNDP/FAO Cormuuity Forestry Development Project, Kathmandu, Nepal, July
1984.



NEPAL
HILL COMMUNITY FORESTRY PROJFCT
THE PRINCIPAL FUNCTIONS OF MFSC /D
MIonourable Miniature
NRCCi
Forest Products Development Bord
Lopal Rosin and Turpentsne Industry Lim'ted
Herbe Production and Processing Company Limited
Additi InI Socrats' rJditionkl Socrot ry
(SUpporTia Functione)                                                                                      Dprtmnto I CoordinatioJn)
I I i | ,, I . r=- I i_ _ l 1 ,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IP
Trainiop      Co_nication            M Fhn;toring and    Srrvey and                                       Department of    Deptl. of Foreotry    OIep  o  So;l                   Dept of ateonal
ivision       L Ertenioin Div .      E.$luation Div      St ,t.stT.c  Div.                                Forests           and Plant Rsarch   Consrvation and WUt.- shd| Perle. and
-Curriculum and    -Ertnr,on                  _Prorae M/E    _Fort Roure                                              Forst Adminstrotion    Foreat Romrec           - So;  Conservation       Wildlife and NMature
C aterial          C mnication mnd         Projet M/E               Survey k Analysi- Foreat man*asont                                      Plant Reseorch     -btsrohad Mnmgeesnt    Conservatin               I
DeveloJpment         Public Relations                            Danvttnt MIE  Data Bass                         Forest Uti Ization        Drug Reerch          -Environmental            9i;dlif 
I-. rojecteon for      Material                  Monitoring of        Cant:ral Library                               Cr_unity Foreetry         botanical Cardens        FolIos-up                Protection and   CO
HIuan Reoource       Production               Royal y  rec-                                                        Development                and Arboretum                                   onagement 
Devlopiswnt                                   tive- end-hbl   rin
-Coordination                                      Progress Review
of In-erv ie
Trainisn9
Lriain; with                                                               Admi ni  at on |Plnni n
TU and IOF                                                              vDiviion a                                Divson
-eneral Ad anierattir o                      Poiect Formulation
Peroonnel Ibneeent                          Project Coordination
Financial Administration                   -Forign Aid Coordination
-Legal Counoeling
1 As recently approved by HMQ
TD  * Trsiniuto Division of IFSC.
OP * Institute of Forestry at Polhara.
I                                                                                                                 _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-



NEPAL
HILL COMM    FORESTRY PROJECT
ORCANIZATION OF THE DEPARTMENT OF FORESTS I.
I dditional Secretary 
I(DepstetntaI Coordinationj
|D; *ct., Gen.l I  tFtao
Personnei  Adinistration
Sectioun
.-r -r         ncisl Administration
Forost Adein;strution                   Plann.nv                        Forest Nnget *nd    Cornity Foetry                                                                      W
Divisioan                           Diwis,on DUti.ation Di; eion                           Developsent O;a.,;on
Forest Administration          Prograem bdgt ng Section                 - Forest fnageent            Penchdyet. Pencysort Protected
-Prto r                                       Section                    and Private Forest Section
-Arwed Fore_t Guard              Prgo     eio   eto                      - Forest Uti I  sation     - AfforeetWton
Section                                                                   Section                    5 ctior
Project Coordination Section
Legal Counseling                                                         L emseold Forest           Coomunicetion and
Section                       Royal Directives Section                    sect;on                   aEtsnsion Section
ARgional Directors of Forests (5)I
National Fortn d          Monitoring and                     Training and             Administration    Account
CAoeUntFres                Evaluation Section]               Eatonsion Section]       Sectiont           Section
10;-tric t        Ofticrs (75)F
iii3  IF-Sct    l (59)/its (16)                       rd
/V   A  recrntly aeproved by HIC.



. N ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N  E P A L
* '   '  5                                                                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~HILL COMMUNITY FORESTRY PROJECT
y + ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CH I NA                                                                                                                                 PROJECT AREA
-30 ~,                   > ' IN I  o" HUMt                          t\s '- '.                                                                                                                                HILL DISTRICTS WITHIN PROJECT AREA           30
/ oZ ( 5" ~~~~~~~~Shru                                                                                                                                                              HILL DISTRICTS PRESENTLY OUTSIDE PROJECT AREA
yOe  t  \s   t  }   J  v                                                                                                                 F       TERAI DISTRICTS OUTSIDE PROJECT AREA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TRAIDITRCT OTSDEPRJET RE
DARCHIULA                                             ,
6 WADI'-sH N                   5MUGU _v>                                                                                                                                                          DISTRICT FOREST CENTERS
S          ,r,,S,~~a,.R ,   FAR   ,)   BAURA             aa  DISTRIJ<*                                                                                                                                           CNE HEADQiUAUERS
ctcanpw a,,.         ,                                          DDUhif    A                                                                                                       0   Z=iONE HEADUA0RTERS
| ff< IAU _._ INRsNAIlONA BOUNOA ES~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~INEPAIO ALARPR
WHM  sowt                          CW )d Jw   JUL                                                                                                                                           DOESI A       NPFT (PAED
TW~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,KFU)RPNEHIS lTERNf  so  l|ipRODWhlrA DSTREICT BONDRE
KAILA ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~odl IV    f05"sU
rresrruvh~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~aib"nrekeb               I  5   bS T E R /                        L N4Ho
sow P c  c   ol nc                                                                                                                                                   _              _                       _~~~~~~~~~~so"'
oca<Jets enJ 6 eac4ssE to~'r                                                                                         a                              RASUWA
ntem;// use eS rto IVodd F9__ "             _                       -XJ%-                                                                                          N
m~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Jocdoam 3                                      rrunasw
corDo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~fylm An  TIt                                                                                                                                           mt. Erms2
Uld   thn  bol  es  s n 120 160  KItOMETERS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SND ILPA CiO
on rs maD do rvt rnDt n b~~OAN
Dsrt of rm u r.w* arld mc ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~T
hrenufarul Fr-o Corpoebon                          o        20        40        6~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 8010hM8E
ry~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MI   on                                                                        t6                        oi1              sla
of ns tewr.lafr O   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~lbUKUB
cndawltnt~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NWAPRS OrM vu                                                                                                               flCI    SAKNtAH             TA6UN
:n~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UAD- Ior                                                                                               Noahd!s  E82  T4                                              W            8
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i  on                                                                                                                                                                                                 MAY1989*p"o e~KB1R-   jE'



