Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 2028 NEP
                 (Hill Community Forestry Project)
                              between
                         KINGDOM OF NEPAL
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                       Dated August 18, 1989
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 2028 NEP
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated August  18,  1989,  between KINGDOM OF NEPAL
(the  Borrower)  and  INTERNATIONAL  DEVELOPMENT  ASSOCIATION (the
Association).
     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower,  having  satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has  requested  the  Association  to assist in the
financing of the Project;
     (B)  the   Borrower   intends   to   contract   from   Danish
International Development  Agency  (DANIDA)  a  grant  (the Danish
Grant)  in  an  amount  equivalent  to  $6,850,000  to  assist  in
financing the Project on the terms  and conditions set forth in an
agreement (the Danish Grant Agreement)  to be entered into between
the Borrower and DANIDA; and
     WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend  the  Credit  to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
Page  2
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the  last  sentence  of  Section  3.02  deleted  (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several  terms  defined  in  the  General  Conditions  and  in the
Preamble to this  Agreement  have  the respective meanings therein
set forth and the  following  additional  terms have the following
meanings:
     (a)  "Special  Account"  means  the  account  referred  to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
     (b)  "MFSC"  means   the   Ministry   of   Forests  and  Soil
Conservation of the Borrower;
     (c)  "FD" means the Forest Department of the Borrower's MFSC;
     (d)  "User Groups" means groups  of individuals recognized as
having rights for the use  and  management of a particular area of
the forest who will be organized under the Project;
     (e)  "DFPR" means the Department of Forest and Plant Research
of the Borrower's MFSC;
     (f)  "Guidelines" means  the  Guidelines  of  MFSC which will
contain detailed operational  procedures  and instructions for the
implementation of the community forestry program;
     (g)  "LRMP" means the Land  Resources  Mapping Project of the
Borrower; and
     (h)  "Operational  Action  Program"   means   the  series  of
operational actions as set  forth  in  the Program dated April 21,
1989.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
     Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms  and  conditions  set  forth  or  referred  to in the
Development Credit  Agreement,  an  amount  in  various currencies
equivalent to twenty three  million  five hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 23,500,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The amount  of  the Credit may be withdrawn
from the  Credit  Account  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this  Agreement  for  expenditures  made (or, if the
Association  shall  so  agree,  to  be  made)  in  respect  of the
reasonable cost of  goods  and  services  required for the Project
described in Schedule 2 to  this  Agreement and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit.
    (b)  The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open
and maintain in dollars a special account in the Nepal Rastra Bank
on terms and conditions  satisfactory to the Association. Deposits
into, and payments out of,  the  Special  Account shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1997 or such
later date as  the  Association  shall  establish. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Page  3
     Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge  on  the  principal  amount  of  the  Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
     (b)  The commitment charge  shall  accrue:  (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of  this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on  which  amounts  shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit  Account  or  cancelled;  and (ii) at the
rate set as of the June  30 immediately preceding the accrual date
and at such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter
pursuant to paragraph (a) above.  The  rate  set  as of June 30 in
each year shall be applied from the next payment date in that year
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
     (c)  The commitment charge shall be  paid: (i) at such places
as  the  Association   shall   reasonably  request;  (ii)  without
restrictions of any kind imposed  by,  or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in  the  currency  specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section  4.02  of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency  or  currencies  as  may from time to
time be designated or selected  pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
     Section 2.05. The  Borrower  shall  pay  to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal  amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
     Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semi-annually on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
     Section 2.07. (a) Subject  to  paragraphs  (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay  the  principal  amount  of the Credit in
semi-annual installments payable  on  each  April  1 and October 1
commencing  October  1,  1999,  and  ending  April  1,  2029. Each
installment to and including  the  installment payable on April 1,
2009, shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal
amount.
     (b)  Whenever: (i) the Borrower's  gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for  five consecutive years, and (ii) the
Bank shall consider  the  Borrower  creditworthy for Bank lending,
the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof
by the  Executive  Directors  of  the  Association  and  after due
consideration  by  them  of  the  development  of  the  Borrower's
economy, modify  the  terms  of  repayment  of  installments under
paragraph (a) above by requiring  the  Borrower to repay twice the
amount of each such  installment  not  yet due until the principal
amount of the Credit shall  have  been  repaid. If so requested by
the Borrower,  the  Association  may  revise  such modification to
include, in lieu of some or all  of the increase in the amounts of
such installments,  the  payment  of  interest  at  an annual rate
agreed with the Association on  the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the
judgment of the Association,  such  revision  shall not change the
grant  element  obtained   under   the  above-mentioned  repayment
modification.
     (c)  If, at any time  after  a modification of terms pursuant
to  paragraph  (b)  above,  the  Association  determines  that the
Borrower's economic condition  has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so  requested  by the Borrower, further modify
the terms of repayment to  conform to the schedule of installments
as provided in paragraph (a) above.
     Section 2.08. The  currency  of  United  States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes  of  Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
Page  4
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall  carry out the Project with due
diligence  and  efficiency  and  in  conformity  with  appropriate
administrative, financial, and  silvopastoral practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed,  the  funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the Project.
     (b)  Without limitation upon the  provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and  except  as  the  Borrower and the Association
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4
to this Agreement.
     Section  3.02.  Except  as  the  Association  shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the  goods,  works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit shall be governed  by  the  provisions of Schedule 3 to
this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower  shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts  adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound  accounting  practices  the  operations,  resources and
expenditures in  respect  of  the  Project  of  the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible  for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
     (b)  The Borrower shall  or  shall  cause its departments and
agencies carrying out the Project or any part thereof to:
          (i)  have  the  records  and  accounts  referred  to  in
               paragraph (a) of  this  Section including those for
               the Special Account  for  each fiscal year audited,
               in accordance with  appropriate auditing principles
               consistently  applied,   by   independent  auditors
               acceptable to the Association;
         (ii)  furnish to the  Association,  as soon as available,
               but in any case not  later than twelve months after
               the end of each such  year, a certified copy of the
               report of  such  audit  by  said  auditors, of such
               scope and in such  detail  as the Association shall
               have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the  Association  such other information
               concerning said  records,  accounts  and  the audit
               thereof as the Association  shall from time to time
               reasonably request including without any limitation
               on the  foregoing  unaudited  Project  accounts and
               financial   statements   for   each   fiscal  year,
               certified as to their  accuracy and authenticity by
               an   independent   auditor    acceptable   to   the
               Association, as soon  as  available,  but not later
               than six months after the end of each such year.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were  made  on  the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower  shall  and  shall cause its departments
and agencies carrying out the Project or any part thereof to:
          (i)  maintain or cause  to  be maintained, in accordance
               with paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section, records and
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;
Page  5
         (ii)  retain, until at least  one year after the Associa-
               tion has received the audit  for the fiscal year in
               which the last  withdrawal  from the Credit Account
               was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
               bills,  receipts  and  other  documents) evidencing
               such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Association's representatives to examine
               such records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records  and accounts are included
               in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
               this Section  and  that  the  report  of such audit
               contains a separate opinion  by said auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
               during such fiscal  year,  together with the proce-
               dures  and  internal  controls  involved  in  their
               preparation, can  be  relied  upon  to  support the
               related withdrawals.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Remedies of the Association
     Section 5.01. Pursuant  to  Section  6.02  (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  The Danish Grant Agreement  shall  have failed to become
effective  by  December  31,  1989,  or  such  later  date  as the
Association may agree; provided,  however,  that the provisions of
this paragraph shall not apply  if the Borrower establishes to the
satisfaction  of  the  Association  that  adequate  funds  for the
Project are available to the  Borrower from other sources on terms
and conditions consistent  with  the  obligations  of the Borrower
under this Agreement.
     (b)  (i)   Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph the
                right of the Borrower  to withdraw the proceeds of
                any grant made to  the  Borrower for the financing
                of  the   Project   shall   have  been  suspended,
                cancelled  or  terminated  in  whole  or  in part,
                pursuant to the  terms  of the agreement providing
                therefor; or
         (ii)  Subparagraph (i) of this  paragraph shall not apply
               if the Borrower establishes  to the satisfaction of
               the   Association   that:   (A)   such  suspension,
               cancellation,  termination  is  not  caused  by the
               failure of  the  Borrower  to  perform  any  of its
               obligations under such  agreement; and (B) adequate
               funds for the Project are available to the Borrower
               from  other   sources   on   terms  and  conditions
               consistent with  the  obligations  of  the Borrower
               under this Agreement.
     Section 5.02. Pursuant  to  Section  7.01  (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  the event specified in paragraph  (a) of Section 6.01 of
this Agreement shall occur; and
     (b)  the event specified in paragraph (b) (i) of Section 5.01
of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph
(b) (ii) of that Section.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
     Section  6.01.  The  following   event  is  specified  as  an
additional  condition  to  the  effectiveness  of  the Development
Page  6
Credit Agreement within the  meaning  of  Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions, namely,  that  the  contents of the Guidelines
shall  have  been  agreed  with  the  Association,  finalized  and
distributed to all concerned.
     Section 6.02. The date  ninety  (90)  days  after the date of
this Agreement is  hereby  specified  for  the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VII
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 7.01.  The  Secretary,  Ministry  of  Finance  of the
Borrower is designated as  representative  of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 7.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Ministry of Finance
          His Majesty's Government
          Bagdurbar
          Kathmandu, Nepal
          Cable address:                      Telex:
                ARTHA                            2249-NP
                Kathmandu, Nepal
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                      Telex:
                INDEVAS                          440098 (ITT)
                Washington, D.C.                 248423 (RCA) or
                                                  64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                          KINGDOM OF NEPAL
                          By /s/ Mohan Man Sainju
                                         Authorized Representative
                          INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                          By /s/ Amnon Golan
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                                              Asia
                            SCHEDULE 1
Page  7
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of  the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the  Credit  to  each  Category  and  the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in         Expenditures
     Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1)  Goods                         210,000       100% of foreign
                                                 expenditures,
                                                 100% of local
                                                 expenditures
                                                 (ex-factory
                                                 cost) and 75%
                                                 of local ex-
                                                 penditures for
                                                 other items pro-
                                                 cured locally
(2)  Works                         890,000       40%
(3)  User Group                  4,100,000       100%
     formation and
     technical support
(4)  Seedling production         7,590,000       100%
     and plantation
     establishment by FD
(5)  Plantation estab-           8,130,000       80%
     lishment and forest
     protection by
     User Groups
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in         Expenditures
     Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(6)  Travel and field               80,000       100%
     allowances for
     research staff
(7)  Consultants'                  150,000       100%
     services
(8)  Unallocated                 2,350,000
                                __________
         TOTAL                  23,500,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term  "foreign  expenditures"  means expenditures in
the currency of any country  other  than  that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and
     (b)  the term "local expenditures"  means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower  or  for  goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  paragraph  1  above, no
withdrawals  shall  be  made  in  respect  of  payments  made  for
expenditures prior to  the  date  of  this  Agreement, except that
Page  8
withdrawals, in an aggregate  amount  not exceeding the equivalent
of SDR 2,330,000, may  be  made  for expenditures before that date
but after October 31, 1988.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The objective  of  the  Project  is  to  mobilize  people and
resources in the Hill  districts  of  Nepal towards establishing a
forest management  system  which  would  conserve  and  expand the
forest resources needed to  sustain traditional farming system and
livelihood in the Hills.
     The Project consists of the  following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof  as  the  Borrower  and  the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Institutional Support
1.   Identification of  about  400,000  ha  of  forest  land to be
handed over for management by User Groups for community forestry.
2.   Formation of  forest  User  Groups  to  replant, protect, and
manage degraded forest areas  and  re-establish forest cover under
the Project.
Part B:   Forest Resource Management
1.   Production  of  seedlings  for  establishing  and maintaining
community plantations,  and  distribution  to  farmers for private
planting.
2.   Establishment, protection and maintenance  of about 46,700 ha
by User Groups and about 9,600 ha by FD.
3.   Management of forested areas, to assist User Groups to revive
about 400,000 ha of degraded forest under the Project.
4.   Management of plantations,  previously  established by FD, to
be handed over for management by User Groups.
Part C:   Training and Extension
1.   Local and overseas training for  FD staff and local officials
to undertake community forestry efficiently.
2.   Maintenance of a continuous field extension program to inform
rural communities about the  objectives  of the community forestry
program and the provisions under the Project.
Part D:   Research, Surveys and Studies
1.   Silvicultural  research  to  supplement  an  ongoing research
program to  include  additional  trials  and  observations on: (a)
local silvopastoral  practices;  (b)  cases  of  effective natural
forest management; and (c)  cases  of successful establishment and
management of plantations, including those of native species.
2.   Socio-economic  research   to   understand   determinants  of
successful  community  management  of  common  property  including
survey of previous  community  forestry experience, socio-economic
aspects of forest product  utilization,  studies to assess program
uptake, and other studies as may  be required for this Part of the
Project.
                        *     *     *     *
     The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1996.
Page  9
                            SCHEDULE 3
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
     Except as provided in Part  C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded  in  accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections  I  and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD  Loans  and  IDA  Credits" published by the
Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A  hereof,  goods  manufactured  in Nepal may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55  and  2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
     Goods estimated to  cost  up  to  an  aggregate amount not to
exceed the equivalent of $20,000  and  works may be procured under
contracts awarded on the  basis of competitive bidding, advertised
locally,  in  accordance  with   procedures  satisfactory  to  the
Association.
Part D:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
     (a)  With respect  to  each  contract  estimated  to cost the
equivalent  of  $20,000  or  more,  the  procedures  set  forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of  Appendix  1  to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be  modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract  required  to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to
the Association prior to the  making  of  the first payment out of
the Special Account in respect of such contract.
     (b)  With respect to each  contract  not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set  forth  in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to  the  Guidelines  shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to  be  made  out  of  the Special Account, such
procedures shall be  modified  to  ensure  that  the two conformed
copies  of  the  contract  together  with  the  other  information
required to  be  furnished  to  the  Association  pursuant to said
paragraph 3 shall be furnished  to  the Association as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to  paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to
this Agreement.
     (c)  The provisions of  the  preceding  subparagraphs (a) and
(b)  shall  not  apply  to  contracts  on  account  of  which  the
Association has authorized withdrawals  from the Credit Account on
the basis of statements  of  expenditure.  Such contracts shall be
retained  in  accordance  with  Section  4.01  (c)  (ii)  of  this
Agreement.
2.   The  figure  of  15%  is  hereby  specified  for  purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
     In order to assist the  Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the  Borrower  shall   employ  consultants  whose  qualifications,
experience  and  terms  and  conditions  of  employment  shall  be
Page  10
satisfactory  to  the  Association.   Such  consultants  shall  be
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory
to the Association on the basis  of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World  Bank  Borrowers  and  by  the  World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 4
                      Implementation Program
     The Borrower shall and shall cause MFSC/FD to:
1.   By December 31,  1989:  (a)  obtain  LRMP  land use maps; (b)
obtain planning information for  each  district under the Project;
and (c) identify those areas of state forests which will be handed
over to local forest User Groups to be formed for this purpose.
2.   During  the  Project  implementation  period:  (a)  establish
forest User Groups with  membership,  functions and powers accept-
able to the Association; and (b) ensure that disbursement of funds
allocated to User  Groups  will  be  in  accordance with terms and
conditions agreed with the Association.
3.   By December  31,  1991:  (a)  undertake  a  study on seedling
uptake; (b) furnish the results of said study and a draft seedling
pricing policy to  the  Association  for  review and comments; and
(c) by June  30,  1992,  implement  said  seedling pricing policy,
taking into account the Association's comments.
4.   By December 31, 1989,  carry  out  a  review of FD travel and
field allowance policy and thereafter  take steps to implement the
findings, taking into  account the Association's comments.
5.   By May 1,  1993,  conduct  a  workshop,  among  key staff and
donors to forestry sector, to discuss the mid-term review report.
6.   By December 31, 1989,  ensure  that the following key Project
staff shall have  been  sanctioned  and  appointed to their posts:
(a) five  training  officers  appointed  to  the Regional Training
Centers of  MFSC;  (b)  four  senior  research  officers and seven
junior  research  officers  appointed  to  the  Forestry  Research
Division of  DFPR;  (c)  a  senior  accountant/procurement officer
appointed to the  Community  Forestry  Development Division of FD;
and (d) all other Project  staff  as  set forth in the Operational
Action Program.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                          Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible Categories"  means the Categories set
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible  expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed  out  of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated  from  time  to  time  to  the  eligible  Categories  in
accordance with the provisions  of  Schedule  1 to this Agreement;
and
     (c)  the  term  "Authorized   Allocation"   means  an  amount
equivalent to $1,500,000 to  be  withdrawn from the Credit Account
and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a)
of this Schedule.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
this Schedule.
Page  11
3.   After the Association  has  received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account  has  been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and  subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account shall be made as follows:
     (a)  For  withdrawals  of   the  Authorized  Allocation,  the
Borrower shall furnish to  the  Association  a request or requests
for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount
of the Authorized  Allocation.  On  the  basis  of such request or
requests,  the  Association  shall,  on  behalf  of  the Borrower,
withdraw from  the  Credit  Account  and  deposit  in  the Special
Account  such  amount  or  amounts  as  the  Borrower  shall  have
requested.
     (b)  (i)   For  replenishment  of  the  Special  Account, the
                Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
                for deposits  into  the  Special  Account  at such
                intervals as the Association shall specify.
         (ii)   Prior to or at the  time of each such request, the
                Borrower  shall  furnish  to  the  Association the
                documents and other  evidence required pursuant to
                paragraph 4 of  this  Schedule  for the payment or
                payments  in  respect  of  which  replenishment is
                requested. On the basis  of each such request, the
                Association  shall,  on  behalf  of  the Borrower,
                withdraw from the Credit  Account and deposit into
                the Special Account  such  amount  as the Borrower
                shall have requested and  as shall have been shown
                by said documents and  other evidence to have been
                made  out  of  the  Special  Account  for eligible
                expenditures.
All such deposits shall be  withdrawn  by the Association from the
Credit Account under  the  respective  eligible Categories, and in
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by
said documents and other evidence.
4.   For each payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to  the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such  payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of   paragraph  3  of  this
Schedule, the Association shall  not  be  required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
     (a)  if, at any time,  the  Association shall have determined
that all  further  withdrawals  should  be  made  by  the Borrower
directly from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions
of Article  V  of  the  General  Conditions  and  paragraph (a) of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
     (b)  once  the  total   unwithdrawn   amount  of  the  Credit
allocated to  the  eligible  Categories,  less  the  amount of any
outstanding special  commitment  entered  into  by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from  the  Credit  Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn  amount  of  the  Credit  allocated  to  the  eligible
Categories shall follow such  procedures  as the Association shall
specify by notice to the  Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall
be made only after and  to  the  extent that the Association shall
have been satisfied that all  such amounts remaining on deposit in
the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized
in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
Page  12
that any payment out of the  Special  Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount  not  eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this  Schedule;  or  (ii)  was  not  justified  by the evidence
furnished to the  Association,  the  Borrower shall, promptly upon
notice from the Association:  (A) provide such additional evidence
as the Association may  request;  or  (B) deposit into the Special
Account (or, if the  Association  shall  so request, refund to the
Association) an amount equal to the  amount of such payment or the
portion  thereof  not  so   eligible   or  justified.  Unless  the
Association shall  otherwise  agree,  no  further  deposit  by the
Association into  the  Special  Account  shall  be  made until the
Borrower has  provided  such  evidence  or  made  such  deposit or
refund, as the case may be.
     (b)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any amount outstanding  in  the  Special  Account will not be
required to cover further  payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon  notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount.
     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any  portion  of the funds on deposit in
the Special Account.
     (d)  Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6
(a), (b) and (c) of this  Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account  for  subsequent   withdrawal   or   for  cancellation  in
accordance  with  the  relevant   provisions  of  this  Agreement,
including the General Conditions.
