Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY               FIE  COPY
Report No. P-2795-GU
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF GUATEMALA
FOR A
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
April 29, 1980
This document bas a restricted disbution and may be used by recipients only In the performnnce of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Dank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit  =    Quetzales (Q)
US$1.00        =    Q 1.00
UNITS AND EQUIVALENTS
1 meter (m)                 =   3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)      2    =   0.62 mile (mi)
1 square kilometer (km )   =   0.386 square mile (sq mi)
1 metric ton (ton)          =   1.1 US short tons (sh ton)
LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS
AADT           Average Annual Daily Traffic
AVIATECA       Guatemala Aviation Company
CABEI          Central American Bank for Economic Integration
CIDA           Canadian International Development Agency
CONAPLAN       National Council for Economic Planning
DGC            General Directorate of Roads
DGT            General Directorate of Transport
ECAT           Central American Transport Study
FEGUA          Guatemalan Railways
FYDEP          National Enterprise for Economic Growth and Development
of the Peten
IDB            Inter-American Development Bank
INTA           National Institute for Agrarian Transformation
IRCA           International Railways of Central America
SIECA          Secretariat for Central American Economic Integration
USAID          United States Agency for International Development
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
GUATEMALA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                  Republic of Gu.temala.
Amount:                    US$17 Million equivalent.
Terms:                     17 years, including four years of grace
at 8.25 percent interest per annum.
Project Description:       The proposed project would provide the equipment,
technical assistance and training services to imple-
ment the Government's highway maintenance program
for the period mid-1981 to mid-1985. Project activities
would be initiated in 1980 and 1981 with the prepara-
tion of a detailed program and the purchase of the
initial supply of equipment.
The risks associated with highway maintenance projects
are greater than those of construction projects
because the former require more and broader institu-
tional involvement. To reduce the risks involved in
the proposed project, a comprehensive multi-year
program has been proposed to establish the foundation
for improved road maintenance. The implementation
schedule is phased to meeL F'licy objectives gradually.
It takes into account the time required for equipment
purchases and mobilization of human, physical and
financial resources. Also (i) DGC staff participated
directly in project preparation and (ii) substantial
technical assistance is being provided.
Estimated Costs:
US$ million
Local    Foreign    Total
Equipment, Spare Parts, Tools and
Laboratory Equipment                              1.3      12.9        14.2
Technical Assistance and Training
Program including Civil Works
for Training Center                              0.3        1.2         1.5
Contingencies (physical)                              -       0.4         0.4
"1       (price)                              0.3        2.5         2.8
Total Project Cost                                  1.9      17.0        18.9
l This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their omcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Financing Plan:
US$ million
Local    Foreign    Total  Percentage
IBRD                -      17.0       17.0         90
Government        1.9          -       1.9         10
Total             1.9       17.0      18.9        100
Estimated Disbursements:
US$ million (by Fiscal Year)
6/81   6/82    6/83   6/84   6/85
Annual               0.2      9.5    6.1    1.1    0.1
Cumulative           0.2      9.7   15.8   16.9   17.0
Rate of Return:               In excess of 100 percent, due to the relatively
small investment for maintenance needed to preserve
the productive capacity of large investments made
in highway construction.
Staff Appraisal Report:       Report No. 2826b-GU, dated April 29, 1980.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
GUATEMALA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                 Republic of Gu.temala.
Amount:                   US$17 Million equivalent.
Terms:                    17 years, including four years of grace
at 8.25 percent interest per annum.
Project Description:      The proposed project would provide the equipment,
technical assistance and training services to imple-
ment the Government's highway maintenance program
for the period mid-1981 to mid-1985. Project activities
would be initiated in 1980 and 1981 with the prepara-
tion of a detailed program and the purchase of the
initial supply of equipment.
The risks associated with highway maintenance projects
are greater than those of construction projects
because the former require more and broader institu-
tional involvement.  To reduce the risks involved in
the proposed project, a comprehensive multi-year
prog.ram has been proposed to establish the foundation
for improved road maintenance. The implementation
schedule is phased to meeL ,.licy objectives gradually.
It takes into account the time required for equipment
purchases and mobilization of human, physical and
financial resources. Also (i) DGC staff participated
directly in project preparation and (ii) substantial
technical assistance is being provided.
Estimated Costs:
US$ million
Local    Foreign    Total
Equipment, Spare Parts, Tools and
Laboratory Equipment                            1.3       12.9       14.2
Technical Assistance and Training
Program including Civil Works
for Training Center                             0.3        1.2         1.5
Contingencies (physical)                            -        0.4         0.4
it       (price)                             0.3        2.5        2.8
Total Project Cost                                1.9       17.0        18.9
This document has a restricted distribution *nd may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their omcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Financing Plan:
US$ million
Local    Foreign    Total  Percentage
IBRD                -       17.0       17.0         90
Government        1.9          -        1.9         10
Total             1.9       17.0       18.9        100
Estimated Disbursements:
US$ million (by Fiscal Year)
6/81   6/82    6/83   6/84   6/85
Annual                0.2      9.5    6.1    1.1    0.1
Cumulative            0.2      9.7   15.8   16.9   17.0
Rate of Return:               In excess of 100 percent, due to the relatively
small investment for maintenance needed to preserve
the productive capacity of large investments made
in highway construction.
Staff Appraisal Report:       Report No. 2826b-GU, dated April 29, 1980.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF GUATEMALA FOR A HIGHWAY
MAINTENANCE PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan for the equivalent of US$17.0 million to the Republic of Guatemala
for a highway maintenance project. The loan would have a term of 17 years,
including 4 years of grace with an interest of 8.25 percent per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An Economic Memorandum on Guatemala was circulated to the Board
in February 1980. The conclusions of that report are incorporated in this
section. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
3.        Guatemala's population now totals about 6.8 million (mid-1979)
and is growing at slightly less than 3 percent per year. The most signif-
icant characteristic of the population is its sharp ethnic division. The
Indians, who make up about 40 percent of the total population, live at the
margin of modern Guatemalan social and economic life. While their separation
from the rest of society has its roots in cultural and linguistic differences,
it has been accentuated by disparities in access to good land, employment,
infrastructure, and public services. An inquiry into income distribution
has never been conducted on a nationwide scale, but all indicators point
to a sharply skewed distribution. Considering, however, that a large part of
the people live essentially outside the monetized sector, policies to reduce
the disparities must first give emphasis to improving public services.
4.        Guatemala has the most diversified physical environment of Central
America. The rugged central highland area is marked by continuing volcanic
activity and occasional serious earthquakes, the most recent of which occurred
on February 4, 1976. While the mountainous terrain has fostered rural
isolation and high transport costs, the varied climate and moderately
good soil allow cultivation of a variety of agricultural products. Until
recently, Guatemala's limited mineral resources remained relatively unexploited.
Some petroleum deposits have been located in recent years, and production of
nickel began in 1977. Guatemala's natural beauty, archeological monuments,
and proximity to the United States give it a good potential for further tourism
development. Because of historical settlement patterns, most of the country's
population, urban centers, and economic activity remain in the central high-
lands. Due to population density and poor resources in some of the highland
areas, the Government is attempting to encourage the development of new areas,
but this effort has yet to show significant success.
5.        The economy grew at an average annual rate of nearly 6 percent in
real terms from 1970 to 1976. Services and agriculture were the main contri-
butors to GDP over the period, and accounted respectively for about one-half



- 2 -
and one-fourth of GDP in 1976. Although manufacturing was a dynamic source
of growth in the 1960s, its growth rate decelerated in the 1970s. This slower
growth was caused partly by the world recession of 1974-75, when manufacturing
growth averaged only 1.5 percent per year, and partly to the slow growth of
the Central American Common Market (CACM).
6.        During the years 1976-77, however, the country experienced an
exceptional economic boom. In 1976, real production grew by nearly 7.5
percent despite the destruction of some $750 million of assets during the
earthquake. Housing suffered the most serious earthquake damage, while the
losses of other physical infrastructure were more moderate. The productive
facilities of industry and agriculture were virtually unaffected, and basic
transport and communications services were restored within a few weeks.
Economic activity in 1977 was even more buoyant, with growth exceeding
8 percent.  Extensive earthquake reconstruction activity and unusually high
export earnings, primarily from coffee, gave the impetus. These factors
were reinforced by an expansionary credit policy and relatively large inflows
of foreign aid.
7.        During 1978-79, the passing of the reconstruction boom together
with falling prices for coffee reduced domestic demand substantially. As
a result, annual GDP growth averaged only 5.2 percent. Falling coffee
prices, a greatly decelerated growth in export volumes, and fast-rising
import volumes and prices led the resource gap to rise from 0.7 percent
of GDP in 1977 to 5.7 percent in 1979. The annual inflation rate remained
at about 10 percent through the first half of 1979.
8.        The 1979-82 Development Plan calls for virtually no expansion in
public sector expenditures relative to GDP during the next few years. Certain
aspects of the 1979-82 Development Plan, such as its emphasis on the opening
of new agricultural areas, the decentralization of industry, and the develop-
ment of industries less dependent on imported goods and more oriented towards
labor-intensive production of basic consumer goods could help improve employ-
ment opportunities. Nevertheless, few specific projects and programs suggested
by the Plan have been implemented and very little progress has been made
towards the preparation of projects based on ideas in the Plan documents.
Without improvement in project preparation and implementation capacity and a
tax reform, public expenditure -- particularly public investment -- may well
decline in real terms. In the absence of a stronger fiscal policy to capture
significantly larger amounts of domestic resources for expanding economic and
social services to increase productivity of the lower income classes, major
improvements in their economic and social situation still seem to lie well
into the future.
9.        It remains to be seen what will be the distribution of growth
between income groups, and between urban and rural areas. Since about two
thirds of the population live in rural areas and available data indicate a
secular decline in the average size of holding and a deterioration of land
quality, particularly in the highlands, it would appear that income distribu-
tion patterns may deteriorate further in the absence of well-funded, well-run
public sector programs and projects to reverse these trends. Such deteriora-
tion could aggravate the already serious social tension within the country.



10.       While there appear to be few serious capacity constraints to increasing
GDP by up to 6 percent yearly, the guarded prospects for prices of Guatemala's
primary export commodities and poor prospects for exports to the CACM point to
a growth in GDP of only 4-5 percent yearly through the mid-1980s. The present
private investment climate has been affected by events in nearby countries and
investment may well fall from the recent level of about 20 percent of GDP
to around 15 percent by the mid-1980s, about the same as the average for the
period 1970-75. Because of the likely decline in investment, some possibility
of private capital outflow, and adverse developments expected in the terms of
trade index over the next few years, gross national savings will show a very
modest performance compared to the 1976-77 period. It is unlikely, therefore,
that dependence on foreign savings will return to the very low relative levels
of the 1970-75 period; instead, it is likely to average around 2-1/2 percent
of GDP. This, however, should not cause any debt servicing problems. Guatemala
currently has a minimal level of external public debt outstanding and disbursed
(equivalent to about 6 percent of GDP in 1978), and the debt service ratio,
currently at less than 2 percent of exports, may reach as high as about 6 percent
in 1982. It is expected to drop to lower levels thereafter. Because Guatemala
has followed conservative demand policies and has a very low external debt
service, it is creditworthy for Bank lending.
External Assistance
11.       Apart from the Bank, official external financing has been pro-
vided primarily by the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB), the Central
American Bank for Economic Integration (CABEI) and the US Agency for
International Development (USAID). IDB funds have carried a substantial
concessional element and in the past often contained components repayable in
local currency. The IDB has made loans for agriculture (credit, irrigation
and fisheries), electric power, transportation, education, water supply and
health services. CABEI has concentrated mainly on projects with a regional
impact in highways, telecommunications, and, in recent years, on power and
water supply projects. USAID has financed mainly rural development, rural
electrification, education and health facilities (see Annex I, page 6).
12.       In the next few years, CABEI and IDB can be expected to continue
supporting projects in electric power, telecommunications, industry, highways,
agriculture and education. AID is likely to be limited to projects affecting
the rural and urban poor.



-4-
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
13.       Guatemala to date has received Bank loans totaling US$260.5 million
(including US$20 million on third window terms) for 11 projects. Of these,
two were for education, four for power, two for telecommunications and one
each for highways, livestock development and earthquake reconstruction.
The most recent operation was a US$72 million loan for the Chixoy hydro-
electric project signed on July 21, 1978. Six Bank-financed projects have
been completed in Guatemala. Two in electric power and one each in telecom-
munications, education, livestock and highways. Performance audit reports
have been issued for the two power projects, the livestock, education and the
telecommunications project. The performance audits conclude that project
objectives generally have been achieved; however, implementation has been much
slower than forecast during appraisal. Effectiveness of all Bank loans
has been delayed because of a lengthy parliamentary ratification process.
The implementation of the eduction project was further delayed because of a
long project formulation period which continued beyond the signing date for
the loan, and also because of delays in site acquisition. The livestock proj-
ect was delayed because credit demand developed more slowly than was antici-
pated during appraisal and because of slow progress in the development
of the capacity of the implementing agency established for the project. Most
projects now under implementation have also been delayed by the limited
administrative capacity of the institutions involved as well as weak inter-
agency coordination. Annex 2 contains a summary statement of Bank loans and
IFC investments and notes on the implementation of ongoing projects.
14.       The Bank's lending program for Guatemala over the next few years
will continue to support on a moderate scale projects in the more tradi-
tional sectors such as transport, power and telecommunications, where we
expect to be able to make meaningful contributions to sectoral objectives
and to strengthening sector agencies.
15.       Also, we shall continue to work with Guatemala to identify and
prepare projects with social objectives in the urban, rural and education
sectors. The 1979-82 Development Plan assigns high priority to investment in
sectors such as low-cost housing, primary education, health, and nutrition and
to rural development in areas such as the Franja Transversal del Norte and
the Peten, both sparsely populated areas with agricultural potential. As
noted in para. 8, however, few specific projects in these sectors have so far
emerged, and in those cases where they are developed, the Government usually
looks first to other external agencies, such as IDB and AID, offering more
concessional terms than the Bank. Nevertheless, at the request of the Govern-
ment the dialogue continues in most of these sectors. Project preparation
of an urban development project and a rural education project should be
completed by FY82. The identification and preparation of rural development
projects should be facilitated by the Bank-administered agricultural and rural
development project preparation office being established this year in Costa Rica.
This office, which will serve the five Central American countries and Panama,
is being financed by UNDP, the International Fund for Agricultural Development
(IFAD), the Inter-American Institute for Agricultural Sciences (IICA) and
the Bank. A work program for receiving assistance from this office is expected
to be developed with the Guatemalan Government in the next two-three months.



16.       The Bank's share of total external public debt disbursed and outstand-
ing has fallen from 31 percent in 1974 to 17 percent in 1978; it is expected to
average about 20 percent through 1985; its share of debt service should average
slightly more for the same period.
17.       IFC has made three investments in Guatemala.  The first, a US$200,000
loan in 1958 for a flour mill, has been fully repaid. The second, a loan of
US$15.0 million to Exploraciones y Explotaciones Mineras Izabal, S.A. (EXMIBAL),
a company established in Guatemala to exploit the nickel ore deposit at Lake
Izabal in eastern Guatemala, was approved in July 1973. After some initial
delays in finalizing the project design and in arranging additional financing
made necessary by substantial cost overruns, the plant began operations in
mid-1977. The third, a loan of US$3 million to Cementos Progreso S.A.
(formerly Cementos Novella S.A.), a Guatemalan enterprise, to help finance
an expansion of its existing cement production facilities, was approved in
May 1977.
PART III - THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
(a) The Transport System
18.       Guatemala is highly dependent on its road network.  An estimated
95 percent of all cargo traffic and almost all passenger traffic are being
handled by roads. The relatively small size of the country and the geographic
concentration of the developed regions all lying within a day's drive from
Guatemala City have contributed to the predominance of highways in the
country's transport system. The network consists of 2,800 km of paved roads
and 15,300 km of gravel and earth roads. Other modes of internal transport
are either in a state of decline, such as the 785 km of railways, or serve
limited types of internal transport demand, such as the two pipelines (San
Jose-Escuintla and a small one in Puerto Barrios) and domestic air service
which utilizes 20 general aviation airstrips.  International cargo and passenger
movements are served by four ports, two on the Atlantic and two on the Pacific,
and by the international airport in Guatemala City.
19.       After about 20 years of a high level of road construction, the basic
transport network connecting the developed regions is now in place. Only the
underdeveloped areas of the Peten and along the Franja Transversal del Norte
require substantial extensions to the system. Current traffic patterns are
well served by the network. Major commodity movements include bananas,
representing the largest export tonnage (288,000 tons in 1978) with average
rail hauls of about 50 km to Atlantic ports; sugar (163,000 tons exported in
1978), with cross country road or rail hauls of 350 km to Atlantic ports;
coffee (125,000 tons exported in 1978) with road hauls of varying distances
to both Pacific and Atlantic ports; and wheat, fertilizer and manufactured
imports, which mainly enter at the Atlantic ports and are hauled 300 km to
Guatemala City. Central American and Mexican trade is carried mostly over
the Central American highway network which connects Guatemala with Mexico and
El Salvador.



- 6 -
20.       The development of the road network triggered a decline in the
railroads. Rail freight traffic has stagnated at about 650,000 tons annually
since 1964 while passenger traffic has remained at 1.7 million trips, equal to
the level of 1964.
21.       Guatemalan ports handle more than 90 percent of the country's
international trade outside the Central American Common Market countries.
Santo Tomas on the Atlantic coast, built in 1959, is the major port of the
country with six deepwater berths and an annual traffic of over one million
tons. Prior to 1959, Puerto Barrios, located a few kilometers around the bay
from Santo Tomas, was the major port. In 1976, the earthquake destroyed a
substantial portion of the Barrios' pier reducing traffic by 50 percent to
330,000 tons. Financing has been made available for the limited rehabilita-
tion of Puerto Barrios under the Bank's Earthquake Reconstruction Project
(Loan 1314-GU, dated August 2, 1976). After long delays due to indecision
concerning the scope of the rehabilitation works, the Government is now
initiating procedures to hire a consultant to prepare detailed plans and
to supervise construction, which is scheduled to be completed in late 1981.
On the Pacific Coast there are two lighterage ports, Champerico and San Jose,
which handle between one and two hundred thousand tons annually.
(b) Planning and Coordination
22.       Responsibility for the construction, operation and maintenance of
transport facilities is divided among a number of public and private agencies,
which often hampers planning efforts especially in the port and highway sub-
sectors. The overall review and coordination of the investment plans of the
various agencies are the responsibility of the National Economic Planning
Council (CONAPLAN). However, recent planning efforts of CONAPLAN affecting
the transport sector have been concentrated on the preparation of the National
Development Plan (1979-1982) which establishes the capital investment projects
to be carried out over a four-year period corresponding to the President's
term of office. Public investment in transportation infrastructure has been
large, but declined steadily from 40 percent of the total budget in 1968 to
11 percent in 1978, as energy and social sector projects required increasing
outlays. The current plan maintains transport's share at 11 percent with
projected spending levels rising from US$50 million in 1979 to US$67 million
in 1982, 49 percent of which is expected to come from foreign sources. Roads
will represent 81 percent of sector investment.
23.       CONAPLAN is now beginning a potentially important new initiative to
improve transport sectoral planning.  It is preparing Terms of Reference for a
National Transportation Plan which would provide more direction in the selec-
tion of specific projects than the National Development Plan and would assess
the institutional and policy changes required to improve transport services.
It is expected to focus mainly on highways, and will expand on the findings of
a Central American Transport Study (ECAT) which was completed in 1977. (This
study was sponsored by CABEI, IDB, UNDP and SIECA. CABEI served as executing
agency.) It will also include secondary and feeder roads not considered in
ECAT. Financing for the preparation of the plan has been offered by the
Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA), and the Inter-American
Development Bank (IDB) is foreseen as executing agency. Because of the



-7-
important relationship between the objectives of transport planning studies
and those of the proposed project, the Government agreed to exchange views
with the Bank from time to time on transport planning studies undertaken
to provide guidelines for the selection of transport projects and to assess
the institutional and policy changes necessary to strengthen the Borrower's
transport sector and to improve transport services; in each case special
attention will be given to those parts of such transport planning studies
which relate to road rehabilitation and strengthening (Section 4.07 of
the draft Loan Agreement).
(c) Future Prospects
24.       Future development in transport is expected to focus on increased
maintenance and rehabilitation efforts and the construction of penetration
and feeder roads for the highway subsector, and the possible construction of
a deepwater Pacific Coast port. The development of the Pacific Coastal plain
for sugar and cotton exports, increasing trade with the Far East and the
proximity to Guatemala City have revived interest in the port project which
has been the subject of numerous studies over the past 20 years.  The decline
of rail operations will probably continue. Although the ECAT report indicated
that the 290 km section from Guatemala City to Puerto Barrios could be operated
economically based on the potential economies of freight operation, financial
viability of the railroad would require substantial abandonment of the rest of
the system and of all passenger services and also considerable investment in
line rehabilitation and rolling stock acquisition. The proposed National
Transport Plan is expected, inter alia, to address this issue.
Highway Subsector
(a) The Network
25.       The major populated areas of the country are served by the basic
road network. The General Directorate for Roads (DGC) under the Ministry
of Communications and Public Works is responsible for maintaining 10,400 km
of the network including all paved roads and 50 percent of unpaved roads.
The Government has agreed to cause DGC to review the roads classification
system for the DGC network by January 1, 1982 (Section 4.04(a) of the draft
Loan Agreement). Other agencies are responsible for mostly penetration and
feeder roads in the Peten and in areas where major agricultural development
plans are involved. Information on road conditions, which is available only
for the DGC network, confirms that while the basic network is in place, improved
maintenance and rehabilitation work is of critical importance. About 64 percent
of the network is estimated as being in poor to fair condition, with paved roads
being in somewhat better condition than gravel and earth roads.
26.       The National Development Plan (1979-1982) recognizes the need for
improving the existing network and has included the Highway Maintenance
Project as well as some 340 km of strengthening, rehabilitation and recon-
struction works (covering 12.5 percent of the paved network). Because of the
large amount of rehabilitation which will be required after 1982, the proposed
maintenance project includes a component for assisting in the preparation of
a four-year rehabilitation and strengthening program for 1983 to 1986. The



-8-
scope and schedule for the program's preparation has been confirmed by the
Government (Section 3.04 of the draft Loan Agreement). The remainder of the
highway section of the Plan is directed towards the development of penetration
and feeder roads and some upgrading of gravel roads with high traffic volumes.
Most feeder road construction is programmed for the development areas along
the Franja Transversal del Norte and is to be executed by the National
Institute for Agrarian Transformation (INTA) with expected financing from IDB
and the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID). In addition the
DGC is currently conducting a pilot program financed by USAID for the construc-
tion of 280 km of feeder roads in the highlands using local underemployed
labor and applying labor-intensive techniques.
27.       Although road user taxes are not earmarked specifically for public
expenditures on roads, they are adequate to cover all road construction,
maintenance and administration outlays with total revenues reaching US$53
million in 1978. While they do not correspond to the costs which each indivi-
dual user imposes on the network, most of these taxes are progressive in the
sense that they are structured to have their primary impact on automobile
owners, the most affluent population.
(b) Traffic Growth and Transport Service
28.       Considerable increases in the vehicle fleet and traffic have
contributed to the need for concentrating future investment on maintenance,
rehabilitation and reconstruction. From 1966 to 1977 the vehicle fleet
grew at an annual average rate of 10.5 percent, rising from approximately
49,400 to 148,200 vehicles. In recent years there has been a substantial rise
in imported vehicles with an average annual growth rate of 32 percent from
1973-1977. Similarly, traffic along major segments of the paved network has
grown from 8 to 12 percent annually.  Although earlier fuel price increases
did not affect this rapid traffic growth, the effect of recent fuel price
changes may be more significant. Regular gasoline rose from US$0.97 per
gallon in January 1979 to US$1.51 by September 1979. Even diesel fuel prices,
which had remained relatively stable prior to 1979 to help keep public transport
charges relatively low, were increased from US$0.59 to US$0.87 during 1979.
29.       Guatemala's road transport industry for freight hauling is well-
developed compared with that of the other Central American countries, but
it is subject to intense competition for both domestic and international hauls
which keeps profit margins low. As in other parts of Central America, there
are numerous individual owner-operators with single or tandem rear axle single
unit trucks mainly serving the agricultural sector. The level of service by
these operators is considered adequate except in outlying regions where
inadequate infrastructure hinders transport. In addition, there are large
Guatemalan trucking firms which provide good service along the main traffic
corridors and which effectively compete in international cargo transport
within the Central American region, using a combination of single unit and
articulated vehicles. Only in the case of international roll-on/roll-off
traffic have the Guatemalan truckers been unable to compete with two large
Miami-based transport firms which control these hauls.
30.       Truck overloading has not been a serious problem due to the country-
wide control operation by the DGC. In 1978 truck size and weight regulations
were revised allowing a maximum load of 10 tons on a single and 16.5 ton on
a tandem rear axle. These limits will be further lowered by one ton in 1980.



Gross weight limits under the 1978 regulations were imposed immediately
and the first year's results, compiled by the five weighing stations (which do
not operate at night), show no significant problems. The enforcement of single
axle limits had just begun in 1979.  The Government has agreed tkat (i) it
would pursue the enforcement of vehicle dimensions and axle load regulations,
including night checks at key stations; and (ii) DGC would continue to monitor
data concerning the enforcement of such limitations and exchange views annually
with the Bank on the results (Section 4.06 of the draft Loan Agreement).
(c) Maiiitenance
31.       The major weakness in the Government's past highway programs has
been the lack of attention given to maintenance requirements. The DGC is
the only agency with an established maintenance organization. It has a staff
of 8,400, and a network of facilities throughout the country, developed under
a previous Bank loan (para. 34).  Eight maintenance zones and several special
mobile units are responsible for carrying out all routine and periodic mainte-
nance operations by force account. These efforts are hampered by the fact
that the concept of maintenance has been broadly defined to include minor
improvements, rehabilitation and reconstruction. The Government has agreed to
cause DGC to introduce, starting in 1981, budgeting and accounting procedures
to distinguish the cost of routine from periodic maintenance activities and to
distinguish maintenance operations from other works of the Maintenance Division
(Section 4.02(b) of draft Loan Agreement). Also, maintenance efforts are
restricted by the inadequate and imbalanced budget provided for the DGC
Maintenance and Improvements Division which in 1979 in real terms was almost
half the budget level for 1960. The Government has stated its intention to
raise its budget for purely maintenance activities carried out by the DGC from
an estimated US$6.7 million in 1979 to US$13.5 million in 1985 (in 1979
prices). Maintenance operations by other road-related agencies which are
mainly responsible for feeder and penetration roads are nearly nonexistent.
The Government has agreed that it would, by May 31, 1982, with the assistance
of consultants provided under the project, review the feasibility of bringing
other roads of social and economic significance under continuing maintenance
by DGC and would assess the technical financial and administrative implication
of so extending DGC maintenance responsibilities (Section 4.04(b) of the draft
Loan Agreement).
32.       The age and imbalance of the DGC fleet have also significantly
hindered raintenance operations. The average age of the fleet is 13 years
with many units being obsolete and/or beyond economic repair. In addition to
the need for replacement, there are many units which have been idled due to
lack of spare parts and which could be operational if properly overhauled.
As a result, units are often not in working order and not available for
maintenance operations. Field observation has shown that average availability
per unit is about 40 percent of annual working days.
33.       DGC maintenance operations are suffering from a redundance of
unskilled labor (1 laborer per 1.2 km of road) with a relatively low pro-
ductivity and a shortage of professional engineers (two in the Division to
manage a staff of 8,400). The Government has agreed that it would maintain



- 10 -
its permanent unskilled labor force in the DGC Maintenance Division at or
below the level existing on December 31, 1979 (Section 4.09 of the draft
Loan Agreement) and that the DGC would add four engineers and, by January 1,
1981, four technicians to the Division (Section 4.08 of the draft Loan Agree-
ment). The assignment of the four engineers would be a condition of effec-
tiveness of the loan (Section 5.01(b) of the draft Loan Agreement). Further-
more, there is a need for training and upgrading of personnel at all levels of
the maintenance organization, both in the field and at headquarters. At
present, no such training program exists within the DGC. The proposed project
is designed to overcome this deficiency (paras. 43-44).
(d) Past Bank Assistance to the Highway Subsector
34.       The only Bank loan for the highway subsector was made in 1955 to
assist in completing the construction of 435 km of the main trunk highway
system and in executing a three-year maintenance program, including the
reorganization of the Maintenance Division, the establishment of maintenance
zones and the purchase of equipment (124-GU, US$18.2 million, 1955). The
construction components of the project were completed by the end of 1960
and the maintenance component was satisfactorily completed in 1964. The
extensive network of maintenance facilities and the delineation of zones
represent lasting accomplishments of this early loan.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
35.       A Staff Appraisal Report entitled "Highway Maintenance Project,"
Guatemala (Report No. 2826b-GU, dated April 29, 1980) is being distributed
separately to the Executive Directors. Supplementary data are contained in
Annex III. The project was prepared by the Ministry of Communications and
Public Works; it was appraised in September 1979. Negotiations were held
from April 9 to April 17, 1980; the principal Guatemala negotiator was
Lic. Mario Farfan, Advisor to the Minister of Finance.
Program Development and Project Objectives
36.       Sustainable improvements in road maintenance require a coordinated
effort directed at all aspects of maintenance operations. Thus, a compre-
hensive highway maintenance program was developed based on the selection
of a maintenance policy to be achieved by the end of a buildup period of
the DGC Maintenance Division. The policy selected represents the desired
combination of routine and periodic maintenance activities by type of road
surface and by level of traffic; and signifies the level of expenditure by
which the Government would maximize the amount of road user benefits generated
by each dollar of outlay. After reviewing the practical limitations of DGC to
absorb the proposed changes effectively and taking into consideration planned
increases in the Maintenance Division's budget for road maintenance by no more
than an average of 15 percent per year in real terms (para. 31), it is expected
that the goals of the selected policy would be fully achieved only over
several years. The proposed program represents the major steps which must be
taken to achieve the selected policy and covers the four years from mid-1981
to mid-1985.



- 11 -
37.       The proposed project would support the buildup of capacity neces-
sary to implement the DGC maintenance program by providing financing for
non-recurrent expenditures. It would be initiated during 1980 and 1981,
during which time detailed program preparation would be conducted and the
initial supply of equipment and materials purchased. The project concept
has been kept simple and is focused upon the improvement of maintenance
operations on the DGC network with the hope that these improvements will be
adopted for the maintenance of those secondary and feeder roads currently
not under the jurisdiction of the DGC.
38.       Within the context of the overall maintenance program, the project
objectives would be:
(a) to strengthen the road maintenance organization at headquarters
and in the field and to improve and rationalize maintenance
procedures and standards;
(b) to upgrade, through training, the maintenance manpower at all
levels, e.g., professional, technical and field;
(c) to enhance the application of labor-intensive techniques in
maintenance operations; and
(d) to ensure a sufficient supply of equipment and vehicles and
to improve availability and utilization of maintenance equip-
ment and vehicles.
39.       The physical goals of the four-year program have been defined for
each year in terms of the amount of periodic and routine maintenance. The
annual scope of periodic maintenance would gradually increase until it
approaches the activity frequencies of the selected policy. Thin overlays
(less than 5 cm) of asphalt concrete would be applied to 130 km of road
in 1982 and reach 200 km per year in 1985, representing a frequency of one
overlay every seven years per road segment by the last year of the program.
Single surface treatment would be applied to 220 km in 1982, rising to 320 km
by 1985 for a frequency goal of once every six years. Regraveling would be
done for 800 km of road in 1982 and 900 km by 1985 for a frequency of once
every six years. Last, the grading of unpaved roads would be conducted on
16,500 km in 1982 and 22,000 km in 1985 for an average frequency of once every
three months per road segment by the last year of the program. The above
frequencies would be reviewed and appropriate road segments identified under
the technical assistance program as more detailed information on road condi-
tions becomes available. To meet these goals, in addition to the staffing,
materials and financing requirements, equipment availability (percent of 220
annual working days) would have to be increased from the current 40 percent
to 80 percent by 1985, and equipment utilization (percent of annual available
working hours) would have to be improved from the current 35 percent to 75
percent by 1985.   The Government has agreed to cause the DGC to prepare in
each year, until completion of the project, for each of the Maintenance Zones,
a detailed work program to be carried out during the next calendar year.
The Government would also cause DGC to exchange views with the Bank on the
scope and content of such work program no later than March 31 of each year
and before its inclusion in DGC's operational budget (Section 3.03(c) of
the draft Loan Agreement).



- 12 -
Project Components
40.        The project would provide for the purchasing of 285 pieces of equip-
ment and vehicles. These units will serve mainly to replace old maintenance
equipment and vehicles which are obsolete and/or beyond economical repair as
well as to balance the fleet in order to meet improved maintenance require-
ments. In addition spare parts would be acquired to overhaul about 360 pieces
of equipment and vehicles which are economically salvageable.
41.       To improve vehicle and equipment availability the project provides
for the improvement of preventive mechanical maintenance practices.
Spare parts needed to establish an adequate initial stock for preventive
maintenance would be purchased on the basis of the new fleet composition.
Also workshop tools and equipment would be acquired.
42.       Other items to be financed under the project include hand tools
for field labor and equipment and vehicles for a road diagnostic unit which
would be in charge of conducting a continuous inventory of road conditions.
The Government has agreed to cause DGC to organize a road diagnostic unit to
carry out such continuous inventory (Section 4.05 of the draft Loan Agreement).
43.       The project would provide technical assistance for a total of 266
man-months of foreign and local consultant services. The main objectives
would be to strengthen DGC's planning and programming capabilities as they
relate to road maintenance, to advise and assist in improving maintenance
organization and operations, to help prepare bidding documents for project
items, to implement a training program, and to assist in the preparation of
a four-year road rehabilitation and strengthening program. Six experts (one
maintenance engineer, one mechanical engineer, one soils and pavement engi-
neer, one transport economist, one stores specialist and one training expert)
would be required for a period of from 10 to 36 months each and would be
assigned to appropriate Divisions within DGC. Four additional local special-
ists (one chief instructor for the center for mechanics, one chief of the
training production unit, one chief operator and one chief mechanic) would be
provided, for a period of three years each, for the training program (described
in para 44 below). The Government has agreed to cause DGC to employ consul-
tants for the technical assistance and training programs whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment would be satisfactory to the
Bank (Section 3.02(a) of the draft Loan Agreement). A condition of effective-
ness of the loan would be that DGC has contracted a consultant firm to provide
technical assistance and training services (Section 5.01(a) of the draft Loan
Agreement).
44.       The project would include a four-year training program which would
aim at improving the standard of highway maintenance through the training,
retraining and upgrading of road and equipment maintenance personnel including
foremen, overseers, inspectors, equipment operators and drivers, mechanical
maintenance personnel, engineers and administrative staff. A permanent
training section would be established within DGC with responsibility for the
planning, implementation and supervision of all training activities. The
Government has agreed to cause DGC to (i) establish and equip a permanent
training section and provide annual funds needed for training activities; and
(ii) furnish to the Bank by October 1981 a Plan of Action satisfactory to the
Bank to carry out all components of the training program (Section 3.03(d) of



- 13 -
the draft Loan Agreement). In addition the project would include the construc-
tion of training facilities near the Central Workshop as well as training
equipment and materials. Furthermore, scholarships for courses abroad would
be made available.
Project Costs and Financing
45.       The cost of the project is estimated to be US$18.9 million. The
proposed loan would finance the foreign exchange component of the project,
amounting to US$17.0 million. The Government would finance the local component
of project cost (US$1.9 million). In addition, the Government would increase
recurrent expenditures for road maintenance from an estimated US$37 million
(without the project) to US$85 million during the program period (1980-1985)
(see para. 31 above). The Government has agreed to provide DGC promptly, as
needed, the funds to carry out the project (Section 3.01 of the draft Loan
Agreement).
46.       Costs have been estimated on the basis of March 1980 values.  A
physical contingency of 10 percent has been applied to appropriate project
components, and price contingencies equivalent to about 17 percent have then
been applied to the total. The average man-month base cost for consultant
services was estimated at US$8,800 per man-month for expatriate consultants
and US$1,300 per man-month for locally hired instructors for the training
program.
47.       Project expenditures eligible for disbursement under the Bank
loan would be as follows:
(a)  100 percent of foreign expenditures for directly imported items
and 91 percent of total expenditures for locally procured items;
(b)  84 percent of total expenditures for technical assistance and
training;
(c)  100 percent of foreign expenditures for scholarships; and
(d)  55 percent of the total expenditures for civil works.
Execution and Procurement
48.       The Ministry of Communications and Public Works would carry out
the project, acting through DGC. The implementation schedule has been
confirmed by the Government. It is essential that DGC assign appropriate
counterpart personnel from the related operational divisions and sections for
each member of the technical assistance team in accordance with the implemen-
tation schedule. The Government has agreed to cause the DGC to assign these
counterparts. A condition of effectiveness of the loan would be that DGC has
assigned to the consultants the following counterpart staff: one highway
maintenance engineer, one mechanical engineer and one training officer
(Section 5.01(a) of the draft Loan Agreement).
49.       Procurement under the project would be in accordance with the
Bank's guidelines (Section 2.03 of the draft Loan Agreement). The procure-
ment program for equipment, parts and tools, indicating lot sizes and



- 14 -
estimated cost would be subject to prior approval by the Bank.  Contracts with
an estimated value of over US$75,000 would be awarded according to international
competitive bidding. Lots with estimated costs less than or equal to US$75,000,
and within an overall ceiling of US$1 million, would be advertised locally in
accordance with Government regulations, which are satisfactory. When necessary,
spare parts for specific makes of equipment would be procured directly from
established dealers in accordance with the same Government regulations, for
individual orders less than or equal to US$75,000 and within an overall ceiling
of US$500,000. The Government has agreed that all equipment and vehicles
either acquired or overhauled under the project and spare parts provided under
the project are to be used exclusively for maintenance and minor improvement
works by DGC, provided that minor improvement works account for no more than
10 percent of the annual working hours of such equipment and vehicles (Section
3.04(b) of draft Loan Agreement).
50.       Civil works contracts for the construction of workshops and facilities
for the training center (total cost estimated at US$116,000) would be procured
through Government regulations which allow for adequate competition. Bids
would be advertised locally since only local contractors are expected to be
interested in these small-scale works.
Project Benefits
51.       In the economic evaluation, the quantifiable direct benefits to be
generated by improved maintenance practices were taken as the savings
in vehicle operating costs due to improved riding surface compared with the
riding surface which would result if present maintenance practices were
continued. These savings include the value of time saved by salaried operators
of commercial vehicles as a result of increasing speeds. Based on these
projected benefits, the proposed highway maintenance program is clearly well
justified, with an overall benefit cost ratio of about 4:1 and a net present
value estimated at about US$123 million when a 12 percent opportunity cost of
capital is applied. The economic rate of return would be in excess of 100
percent. The high return, typical of road maintenance projects, reflects the
low cost requirement to sustain the productive capacity of the initial invest-
ment in highway construction.
52.       Most of the benefits to be generated by the program would accrue
directly to individual vehicle operators, the road transport industry and
indirectly to consumers. In the case of passenger transport, because of the
already low regulated tariff structure, the vehicle operating cost and time
savings for bus operations should help to maintain and improve the existing
low priced service and to relieve some of the pressure for future tariff
increases. For cargo movements, because of the intense competition experienced
in local and regional hauls, the program benefits should more directly accrue
to Guatemalan shippers and producers in the form of lower tariffs and/or
avoided tariff increases in the future.
Project Risks
53.       The risks associated with highway maintenance projects are more
substantial than those of construction projects because of the complex
inter-relationship of human and physical factors involved in developing and



- 15 -
implementing a successful maintenance program. To minimize the risks in-
volved, the project has been based on a comprehensive multi-year program
establishing a foundation to improve road maintenance activities in Guatemala.
The various components are directed at the institutional and physical
weaknesses in the existing operation. The implementation schedule and the
annual goals represent a practical phased plan to meet the selected policy
objectives gradually, taking into consideration the timing   required for
equipment acquisition and for the mobilization of human, physical and financial
resources. Direct participation of DGC staff in the preparation of the
project and the close coordination with CONAPLAN and the Ministry of Finance
have resulted in the heightening of interest and commitment by the Government
to the proposed project and in an understanding of the resources required.
Furthermore, technical assistance would be provided in the initial years to
help fill the technical gap and to aid the central office in receiving and
distributing the items purchased under the project.
54.       Sensitivity tests applied to the economic analysis showed that
even under the most adverse conditions, the economic rate of return would
exceed 50 percent. This is still substantially higher than the return
estimated for other projects in the transport sector in Guatemala.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
55.       The Draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Guatemala and
the Bank and the Report to the Committee provided for in Article III, Section
4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately. The Draft Loan Agreement conforms to the
normal pattern of loans for highway maintenance projects. The more important
features have been included in Part IV of this report and are summarized in
Section III of Annex III of this report. Conditions of effectiveness would
be that (i) four engineers have been added to DGC's Maintenance Division
(para. 33); (ii) a consulting firm has been contracted to provide technical
assistance and help carry out the training programs (para. 43); and (iii) that
DGC has assigned appropriate counterpart staff to key members of the consulting
team (para. 48) (Section 5.01 of the draft Loan Agreement).
56.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
57.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments                                                By E. Stern
April 29, 1980
Washington, D.C.



-16-                                                    ANNEX I
Page 1 of 6
TABLE 3A
GUATEMALA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LAND ARLEA (THOUSAND SQ. LM.)                   GUATEMALA                  REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED Ay1RAGES
TOTANDAEAL     ___N   Q.9 __ .ALA- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) -
TOTAL             t08.9                                                     SAMe        SAME      NEXT HIGHER
ACRICILTURAL       26.3                                  MOST RECENT     GEOCRAPHIC    lNCOME'      INCOME
1960  /b   1970 /b ESTIMATE lb        RECION /c   GROUP 'd    GROUP /e
G`NP PER CAPITA (USS)                  250.0       420.0      910.0           1124.4     1097.7       1942.6
ENERC  CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOCRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)      174.0        212.0      257.0           943.1       730.7       1646.7
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)       4.0          5.3        6.4
URAN  POPULATION (PECErNT oF TOTAL) 33.0          35.3       37.3             59.3       49.0         51.2
POPULATION PROJECrIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                         12.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                          23.0
TEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS RZACHED                   2085
POPULATION DENSITY
PER 5Q. KM.                        37.0         50.0      62.0             23.5        44.6         28.2
PER SQ. 13. AGRICULTURAL LAND    161.0         219.0     255.0             80.5       140.7        100.5
POPULATION AGE STUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 Ys.                           45.7         45.4       43.3             40.9       41.3         35.4
15-64 YRS.                          51.5         51.7      53.6             54.4        55.3        56.3
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    2.8          2.9        3.1              3.9        3.5          5.1
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               2.8          2.8        2.9             2.4         2.4          1.7
URBAN                               4.9          3.6        3.6             3.7         4.5          3.0
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       48.0        44.0       41.0             32.8       31.1         27.5
CRUnE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       18.0        14.0       12.0              8.5        9.2          9.1
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                3.4         3.1        3.0              2.4        2.2          1.8
FAHILY PLANNINC
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)         ..          ..       18.7
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..            ..        3.0            17.7        34.7
FOOD AND NUIRI7ION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)           87.4        100.0      108.0            99.4       104.4        102.0
PER CAP ITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OP
REQUIREMENTS)                    86.0         92.0      91.0            107.0       105.0       120.8
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           53.0         50.5       52.8            60.4        64.4        80.9
OF WHICa ANIMAL AND PULSE        18.0         19.0      20.2             28.3        23.5        31.3
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE      31.0         21.0       15.0              6.7        8.6          S.1
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (TEARS)    47.0          53.0       57.0            63.6        60.2         65.6
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                              8. 87.1               77.0            76.1        46.7         45.5
ACCESS so SAFE WATER (PERCENTr O
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..         38.0      40.0             63.4        60.8        69.4
uRBAN                                ..         88.0      87.0             79.3        73.7        85.1
RURAL                                 *-        12.0      14.0             38.6        40.0        43.0
ACCESS TO ELCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..           ..      25.0             58.8        46.0        70.1
URBAN                                ..           ..      40.0             77.8        46.0        88.3
RURAL                                           11.0       17.0            24.5        22.5        33.2
POPULATION PER PFYSICIAN           4200.0/f    3620.0    2500.0            1841.9      2262.4       1343.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON           .       1260.0        ..            933.7      1195.4       765.0
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOrAL                                ..        470.0                      5 363.4     453.4       197.6
ORBAN                                ..           ..         .            279.4       253.1       260.2
RURAL                                ..           ..         .           1140.9      2732.4      1055.0
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL SED            ..         20.0         ..             25.7       22.1         17.3
HOUSING
AVERAGE sizE OF HOUSEHOLD
ToTAL                               5.21          ..        5.0             5.0         5.3         4.7
URBAN                               5.2           .         4.9             '.8         5.2         4.4
RURKAL 5.                                        3.         5.1             5.3         5.4          5.1
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER BOOM
OT-AL                               2.6L1         ..       2.2              1.3         1.9          1.1
URBAN                                L,9L         .,        1.6              1.3        1.6          1.2
RURAL                               3.17g         ..        2.7              1.5        2.5          1.2
ACCESS TO ELEC-RICITY (PERCENt
OF DVELLINGS)
TOTAL                              22.0/          *        28.5            54.3        50.0         66.0
URBAN                              56.0!           .       67.8            90.1        71.7         85.1
RURAL                               45                      ...4           14.2       17.3



- 1T -                                  ANNEX I
Page 2 of 6
TALTL 3A
GUATEMALA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SEEET
GUATIIALA                REFERLNCE oRiU   (   STED  .yRAGES
- MOST PECZNT EST MAT) -
SAME        SAME     'XT HIGHER
-OST RECENT     GEOGRAfl IC   INCOMg       1NCO?x
1960 /b     1970 lb ESTIMATE lb      6zCIoN Ic  GROUP Id    GROUP 1.
EDUCATION
AMJUSTED ENROLLMENT IATIOS
PLRIARY:     TOTAL                45.0         58.0        ..            107.3      102.5       101.7
MALE                 50.0         63.0        ..           109.1       108.6       110.0
PEHAUL               39.0         52.0        ..           107.4        97.1        92.8
SEGOUDARY:  TCAL                    7.0        11.0        ..             40.5       33.5        31.2
OALE                  8.0         !3.0        ..            40.4        38.4        56.4
IALJZ                 6.0         9.0         ..            39.0        30.7        43.7
VOCATIONAL OUL. (2 0 SECONDAXY)  19.0           15.0         ..            18.5       1i.5        18.3
PUPIL-TMACHER R.ATTO
PRIMA!Y                           30.0         36.0     3l.0             37.1        35.8        27.1
SECONDARY                          8.0         14.0      18.0            17.9        22.9        25.3
ADULT  ITERACY RATE (PURCLNY)       31.5           ..      46.0             77.4       64.0        8c.1
CONSUMTTON
PASSENGER CMS PER TROUSAJI
POPULATION                         7.0          8.0      13.0            29.1        13.5        53.4
RADIO RLECIVRS PER TWOUSAND
POPUATION                            ..        43.0      45.0            172.1      122.7       225.9
TV LECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         8.0         14.0      19.0            67.9        38.3       L02.6
NETWSPAP!R (AtLY GEHERAL
INTERR!ST) ClRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                 23.0         21.0        ..            76.1        40.0        78.S
CLNEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  3.0          2.0       2.8             4.2         3.7         3.6
LAWtR FORCE
TOTAL. LAJOR FORCE (THOOSANDS)    1300.OLI    1600.0    200.0                  *          * -    *
FEMALE (PERCENT)                  12.5         12.9      13.5            21.5        25.0        24.5
ACRICULTURE (PERCENT)             66.7         61.0      57.0            30.2        43.5        28.9
DUSTRY (PERCENT)                  14.4         17.3      19.0            23.S        21.3        30.6
PARTICIPATI5ON RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               31.5         30.6      30.6            30.9        33.5        33.8
MALE                                 54.4        52.6      52.2             47.3       U.0         51.3
rEMALE                               8.0          S. O       .4             13.3       16.8        16.3
ECOtOtilC DEP tE RATIO                  1.7         1.6       1.    .          1.3        1.4         1.3
INCOE DISTRI3UT ICN
k'EP.CXNT OF PRIVATE IXCOtE
ZC_-MD BY
HICHEST 5 PZRCENT Of ROUSEHOLDS     ..         35.0 lb     ..            23.7        20.8
HIGHESt 20 PERCENT Of HOUSEHOLDS    ..         60.0 7h .-                58.7        52.1        57.6
WWEST 20 ?PECENT 0O  ROUSEHLOLS      ..         5.0 7h     .-             2.9         3.9         3.4
LUwzST 40 ?ERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..        13.0 7h     ..             9.9        12.6        11.0
POVERt TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ASSOLUTE POVEERT  INCOmE
LEVEL (VS$ PES CAPITA)
URBA                                ..           ..     230.0           265.6       270.0
RAL                                 ..           ..     10.0            185.1       183.3
ESTMATED RELIATIE POVRTY INCOME
LVEL (US$ P?R CAPITA)
URAN                                ..           ..     231.0           396.3       282.5       550.0
RURAL                               ..           ..     141.0           308.1       248.9       403.4
ESTIMATED POMLATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOM  LEVLL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..          ..      21.0            35.2        20.5
RURAL                               ..           ..      25.0            46.6        35.3
Not available
Mac app.Lcable.
/a    The adjusted group awera.s. for each indicacor are population-wight*d go.tritc means, excluding the
*xtr_e values of the inaicator and thb  msc popuiaced councry to *ech group. Covesre  of eounactrd
among tMe indiJacors depends an availabiUty of data  nd is &at umliora.
.lb    DaLes5 othervise.nrcedt. data t4r MO. refer to an_  year boeta   959 *n  1961; for 1970, betetn 1969
and 1971; ama for Most Recoet  !;t.aIta, betwan 1974 and 1977.
/c  Latin America & CAribbtsn;  /d  Incet5redlsc  Middle Encoes (3551-1135 per capita. 1976).  /*  Upper
Utddle  ittnome (51136-2500 per caotta. 1976);  /If  1962;  LI 1964;   /h  parti.  surVey of urban
area* only.
Nost Re.ant EsriateC of CXF pvr captca is for 197R.
augwut, 1979



- 18 -                                                   ANNEX I
DEFINITIONS  OF SOCIAL IDICATORS                                              Pare   q   of   6
Notes   Although the data  re drawn from sources gener .  ly judged the moat uthoritative  nd reliable, it sbould  lse be noted thbt they nay not be interna-
tionally comp-rable becao-e of the ieck of otandardired definitions  nd concepts used by different -coutries in collecting the dat. The data see, noneitheles,
useful tc dccribe -der-  of magnitodo, indio-te trendo,  nd oharsoter:ie oertain mjor differenoen -etb eencotries.
The ndjunted growi norragec for e-ch indicator are populanion-meighted.geomrtrio  aeens, excloding the eotreme cai--  of the indicator  nd the mot populated
country in each group.  i.e to leek of data, group aengee. of ell idieators fsr Capital Sufplu  Oil Hopertera sad of iadioators of Aseesa ti  Water  nd Lacreta
Diap..al, Housing, i-o    Ditributio   nd Poverty for   other .nety groupa are popudatin-eighted gemetric mean  without exluio  of the etrm  rIses ad
the most poulated co.ntry.  niece the  overage ef.cetrie. amnag the iadleae   deaeda on avilabIlity of data ad is ntuIfor,  ction must be eserised
in relating aversuen of one  indicator to anther, Thee -erages    setly  ueful ae approsietios of "epted                       s v ek   coneprin  the values of one
indicator at a time a nng the co,untry and referemee arsupa
[AND ARFk (thousand sq.hs.)                                                             Access be h     preta Disposel (pe-cemt of pepalation) - total urban  ad rural -
Totnl - Total surfce are  comprising land area  nd island eaters.                        Dter of pI eple ttotai, urban, and rural)  served by ecets diepona  as
Agriculturai -  Host recent estimate of agriultural area used teporarily                percentges of their respective pOPwlation.. EX-ret  disposal may include
or permanently for crops, pasturen,  rket ad kitchen gardens or to                    the  oll-ection and dispos a, with or without tretment, of hans  eurreta
lie fallow,                                                                             d mats-water by water-borse  ystems or the use of pit privies  nd u.-ilar
GNP PER CAPITA (us$) - GNP per o.pita rat1mtee at  urrent market prices,                Powitltioaper .flq9ji4    - Population divided by number of practicing phyniclsna
calculated by sane coner-ion  ethod s World Bask Atlas (1976-78 beais);                 qmfid  r             edical school at university level.
1960, 1970, and 1978 dat.                                                             Pculation per Numbing Peresa - Population divided by wndber of pranticing sale
ENxRC  CONSUv ION PER CAPITA - Annmsl o.o.umption of ooerciel energy                       and female graduate nurses, practical nurses, ad anoistt nurses.
ad tigpite, petroleum, natural g.s  nd hydro-, nuclear  nd geo-                 Pu tion   r  loaDpital Bed - total,  scion, ad rural - Powplatioo (tota, -rbn,
th(al   a_tnt)in kllgr-  If -o   qivelet per ..Pit.; 1950                               *-d rural) divided by their respective muber of hospital beds av-ilable in
thermal    c elor  ity                                                                  publio  nd private general  nd speci i ed hostpitl and reeabilitatinor oIt-e,
Hospitals  re eatabliaheents peranently staffed by at least one phynioa..
POPUiATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                                           Establishmeata providing principlly custodial care arc not included. Rurl
Tetal Population, mNd-Year (millions) - Ai  of Juy 1; 1960, 1970,  nd                   hospitals, however, include health  nd medical  ctern not permanently otffcd
1977 data                                                                             by a physiobn (but by a medical assistant, nurse, midoife, etc.) shioh offer
Unb  Population (peroent of total) - RPtio of urban to total population;                in-patient  c-unodation  nd provide a limited range of medilol facilitien.
ditferent definiticn.  of urban arena nay  ffect  operability of data               Adaiasioas per Hoenitni Hod - Total number of  dinisionn to or dincbarges from
among evuntrice; i950, 1970, and 1975 dta.                                            hospitas divided by the number of beds
Ponslatioo Projections
Population in year 2000 - Current popolstion projections are based on             HOUSIN
1975 total population by age  nd  es.  nd their mortality  nd fertility           Average lice of Household (persons per house- old) - total  urban, and rural
ntes-  Projection paronetcro for coreality eaten comprise of three                  A household conaista of a group of Individuals eho share living quarters and
leves anauning life vxpectancy at birth incre..ing with country s                   their main mels. A boarder or lodger may or nay not be included in the
per capita income level, and female life copect nsy stubilioing at                  household for statistical purposes.
77.5 year.  The prseceters for fertility rate also have three levels              Average number of persona per roca - total, scion, and rural -  .cerage g nuber
assu-iag dc-line in fertility sacording to income level nd pat                      of persona per roo  iinall urban, nd rural occupied conventionlI d-1ling;,
family oluning perfor-unce. .h country in then assigned one of these                respectively.  Delliaga e-clude non-per,nnent structures and unocc- pied ptr.n
nine co-binations of sortality  nd fertility trends for projection                Aessn to El           ectr ic(pent of di _lig      total, urban,  nd r-rri - Con-
purp-ne.                                                                            reh-a  duelin a silh eletricity in living quarters no Percentageo
Stationary copulation -  n n tationy popultion there is o grosth                      totnl, urban, and rural delingu respective_ly
since thi birth rate in equal to the death rate, and also the age
structure remains contant. Thin is achieved onl  after fertility rates          EDUCATION
decline to the replaneseet ied1 of unit nct reproduction rate, when               Adjusted onrolneot nation
eah genratiwn of =0metreplacecits:felf -ntly.j The stationary popu-                 Primary scoo  - total,  aeadfml    Oros  total, male ano feml   nol
eatioc ye ci n e stimatedV     the bimis of the projected characteeistics             aset of al ages at the pri  ry level  an     .eesag   o  rl adptile  enroisy
of the populatice in the year 2000, and the eate of decline of fertility              school-age populations; normally includes children aged 6-11 yearn but
rate to replacement level                                                              djusted for different le-gthe of prirory education; to cuontrics vith
Year stationary population is reached - The year uhen stationary population             universal education enroll-ent nay ence.d 100 percent ciove soar pupils
oibe has been reached.                                                                ars belos orabovo the official scobol  ge.
Population Denaity                                                                      Sec-ndry schooal -  total, male  nd female - Computed no a;, ve; sec: Ilary
Per q. kc. - Mid-year population poe squ-re kiloceter (100 hectures) of                 education  requires at leant four years of approved primary iIotruot; .;
total area                                                                            provides general vocational, or teacher training iastrootioco  for pupins
Per sq  be.  1geriultural land - Computed no sbove for agricultural land                usualy of 12 to 17 years of age; correspondence courses see  c-1erally
only.                                                                                 ecluded.
Population Age Structure (percent) - Children (0-1t yearn), worhing-age                 Vocational enrol.e1  t (percent of secondary) - Vocational i-tsit,tioo- inmlode
15-64 years), and retired (65 years and over) as percentages of sdd-yeur               techoicai, induntrial, or othbe  progras vhibh operate ibdepen-detly or
population; 1960, 1970, ad 1977 data.                                                  departments of secondary institutions
Poarpotio iGowh Pt 1pr0nt)   tt   - nnuaI grooth e-ten of total mid-                    Pupiltche  ratio  - priry, adi -vi        d bary - Total students -enc1ed ie
pear~.I poont5     forI15-S   2070   d17-l                                              primar  mad  ecodar  leesdivided by  -unber  of t-h-er  in ticcore
Population Grovth ROte (erAent)  -         urban -  Inosl growth rates of urban           sponding loels.
populatiosa for 1950-6i, 1960-70, and 1970-75.                                        AIdult. literacy rate (percent) - Liberate  1dult  (able to read and veit-)ns
Crude birth Pate (Pc  thousand) - Ann .i lice births per thousand of mid-                 a       percentage of total adult population aged 15 yenar and  cerd
year popultioe; 19GO, 1970, and 1977 dta.
Crude Death eats (per thousand) - Annual deaths pee thou dani  ciidyear             CONSUMPTTIAN
populatio,; 1960,  1970, and 1977 data                                              Pasos ger- Curs (per thoueand populatiot) - Pausenger oars -caprli-  -ot-r 0sev
Gross Peproduction date - Ave-ge  uniber of daughters a vcrsn sill bear                 seating less than eight perso- n; cxcludes  cbulonces, h-e-rs  and eilitary
in her normal reproductive p-eivd if she experiences present age-                     -ehicle-
specific fcrtillty rates; usually fiee-year aerages ending in 1960,                 Radio Peceivees (per thousand population) - All typen of receivers foe radio
i975, and 1975.                                                                       broadcasts to general poblic per thousand of population;eoolodcn.anlicensed
Fanily PlanninF - Acceptors, Anmual (thousands) - dnnual nuhber of                      ieceivera in countriec and in ye-   when regiot-stion of edi., -ets co.  in
acceptoro of birth-control devices under auspices of national faily                   effect; data for recent yenre  may not be conpar.ble since      t _cootrien
planniog progran.                                                                     anblished licenitg.
Fasily Planning   - doers  (percent of married v-Mev) - Percentage of married         TV R-eceives (per thousand population)  - TVreceivec for bro.dosot t. g-ne-rs
scam  of child-bearing  ge (15-i4 years) who use birth-co-trpl devices                pubifc per thousand populatie;n excludes unlice-srd TV receivers i           ti
to all onrried .c.en in sane age group.                                             -nd in ye  oh ohen  egistritive of TV sets vas in effect.
FOOD AND NUTRITTON                                                                     INewspaper Circuation (per thousand ..    lntin)  - S        te overage lirfu atior
Index of Fod Pduction per Capita (1969-71=10) - Index of per ..pit.                    drevotd primariy to recording gencral neun   It ho cunsidered to be 'doil"
annual produetiu  of all food coseoditie-  Production eclude- seed and              if it nopears at lenat four timen g     seek.
feed and ic on valendar year basi.  Cforodities cover primary goods                 Cinema Annuaitteodance per Capitn cer Yiar - based oc the  -nbe- o,f ii,kcts
(e.g. nugarcune instead of sugar) vhic  are edible and contain nutrients              sold  during the yeayr, inoluding adiui.on.  to drive-ic cinecas . nd scob-i Si
(e.g  coffee and ten are  -ciuded). Aggregate production of e-ch -coutry              units
in based on natiosn.  ccern- e producer price weights.
er .-pit. suppl  of c-1ori_ (pe et_       f r_suireacts) - Conpted from           IABOe PiORCE
energy equivalent  f cet food nupplies available in evuntry per capita            Total L[Aoe  Force (thounsnds) - EconomicalLy notice persons, including treed
per diy.  Aailable copy11 ccvpri-e dmostic produ-tion, imports less                 forces and unemployed ist excluding housewives, students, etc  Definit>,,-
e-ports, and changes in utoc.  Net I   opplies eoclude animal fecd, seeds,          in  various cuntries are not ompar-ble.
qu-nt mien ased in food proeessing, and i.ssec in diatribution.  Requir-          Pemalre  cest) - Fesale labor force no percectage of t,tal labor f-o-e
cents were estimated by FAO blaed on physiologi-wl needs for nor.ai               Ap                  t  - Labor force in farig, forestry, hunting and
activity and health considveing coe-i-mctal temporatuer, body weights,             fishing ac percentage If total labor force
age and seo distributions of populatio-, ad alloving 10 percent for               Industry (p-.e..t) - Libce force is mining, construction, canufacturing and
saute at household tevel                                                            electricity, sater and gas an percentage of total labor  ror.
Per capita _uppb of protein (gra-s per day) - Protein -cotest of per                Participation  Pate (percent) - total, csle, and 'emale - Participation or
capita set supply of food per dy. Net supply of food is defined ou                  actieity eaten ace computed an total, sale, Ind fecoie  Wice force as per-
bove.  Requirements for all couctrie- established by USDA provide for a             centages of total, waic and feale population of all ages respectively;
sioima  allowance of 60 grams of total protein pee dsy and 20 grams of             i960, 1970, and 1975 data.  These are IOs particklpativo  rates reflecting
animal and pulse protein; of vhich 10 gram  should be animal protein                age-see ntructure pf the popslation, and long time trend.  A fe  e-timates
These standards sre loser than those of 75 grams of total protein ad                ace from national sources
23 gra_  of animal protein as aenaeasge for the sorld, proposed by FAO            Econp. i  Dependency Ratio -  Ratio of population uder 15 and 65 and over to
in the Third Wcrld Food Suvey.                                                      thi  labor force in  ge group  If 15-64 years
Per capita protein supply from animal and pulse - Prohein spply  f food
derived from animals and polses in gracs pee day.                               INCOME DSITRIBUTION
Child ( ges 1-4) Yortality Rate (pee thounond) -    -nnoal denthi  per thousand       Percentage of Private Income (both in cash and kind) - R-ceived by richest
in age group 1-4 yearn, to children in this ago group; fer moat devel-                5 pocoent, richest 20 porcent, poore. t 20 percent, and poorest 40 per-ent
oping contri-es dOto de-ived from life tables                                         of households.
hEALTH                                                                                POVERTY TARGPT SROUPS
Life lopect-cy at Birth (years) - Avcrage cn-be- of years of life                     Estic ted Absolute Poverty lincoe Level (us$ per capita) - scbin and rural -
remaining at birth; 1960, 1970, and 1977. data.                                       Absolute poverty incom  level is that inece level belou shich a miniAl
Ifant Hrtaity hate (per thosd) - AuI daths  f infants  nder  n                         outriti na ly adequate diet plus esa-etil non-food requirements ionot
pear of ago p-r tho-und live births,                                                  affordable.
Access to Safe Water (percent of population) -  total, urban, and rural -             Eitimated Relative Poverty Income Level (US$ per capita) - urban and rural -
leb-er of people (total, urban, and rural) sith re...s.ble accesn to                  hural relati-e poverty inboe leo-l in one-third of average per -apita
safe  atec supply (includes treatsd surfac  vster-  or =treated but                   personl income of the contry. Urban level is derived from the coral level
u_contegiasted ester such as that from protected horeholes, springs,                  sith adjustment for higher coat of living in urban arrs.
and sanitary vells) an percentages of their respective populations  In              Estimsted Population Below Ahbolute Poverty Incom  bevel (percent) - urban and
an   r    rsc s   a  public fountain or standpost lecated not mere than               rural - Percent of popolstisn (urban ad rural) sic are  absolute poor".
200 meters from a house apy be conidered as being sithin re-anable
ncos of shah house,  i  rural areas rean_abie access  -uld imply
that the I-u-sife Ic mebers of the household do not hace to speed a                                                         Ei onic  nd Social Osta Divisi-n
dioproportio-ate part of the dsy in fetching the fnily, awter seeds                                                    Econonic Adalais and Proj-etions Depart-ct
Auguat 1979



-19-                                               ANNEX I
Page 4 of 6
ECONGHIC INDICAIRS
Population: 6.6 million (mId-1978)
CNP Per Capita:  US$910 (1978)
Amount                 Av rage Annual Increases (7)
Indicator                                             (us5)                  ( t constant 1975 prices)                    Share of CDP at Market Prices (T.)
1979                  1965-70  1970-75  1975-80 (proj.)             1965      i970      1975      1974
NATIONAL AC0DUNTS
Gross domestic product                             7,175                    5.8       5.6      6.2                       100.0     100.0    100.0      100.0
A4riculture                                      1,870                    4.7       6.3      4.0                        28.6      27.2     28.0       26.1
Mining nd Industry                               1,492                    7.8       5.5      9.0                        17.1      18.8      18.5      20.8
Ser,icee                                         3,813                    5.7       5.5      6.3                        54.2      54.0      53.5      53.1
Consumption                                        6,084                    4.8       4.2      6.3                       88.9       86.5      85.7      84.8
Gross investment                                   1,497                    5.1       5.5      5.8                        13.3      12.8      16.1      20.9
Exports of goods and NF5                           1,493                    7.2       8.0      5.2                       17.1       19.1      21.7 /    20.8
Imports of goods and NFS                           1,899                    3.1       5.4      8.0                       19.3       18.4     23.5       26.5
Gross national 3avings                             1,205                    5.1       4.0      5.7                        10.3      12.4      14.4      16.8
Amount                 Average Annual Increases (7.)                 Composition of Merchandise Trade
(US5$ million)              (at constant 1975 prices)                            (current prices)
1979                      1970-75    1975-80                        1965       1970     1975       1980 (proj.)
.ERChANDISE TRADE
Merchandise exports                                1.246                        8.0          5.2                         100.0     100.0    100.0      100.0
Coffee                                             42                         7.1        47.7                                     33.9      25.6      32.0
Cotton                                             190                       10.8          8.2                          17.9       9.2      11.5      15.0
BEminas                                             55                        3.4          3.8                          2.6        4.6       5.4       4.5
Other                                              581                        8.5          5.5                          31.8      52.3      57.5      48.5
Merchandise I"ports                                1.596                        54                                       100.0     100.0    100.0      1CO.0
Food                                                60                                     8.2                                     8.4      8.5        5.0
Other consuner goods                               284                        n.a.        11.6                        n.8.        21.3      14.0      15.0
Petroleum, oil, lubricants                         270                                     5.1                                     5.0      14.0      16.5
Other intermediary *nd capital goods               982                                     8.1                                    65.3      63.5      63.5
PRICES AND TERMS OF TRADE                                                                                                                                 >i.
1965             1970              1975             1976             1977            1978
GDP deflator                                       T3.4                                                Ti-2-2O 1122       .0            TC7            1
Exchange rate                                       1.0               1.0                1.0              1.0              1.0            1.0            1.0
Export price index                                 59.5              64.9              100.0            112.9            156.7          151.3
Import priee index                                 39.4              44.3              100.0            107.0           118.2           126.5             .
Te-ms of trade index                              150.9             146.3              100.0            105.6            132.6          119.6          D 3.5
CENTRAL COVERPMENT AS 7. OF GDP                                        1965              1970             1975             1979
Current Revenue                                                       8.9               8.7              9.1             9.4
Current Expenditure                                                   7.3               7.5              7.0              8.0
Current Sovinge                                                       1.7               1.2              2.1              1.4
Capital Expenditures                                                  2.6               2.4              3.0              4.6
OTHER INDICATORS                                                               1965-70            1970-75          1975-80
CGP growth rate (%)                                                           5.6               '6.0              6.4
GNP per capita grouth rate (M)                                                2.8                3.2              3.6
ICOR                                                                          ,J2.2              3.0              3.1
Xergtoil savings' at.                                                         114;0              16.8             12.5



ANNEX I
- 20-                                               Page 5 of 6
BALANCE OF PAYHENTS, EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(million US$ at current pricec)
Population:  6.6 million (mid-1978)
GNP Par Capita: US$910 (1978)
Act,.&I                                                          Proiected
1970         1975         1976         1977         1978         1979          1980         1981         1982         1983
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Net exports of goods  nd 3ervices                    -26         -135         -269          -83         -346          -421         -365         -386         -406         -445
Exports of goods -nd -seric.e                      350          795          976        1,344        1,346        1,493         1,575        1,780        1,940        2.140
Imports of goods and services                      376          930        1,245        1,427        1,692        1,914         1,940        2,166        2,346        2,585
Net transfers                                         18           73          199            95          114          129          125          133          141          168
Current sccount balnce                                -8          -62          -70            12        .232          -292        -240          -253         -265         -277
Direc  private investment                             25           83           96            90          115          100           80           75           75           75
NLT lo.s- (net)
Public                                              17           51           46           41           90          123           160          170          192          197
Private                                             14           36           34           33           35            37           33           30           28           25
Other                                                -19           10          103          -17            63           12           47           50           65          160
Reserve ch.nges(-.incresse)                          -29         -118         -209         -159          -71            20          -80          -72          -95         -180
1974         1975         1976         1977         1978
CROSS COMIlINlENTS
Official grants                                                             n.a.         n.a.         20.0          n.a.         n.s.
Public MLT loans                                                            23.9         90.6        278.3         91.8          150.1
IBRD                                                                         -           26.0         41.0         55.0           72.0
Other moltil.ter-l                                                          19.1         26.7        151.3          31.4          10.6
Governments                                                                  4.5         37.4         86.0           5.2          42.6
Other                                                                        0.3          0.5          0.0           0.2          25.5
PUBLIC EXTEilAL DEBT
Public debt outstanding *od disbursed                                      114.5        164.1        210.3        275.4          373.6
IBRD                                                                      33.7         39.4         42.4         46.4          64.3
Other multllateral is                                                     31.8         33.6         47.1         84.6         132.6
Other official                                                            39.4         83.9        114.0        139.7          172.8
Private                                                                    9.6          7.2          6.8          4.7           3.9
Public debt, undisbursed                                                    85.73       117.6        343.9        387.0         415.9
PUBLIC DEBT SERVICE
Public debt ser-ico payments                                                26.9         13.3         13.6         16.2           24.0
Interest                                                                   5.9          6.4          7.9          9.1          14.8
Payment. as % exports                                                        3.8          1.7          1.4           1.2           1.8
Interest or public debt outstanding (.)                                      5.3          5.6          4.8          4.3            5.4
Debt service or public debt outst-ndirg (7.)                                24.0         11.6          8.3           7.7           8.7
BANX GROUP EXPOSURE (7%)
IBRi DOD/totl DGD                                                          29.4         23.4         20.2         16.8           17.2
IBRD diobursmment./total gross disbursement.                                30.6         11.3          7.6           7.4          18.5
IBRD debt service/ total debt mervice                                        9.9         26.6         30.6         27.4           32.5
si Excldes iDB debt repayable in local currency.



ANNEX I
- 21 -                      Page 6Of 6
OFFICIAL LENDING TO GUATEMALA BY MAJOR LENDERS AND SECTORS, 1970-79
(in millions of constant FY80 dollars) /1
IBRD            IDB        CABEI /2         AID          TOTAL
Agriculture                 10.4           29.3           -            42.4          82.1
Industry, Mining              -            26.1           -            11.4          37.5
Tourism
Transport and               78.1           84.2          73.1           -           235.4
Communications
Power                     154.8           168.3         44.9           27.5         395.5
Education                   30.1           32.4          12.0          17.9          92.4
Water and Health              .           150.4           4.7          14.2         169.3
Other                       28.7            -             1.0           -            29.7
302.1          490.7         135.7         113.4        1041.9
/1 IBRD commitment deflator used for price adjustments.
/2 Excludes operations with the private sector.



- 22 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 5
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN GUATEMALA
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS
(As of February 29, 1980)
$ Million Amount
(Net of Cancellations)
Loan No.  Year      Borrower          Purpose                   Total   Undisbursed
Six loans fully disbursed                                        66.5           -
1104      1975    GUATEL        Telecommunications               26.0        11.6
1212      1976    Government  Education                          14.5        13.4
1314      1976    Government  Earthquake Reconstruction,
Education and Port              6.5        6.3
1315-T 1/ 1976    Government  Earthquake Reconstruction,
Urban Sites and Services       20.0        14.9
1426      1977    INDE          Power                            55.0        14.5
1605      1978    INDE          Power                            72.0        59.4
Total                                                260.5
Of which has been repaid                            28.4
Total now outstanding                                232.1
Amount sold                      5.8
Of which has been repaid       4.6                   1.2
Total now held by Bank                               230.9
Total undisbursed                                                120.1
1/   Third Window Loan.



- 23 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 5
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of March 31, 1980)
Fiscal                                                            $ Million Amount
Year           Obligor              Type of Business           Loan  Equity   Total
1959    Industria Harinera           Flour Mill
Guatemalteca, S.A.                                    0.2      -        0.2
1974    Exploraciones y              Mining and Processing    15.0        -      15.0
Explotaciones Mineras        of Nickel
Izabal, S.A.
1977    Cementos Progreso, S.A.    Cement                        3.0      -       3.0
Total Gross Commitments                                 18.2     -       18.2
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                                  7.0      -        7.0
Total now held by IFC                                   11.2     -       11.2
Undisbursed
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
Loan/Credit No.
Ln. 1104        Telecommunications:  US$26.0 Million of April 29, 1975;
Effective Date: November 25, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
The project is now proceeding satisfactorily; but due to the
initial slow pace of procurement, the likely completion date
has slipped by about two and half years. The exchange instal-
lations in and around Guatemala City have been delayed consid-
erably due to suppliers' inability to meet delivery and
installation schedules, and to GUATEL's inability to complete
the construction of one of the buildings in time for equipment
installations. Contracts for goods valued at about US$25.5
million have been signed. Of about 92,000 exchange lines
planned under the project, about 30,000 lines have been
installed.
Ln. 1212        Education:  US$14.5 Million of March 5, 1976; Effective Date:
April 20, 1977; Closing Date:  June 30, 1982.
This project has suffered long implementation delays. Reasons
for the delays include:  slow Congressional approval causing
delays in effectiveness, difficulties in site acquisition,
and periodic lack of adequate budgetary provisions. Project
implementation is now proceeding satisfactorily and is expected



- 24 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 5
to be completed before the new closing date (two and a half
years beyond the original closing date). Most civil works
contracts have been formalized and construction is under way.
Bidding for furniture and equipment is being evaluated and is
expected to be submitted shortly to the Bank for review.
Contracting for technical assistance and for the education
aspects of the project (teacher training, pre-investment
studies, education planning, among others) has been completed
satisfactorily.  Estimated cost overrun for the project
(about US$4.5 million) is being financed by Borrower.
Loan/Credit No.
Ln. 1314        Earthquake Reconstruction (Education and Port Rehabilitation);
US$6.5 Million of August 2, 1976; Effective Date: April 20,4--977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
Education: After prolonged implementation delays (e.g. delays
in obtaining Congressional ratification of Loan Agreement,
delays in site acquisitions, particularly those for the
schools for the Urban Component of the Reconstruction Project)
implementation is now proceeding satisfactorily under two exe-
cuting agencies. Some 60% of civil works is under way.
Bidding for the procurement of furnture and equipment will
begin shortly.
Port Rehabilitation: This component of the project has also
suffered serious delays largely due to Government indecision
regarding the selection of an alternative for reconstruction
of the pier at Puerto Barrios. Having recently decided upon
minimum rehabilitation of the existing structure, the Govern-
ment is now initiating procedures to hire consultants to
prepare detailed plans and to supervise construction. Con-
struction is expected to be completed by late 1981.
There has been no progress concerning the studies which
were expected to be conducted using loan funds. A study
to establish a national port authority has been delayed
due to the question of whether the proposed Pacific Coast
deep water port would be under the jurisdiction of such
a port authority. This issue is now being discussed by
CONAPLAN and the new Executive Agency responsible for the
port project. The Government decision to greatly accelerate
the Pacific Coast port project has raised the likelihood
that loan funds will not be applied to studies related to
this project.



- 25 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 5
Loan/Credit No.
Ln. 1315-T     Earthquake Reconstruction (Urban Sites and Services);
US$20.0 Million of August 2, 1976; Effective Date: May 5,
1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
This project has suffered lengthy delays in the implementation
due largely to delays in Congressional ratification, institu-
tional problems in the main implementing agency and delays in
site acquisition.  In an effort to im j ove implementation the
project was restructured by (i) simp;ification of design of
sites and services component; (ii) ,treamlining of contracting
procedures and a reduction in mutual help construction; (iii)
streamlining of administrative procedures for project execution;
(iv) a reduction in the number of plots to be developed; and
(v) addition of a second implementing agency to handle 50
percent of the small-scale industry credit component. The
first stage of the sites and services component is now completed
and construction of stage II has begun. The reconstruction
credits component is operating in 11 cities; demand appears to
be high. Under the small-scale enterprise component, disburse-
ments made by BANVI, the main implementing agency, continue to
be behind the revised projections; disbursements of FENACOAC,
the second implementing agency, are running ahead of schedule.
Project implementation is being carefully monitored by frequent
Bank supervision missions.
Ln. 1426       Power:  US$55.0 Million of June 10, 1977; Effective Date:
February 7, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
The project is about 12 months behind schedule (expected start
of operations postponed to June 1980) due principally to delays
brought about by the need to rebid the main contract (civil
works), and the unsuccessful efforts by the Borrower to maintain
satisfactory construction progress with own forces pending
selection of civil works contractor and to delays in securing
consulting services for the institution-strengthening studies.
Despite substantial tariff increases during 1978 and sales 3
percent above appraisal forecast, the sector failed to make any
contribution from internally generated funds to investment--the
revenue requirement covenant under the loan is based on 13
percent contribution in 1978. The current level of tariffs
(7.2 USc/kWh) had been considered adequate to generate the
required 16 percent contribution to investment in 1979.
However, based on unaudited sector accounts, it appears
that the sector will fall short of this goal (12 percent
estimated contribution). The shortfall appears attributable
to the failure of one of the principal sector entities to
pass on fuel price increases as had been agreed with the Bank.
Also a schedule for carrying out an agreed sector reorganiza-
tion by June 1980, which was to have been sent to the Bank
for review, has not yet been received. The Government
has been urged to take remedial action on both matters.



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 5
Loan/Credit No.
Ln. 1605        Power:  US$72.0 Million of July 21, 1978; Effective Date:
July 21, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
The loan was declared effective on May 1979. The revenue
requirement covenant under this loan is identical to that under
Loan 1426-GU. The project is generally on schedule. While
effectiveness was delayed about six months because of slow-
ness in Congressional ratification, this.did not affect
construction progress because the Guarantor provided the
Borrower with "bridge" financing.



- 27 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
GUATEMALA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  First presentation to Bank:             November 16, 1978
(b)  First Bank Mission to
identify project:                      January 29/February 11, 1979
(c)  Agency which prepared project:         Ministry of Communications and
Public Works
(d)  Departure of Appraisal Mission:         September 10, 1979
(e)  Completion of negotiations:            April 17, 1980
(f)  Planned deadline for effectiveness:  January 1, 1981
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) As conditions of effectiveness the DGC would (i) add four
engineers to its Maintenance Division; (ii) contract a
consulting firm to carry out the technical assistance and
training programs; and (iii) assign appropriate counterparts
to key members of the consulting team (paras. 33, 43, and 48);
(b) Government has confirmed its intention to invite Bank comments at
appropriate times during the preparation of transport planning
studies (para. 23);
(c) Government has agreed to review, by May 31, 1982, whether or not
roads not now under the maintenance responsibility of DGC should be
added to the DGC responsibilities (para. 31);
(d) Government has agreed to prepare a road rehabilitation and
strengthening program for 1983-1986 (para. 26);
(e) DGC will maintain its permanent unskilled labor force of
the maintenance division at or below the level existing
on December 31, 1979 (para. 33);



- 28 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(f) DGC will add four additional technicians to the maintenance
division by January 1981 (para. 33);
(g) DGC will prepare annually from 1982 through 1985 work programs for
each of the maintenance zones; DGC will seek the views of the Bank
for each of these programs in advance (para. 39);
(h)  DGC will establish and equip a permanent training section and
will submit to the Bank by October 1981 an action plan for all
the components of the training program (para. 44);
(i) DGC will review road classification system for its network by
January 1, 1982 (para. 25).



I BRD-14654
9,2'                                                                                                                                                      poptEoi                         SB'-0CQf, 97
B                                                          00~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0>  ( ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ CUBA
M   E X                                                                                                                                                   A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~B     
ME X 1 C 0 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~8EL I ZAA~
SAL. 0400   AR5  V
tOOo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                                               6'   -            A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1'
I           ~~~~~Son Moteo otot6ot                                                                                                                                                 LngKnq'
Lonqui,  hab6n      El EstoIpe                                  e Cst c 
Ch.j.]  COB                                                            lzab~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5
'~~~  .-l~~~~/  f/ C       O CE A~~~~~SNT                                                                                                                     n                       s
Lo  z  Mc~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~tenango  RUZ DEL                                      Rio Flo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~otE
92                                             9!'                                                                                                                          89'~~~~~~~~~~E hmu



