Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY   FILE  COY
Report No. 2826b-GU
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
GUATEMALA
April 29, 1980
Projects Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit                                  = Quetzales (Q)
US$1.00                                        = Q 1.00
Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31
Units of Weights and Measures
Metric: British/US Equivalent
1 meter (m)                                    = 3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)       2                       = 0.62 mile (mi)
1 square kilometer (km )                       = 0.386 square mile (sq mi)
1 metric ton (ton)                             = 1.1 US short tons (sh ton)
Abbreviations and Acronyms
AADT                   Average Annual Daily Traffic
AVIATECA               Guatemalan Aviation Company
CABEI                  Central American Bank for Economic Integration
CIDA                   Canadian International Development Agency
CONAPLAN               National Council for Economic Planning
DGC                    General Directorate of Roads
DGT                    General Directorate of Transport
ECAT                   Central American Transport Study
FEGUA                  Guatemalan Railways
FYDEP                  National Enterprise for Economic Growth and Development
of the Peten
IDB                    Inter-American Development Bank
INTA                   National Institute for Agrarian Transformation
IRCA                   International Railways of Central America
USAID                  United States Agency for International Development



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
GUATEMALA
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
I. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR           .       .    .......... . ...... .     1
A.   General          ............................................    1
B.   The Transport System .............  . ..................         2
C.   Transport Planning, Coordination and Financing .....             5
D.   Past Bank Assistance to the Transport Sector .......             6
II. THE HIGHWAY SUBSECTOR .         ...................                   7
A.   The Highway Network ......        ..........................     7
B.   Characteristics and Growth of Road Traffic ........ .            9
C.   The Road Transport Industry ........................            10
D.   Highway Administration and Staffing ..............     ..       11
E.   Road User Charges and Highway Financing ............            12
F.   Highway Planning and Engineering ...* ..... ...........         13
G.   Highway Construction  ............. ..       ...............    14
III. HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE .... ....................................        15
A.   Maintenance Administration and Organization    .... ....        15
B.   Maintenance Planning and Operation .... .............           15
C.   Maintenance Staffing and Training .... ..............           17
D.   Maintenance Financing ..............    ..    .............     18
E.   Equipment and Facilities .          ..........................  19
F.   Level of Maintenance and Areas of
Major Concern ......     ..................... ..  .........  20
IV.  THE PROPOSED HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT ................            21
A.   Project Development and Preparation           ................  21
B.   The Maintenance Program ............................            21
C.   Objectives and General Description of the
Proposed Project ......       ...........................    23
D.   Project Components ..*         ..............................   24
E.   Cost Estimates and Financing            .......................  26
F.   Execution, Procurement and Monitoring            .. ..          28
G.   Project Risks ................   ... . ......                  30
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Guatemala in September 1979. The mission comprised Messrs. J.-C. Sallier
(Engineer), C.-H. Mumme (Economist) and J. Gutman (Economist). The report
has been edited by Miss V. R. Foster.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
Page No.
V. ECONOMIC EVALUATION ..      ..............................        31
A.   General ..........................................          31
B.   Projected Network and Road Condition   ..........           31
C.   Traffic ..........       .............................      32
D.   Maintenance Activity Costs ................ ......          32
E.   Benefits    ...... .......O ...... .0.0 ....... .0.... -......  33
F.   Economic Assessment .... .......................            34
G.   Distribution of Benefits ...o ....      ...............     35
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMNENDATION ..............              35
TABLES
2.1  Development of the Highway Network ..o .....            38
2.2 Comparison of Highway and Motor Vehicle
Densities ....        .........................      39
2.3 Road Conditions of DGC Network and Traffic
Levels (1979) .... o  ................. .. .         40
2.4  Vehicle Fleet ............... ............... O...      41
2.5 Average Annual Daily Traffic at Permanent
Count Stations (1967-1977) ..........   *O..         42
2.6 Distribution of Highway Traffic by Vehicle
Type (1979) ...o ............ o ............         43
2.7  Price of Fuel . ....... ...o ....... . .......          44
2.8  Limits on Weights and Dimensions . .........            45
2.9 Distribution of Loaded Trucks by Level of
Compliance with Gross Weight Limits                  46
2.10  Distribution of Highway Network by
Responsible Agency ........... . .0 ........         47
2.11  Staffing of DGC (1977) ............. ........           48
2.12  Road User Tax Revenues .........  o ... o......         49
2.13  Annual Expenditures by DGC (1965-1979) ....             50
3.1   Maintenance Staff (1979)  ..... ...........             51
3.2   Maintenance Allocations (1979)  o....0 .....            52
3.3   Number and Age of DGC Equipment .... o ......           53
4.1   Estimates of Recurrent Budget Requirements
for Maintenance Program (1980-1985) ....             54
4.2   Tentative List and  Cost Estimate of New
Maintenance Equipment ............. .... .           55
4.3   Estimated Schedule of Disbursements .......             56
4.4   Monitoring Indicators of Maintenance
Program ........      .........................      57
5.1   Road and Terrain Characteristics .-.......              58
5.2   Road Conditions in 1987 without the
Maintenance Program ..... o......o  ........         59
5.3   Road Conditions in 1987 with the
Maintenance Program ..................    oo.        60
5.4   Traffic Composition ..........  o  ..........           61
5.5   Highway Maintenance Activities ..........    o.         62



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
Page No.
5.6  Frequency Table for Road Maintenance
Activities   .  ..............................  63
5.7  Policy Costs for Paved Roads .............. .     64
5.8  Policy Costs for Unpaved Roads      ............  65
5.9  Economic Vehicle Operating Costs on
Varying Road Surfaces with Different
Maintenance Policies .....    ................  66
5.10 Annual Net Economic Benefits of Alternative
Maintenance Policies .....    ................  67
5.11  Net Program Costs ...........................    68
5.12  Summary of Program Benefits .............. ..    69
5.13 Feasibility Indices of the Maintenance
Project   .......... ........................  70
ANNEXES
1.   Outline Terms of Reference for Technical
Assistance Program on Highway
Maintenance ........   ......................  71
2. Training Program .77
3.   Related Documents and Data Available in the
Project File .90
CHARTS
1.  World Bank 21219--General Directorate of Highways
Organizational Structure
2.  World Bank 21220--Tentative Implementation Schedule
MAP
IBRD 14654--Guatemala Highway Maintenance Project
This report is based on the report entitled "Guatemala Highway Maintenance
Project," Vols. I-II, August 1979, prepared by the Ministry of Communications
and Public Works with the assistance of individual experts provided by the
Bank including A. Mackie (Consultant; Mechanical Engineer); Z.S. Kowalski
(Consultant; Highway Engineer); and G. Morra (Bank staff; Training Specialist);
and on the findings of an appraisal mission to Guatemala in September 1979.






I. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A.   General
2
1.01      Guatemala covers an area of about 109,000 km , of which almost
one-half is mountainous terrain. It is the most populous country in Central
America with over 6.4 million inhabitants, mainly concentrated in the Central
and Western Highlands and in the Southern Region.
1.02      The Western Highlands (Western Altiplano) stretch from Mexico to
El Salvador, parallel to the Pacific Coast, to the west of Guatemala City.
High population density, slash-and-burn subsistence agriculture and the
terrain conditions have resulted in severe deforestation and erosion. To
the east of Guatemala City, extending to the Atlantic Coast, are the Eastern
Highlands (Eastern Altiplano) which, with their drier climate, support the
production of tropical fruits and the raising of livestock.
1.03      The Pacific Coastal Plain includes the slopes of the Altiplano,
which is the source of much of the country's coffee, sugarcane and cotton
production, and the plains, where rubber, bananas, tropical fruits and cattle
are produced.
1.04      North of the Altiplano lie the Northern Lowlands, including the
Peten and the northern slopes of the Altiplano. This potentially productive
region accounts for over 40% of the country's area but holds less than 1% of
the population; it has been the object of Government colonization programs.
1.05      The Guatemalan economy has grown at a fairly steady 5-7% per annum
for the past 20 years and, by 1977, registered a GNP per capita of US$790,
ranking third among Central American countries. From 1976 to 1977, Guatemala
experienced an economic boom during which real production grew by about 8%
annually because of extensive reconstruction activity following the earthquake
in early 1976 and a sharp rise in export earnings, primarily from coffee.
More recently, however, in 1978, the growth in economic activity had slowed
to about 5%, with lower growth prospects for the next three to five years.
1.06      Agriculture, as the predominant economic sector, absorbs 57% of
Guatemalan manpower and contributes 26% of GDP and 69% of exports. Thus, the
fortunes of the economy are highly dependent on the fluctuating world prices
for bananas, coffee, sugar and cotton and related imports. There has been,
however, an increasing diversification in the economy over the past decade
manifested by a substantial rise in exports of manufactured products, especially
to nearby Central American countries, and a significant income from tourism.
1.07      The traffic patterns of the country are largely determined by the
spatial distribution of population and economic activities. Bananas, the
largest export tonnage (288,000 tons in 1978), are produced mostly in the
northeastern corner of the country and are hauled a short distance of about:
50 km by rail to the Atlantic ports of Puerto Barrios and Santo Tomas.
Sugar, the second largest export tonnage (with 163,000 tons in 1978), is
moved all the way across the country, a distance of 350 km, from Escuintla on
the Pacific Coast slope by road or rail to the Atlantic ports. Wheat,



-2-
fertilizer and manufactured goods are imported mainly through the ports of
Santo Tomas and Puerto Barrios on the Atlantic and move overland to the major
population center of Guatemala City. Coffee (125,000 tons in 1978), which is
produced in many regions, is transported to the Atlantic ports as well as to
the lighter ports on the Pacific. Central American and Mexican trade is
carried mainly over the highway network connecting Guatemala City and the
Pacific Coastal Plains to the Mexican and Salvadoran borders.
B.   The Transport System
1.08      Guatemala is basically a "unimodal" country with an estimated
95% of all ton-km and almost all passenger-km being handled by roads. The
relatively small size of the country and the geographic concentration of the
developed regions lying within a day's drive from Guatemala City have con-
tributed to the predominance of highways in the country's transport system.
The network consists of 2,800 km of paved roads and 15,300 km of gravel and
earth roads. Other modes are either in a state of decline, such as the 785 km
of railways, or serve limited types of internal transport demand, such as the
two pipelines (San Jose-Escuintla and a small one in Puerto Barrios) and
domestic air service with 20 general aviation airstrips. International cargo
and passenger movements are served by four ports, two on the Atlantic and
two on the Pacific, and by the international airport in Guatemala City
(Map IBRD 14654).
(i) Highways
1.09      After approximately 20 years of a high level of road construction,
the basic road network of Guatemala connecting the developed regions of
the country is now in place. Emphasis in highway planning has shifted to
maintenance and rehabilitation to arrest the severe deterioration caused by
years of neglect. New extensions of the network would primarily consist of
penetration and feeder roads to provide access to vast undeveloped regions
with good agricultural potential, notably in the Peten. A more detailed
review of the highway subsector is presented in Chapter II.
(ii) Railways
1.10      The development of the basic road network triggered the decline of
rail transport, especially for cargo. The rail network consists of 785 km of
narrow gauge track, most of which is now paralleled by paved roads. A 600-km
mainline crosses the country from Tecun Uman on the Mexican border to Puerto
Barrios and the Port of Santo Tomas on the Atlantic Coast, passing by way of
Guatemala City, and an additional 185 km of branch lines connect the mainline
with the ports of Champerico and San Jose on the Pacific Coast and with the
Salvadoran border. Freight traffic has stagnated at about 650,000 tons
annually over the past 15 years with an average haul of 200 km. Following
a drop to 1.0 million passengers in 1969 when the ownership of the railroad
changed hands (para 1.11), traffic rose and has remained at about 1.7 million
passenger trips, equal to the level reached in 1964, with an average trip of
56 km.



- 3 -
1.11      Most of the network was constructed between 1877 and 1915 and was
operated by International Railways of Central America (IRCA), an American
firm which also operated Puerto Barrios and the port at San Jose. In 1968,
because of financial difficulties, the Government terminated IRCA's concession
and established Ferrocarriles de Guatemala (FEGUA) to operate the railroads
as a semi-autonomous enterprise. From 1970 to 1974, the Government acted to
reduce FEGUA's substantial deficit by cutting its redundant labor force by
over 40% through retirement and severance payments. The deficit fell, during
that time period, from US$3.3 million to US$1.6 million. Since then, however,
FEGUA has been unable to reduce this deficit further. Moreover, existing
tariffs bear little relation to costs.
1.12      The Central American Transport Study (ECAT, 1977) indicated that
future investment should be directed at rehabilitating the railroad section
between Guatemala City and Puerto Barrios (290 km), which could be viable if
maintained as a freight operation with all other operations abandoned.
A proposed bulk terminal at Puerto Barrios (para 1.15) for exporting sugar
and importing bulk food grains and fertilizer could justify the use of unit
trains from Escuintla and Guatemala City and add further support to the ECAT
conclusions. Other investments would include the replacement and reconstruc-
tion of rolling stock and the improvement of maintenance facilities. Before
such investments are being decided, however, the future role of the railroad
and the rationalization of the system should be assessed. The proposed
National Transportation Plan is expected, inter alia, to address this issue
(para 1.22).
(iii) Ports
1.13      Guatemalan ports handle more than 90% of the country's international
trade outside the Central American Common Market countries. Of the four
Guatemalan ports, the two on the Atlantic Coast - Puerto Barrios and Santo
Tomas - are currently the most significant. The port of Acajutla in El
Salvador also serves Guatemalan trade. Puerto Barrios was an IRCA operation
and had a finger pier with alongside-loading for bananas and other general
cargo. It was the major port of the country until Santo Tomas was built in
1959, a few kilometers around the bay. In 1976, the earthquake destroyed a
substantial portion of the Barrios pier, reducing annual traffic by 50% to
about 330,000 tons, consisting mostly of bananas and sugar. Santo Tomas is
now the principal port of the country, with six deepwater berths at its
marginal wharf and annual traffic of slightly over 1 million tons, consisting
mostly of sugar, coffee and banana exports and general cargo imports. The
Bank's Earthquake Reconstruction Project (Loan 1314-GU, July 1976, US$26.5
million), includes US$1.5 million for the rehabilitation of Puerto Barrios.
The project will strengthen the existing access bridge and transform it into
a two-berth platform. The Government is now initiating procedures to hire
a consultant to prepare detailed plans and to supervise construction, which
is scheduled to be completed in late 1981.



-4-
1.14      The ports of Champerico and San Jose on the Pacific are lighterage
ports with finger piers which were originally constructed and operated by IRCA.
Each of the ports handles between one and two hundred thousand tons annually,
with Champerico specializing in cotton exports and fertilizer imports. San
Jose, because of its proximity to Guatemala City, carries a larger flow of
general cargo imports.
1.15      In 1968, when FEGUA took over the railroad from IRCA, it also
inherited Puerto Barrios, which it still operates. San Jose is also owned
by FEGUA, but is operated under franchise by a private firm. Champerico, to
the north of San Jose, is now owned jointly by the national government, the
local government and an association of private coffee, cotton and sugar
producers. Santo Tomas is owned by the national government and managed by
a semi-autonomous port authority. Thus, the four ports are associated with
four different interest groups. Recently a private sector group (GRANELSA)
was given permission to construct and operate a new bulk terminal facility
adjacent to, but outside of, the Puerto Barrios site, adding yet another
interest group. There is general agreement on the need for a national port
authority to coordinate and centralize major investment decisions while
leaving day-to-day operations and maintenance to individual port managements;
however, Guatemala's strong commitment to private sector operations has
impeded the implementation of institutional reforms.
1.16      A major investment decision is pending concerning a new deepwater
port on the Pacific Coast. Because of limited traffic volumes and the high
cost of proposed solutions, the project has never advanced beyond the studies
which were conducted over the last 20 years. Also, until recently, existing
port infrastructure on the Atlantic and Pacific was considered sufficient.
The development of the Pacific Coastal Plain for sugar and cotton exports,
increasing trade with Japan and China and the proximity to Guatemala City have
revived interest in the project. The ECAT report indicated that the develop-
ment of a multi-purpose port at San Jose with special facilities to handle
containers and dry and liquid bulk cargo is feasible and that the port could
become the most important in the country. In 1979, a new executive agency
was established to oversee and to facilitate the preparation and implementa-
tion of the San Jose port project.
(iv) Air Transport
1.17      As a result of the geographic concentration of the developed
regions, there are very few scheduled internal flights in Guatemala. The
major demand for domestic air transport is to connect the Peten, with its
agricultural and tourist development potential, with the more populated
regions of the country. Much of the service is provided by light aircraft
using private landing strips and approximately 20 domestic airports operated
and maintained by the Government. The majority are dirt or grass strips that
cannot be used at night.



- 5 -
1.18      La Aurora International Airport at Guatemala City is an adequate
facility with a modern terminal. It serves as a major interchange for Pan
American services between North and South America and as the home base for
AVIATECA, the national airline.  While there is not yet serious congestion at
this airport, major expansion of capacity is not feasible, and studies are
being conducted for a new location.
C.   Transport Planning, Coordination and Financing
(i) Transport Planning and Coordination
1.19      There is no single agency in Guatemala with direct responsibility
for the management and/or regulation of the various transport services and
related infrastructure. Highway construction and maintenance and ground
transport services fall under the jurisdiction of six different ministries,
with the Ministry of Communications and Public Works playing the dominant
role. Railroad operations are managed by FEGUA, the ports by a mixture of
four public and private agencies, and aviation by the General Directorate of
Civil Aeronautics under the Ministry of Communications and Public Works.
1.20      The overall review and coordination of the investment plans of the
various agencies involved in transport are the responsibility of the National
Economic Planning Council (CONAPLAN). The office for infrastructure planning
within CONAPLAN includes staff assigned to the different transport modes
and represents the only Government agency with multi-modal planning capability.
CONAPLAN's effectiveness depends upon its ability to coordinate with the other
agencies when they develop their annual capital and operational budgets and
with the Ministry of Finance in reviewing the budget proposals. The current
administration's commitment to planning has enhanced CONAPLAN's efforts at
improved coordination.
1.21      The Government's sectoral planning efforts have been concentrated
on the preparation of the National Development Plan (1979-1982) by CONAPLAN
after consultation with other agencies. The plan establishes the capital
investment projects to be carried out over a four-year period which corresponds
to the President's term of office. For the current plan, a goal in the form
of a fixed amount of capital was established for each sector of the economy
for the four-year period, and projects were selected within that amount.
Projected investment levels for the transport sector and the distribution
among modal subsectors appear to be reasonable, and the selected projects are
in line with established development priorities, although CONAPLAN does not
systematically apply economic criteria for project selection. The Highway
Maintenance Project is a major component of highway investment plans.
1.22      CONAPLAN is currently preparing terms of reference for a National
Transportation Plan which would provide more direction in the selection of
projects for the National Development Plan and would assess the institutional
and policy changes required to improve transport services. Upon the Govern-
ment's request, Bank staff reviewed the initial draft of the Terms of Reference
and offered comments. The National Transportation Plan is expected to focus
mainly on roads. It would reassess the regional recommendations of the



- 6 -
ECAT report within the context of domestic and regional transport needs. It
would also consider secondary and feeder roads, in particular, institutional
responsibilities and criteria for classification. The study would identify
rehabilitation and reconstruction projects as well as new construction and
upgrading needs. Furthermore, the study would treat the port system, the
rationalization of the railroad, the coordination of transport-related
institutions and user charges for transport infrastructure. The need for such
a transportation plan in Guatemala is clear, and it is important that the Bank
continue its close collaboration with CONAPLAN during the plan's preparation.
Financing has been offered by the Canadian International Development Agency
(CIDA), and the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) is foreseen as executing
agency. During negotiations, the Government confirmed that it would exchange
views with the Bank, at appropriate times, on the transport planning studies
undertaken by the Government: (i) to provide guidelines for the selection of
transportation projects; and (ii) to assess the institutional and policy
changes to strengthen the transport sector and improve transport services,
in each case with special attention to the parts of such studies relating
to road rehabilitation and strengthening.
(ii) Transport Financing
1.23      Public investment in transportation infrastructure is large, but
has declined steadily from 40% of the total investment budget in 1968 to 11%
in 1978, chiefly because of the large hydroelectric project in the power
sector (22% to 37% over the same period) and the increase in social sector
expenditures. The National Development Plan for 1979 to 1982 maintains
transport's share of investment, and the overall spending levels are reasonable,
rising from US$50 million in 1979 to US$67 million in 1982. Much of this
funding is expected to come from foreign sources, reaching about 49% of the
annual transport investment by 1982 as compared with 39% in 1978.
1.24      Within the transport sector for the period 1971-1975, roads have
accounted for an estimated 85% of capital expenditures, with 7% for rail,
4% for ports and 4% for aviation. The 1979-1982 National Development Plan
calls for the road share to drop to 81%, with an increase of the port share
to 8%. An increase (in percentage points within total transport investments)
of 4% was projected for aviation and a 4% decline for rail.
D.   Past Bank Assistance to the Transport Sector
1.25      The Bank has made two loans to Guatemala which included funding
for the transport sector. The only loan for the highway subsector was to
assist in completing the construction of 435 km of the main trunk highway
system and in executing a three-year maintenance program, including the
reorganization of the Maintenance Division, the establishment of Maintenance
Zones and the purchase of equipment (Loan 124-GU, 1955, US$18.2 million). The
construction components of the loan were completed by the end of 1960, over
two years after the originally planned completion date, and the maintenance
component, which included the improvement of facilities and institutional
reorganization, was satisfactorily completed in 1964, suffering many delays



- 7 -
due to political changes. The total project cost increased from US$40.5
million during appraisal to US$62.0 million because of the delays and also
because of the underestimation of quantities. The extensive network of
maintenance facilities and the delineation of zones represent a lasting
accomplishment of that early project. The proposed project would be the
Bank's first involvement in the highway subsector after a hiatus of more than
15 years, during which time IDB, the Central American Bank for Economic
Integration (CABEI) and the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID)
contributed substantially to road financing. The most recent loan related to
the transport sector was the Earthquake Reconstruction Loan, with a port
reconstruction component (para 1.13).
II. THE HIGHWAY SUBSECTOR
A.   The Highway Network
2.01      Guatemala's highway network consists of some 18,100 km of roads
which mainly serve the developed areas of the country. While the total
length of the network has not been significantly increased since 1967, the
paved network was extended by about 5% annually, reaching a total of 2,800 km
in 1979 (Table 2.1). The average highway density for paved roads is 25.4 km
per 1,000 km2 of area, slightly below the density for paved roads in Mexico
(Table 2.2). The major populated areas of the country, however, have much
higher than average road densities, and the basic network for these areas is
considered to be in place, with maintenance and rehabilitation needs taking on
increasing importance.
2.02      The construction and maintenance of the road network fall under the
jurisdiction of five Government agencies, with the General Directorate for
Roads (DGC) under the Ministry of Communications and Public Works playing the
dominant role. Road-related agencies include:
(a) DGC, with responsibility for the construction and maintenance
of 10,400 km of road, including all of the paved network
and about 50% of the unpaved network; 1/
(b) National Association for the Economic Development of the
Peten (FYDEP), with responsibility for the construction and
maintenance of 785 km of roads in the Peten;
(c) National Institute for Agrarian Transformation (INTA), with
responsibility for the construction and maintenance of about
4,000 km of penetration and feeder roads related to Government
agricultural development programs;
(d) Army Corps of Engineers, with responsibility for the con-
struction of specially designated projects of military
and developmental significance; and
1/   Excluding private roads.



(e) Directorate for Community Development, with responsibility
for the construction of local community roads.
In addition, there are 3,000 km of private roads.
2.03      The road network has not been formally classified.  DGC maintains its
own classification system, which is to be reviewed based on traffic counts and
the new road inventory being conducted by DGC (para 2.24). In addition, it is
envisaged that criteria for the classification of non-DGC roads would be devel-
oped under the proposed National Transportation Plan (para 1.22). During
negotiations, the Government confirmed that DGC would review the road classi-
fication system for the DGC network by January 1, 1982.
2.04      The DGC network is defined in the "Guia Kilometrica," which is
updated periodically by the Statistics Section of the DGC Engineering
Department. The basic road system follows three main corridors:
(a) the inter-oceanic highway (CA-9), which connects the
Atlantic ports with Guatemala City and the port of
San Jose on the Pacific, while crossing the other two
corridors;
(b) the Pacific Highway (CA-2), which runs parallel to the
Pan-American Highway and is located along the Pacific
Coastal plain between the Mexican and Salvadoran borders;
and
(c) the Pan-American Highway (CA-1), which crosses Guatemala
from the northwest to the southeast through the highlands
between the Mexican and Salvadoran borders.
Other highways connect these corridors and the principal cities and villages
of Guatemala.
2.05      Information on road conditions is available only for the DGC net-
work. A survey of that network was conducted by DGC in 1979, based on the
visual judgment of technicians in the Maintenance Division. The results
underscore the importance of improving maintenance operations in the country
(Table 2.3). According to the inventory, about 64% of the network is in
poor to fair condition. Paved roads, which carry most of the traffic, receive
better maintenance than other classes of roads to the extent that 70% of the
paved network was classified as being in good condition compared with 35%
for gravel roads and 5% for earth roads.
2.06      The current national highway investment policy is outlined in the
National Development Plan and focuses on the following:
(a) reconstructing and rehabilitating existing roads;
(b) improving highway maintenance operations;
(c) increasing the feeder roads network; and
(d) upgrading existing gravel roads with sufficient traffic.



- 9 -
The emphasis on improving (about 42% of highway capital investment budget)
rather than extending the existing trunk network is illustrated by the amount
of reconstruction and rehabilitation work, some 340 km of paved roads (12.5%
of the paved network), planned for the period 1979 to 1982. Extensions to the
network will consist mainly of penetration and feeder roads, especially along
the Franja Transversal del Norte, to support the Government's agricultural
settlement plans.
B.   Characteristics and Growth of Road Traffic
2.07      Considerable increases in the vehicle fleet and traffic have con-
tributed to the need for concentrating future investment on maintenance,
rehabilitation and reconstruction. From 1966 to 1977, the vehicle fleet grew
at an annual average rate of 10.5%, rising from approximately 49,400 to
148,200 vehicles (Table 2.4). A more detailed review of vehicle import
statistics reveals that a substantial rise in imported vehicles has occurred
over the past five years. From 1973 to 1977, the number of imported vehicles
increased at an average annual rate of 32%. The resultant density in vehicle
ownership, 23.7 vehicles per 1,000 inhabitants, is in line with the per capita
GNP of Guatemala (Table 2.2), which is similar to that of Colombia and Ecuador
while being significantly lower than that of Costa Rica, Mexico and Panama.
2.08      Between 1972 and 1977, traffic along major segments of the paved
network increased at an annual rate of from 8 to 12%, according to statistics
gathered at DGC's five permanent traffic count stations which provide data
on historical trends (Table 2.5). The most heavily traveled route is the
Escuintla-Guatemala City corridor (CA-9 South) with an annual average daily
traffic (AADT) of 7,900 vehicles in 1977. For the remainder of the network,
DGC maintains an additional 174 limited count stations, adequately covering
the paved and gravel network. AADT on the network ranges from 1,400 vehicles
on paved roads to 90 vehicles on gravel and 20 vehicles on earth roads.
2.09      The classification of vehicles at the permanent count stations
(Table 2.6), which is representative of the main road network, shows that
light vehicles comprise from 55 to 76% of the traffic while trucks comprise
from 16 to 35% and buses from 7 to 14%. Historically, heavy trucks and
single unit trucks have declined as a proportion of total traffic because
of the faster growth in auto traffic and the increasing payload of trucks.
2.10      There are insufficient data to assess the effect of fuel price
changes on the transport sector in Guatemala. The price history for fuel
is presented in Table 2.7 and shows the dramatic increase in fuel prices
in 1979. Regular gasoline rose from US$0.97 per gallon in January 1979
to US$1.51 by September 1979, an increase of 56%. Even diesel fuel prices,
which had remained relatively stable prior to 1979 to protect public
transport, were increased from US$0.59 to US$0.87 during 1979, an increase
of 47%. The policy of promoting a cross-subsidization between gasoline
and diesel fuel in order to minimize diesel price increases is typical
in Central America and has not led to any significant distortions in the
transport industry. Almost all light vehicles and 40% of the bus fleet
use gasoline, while the remainder use diesel.



- 10 -
C.   The Road Transport Industry
(i) Cargo Transport
2.11      Guatemala's road transport industry for freight hauling is well
developed compared with that of the other Central American countries. As
in other parts of Central America, there are numerous individual owner
operators with single or tandem rear axle trucks mainly serving the agricul-
tural sector. The level of service by these operators is considered adequate
except in outlying regions, especially the Peten, where inadequate infrastruc-
ture hinders transport. In addition, there are large Guatemalan trucking
firms (some with over 100 vehicles per firm) which provide high quality
service along the main traffic corridors, effectively competing in interna-
tional cargo transport within the Central American region. Only in the case
of international roll-on/roll-off traffic have the Guatemalan truckers been
unable to compete. This service is controlled by two large Miami-based
transport firms whose network of regional offices and terminals and overall
organization allow them to provide intermodal through-services.
2.12      The development of the truck fleet has followed a logical pattern
which corresponds with the development of the highway network and the types
of commodities to be carried. The most common truck types are the single and
tandem rear axle units with an average net capacity of 10 tons; they account
for 65% of loaded trucks counted on intercity runs. Traffic counts at the
border reveal that, in international trucking, the larger tractor-semitrailer
type vehicles are predominant, accounting for 55% of the number of loaded
trucks. Truck load factors in Guatemala for both single unit and articulated
vehicles are among the highest in Central America, averaging 97% per loaded
trip on the paved network. Taking empty backhauls into account, the average
load factor is 61% for single unit trucks and 51% for articulated trucks.
Trucks along the unpaved network reportedly register lower load factors per
trip.
2.13      With the exception of general licensing by the General Directorate
of Transport (DGT) in the Ministry of the Economy, the trucking industry
operates with no effective entry or capacity controls. Intense competition
has arisen, driving rates down to the point where inefficient and marginal
operators are in a continuously precarious financial state. Although the
number of bankruptcies is not known, a survey showed that about 50% of the
transport companies have operated for two years or less, while only 5% have
been in operation for over 10 years. This situation is caused by a combination
of the relative youth of the industry and a high turnover rate for operators.
Another contributing factor to the instability of transport firms is the high
cost of operation, which results from riding over poorly maintained roads.
The fluid entry and exit of firms in trucking is normal and healthy for a
developing industry and should not be restricted unreasonably through regulation.
Planned improvements of road maintenance and expansion of feeder roads would
reduce transport costs and increase service to outlying regions.



- 11 -
2.14      The Government of Guatemala, through DGC, has revised its regulations
for the control of truck weights and dimensions. The regulations established
in January 1978 are adequate and broadly consistent with the limits imposed
by other Central American nations. The new regulations provided for immediate
implementation of limits on gross weight and dimensions, while individual axle
limits were to be enforced one year later. Weight limits for single unit
trucks with single or tandem rear axles were to be phased (Table 2.8).
Initially, the maximum permitted load on a rear axle is 10 tons for a single
axle and 16.5 tons for a tandem axle.  By 1980, each of these limits will be
lowered by one ton.  The limit for the front axle is 5.5 tons initially and
then will be lowered to 5 tons. The lower limits are applicable to tractor-
trailer combinations without any phased enforcement.  The results of the
first year, compiled by the five weighing stations (which do not operate at
night), are shown in Table 2.9 and reveal that the main violators are trucks
with a single rear axle (C-2). Of the C-2 vehicles weighed, 47% were over-
loaded. However, most of these (97%) were less than 15% overloaded, while
the remaining 3% were between 16 and 35% above the allowable limits. The
enforcement of single axle limits had just begun in 1979 and data are not yet
available. During negotiations, the Government confirmed that (i) it would
pursue the enforcement of vehicle dimension and axle load regulations, includ-
ing night checks at key control stations; and (ii) DGC would continue to
monitor data concerning the enforcement of such regulations and exchange
views annually with the Bank on the results.
(ii) Passenger Transport
2.15      Passenger transport is subject to substantial economic regulation
as compared with the trucking industry. DGT controls entry, capacity and
service characteristics through the licensing of bus operators and the
setting of fares and routes for intercity and rural service. There is very
little detailed information on the economic viability of bus operations. Bus
fares of US$0.01 per pass-km on paved roads and US$0.02 on gravel roads are
low in comparison with those of neighboring Honduras, where average fares are
25-50% higher for intercity and rural passenger service. As a result, the
level of service for bus transport, with the exception of good schedule fre-
quencies, has declined, with poor vehicle conditions and high bus occupancy
factors, the second highest in Central America, averaging 64%.
D.   Highway Administration and Staffing
2.16      The division of responsibility among Government agencies for the
construction of the nation's roads (para 2.02) has proved to be effective,
although coordination for the planning of projects has been lacking (para 2.23).
For conducting road maintenance activities, the present administrative arrange-
ments (Table 2.10) have been largely ineffective. DGC is the only agency
having road construction and maintenance as its primary tasks, while the ot'her
agencies are directed more toward other aspects of agricultural or regional
development. Officials in CONAPLAN and DGC are discussing the possibility of
putting DGC in charge of maintaining the entire road network, with the excep-
tion of private roads. In the long run, this would be a logical step. To
increase DGC's network within the next few years, however, would be counter-
productive to the current effort to improve DGC's maintenance of the basic



- 12 -
highway network because of limited human, physical and financial resources.
Once the changes included in the proposed project are realized, DGC would be
better able to handle effectively the added responsibilities of the feeder
network and the Peten. During negotiations, the Government confirmed that it
would, by May 31, 1982, with the assistance of consultants provided under the
project, review the feasibility of bringing other roads of economic and social
significance under continuing maintenance by DGC and would assess the
technical, financial and administrative implications of so extending DGC's
maintenance responsibilities.
2.17       The organization of DGC (Chart 21219) is divided mainly among three
divisions: the Technical Division in charge of construction-related activities;
the Maintenance Division; and the Administrative and Financial Division, which
includes the control of equipment and stores among its responsibilities. Other
service units of DGC include the Vehicle Size and Weight Section, in charge of
the weighing stations, and the Planning Unit. This organizational structure
is adequate, but more coordination is required.
2.18       In 1977, the staff of DGC numbered 9,800 persons (Table 2.11),
of whom about 84% were assigned to the Maintenance Division. Except in the
case of maintenance, the DGC staff includes a sufficient number of adequately
trained engineers and technicians. The shortage of professional staff for
road maintenance is discussed in paragraph 3.09.
E.   Road User Charges and Highway Financing
(i) Road User Charges
2.19       From 1973 to 1978, taxes specific to road users rose from US$25
million to approximately US$53 million (Table 2.12). This increase can be
compared with the one in expenditures over the same period by DGC from
US$22 million to US$40 million for road construction, maintenance and admin-
istration (Table 2.13). Revenues are sufficient to cover the costs of roads
constructed by other agencies as well. Road user taxes are considered effi-
cient and equitable revenue raisers (8% of current Government receipts) and
are not directly related to public expenditures for roads; neither is there a
special fund for roads with earmarked taxes. Fuel taxes, especially gasoline,
are the largest single source (45%); vehicle import taxes (40%) and registra-
tion fees (14%) are assuming increasing importance.
2.20       Most of these taxes are progressive in the sense that they are
structured to have their primary impact on automobile owners, the most affluent
population. The taxes are not, however, directly related to the costs which
each user imposes on the road system. Thus, the gasoline tax is US$0.20 per
gallon while that on diesel fuel is US$0.05 per gallon. Import duties on
commercial vehicles vary between 10 and 22% of the CIF price while those for
automobiles vary between 40 and 100%, the higher rate for the more costly
automobiles. Similarly, for annual registration fees, the rate for buses
varies between US$35 and US$118 depending on the capacity; that for trucks
varies from US$238 for a one-ton vehicle to US$478 for a 48-ton vehicle. For
automobiles, the registration fee is a function of age and displacement,
ranging from US$40 to US$400 per vehicle. The National Transport Plan would
review user charges.



- 13 -
(ii) Financing
2.21      Although the DGC investment and operational budgets have been
increased annually by an average 8% since 1965, in real terms the 1978 budget
was below that of 1965, with a substantial reduction in real expenditures for
maintenance and administration (Table 2.13). The projected annual DGC
investment budget, including the proposed Bank project for maintenance,
represents a substantial increase in investment expenditures, rising from
US$25.7 million in 1978 to US$40.5 million in 1982, or 85% of the total
national investment budget for roads.
2.22      The dominant sources for external financing of road development in
Guatemala have been IDB and CABEI; both are involved in the reconstruction and
rehabilitation of the paved network as well as upgrading projects. IDB and
USAID have also participated in the feeder roads program, both working with
INTA along the Franja Transversal, in addition to USAID's financing of DGC's
efforts at labor-intensive road construction for 280 km in the Altiplano.
USAID and IDB have provided financing for equipment purchases for the DGC
Maintenance Division, the most recent action being a grant by USAID in 1977
(para 3.14).
F.   Highway Planning and Engineering
2.23      Each Government agency involved in highway construction has its own
planning unit. There is no direct coordination among the various agencies,
which is a significant drawback, especially for the planned development of
feeder roads and the programing of road maintenance requirements. The
weaknesses in coordination and planning have been most pronounced in the
development of feeder roads. The DGC feeder roads program is more directed
at connecting existing settlements, especially in the Altiplano, to the main
paved network.  INTA has built extensive feeder road networks along the
southern coast related to the agricultural development plans of the Pacific
Coastal Plain.  Presently, INTA is in charge of constructing feeder roads
(3 m widths) for the agricultural settlement plans along the Franja Trans-
versal.  Planning efforts at INTA have been disorganized, and it is difficult
to ascertain exactly what roads have been, or will be, built. The recent
hiring of experienced planning personnel from the Planning Unit of DGC and
from CONAPLAN should solve some of the organizational problems. In addition,
the proposed National Transportation Plan (para 1.22) is expected to address
the problems of inter-agency coordination.
2.24      DGC has established a Planning Unit with a broader range of responsi-
bilities than that of the other agencies. The Unit has a professional and
technical staff of eight, as well as four administrative and service employees.
Its main functions include overseeing of the physical and financial progress
of ongoing projects; identification of projects and preparation of feasibiLity
studies; and compilation of road statistics such as traffic counts (para 2.08)
and updating of the 1969 road inventory showing the physical characteristics
of the network but excluding references to road condition. It has never
prepared a comprehensive road maintenance or rehabilitation plan. The staff
is limited in number and training, with competition from other agencies and
the private sector drawing away the seasoned professionals. Planning is
approached on a project-by-project basis rather than a sectoral perspective.



- 14 -
Standard vehicle operating cost analyses are used for feasibility studies
which are adequate for the evaluation of traditional projects on the primary
system but are often inappropriate for the complex studies required by secondary
and feeder roads development. There is a critical need for hiring an interna-
tional adviser in transport economics to provide technical assistance to the
Planning Unit (para 4.17).
2.25      All design studies as well as the supervision of construction for
about 70 to 80% of new roads are performed by DGC. Consultants are used only
for very specialized designs or for supervision of important construction
projects, generally financed by foreign agencies. DGC has had good experience
in the design and supervision of roads and has the capacity to deal with
investments similar to those executed in the past. There are six classes
of roads based on traffic volume, with design standards varying according to
the topography. These standards establish minimum geometrical specifications
and are adequate for the variety of terrains encountered in the country.
Pavement design thickness is determined according to U.S. Asphalt Institute
criteria, adapted to the circumstances.
G.   Highway Construction
2.26      Although, in the past, significant sections of the Pan American
Highway were built by foreign contractors, most of the highway construction
is done by local contractors. The most recent data (June 1979) collected
by DGC in the prequalification of contractors show that 27 domestic firms
with a total annual capacity (including building construction) of about
US$60 million are prequalified, together with 27 foreign firms with a total
annual capacity of over US$250 million. In addition to this potential,
the Guatemalan Army Corps of Engineers, along with DGC, carries out, by
force account, the construction, improvement and upgrading of earth and
gravel roads. In general, the existing laws and regulations for the
contracting of public works are simple and coherent and follow international
practices.
2.27      DGC is presently conducting a pilot program financed by USAID
for employing labor-intensive techniques in the construction of feeder roads
(3 m widths) using under-employed rural labor. The project, which was origin-
ally scheduled for completion in 1980, suffered administrative delays and is
now scheduled for completion in 1982. By the end of 1979, the first year of
implementation, 40 of the planned 280 km had been constructed. Although
road maintenance is not included under the project, it is expected that the
results will provide important information to DGC for properly organizing and
utilizing labor in the maintenance of unpaved roads (para 3.08).



- 15 -
III. HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE
A. Maintenance Administration and Organization
3.01      The responsibility for maintaining Guatemala's highway network is
divided among three agencies: DGC, INTA and FYDEP. DGC is the only one
of these agencies which has an established maintenance organization and
facilities, and it has responsibility for the main road network (para 2.02).
The other agencies are expected to maintain the feeder road network and the
roads of the Peten under their jurisdiction but lack an institutional frame-
work for maintenance activities. The prospect of expanding DGC's maintenance
responsibilities would be studied under the project (para 2.16).
3.02      Within DGC, there is an institutional dispersion of operational
divisions and special sections related to road maintenance activities: the
Maintenance Division, with responsibility for the overall planning and executLon
of maintenance activities; the Administrative and Finance Division, which is in
charge of procurement and manages the central workshop for major equipment
repairs and the central stores for spare parts; the Technical Division, with
the services of its Specifications and Laboratory Sections; and the Planning
Unit and Vehicle Size and Weight Section. Although these divisions and sections
work together effectively in the case of construction projects, there has been
a serious lack of coordination concerning maintenance activities, inhibiting
comprehensive planning efforts by the Maintenance Division. A technical
assistance program is required which would place the members of a consultant
team in the various divisions to develop each division's skills as they relate
to road maintenance and to promote better coordination (para 4.17).
3.03      The Maintenance Division conducts its activities through eight
geographical maintenance zones (IBRD Map 14654) and two centrally controlled
sections for specialized services (Chart 1). This organizational framework
was developed through the maintenance component of the Bank's first highway
project in 1955 (para 1.25) and seems adequate for present day needs. Each
zone has its own workshops and stores and receives an annual budget for
labor, road maintenance materials and equipment repair. The zones are managecd
by eight zone chiefs and are further subdivided into from five to ten districts
each, depending on the region's size and configuration, with a road supervisor
for groups of districts and a foreman within each district. Specialized
services are provided from headquarters through the Pavement Section with an
asphalt group to provide road materials and two mobile groups to carry out
asphaltic overlays, all by force account.
B.   Maintenance Planning and Operation
3.04      So far, DGC has not attempted to plan road maintenance activities
systematically. Within their overall budget allocation for maintenance, DGC
zones and the specialized sections carry out a broad mixture of minor improve-
ments, rehabilitation and reconstruction, some routine and periodic mainte-
nance and emergency repairs. In view of the lack of a monitoring system for
various types of activities, it is not possible to assess the treatment given
to specific sections and to estimate the cost for the various maintenance
activities. All routine tasks and the periodic maintenance of unpaved roads



- 16 -
(grading and regraveling) are handled by the local districts. Periodic
maintenance and asphaltic overlays for paved roads are handled by the
mobile groups as they move from zone to zone. Since DGC has already estab-
lished a work force and facilities to handle overlays by force account,
contracting out of this task in the near future has not been considered.
To provide more detailed information for future maintenance planning and
programing, the Government, during negotiations, confirmed that DGC would
introduce, starting in 1981, budgeting and accounting procedures which differ-
entiate routine from periodic maintenance activities and maintenance activities
as a whole from other works of the Maintenance Division. The Government also
confirmed that DGC would introduce, by January 31, 1981, a monitoring and
control system to evaluate work carried out and related expenditures. Technical
assistance, including the services of a maintenance engineer, a mechanical
engineer, and a transport economist, would be required to help design and
establish these procedures (para 4.17).
3.05      One serious obstacle to maintenance planning is that the programing
of activities is left to the zone chief except for the periodic maintenance
of paved roads. In addition to having limited technical expertise (para 3.10),
the zone chief must contend with the conflicts of a restrictive budget
(para 3.13) and substantial pressures from landowners and town authorities
for local projects, all of which hinder the implementation of an effective
maintenance schedule. To improve the programing and implementation of
maintenance activities, especially for periodic maintenance, the planning
and supervisory responsibilities of the Division headquarters would have to
be expanded. This expansion would require increasing the professional staff
at Division headquarters (para 3.09) and providing adequate training. With
each engineer responsible for two maintenance zones, the central headquarters
would be better able to monitor and supervise field operations. Budgetary
control by headquarters would ensure cooperation at the zone level.
3.06      Another obstacle to effective planning is the lack of detailed infor-
mation on road conditions. A permanent survey of road conditions with rough-
ness measurements and deflection tests should be instituted through the organi-
zation of a road diagnostic unit. It would provide data for preparing work
programs for the maintenance zones and specialized sections and would help to
identify and analyze rehabilitation and upgrading needs. Technical assistance,
including the services of a maintenance engineer, a soils and pavement engineer
and a transport economist, would be required to design the survey and to train
the DGC personnel of the diagnostic unit in analyzing the results (para 4.17).
Also, equipment for measuring roughness and deflection would have to be pur-
chased (para 4.16). During negotiations, the Government confirmed that, by
March 1, 1981, DGC would organize a road diagnostic unit to carry out and main-
tain, on a continuing basis, a survey on the condition of roads within the DGC
network.
3.07      A number of roads have deteriorated to a point where they would need
rehabilitation before being amenable to normal maintenance. The Government
has already planned and arranged financing for a substantial number of the most
urgent strengthening, rehabilitation and reconstruction projects totaling 340 km
over the period 1979 to 1982, which can be considered as Phase I of the DGC
rehabilitation and reconstruction program (para 2.06). The ECAT study and the
background documents for the National Development Plan suggest that the total
kilometrage of roads in need of strengthening, rehabilitation and reconstruc-
tion before 1985, about 23% of the paved network, roughly corresponds to the



- 17 -
proportion of the paved network estimated to be in fair or poor condition in
the 1979 DGC survey (para 2.05). The planning of rehabilitation and strengthen-
ing works beyond 1982 would require the coordinated efforts of DGC's Planning
Unit and the Technical and Maintenance Divisions. With the help of a technical
assistance team, a methodology should be developed and implemented for collect-
ing the necessary data and conducting preliminary engineering and economic
analyses for a road rehabilitation and strengthening program covering the
period 1983 to 1986, constituting Phase II of the DGC rehabilitation and
reconstruction program. These efforts should be coordinated with the prepara--
tion of the proposed National Transportation Plan (para 1.22). During negotia-
tions, the Government confirmed that DGC would identify and prepare a four-year
rehabilitation and strengthening program for 1983 to 1986 in accordance with
the following schedule: identification of rehabilitation, strengthening and
upgrading needs by January 31, 1982; and preliminary engineering and economic
studies for proposed rehabilitation and strengthening projects by May 31, 1982,
after which the Government would exchange views with the Bank on the contents
of the program. The Government would then proceed, within the following eight
months, to conduct final engineering for the first and second year programs
for road rehabilitation and strengthening.
C.   Maintenance Staffing and Training
3.08      In 1979, the Maintenance Division staff totaled 8,400, most of whom
are assigned to the maintenance zones (Table 3.1). This figure represents a
ratio of one person per 1.2 km of road to be maintained, which is high compared
with a ratio of 1:4 in Brazil and 1:6 in Panama. Because of the redundance of
unskilled labor and the rugged terrain, which limits road geometry, DGC has
attempted to implement labor-intensive methods for routine maintenance tasks.
Although the work gangs are properly organized, there is a critical problem of
inappropriate equipment and a lack of hand tools which hinders the productivity
of these efforts. Technical assistance is needed to review and improve these
maintenance practices (para 4.17). Equipment such as tractors and trailers
and tools such as picks, shovels and wheelbarrows should be purchased
(paras 4.11 and 4.15). Further improvements in labor-intensive methods would
not require additional manpower; thus, the Government, during negotiations,
confirmed that DGC would restrict, during the project period, the number of
permanent unskilled laborers in the Maintenance Division, at or below the
level existing on December 31, 1979, except on a temporary basis with relation
to possible emergencies.
3.09      With only two engineers (Division Chief and an assistant) to manage
a staff of 8,400, there is a serious shortage of experienced professionals
in the Division. The engineers are fully absorbed by day-to-day tasks
and cannot devote their ability to medium and long range planning. With
the shifting of programing responsibilities to Division headquarters, as
suggested in paragraph 3.05, additional engineers would be required. Although
DGC is currently attempting to add professional staff to the Division, it has
not been able to do so because the salaries offered under the Government's
scale are inadequate. In the meantime, DGC can hire engineers by contract as
advisers, outside the civil service salary schedule, and/or reassign personnel
within DGC. During negotiations, the Government confirmed that DGC would
increase the Maintenance Division's professional staff to include four



- 18 -
additional suitably qualified engineers and that, by January 1, 1981, four
technicians would be added to the Maintenance Division staff. A condition
for effectiveness of the loan is that DGC has added the four engineers to the
Maintenance Division.
3.10      There is a need for training and upgrading of personnel at all levels
of the maintenance organization, both in the field and at headquarters. At the
professional staff level, an upgrading program is needed to broaden management's
perceptions of road maintenance. In the zones, the chiefs are not engineers and
have limited technical backgrounds which need strengthening. Furthermore, train-
ing and upgrading would be required for road foremen, equipment operators and
mechanics. Since DGC does not have a training organization capable of imple-
menting training on a formal and systematic basis, it would be necessary
to provide technical assistance for the establishment of a permanent training
section and the preparation and initial implementation of a long-term training
program. The technical assistance would include the services of a training
specialist and a group of local consultants as instructors (para 4.17). The
project would provide equipment, facilities and scholarships for courses abroad
(para 4.19).
D.   Maintenance Financing
3.11      From 1965 to 1979, total annual budget allocations for the Maintenance
Division rose from US$5.1 million to US$10.3 million (Table 2.13). These allo-
cations represent from 25 to 30% of the DGC total budget and are used for various
types of activities carried out by the Maintenance Division, including highway
maintenance, reconstruction, rehabilitation, minor improvements and waterway
maintenance. According to the budget allocation for 1979, approximately 65% of
the Division's US$10.3 million is assigned to highway maintenance, resulting in
a low average expenditure of US$650 per km of the DGC network and representing
about 0.7% of the replacement cost of the total network.
3.12      Although, in current dollar terms, the Division budget has doubled over
the 15-year period, the results are reversed if inflation is taken into account.
In real terms, the Division's budget (in constant 1950 dollars) actually declined
from US$5.1 million to US$2.7 million over the past 15 years. Considering the
increased maintenance requirements of an expanded and upgraded road network
and the rapid growth of traffic (about 10% annually), the level of maintenance
effort has declined even further than the budget figures show.
3.13      As the Division budget shrank in real terms, the distribution of
the budget among cost components became critically imbalanced. As shown in
Table 3.2, salaries absorb 66% of the total 1979 budget while fuel and asphalt
account for 15% and 5% respectively. Thus, since the budget has not been
raised enough to meet price increases for fuel, materials and other supplies,
and since the personnel budget cannot be reduced because of social-political
considerations, laborers are left without tools (para 3.08), equipment remains
idle for lack of spare parts (para 3.16) and reduced fuel quotas (para 3.18),
and work crews face a shortage of maintenance materials. The proposed program
would require an increase in the recurrent budget of at least 15% annually in
real terms from 1980 to 1985, rising from US$6.7 million to US$13.5 million
(in March 1979 values). Much of the increase would have to be applied to
fuel, materials, and other supplies rather than labor (para 4.08).
3.14      DGC has so far not developed systematic procedures for equipment
renewal. In the past, the Government has relied on intermittent external
financing to meet equipment needs (para 2.22). The latest equipment purchase



- 19 -
was made under a grant from USAID in 1977 for emergency maintenance operations
following the earthquake. The grant included US$2 million for the purchase of
59 new and used pieces of equipment and US$0.9 million for major repair and
normal servicing of existing DGC units. Many of the units have fallen into
disrepair after project completion.
E.   Equipment and Facilities
3.15      The age and imbalance of the DGC fleet have significantly hindered
maintenance operations. The total DGC fleet consists of 1,200 units with an
average age of 13 years, of which 200 units are either obsolete and/or beyond
economic repair (Table 3.3). Although it is difficult to clearly identify
the workload of the fleet by type of activity in order to determine the number
of units used for maintenance, a review of the fleet inventory showed that
about 75% of the operating and salvageable units are suitable for maintenance
while the rest are more suitable for construction. As the age of the fleet
indicates, many units are in poor condition. In addition, there is a shortage
of vehicles such as agricultural tractors and trailers which could enhance
labor-intensive routine maintenance operations, and certain heavier items,
including crusher and asphalt plants, are needed. DGC would have to replace
obsolete or uneconomic units, to purchase additional units to balance the
fleet, and to purchase spare parts for overhauling economically salvageable
units (paras 4.11 and 4.12). Technical assistance (a maintenance engineer and
a mechanical engineer) would be required to review the needs and to help
prepare the bidding documents (para 4.17) as well as to monitor the use of
the equipment (para 4.28).
3.16      The availability of DGC equipment, measured as the percentage of
annual working days (220 days) when the equipment is in working order, is
extremely low. Field observations showed that average availability is currently
at about 40%. The main causes for the low availability are the age of the
fleet, inadequate preventive maintenance practices and a severe shortage of
spare parts. Vehicles lie idle for lack of a minor part. Technical assistance
(a mechanical engineer) is needed to help institute preventive maintenance
practices for equipment (para 4.18). Also, the basic stock of spare parts for
maintenance equipment must be replenished and workshop tools acquired
(paras 4.13 and 4.14). In contrast, DGC's facilities for equipment maintenance
are extensive with (i) a central workshop in Guatemala City, complete with
machine shop, foundry and a blacksmith shop, capable of handling major over-
hauls of heavy vehicles; (ii) well laid-out workshops situated in each zone;
and (iii) facilities in the districts for minor repairs carried out by the
vehicle operators. Many of these facilities were established under the Bank's
first highway loan (para 1.25).
3.17      The purchase of substantial amounts of spare parts would require
the review of storage practices in DGC. The main stores in Guatemala City
have adequate space, as do the stores in each of the zones. The inventory
control system is reasonable, and stock cards generally agree with the stock.
Some improvements are necessary. No consideration is given to systematically
determining the stock of fast-moving spare parts required by each maintenance
zone, which could jeopardize the proper distribution of new supplies. Tech-
nical assistance by a store specialist and a mechanical engineer would be



- 20 -
required to improve the system (para 4.17). During negotiations, the Gov-
ernment confirmed that DGC would establish and maintain, by March 1, 1981, an
adequate supply and distribution system for spare parts purchased under the
project. Other measures to be taken include disposing of obsolete items in
the stocks, estimated at 90% of the existing spare parts inventory (para 4.12),
and more orderly storage and inventory control practices.
3.18      DGC is also suffering from the poor utilization of equipment.
Measured as a percentage of available working hours, the average utilization
rate is 35%. Part of the reason for this underutilization is the low avail-
ability of equipment, with units being inoperable much of the time. Another
factor affecting utilization has been the drastic reduction of fuel quotas
over the last five years in response to higher prices and limited budgets.
One zone, for example, received an allocation of 12,500 gallons of gasoline
and 7,500 gallons of diesel per month in 1974; by 1979, the monthly allocation
was reduced to 4,000 gallons for each type of fuel. Thus, equipment may be
available but cannot be utilized because of a lack of fuel. A properly
balanced increase in the recurrent budget would avoid such drastic reductions
and raise equipment utilization (para 4.08).
F.   Level of Maintenance and Areas of Major Concern
3.19      As a result of the deficiencies described above, DGC has been
able to conduct only a minimal amount of road maintenance. DGC's maintenance
efforts have apparently concentrated on the routine maintenance tasks of
cleaning ditches and channels to ensure proper drainage. Other routine and
periodic tasks are either ignored or carried out on an emergency basis.
Inadequate maintenance has led to the severe deterioration of many road
sections and to the substantial amount of rehabilitation planned for the next
four years.
3.20      Eliminating all of the deficiencies of the DGC maintenance operations
would require a long term effort; significant improvements could be achieved
by focusing the initial efforts on the following interrelated areas of major
concern:
(a)  inadequate composition of the equipment fleet;
(b)  low availability and utilization of equipment due to age of fleet,
inadequate maintenance practices and shortages of spare parts,
workshop tools and fuel;
(c)  poor labor productivity mainly due to inappropriate equipment
and lack of hand tools;
(d)  staffing limitations with a redundance of unskilled labor, a
shortage of professional staff and no in-house training;
(e)  lack of planning hampered by an inadequate definition of maintenance
activities, poor coordination within DGC, insufficient road data,
and decentralization of programing decisions; and
(f)  insufficient and imbalanced funding.



- 21 -
IV. THE PROPOSED HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
A.   Project Development and Preparation
4.01      The need for improving highway maintenance in Guatemala was iden-
tified by the ECAT report in 1977 and has been recognized by the Government
as a high priority in the National Development Plan (1979-1982). Lasting
improvements in road maintenance require a coordinated effort directed
at all aspects of operations. Thus, a comprehensive highway maintenance
program was developed based on the selection of a desirable maintenance policy
which would be gradually achieved over a period of four years, 1981 to 1985.
The program is directed at the areas of major concern described in paragraph
3.20 and takes into account the technical and financial resources of the
Government. The project comprises the non-recurrent expenditures necessary
to achieve the buildup of maintenance capacity under the program. The project
concept has been kept simple and is focused upon the improvement of maintenance
operations on the DGC network with the expectation that this approach would
lead to future improvements in the maintenance of those secondary and feeder
roads currently not under the jurisdiction of DGC.
4.02      The program was developed through the joint efforts of the staff
of DGC and CONAPLAN and individual consultants contracted by the Bank. The
preparation work was conducted mainly between April and August of 1979. The
direct involvement of DGC and CONAPLAN staff helped to accelerate project
preparation, allowed early consideration of overall budgetary constraints, and
facilitated subsequent Government commitment to the objectives of the program.
B.   The Maintenance Program
4.03      The basic steps followed in determining the program 1/ were (a) to
delineate the DGC road network by type of road surface and by traffic level
(Table 2.3); (b) to formulate alternative frequencies for each of 11 road
maintenance activities which correspond to varying levels of road surface
conditions (Table 5.6); (c) to calculate the economic cost of maintenance
activities and form alternative policies by type of road surface and level oiE
traffic (Tables 5.7 and 5.8); (d) to calculate vehicle operating costs on
roads with varying surface conditions related to the alternative maintenance
policies (Table 5.9); (e) to select the appropriate policy by type of road
surface and level of traffic which yields the highest net economic benefits
and whose financial cost would be within the budgetary capacity of the Gov-
ernment (Table 5.10); and (f) to project the phased implementation of the
policy in both financial (Table 4.1) and physical (Table 4.4) terms.
4.04      The heart of the maintenance program is the selected maintenance
policy, to be achieved by the end of the buildup period, which represents
the desired combination and frequency of routine and periodic maintenance
activities by type of road surface and by level of traffic. In determining an
appropriate policy, an analysis was conducted to assess the level of expendi-
ture at which the Government would maximize the amount of road user benefits
1/   See Chapter V for details of the economic evaluation.



- 22 -
generated by each dollar of outlay. Although it would be difficult to evaluate
all possible combinations of expenditure levels and related maintenance activi-
ties, three representative alternative maintenance policies were developed and
compared for Guatemala: a "good" policy; a "fair" policy; and a "minimum"
policy. The difference between the three is the frequency with which mainte-
nance activities are implemented for a road segment, and each policy represents
a different level of expenditure and varying resultant road condition. It is
implicit in the analysis that the optimal level of expenditure lies within the
range which these policies establish and that no additional expenditure would
be justified. In general, based on the level of the Maintenance Division's
recurrent budget, DGC has been following a "minimum" policy.
4.05      The economic analysis (Table 5.10) showed that all paved roads
should receive the equivalent of a "good" maintenance policy, while unpaved
roads should receive varied levels of maintenance depending upon the level
of traffic. To ensure that the objectives were realistic for Guatemala,
budgetary constraints were applied based on discussions with Government
officials. This action led to a lowering of maintenance standards for unpaved
roads with low traffic volumes. After reviewing the practical limitations of
DGC to effectively absorb the proposed changes and taking into consideration
the inability of the Government to raise the Maintenance Division's budget for
road maintenance by more than an average of 15% per year in real terms, it was
evident that the goals of the selected policies could be achieved only over
several years. The proposed program represents the major initial steps which
must be taken to achieve the selected policies and covers the four years from
mid-1981 to mid-1985.
4.06      The physical goals of the four-year program have been defined for
each year in terms of the amount of periodic and routine maintenance and are
described in the Government's report entitled "Guatemala Highway Maintenance
Project," Volume I, August 1979. The annual scope of periodic maintenance
would gradually increase until it approaches the activity frequencies of the
selected policy. Thin overlays of asphalt concrete (less than 5 cm) would be
applied to 130 km of road in 1982 and reach 200 km per year in 1985, represent-
ing a frequency of one overlay every seven years per road segment by the last
year of the program (para 5.08). Single surface treatment would be applied to
220 km in 1982, rising to 320 km by 1985 for a frequency goal of once every
six years. Regraveling would be done for 800 km of road in 1982 and 900 km by
1985 for a frequency of once every six years. Last, the grading of unpaved
roads would be conducted on 16,500 km in 1982 and 22,000 km in 1985 for an
average frequency of once every three months per road segment by the last year
of the program. The above frequencies would be reviewed and appropriate road
segments identified under the technical assistance program as more detailed
information on road conditions becomes available. To meet these goals, in
addition to the staffing, materials and financing requirements, equipment
availability would have to be increased from the current 40% to 80% by 1985,
and equipment utilization would have to be improved from the current 35% to
75% by 1985 (see Table 4.4 for program indicators).
4.07      The program's physical goals have not been broken down by main-
tenance zone. This would be the responsibility of DGC with the aid of the
technical assistance team in the form of specific annual road work programs
describing the amount and type of routine and periodic maintenance activities
to be carried out in each zone or by each specialized unit. During nego-
tiations, the Government confirmed that, in each year, until the completion
of the project, DGC would prepare, for each of the maintenance zones, a



- 23 -
detailed work program to be carried out during the next calendar year and would
exchange views with the Bank, not later than March 31 of each year, on the
scope and content of these annual programs before their inclusion in DGC's
proposed operational budget. During the course of the project, as more
information on road maintenance requirements in Guatemala is acquired, the
program goals should be reviewed and updated.
4.08      The recurrent budget (at 1979 prices) required for the program is
shown in Table 4.1, with a real increase of from US$6.7 million in 1980 to
US$13.5 million by 1985, or about 100%. The average recurrent budget outlay
per km for the entire DGC network would reach US$1,300 annually (at 1979
prices) by the end of the program. There would also be a gradual change in
the relative distribution among budget items. Labor costs, which constituted
65% of total costs in 1979, would be only about 35% of total costs in 1985.
In contrast, the proportion of the budget devoted to asphalt would increase
from 5% in 1979 to about 17% in 1985.
C.   Objectives and General Description of the Proposed Project
4.09      The proposed project would support the buildup of capacity necessary
to implement DGC's maintenance program, mid-1981 to mid-1985. The project
would be initiated in 1980 and 1981, during which time detailed program
preparations would be conducted and the initial supply of equipment and
materials purchased. The project objectives are:
(a) to strengthen the road maintenance organization at head-
quarters and in the field and to improve and rationalize
maintenance procedures and standards;
(b) to upgrade, through training, the maintenance manpower
at all levels, e.g., professional, technical.and field;
(c) to enhance the application of labor-intensive techniques
in maintenance operations; and
(d) to ensure a sufficient supply of equipment and vehicles
and to improve availability and utilization of maintenance
equipment and vehicles.
4.10      The project would provide the following:
(a) Equipment
-    replacement of old maintenance equipment and vehicles
which have become obsolete and/or beyond economical
repair and acquisition of new maintenance equipment
and vehicles to meet the maintenance requirements of the
proposed program;
-    buildup of spare parts stock for preventive maintenance
of existing and new equipment and vehicles, and acqui-
sition of spare parts for major overhauls of salvageable
units;



- 24 -
acquisition of workshop tools and equipment for improve-
ment of maintenance workshops;
acquisition of hand tools for labor-intensive road main-
tenance operations; and
-    equipment for a road diagnostic unit.
(b) Technical Assistance and Training
-    consulting services to (i) strengthen DGC's technical and
managerial capabilities to implement the program; (ii) help
establish a permanent training section; (iii) develop and carry
out a training program; (iv) advise on improving labor produc-
tivity through the proper application of labor-intensive
techniques; and (v) advise on the carrying out of economic and
engineering studies to prepare a program for rehabilitation and
strengthening of earth, gravel and paved roads; and
-    acquisition of equipment, construction of facilities
and provision of scholarships for implementing the
training program.
D.   Project Components
(i) Equipment and Spare Parts for Equipment Overhaul
4.11      Total additional equipment and vehicle needs were estimated by
deducting from the resource requirements of the program the potential contribu-
tion of the available maintenance equipment and vehicles in operating condition
or suitable for overhaul. Resource requirements were first defined in terms
of total vehicle operating hours which were then converted into units of
equipment and vehicles. The analysis assumes that average operating hours per
vehicle would increase to 650 hours in 1983 and 800 hours in 1985. The
resultant net deficit was the basis for a tentative list of 285 new units
of equipment and vehicles to be provided by the project, which was reviewed
and approved by the Government during negotiations (Table 4.2). In addition
to replacement units, this list includes new types of equipment and vehicles
such as a mobile crusher and asphalt plants to allow DGC to meet its require-
ments for crushed stone and asphalt mix; agricultural tractors and trailers to
increase labor productivity for routine maintenance operations; patch trucks
and flat bed trailers for hauling heavy equipment to improve fleet mobility;
and greasing trucks for preventive maintenance of equipment and vehicles in
the field.
4.12      DGC is carrying out an updated detailed survey of units presently
out of order or in need of overhaul. The survey would refine, on the one
hand, the list of units that have been declared obsolete or beyond repair,
and, on the other hand, the units which are economically salvageable, including
those in need of substantial repairs and those simply in need of minor repairs.
A preliminary list of 360 units to be overhauled under the project and the
cost of needed spare parts to be purchased was reviewed and agreed during the
appraisal mission. The Government confirmed, during negotiations, that
DGC would prepare, by December 31, 1980, a detailed list of equipment and
vehicles to be overhauled and a program for a systematic scrapping of wornout
units and obsolete spare parts, to be started by March 1, 1982 at the latest
in coordination with the arrival of new equipment and spare parts.



- 25 -
(ii) Preventive Maintenance Spare Parts and Workshop Tools
4.13      On the basis of the new fleet composition, the number of spare parts
needed to establish an adequate initial stock for preventive maintenance has
been estimated and would be purchased under the project. Spare parts for
continuous normal maintenance would be funded adequately under a specific
allocation in DGC's recurrent budget (Table 4.1). The Government confirmed
during negotiations that DGC would take necessary action to properly repair
the Maintenance Division's equipment and vehicles.
4.14       Improved preventive maintenance practices would require additional
workshop equipment. The proposed project includes financing for replacement
and modernization of 'workshop tools and equipment.
(iii) Hand Tools and Laboratory Equipment
4.15      One component of the proposed project would be directed at
eliminating shortages of hand tools in the field by financing the acquisition
of wheelbarrows, picks and shovels.
4.16      The project would also provide for the purchase of equipment and
vehicles for a road diagnostic unit in charge of the permanent inventory
of the condition of the network under the coordination of the DGC Planning
Unit. The equipment would include items needed to measure road roughness
and to conduct deflection tests.
(iv) Technical Assistance and Training
4.17      The project would provide technical assistance for a total of
266 man-months of foreign and local consultant services. The terms of reference
for the consulting services were reviewed and agreed during appraisal (outlirle
in Annex 1); they were confirmed during negotiations. The main objectives
would be to strengthen DGC's planning and programing capabilities as they
relate to road maintenance, to advise and assist in improving maintenance
organization and operations, to help prepare bidding documents for project
items and to implement the training program. Consulting services would be
provided by a firm specializing in road maintenance, management and execution
and which has substantial experience in the development and implementation
of training programs. The use of a firm rather than a group of individual
consultants would relieve the Government of the burden of coordinating the
various components of the program and would concentrate responsibility for the
final output. Six experts (one maintenance engineer, one mechanical engineer,
one soils and pavement engineer, one transport economist, one stores specialist,
and one training expert), would be required for a period of from 10 to 36
months each and would be assigned to appropriate Divisions within DGC. Four
additional local specialists (one chief instructor for the center of mechanics,
one chief of the training production unit, one chief operator and one chief
mechanic) would be provided, for a period of three years each for the training
program, under this technical assistance scheme. The Government confirmed,
during negotiations, that DGC would employ consultants for the technical
assistance and training programs whose qualifications and terms and conditions
of employment would be satisfactory to the Bank. A condition for effectiveness
of the loans is that DGC has contracted a consultant firm to provide the
technical assistance and training programs.



- 26 -
4.18      The proposed four-year training program would aim at improving the
standard of highway maintenance through the training, retraining and upgrading
of road and equipment maintenance personnel including foremen, overseers,
inspectors, equipment operators and drivers, mechanical maintenance personnel,
engineers and administrative staff. A permanent training program would be
established within DGC with responsibility for the planning, implementation
and supervision of all training activities. Details of the proposed training
program are in Annex 2. During negotiations, the Government confirmed that
DGC would (i) establish and equip a permanent training section and provide
annual funds for program operation; and (ii) furnish to the Bank, by
October 1981, a Plan of Action satisfactory to the Bank to carry out all
components of the training program. The Plan should include the selection of
instructors and their counterparts, the assignment of staff, the detailed
description of proposed facilities and dates for construction, the assignment
of equipment and the method for selecting trainees.
4.19      The project would provide for the construction of training facilities
to be built near the central workshop at Las Vacas, near Guatemala City, for
the training of mechanics. They would consist of a workshop, offices, a
dormitory and related facilities totaling about 520 m2. Training equipment
and materials such as audio-visual training aids would also be provided through
the proposed loan. Heavy road maintenance equipment and spare parts required
by the training program have been included under the equipment and spare parts
components of the proposed project. Furthermore, scholarships for courses
abroad and in road maintenance would be made available to senior personnel.
E.   Cost Estimates and Financing
4.20      The outlays necessary to support the proposed four-year maintenance
program, 1981-1985, would total US$103.7 million equivalent, of which US$84.8
million would represent recurrent operating expenditures and US$18.9 million
would be for non-recurrent expenditures under the project. The proposed loan
would finance the foreign exchange component of the project, amounting to
US$17.0 million. The Government would finance the local component of project
cost as well as the recurrent expenditures necessary to carry out the mainte-
nance program (Table 4.1). The proposed loan would thus represent about 16%
of the total cost of the program. These estimates exclude taxes because of
the current exemption of Government agencies. If this tax policy is changed,
it would be the Government's responsibility to absorb the taxes imposed on
project components. During negotiations, the Government confirmed that it
would provide DGC promptly, as needed, the funds to carry out the project. In
addition, the Government confirmed that it would provide promptly, as needed,
the funds required to enable DGC to continue, after the project period, to
maintain its highway network adequately, at least according to the program
goals established for 1985.
4.21      Costs for the road maintenance and workshop equipment, including
the initial stock of spare parts for new units, have been estimated on the
basis of lists prepared by DGC reflecting manufacturer's quotations and recent
purchases. The cost estimate also includes US$726,000 for spare parts as an
initial stock for preventive maintenance of some 609 pieces of existing equip-
ment (excluding new equipment and units to be scrapped), i.e., about 3.6% of
the renewal value of these 609 pieces. Spare parts for the overhaul of some
360 units were estimated at about US$2.8 million, i.e., 20% of the renewal
value of this equipment. The cost of the hand tools was based on an average
expenditure of US$55 per laborer for a total of US$440,000.



- 27 -
Project Cost Estimates
(US$ Thousand)
Foreign Exchange Cost
Project Components                 Local  Foreign   Total         as % of Total
1.   Equipment Replacement
Program                         824    8,240   9,064 )
2.   Initial stock of spare
parts for new equipment          82      824      906 )
3.   Spare parts for overhaul
program                         253    2,530   2,783 )             91%
4.   Initial stock of spare                                 )
parts for preventive                                  )
maintenance                      66       660     726 )
5.   Workshop tools and                                     )
equipment                        22       220     242 )
6.   Hand tools and other                                   )
equipment (laboratory)           44       440     484 )
7.   Technical assistance
and training program            218    1,138   1,356               84%
8.   Civil works for
training center                  52       64      116              55%
Base costs
(March 1980 values)          1,561  14,116  15,677
9.   Physical contingencies
(10% 3-6)                        39      385      424
Subtotal                    1,600   14,501  16,101
10.  Price contingencies 1/          300    2,499   2,799
Total Project                 1,900   17,000  18,900
1/   Based on the following annual price increases, which are adequate given
price trends for equipment and advisory services:
(1980 - 1981 = 10.5% year)
(1981 - 1982 =    9% year)
(1982 - 1983 =    8% year)
(1983 - 1984 =    7% year)
1 Quetzal = US$1



- 28 -
4.22      The cost (in March 1980 values) of the technical assistance and
training components has been estimated mainly on the basis of 122 man-months
of foreign consultant work and 144 man-months of local consultant work for a
total of US$1.26 million or an average man-month cost of US$4,700. The
foreign consultant costs include US$8,800 per man-month in foreign exchange
for salary, social benefits, overhead, airfare and local living allowance.
Local consultant costs were based on US$1,300 per man-month. In addition,
15 fellowships abroad for Maintenance Division and Training Unit professionals
have been included at a cost of US$4,000 each, as well as civil works construc-
tion for training facilities costing US$116,000 and training equipment costing
US$31,500.
4.23      Adequate provisions have been made for physical and price contingen-
cies. Physical contingencies amounting to 10% of base costs have been provided
for spare parts (other than the initial stock for new equipment), workshop
tools and equipment and hand tools and other equipment. Estimates of price
increases have been calculated at an average annual rate of 10.5% in 1980, 9% in
1981, 8% in 1982 and 7% in 1983 for equipment and consulting services. Local
price increases are not expected to differ substantially from these rates.
4.24      The foreign exchange component of the purchases of road maintenance
equipment, spare parts and tools has been estimated on the basis of CIF prices
at point of entry into Guatemala and represents 91% of total cost. The
technical assistance and training elements have an estimated foreign exchange
component of 84%. DGC would provide offices and logistics support directly.
The civil works foreign exchange component would be 55% based on an analysis
of expenses in local and foreign currencies.
4.25      Disbursements of the loan would be made as follows:
(a) 100% of foreign expenditures for directly imported items and
91% of total expenditures for locally procured items;
(b) 84% of total expenditures for technical assistance and training;
(c) 100% of foreign expenditures for scholarships; and
(d) 55% of total expenditures for civil works.
Disbursements under the proposed loan would be supported by standard documenta-
tion. The estimated schedule for disbursement of the loan covering all project
elements is shown in Table 4.3.
F.   Execution, Procurement and Monitoring
4.26      The Ministry of Communications and Public Works would be responsible
for the project, which would be executed by DGC. A tentative implementation
schedule (Chart 21220) was reviewed by the Government and agreed during
negotiations.



- 29 -
4.27      It is essential that DGC assign appropriate counterpart personnel
from the related operational divisions and sections for each member of the
technical assistance team in accordance with the detailed implementation
schedule. A senior maintenance engineer would be the counterpart to the
highway maintenance specialist included in the technical assistance team:
the counterpart of the equipment fleet specialist would be the mechanical
engineer in charge of the DGC Equipment Section; the counterpart of the
soils engineer would be the chief of the Soils Laboratory Section; the store
specialist's counterpart would be the Chief of the Store Section; and the
counterpart of the transport economist would be the chief economist from
the Planning Unit. The counterpart for the training specialist should have
experience in training and in civil or mechanical engineering. During nego-
tiations, the Government confirmed that DGC would provide counterpart staff
for each member of the technical assistance and training team in accordance
with the detailed implementation schedule. A condition for effectiveness of
the loan is that DGC has assigned the following counterpart staff to the
project: one highway maintenance engineer, one mechanical engineer, and one
training officer.
4.28      Procurement under the project would be in accordance with the Bank's
"Guidelines for Procurement" (March 1977). The procurement program for
equipment, parts and tools, indicating lot sizes and estimated costs, would be
subject to prior approval by the Bank. Contracts with an estimated value of
over US$75,000 would be awarded according to international competitive bidding.
Lots with estimated costs less than or equal to US$75,000, and within an
overall ceiling of US$1 million, would be advertised locally in accordance
with Government regulations in Decree No. 11-71 of March 8, 1971 and Decree
No. 54-79 of August 22, 1979, which are satisfactory. When necessary, spare
parts for specific makes of equipment would be procured directly from estab-
lished dealers in accordance with the same Government regulations for indivi-
dual orders less than or equal to US$75,000 and within an overall ceiling of
US$500,000. The Government confirmed during negotiations that all equipment
and vehicles either acquired or overhauled under the project and spare parts
provided under the project are to be used exclusively for maintenance and
minor improvement works provided that minor improvement works account for no
more than 10% of the annual working hours of the new and overhauled equipment
and vehicles.
4.29      Civil works contracts for the construction of workshop and other
facilities for the training center would be procured through Government
regulations which allow for adequate competition. Bids would be advertised
locally since only local contractors would be interested in these small-scale
works.
4.30      Equipment and spare parts purchases would occur in two phases:  the
first in 1981 and the second in 1983. Procurement of workshop and hand tools,
including laboratory equipment, would take place in 1981. The technical
assistance component would be initiated in 1980 and would last four years.



- 30 -
4.31      Maintenance program indicators have been developed to monitor the
progress of the proposed program through its implementation. The indicators
(Table 4.4) are divided into three types: the work indicators, representing
the general work program for major maintenance activities (para 4.06); the
resource indicators, acting as another check that certain activities were
conducted; and the equipment indicators, which show the effectiveness of
the mechanics shops and the actual workload of the equipment. During nego-
tiations, the Government confirmed its agreement that the project implemen-
tation indicators would be monitored following methods satisfactory to the
Bank and be reported on annually by DGC.
G.   Project Risks
4.32      The risks associated with highway maintenance projects are more
substantial than those of construction projects because of the complex inter-
relationship of human and physical factors involved in developing and implement-
ing a successful maintenance program. The close cooperation developed during
project preparation (para 4.02) overcame the lack of established working
relations between the Bank and Guatemala's highway agencies. As with other
maintenance loans, the major risks are the following:
(a) that administrative procedures could delay the acquisition and,
hence, the delivery of equipment, postponing expected benefits;
(b) that the substantial mobilization of local human, physical
and financial resources required by the project would take longer
than expected or not reach expected goals and would postpone or
lessen expected benefits; and
(c) that some of the equipment and spare parts purchased
under the project would be diverted to uses other than
maintenance and would leave DGC short of the resources
needed to meet project goals, thus reducing overall
benefits.
4.33      To minimize the above-mentioned risks, the proposed project has been
based on a comprehensive multi-year program establishing a foundation to
improve road maintenance activities in Guatemala. The various components are
directed at the most significant human and physical weaknesses in the existing
operation. The implementation schedule and the annual goals represent a
practical, phased plan to meet the selected policy objectives gradually by
1987, taking into consideration the timing required for equipment acquisition
and for the mobilization of human, physical and financial resources. Direct
participation of DGC staff in the preparation of the project and the close
coordination with CONAPLAN and the Ministry of Finance have resulted in the
heightening of interest and commitment by the Government to the proposed
project and in an understanding of the resources required. Furthermore,
technical assistance would be provided in the initial years to help fill the
technical gap and to aid the central office in receiving and distributing the
items purchased under the project.



- 31 -
4.34      In spite of the safeguards built into the program to minimize the
risks involved, the economic analysis in Chapter V applied several sensitivity
tests to determine the effect of these risks on the feasibility indices.
Under these tests, if the project did not fully realize its goals, the economic
rate of return would still be over 50% (Table 5.13).
V. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A.   General
5.01      The economic evaluation was directed at two objectives:  first,
to select the most appropriate road maintenance policy, and second, to assess
the economic feasibility of the scale and composition of the proposed project
based on the selected policy.
5.02      In determining the appropriate policy, a comparison was made of the
costs associated with three alternative policies for a series of typical road
segments. The policy with the highest net benefits for a segment was then
chosen. The results for low traffic, unpaved roads were revised to take into
account Government budgetary constraints (para 4.05). This approach was taken
to simplify analytical procedures, and the results are considered representa-
tive of what would be found using a more rigorous methodology. The project
evaluation is a multi-year analysis which takes into account the resources
actually required to achieve the selected policy in Guatemala. Since the
project is an inherent component of the maintenance program, the benefits of
the project were considered inseparable from those of the program. Thus, the
economic evaluation assesses the total maintenance costs and road user savings
of the program as compared with what would occur in Guatemala without the
program. Rather than taking a single representative year as was done in
selecting the policy, the analysis of the program covers the period from 1980
to 1990, which roughly corresponds with the average useful life of the first
tranche of maintenance equipment to be purchased under the project.
B.   Projected Network and Road Condition
5.03      Using the results of the DGC road condition survey (para 2.05),
all DGC roads were classified according to four surface types (asphalt
concrete, double surface treatment, gravel and earth) and then by surface
condition, with three possible levels for each surface type. The terrain and
road characteristics are shown in Table 5.1, and the distribution of the DGC
network is indicated in Table 2.3.
5.04      The three alternative maintenance policies (good, fair and minimum)
were developed to correspond with the three levels of road surface condition
as measured principally in terms of road roughness (Table 5.1). Road condi-
tions, then, would improve or deteriorate according to the maintenance policy
applied to a given road segment. This method served as the basis for evaluating
the various policies and the proposed program. Without the program and the



- 32 -
related increases in the recurrent budget, DGC would continue to pursue its
"minimum" maintenance policy (para 4.04). Gradually, by 1987, all road
segments would deteriorate to the surface condition which corresponds with
the "minimum" policy, except where proposed upgrading, reconstruction and
rehabilitation projects specified in the National Development Plan are carried
out. With the program, road conditions would gradually improve beginning in
1982 until each segment's condition corresponded with the selected policy by
1987. The distribution of the network by type of road and surface condition
in 1987 with and without the program is shown in Tables 5.2 and 5.3.
C.   Traffic
5.05      Based on the results of the road condition survey and DGC traffic
counts, the existing network was further subdivided according to ranges of
traffic volumes: three ranges for asphalt concrete roads, two ranges for
double surface treatment roads and four ranges each for gravel and earth
roads. A weighted average traffic volume was calculated to represent the
typical level of traffic (AADT) within each range (Table 2.3). For purposes
of the economic evaluation, two typical distributions of vehicle types were
applied: one for paved roads and one for unpaved roads (Table 5.4).
5.06      Traffic was projected to continue increasing at a faster rate
than the economy, although not at the rate of the last decade. The expected
slowdown in economic growth (para 1.05) and rising fuel prices (para 2.10)
should moderate traffic growth, resulting in an average annual increase over
the period from 1980 to 1990 of 7.5% for all vehicle types on all road sur-
faces. During the initial years of this period, the growth rate should reach
9% annually, declining to 6% in the later years. These estimates are con-
sistent with the more detailed forecasts of the ECAT report (1978-1990) and
have been used to project average traffic for each range in Tables 5.2 and
5.3. No generated traffic was projected.
D.   Maintenance Activity Costs
5.07      A list of 11 specific routine and periodic maintenance activities
was established, encompassing all of the typical operations which should be
performed in Guatemala (Table 5.5). Frequency matrices were then constructed
for each activity based on previous experiences in other developing countries
and related to road roughness (Table 5.6). For the major periodic activities,
the frequencies were derived from the equations of the Highway Design and
Maintenance Standards Model (HDM) developed through the Bank's cooperative
highway research program. Local traffic conditions and highway characteristics
were applied to the Model's equations to obtain results suitable for Guatemala.
5.08      The activity frequencies presented in Table 5.6 represent general
averages which were used to approximate resource requirements for the project.
These would be thoroughly reviewed and revised in accordance with more detailed
information compiled under the project. In the listing of periodic maintenance
activities, a thin overlay (less than 5 cm) for asphalt concrete roads has
been included and represents about 22% of the 1985 proposed recurrent budget.



- 33 -
Such overlays were considered appropriate for network segments where the
pavement structure is sound but where the existing overlay is or soon will
be worn out. During the technical assistance program, criteria would be
developed for determining when such an overlay versus single surface treatment
for paved road segments would be appropriate.
5.09      The costs per km were estimated by determining the expected daily
production of each activity, i.e., km maintained per day by type of activity,
and by applying local unit costs for equipment, labor and materials. Average
annual costs per km for each activity were estimated by multiplying costs by
the annual frequency of application and, for each maintenance policy, by
summing the annual activity costs (Tables 5.7 and 5.8). These costs were
used to compare the alternative maintenance policies and to select the most
appropriate one for typical road segments. For the economic evaluation of
the program, the equipment costs (capital investment) were subtracted from
the activity costs and were replaced with the actual capital needs projected
by the project. The latter are higher because of the backlog of investment
needs which have accumulated over the years.
5.10      To obtain the recurrent maintenance costs for the different years of
the analysis, it was necessary to relate the basic costs in Tables 5.7 and 5.8
with traffic volumes by developing regression equations. In this way, the
increase in traffic was taken into account in estimating maintenance costs.
E.   Benefits
5.11      The economic evaluation considered that the quantifiable direct
benefits to be generated by improved maintenance practices would be the
savings in vehicle operating costs due to improved riding surface. These
savings include the value of time saved by salaried operators of commercial
vehicles as a result of increasing speeds. Using the HDM model and applying
the terrain and road characteristics from Table 5.1, unit prices and vehicle
utilization factors appropriate for Guatemala, the operating costs were esti-
mated for four vehicle types on three classes of highway, each with three
levels of road surface conditions (Table 5.9). Time savings for the drivers
and helpers of buses and trucks were estimated by calculating increases in
vehicle speeds, using the HDM model, and by applying average hourly wage rates
for operators in Guatemala to the hours saved. Benefits not quantified in the
evaluation were reduced passenger time costs, decreased or prevented economic
loss due to road closures and reduced accident costs. The evaluation is
therefore conservative.
F.   Economic Assessment
5.12      Economic costs net of taxes were estimated for all investment costs,
maintenance costs and vehicle operating costs. No shadow rate was considered
necessary for either the foreign exchange rate or the price of labor. A
test was made of the effect that costing unskilled field labor at 60% of the
normal wage would have upon the selection of the appropriate maintenance
policy. The adjustment did not affect the cost or benefit streams substan-
tially and would not have changed the selected policy for any of the typical
road segments.



- 34 -
5.13      A comparison of the average annual net benefits per km for each
alternative policy for each typical road segment resulted in the selected
policy shown in Table 5.10. The effect of adding a financial constraint
to the analysis is also represented in the table.
5.14      The costs and benefits used in assessing the feasibility of the
maintenance program are shown in Tables 5.11 and 5.12. Over the period of
the analysis, additional capital investments would be required and have been
included in the cost estimates. The projected benefits reveal that vehicle
operating costs, excluding bus and truck operators' wages, are reduced by
an average of 7% when the level of maintenance effort reaches that of the
selected policy. These savings represent 70% of discounted program benefits.
Time savings for bus and truck operators reach a substantial level during
the initial years of the program because the speed changes by improving a
road from "minimum" to "fair" condition are more pronounced than when a road
is further improved to a "good" condition. The majority of these savings
are accrued by truck operators traveling on gravel roads.
5.15      The proposed highway maintenance program is clearly well justified
(Table 5.13) with an overall benefit cost ratio of about 4:1 and a net present
value estimated at about US$123 million when a 12% opportunity cost of capital
was used. Furthermore, the economic rate of return would be in excess of 100%.
The high return, typical of road maintenance projects, reflects the low cost
requirement to sustain the productive capacity of the initial investment in
highway construction.
5.16      Several sensitivity tests were conducted to assess the program's
feasibility under varying circumstances, i.e., if the time savings for salaried
operators of commercial vehicles are excluded; if there is a two-year delay in
benefits, a 25% decline in benefits, or a 25% increase in costs; and if only
the goals set for 1983 are achieved meaning reduced availability and utiliza-
tion of equipment (Table 5.13). The tests demonstrate that even substantial
changes in costs or benefits do not critically alter the original findings.
The lowest returns corresponded with a two-year delay in the accrual of
benefits. The benefit-cost ratio would be reduced to 3:1 and the economic
rate of return to 51%, still substantially higher than the returns estimated
for other projects in the transport sector in Guatemala.
G.   Distribution of Benefits
5.17      Most of the benefits to be generated by the program would accrue
directly to personal vehicle operators and the road transport industry of
Guatemala. In the case of passenger transport, because of the already low
regulated tariff structure (para 2.15), the vehicle operating cost and time
savings for bus operations should help to maintain and improve the existing
low priced service and to relieve some of the pressure for future tariff
increases. Intense competition among Guatemalan and other Central American
truckers for regional and local hauls (para 2.13) should result in lower cargo
tariffs for shippers and/or avoided increases in the future. The benefits which
would accrue to international trucking movements related to intermodal hauls
outside the region would be captured by the Miami-based firms which control
the pricing of such service (para 2.11). This last type of traffic, however,
represents only a small percentage of total benefits.



- 35 -
5.18       Other benefits which have not been quantified for the economic eval-
uation would accrue directly to the local agricultural producers. Improved
road maintenance would reduce the number of road closures due to extreme
weather conditions, especially during the rainy season. This improved mainte-
nance would enhance the quality of passenger and cargo transport service to
rural areas by increasing service reliability and safety.
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.01       During negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government
on the following:
(a) the Government to exchange views with the Bank at appropriate times
on transportation planning studies undertaken by the Government
(para 1.22);
(b) DGC to review the road classification system for the DGC network
by January 1, 1982 (para 2.03);
(c) the Government to pursue the enforcement of vehicle dimension and
axle load regulations, including night checks at key control sta-
tions, and DGC to monitor data concerning the enforcement of such
regulations and exchange views annually with the Bank on the results
(para 2.14);
(d) the Government, by May 31, 1982, to review the feasibility of bring--
ing other roads of economic and social significance under continuing
maintenance by DGC and to assess the technical, financial and
administrative implications of so extending DGC's maintenance
responsibilities (para 2.16);
(e) DGC to (i) introduce, starting in 1981, budgeting and accounting
procedures which differentiate routine from periodic maintenance
activities and maintenance activities as a whole from other works of
the Maintenance Division; and (ii) introduce, by January 31, 1981, a
monitoring and control system to evaluate work carried out and
related expenditures (para 3.04);
(f) DGC to organize by March 1, 1981 a road diagnostic unit to carry out
and maintain on a continuing basis a survey on the condition of
roads within the DGC network (para 3.06);
(g) the scope and schedule for the preparation of a road rehabili-
tation and strengthening program (para 3.07);
(h) DGC to restrict, during the project period, the number of permanent
unskilled laborers in the Maintenance Division, at or below the level
existing on December 31, 1979, except on a temporary basis with
relation to possible emergencies (para 3.08);



- 36 -
(i) DGC to increase the Maintenance Division's professional
staff to include four additional engineers and, by
January 1, 1981, four additional technicians (para 3.09);
(j) DGC to establish and maintain, by March 1, 1981, an adequate
supply and distribution system for spare parts purchased under
the project (para 3.17);
(k) DGC to prepare, in each year until the completion of the project,
a detailed work program for each of the maintenance zones to be
carried out during the next calendar year and to exchange views
with the Bank not later than March 31 of the preceding year on the
scope and c6ntent of these annual programs before their inclusion in
DGC's proposed operational budget (para 4.07);
(1) DGC to prepare, by December 31, 1980, a detailed list of equipment
and vehicles to be overhauled and a program for a systematic scrap-
ping of wornout units and obsolete spare parts, to be started by
March 1, 1982 at the latest in coordination with the arrival of new
equipment and spare parts (para 4.12);
(m)  DGC to take necessary action to properly repair and maintain
the Maintenance Division's equipment and vehicles (para 4.13);
(n) DGC to employ consultants for the technical assistance and
training programs whose qualifications and terms and conditions
of employment would be satisfactory to the Bank (para 4.17);
(o) DGC to (i) establish and equip a permanent training section and
provide annual funds for program operation and (ii) furnish to
the Bank, by October 1981, a Plan of Action satisfactory to the
Bank to carry out all components of the training program (para 4.18);
(p) the Government to provide DGC promptly, as needed, the funds
to carry out the project (para 4.20);
(q) the Government to provide promptly, as needed, the funds
required to enable DGC to continue, after the project
period, to maintain its highway network adequately, at
least according to the program goals established for
1985 (para 4.20);
(r) tentative schedule for project implementation (para 4.26);
(s) DGC to provide counterpart staff for each member of the
technical assistance and training team in accordance with
the detailed implementation schedule (para 4.27);
(t) procurement procedures (para 4.28);



- 37 -
(u) all equipment and vehicles either acquired or overhauled under
the project and spare parts provided under the project to be used
exclusively for maintenance and minor improvement works provided
that minor improvement works account for no more than 10% of the
annual working hours of the new and overhauled equipment and vehicles
(para 4.28); and
(v) project implementation indicators to be monitored following
methods satisfactory to the Bank and to be reported on
annually by DGC (para 4.31).
6.02      The following are conditions for effectiveness of the loan:
(a)  that DGC has added four engineers to the Maintenance
Division (para 3.09);
(b) that DGC has contracted a consultant firm to carry out the
technical assistance and training programs (para 4.17); and
(c) that DGC has assigned to the project the following counterpart
staff: one highway maintenance engineer, one mechanical engineer,
and one training officer (para 4.27).
6.03      Subject to agreement on all the above items, the project constitutes
a suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$17.0 million equivalent. The term of
the loan would be 17 years, including a four-year grace period.
April 29, 1980



- 38 -                      TABLE 2.1
GUATEMALA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Development of the Highway Network
(in k-Ilomptprc)
Year              Paved             Gravel 1/         Earth/2            Total
1967              1,728             6,636             3,424            11,788
1968              1,841             6,924             3,274            12,039
1969              1,980             6,990             4,463            13,433
1970              2,333             6,653             4,463            13,449
1971              2,552             6,434             4,463            13,449
1972              2,552             6,434             4,463            13,449
1973              2,616             6,370             4,463            13,449
1974              2,619             6,286             4,544            13,449
1975              2,638             5,331             5,663            13,632
1976              2,731             5,515             5,663            13,909
1977              2,765             5,983             5,391            14,139
1/ All weather roads
2/ Dry weather roads, including private and FYDEP roads. INTA feeder roads
network, estimated at 4,000 km, is excluded because of lack of historical data
Source: DGC
September 1979



- 39 -                          TABLE 2.2
GUATEMIALA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Comparison of Highway and Motor
Vehicle Densities
(1978)
GNP per
Km of Paved Roads               Motor Vehicles   1/       Capita
Country                     per 1,000 Km2             per 1,000 Inhabitants        (US$ 1976) 1/
Guatemala                         25.4                           23.7                700
Colombia                           7.3                           20.3                650
Costa Rica                        40.9                           71.3              1,130
Ecuador                           13.3                           25.9                700
El Salvador                       72.3                           28.3                530
France                          1650.5                          363.1              6,730
Honduras                          14.0                           19.0                400
M'exico                           31.9                           68.1              1,060
Panama                            34.0                           52.9              1,17'0
1/ Based on 1976 population and GNP estimates
Source:   IBRD Reports, U.S. Statistical Yearbook, 1977, and International Road
Federation, 1978
September 1979



- 40 -                       TABLE 2.3
GUATEMALA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Road Conditions of DGC Network
and Traffic Levels
(1979)
Type of Road Surface.        Traffic (AADT)                   Condition (km)
Good    Fair       Minimum         Total
Asphalt Concrete                     649            171      161          93            425
1,757           523      176          59             758
4,786           112       30          55             197
Subtotal          806      367         207           1,380
Double Surface Treatment             649            905      90            9          1,004
1,757           221      141          19             381
Subtotal        1,126      231           28          1,385
Gravel                                15           201      883          125          1,209
36           409      726          27          1,162
62           542      447          69          1,058
230           519      719         114          1,412
Subtotal        1,671   2,835          335           4,841
Earth                                 13             46     830.      1,228           2,104
30            38      196         236            470
67            38       69          20            127
200             2        2          43              47
Subtotal          124   1,097        1,527           2,748
TOTAL        3,727   4,530        2,097         10,354
(%)          (36)    (44)         (20)          (100)
Source: DGC road inventory, February 1979
September 1979



- 41 -                       TABLE 2.4
GUATEMALA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Vehicle Fleet
Average Annual
Vehicle Type                        1966           1977             Growth Rate
Automobiles                       22,093         67,394               10.7%
Panel/Pick up Trucks              17,899         49,503                9.7%
Trucks                             6,538         18,026                9.7%
Buses                              2,879         13,308               14.9%
Total                            49,409        148,231               10.5%
1/    Includes microbuses
Source: Mission estimates
September 1979



- 42 -                      TABLE 2.5
GUATEMALA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Average Annual Daily Traffic at Permanent Count Stations
(1967-1977)
Average Annual
Traffic (AADT)              Growth Rates
Station        Highway           1967    1972    1977      1967-1972    1972-1977
100        CA-1 Oriente        2,102   3,242   5,768          9.1%        12.2%
0100        CA-1 Occidente      1,339   2,016   2,894          8.5%         7.5%
900        CA-9 Norte          1,371   2,176   3,717         9.7%         11.3%
0900        CA-9 Sur            3,635   5,072   7,858          6.9%         9.2%
200        CA-2 Occidente      1,961   2,966   4,885          8.6%        10.5%
Source:Transito por  Carreteras de Guatemala. 1977 Direccion General de
Caminos, Guatemala, May, 1978, p. 35
September 1979



- 43 -                  TABLE 2.6
GUATEMALA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Distribution of Highway Traffic by Vehicle Type
(1977)
Vehicle Type (%)
Station       Highway          Light Vehiclesl/ Buses       Light Trucks2/  Heavy Trucks3/
100     CA-1 Oriente              76.2           7.8          15.0             1.0
0100     CA-1 Occidente            62.9         14.2           22.0             0.9
900     CA-9 Norte               54.7           9.5           25.9             9.9
0900     CA-9 Sur                  67.3           7.2          20.4             5.1
200     CA-2 Occidente           56.7           7.9           28.4             7.0
1/ Include automobiles, panels, pick-ups and microbuses
2/ Include single unit trucks with six or more tires
3/ Include tractor trailer combinations
Source: Transito por Carreteras de Guatemala, 1977, Direccion General de
Caminos, Guatemala, May, 1978, pp. 29-31
September 1979



- 44 -                         TABLE 2.7
GUATEMALA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Pdite of Fuel
(in quetzales/gallon)
Type of Fuel
Date              Premium Gasoline       Regular Gasoline         Diesel
Dec.,  1970                  0.50                   0.46               0.27
Dec.,  1973                 0.67                    0.63               0.46
July,  1974                 0.79                    0.74               0.53
Dec.,  1975                 0.87                    0.83               0.55
Feb.,  1977                  0.98                   0.94                0.56
Jan.,  1979                  1.03                   0.97                0.59
May,   1979                  1.09                   1.02                0.67
Sept., 1979                 1.57                    1.51               0.76
Source: CONAPLAN
September 1979



- 45 -                    TABLE 2.8
GUATEMLA
HIGHWAY MAINTENA.NCE PROJECT
Limits on Weights and Dimensions
(in tons and meters)
Maximum                 2/
Maximum Axle Load              Permitted Gross    Maximum -
Vehicle Type        1       2      3       4       5    Vehicle Weight       Length
C-21/               5       9       -      -      -          14.0             12.00
C-3-1/              5    15.53/    -       -      -          20.5             12.00
T2-Sl               5       9      9       -      -          23.0             16.75
T2-S2               5       9    15.53/   -       -          29.5             16.75
T3-Sl               5    15.5-/   9        -      -          29.5             16.75
T3-S2               5    15.5-/ 15.53/   -        -          36.0             16.75
C2-R2               5       9      7      7       -          28.0            18.30
C3-R2               5    15.52/  7.75  7.75       -          36,0             18.30
T2-S1-R2            5       9      9    7.5    7.5            38.0            20.00
1/ From April 20, 1978 to April 20, 1980 axle loads of 5.5 and 10 tons per front and
rear axle respectively are permitted for C2 trucksand 5.5 and 16.5 tons for C3
trucks
2/ For all vehicles: maximum height is 4.10 m and maximum width is 2.50 m
3/ Tandem axle load
Source: Law No. 2-78 of January 13, 1978
September 1979



GUATEMALA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Distribution of Loaded Trucks by Level of Compliance with Gross Weight Limits
(1978)
Legal Maximum                            Number of          <15%    16-25%   26-35%   36-45%    745%
Gross          Number of           Vehicles Within      Above    Above    Above    Above    Above
Truck Type   Vehicle Weight   Vehicles Weighed   Gross Weight Limits   Limits   Limits   Limits   Limits   Limits
C-2           15.5 T.            24,375               12,987           11,049     263       34       42
C-3           22.0 T.             8,471                5,146            3,193     132       -        -
T3- S2        36.0 T.            16,842               14,831            2,011      -        -        -         -
Source: Annual Summary of vehicles weighed at veighing stations in Guatemala, DGC
Jan.-Dec., 1978
September 1979



- 47 -                      TABLE 2.10
GUATEMALA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Distribution of Highway Network by Responsible Agency
(in kilometers)
Jurisdiction                 Paved                  Unpaved              Total
DGC Maintenance Zones:
1                          565                     962              1,527
2                          324                      789             1,113
3                          505                     805              1,310
4                          494                      741             1,235
5                          314                     660                974
6                          164                     801                965
7                           52                     685                 737
8                          319                     615                934
Total Length Maintained      2,737                    6,058              8,795
Network not Maintained           28                   1,531              1?559
Total DGC Network            2,765                    7,589             10,354
FYDEP Network                   --                      785                785
INTA Network                    --                    4,000              4,000
Private Network                 --                    3,000              3.000
Total                   2,765                  15,374             18,139
Source: DGC; Plan Anual de Mantenimiento, 1979
September 1979



- 48 -                   TABLE 2.11
GUATEMALA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Staffing of DGC
(1977)
Percentage of Total
Total DGC        Maintenance       Assigned to Maintenance
Division               Division
Executive                   2                 -                 -
Professionals              48                 2                  4
Technicians               376                 1                 0.2
Administrative            473               348                 74
Service Employees         280              125                 45
Skilled and Unskilled  8,576              7,710                90
Police                     18                -                  0.0
Total                   9,773             8,186                 84
%                         100                84
Source: DGC Annual Report 1977
September 1979



- 49 -
TABLE 2.12
GUATEMALA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Road User Tax Revenues
(millions of quetzales)
Type of Tax         1973     1974     1975      1976     1977      1978
Premium Gasoline    5.3       4.3      5.8       6.4      6.7      10.5
Regular Gasoline    6.4       9.2      9.1       9.3       8.2      9.6
Diesel              2.5       2.8       3.0      3.5      2.3       3.9
Tolls               0.5       0.5      0.6       0.6      0.7       0.7
VehicleRegistration 3.6       3.9       4.7      5.4      6.4       7.2
Vehicle Imports     6.7      11.0      9.5      12.0     21.0      21.0
Total             25.0      31.7     32.7      37.2     45.3      52.9
1/ Mission estimate
Source-: Ministerio de Finanzas and Ministerio de Economia
September 1979



- 50 -                              TABLE 2.13
GUATEMALA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Annual Expenditures by    DGC
1965-1979
(millions of quetzales)
Total         Total
Maintenance and                          (ii current  (in constant
Year     Administration    Minor Improvements    Construction   quetzales)   1950 quetzales)
1965           2.4                    5.1                  6.6             14.1            13.0
1970           1.9                    4.5                 12.8             19.2            16.8
1971           2.0                    4.8                 10.6             17.4            15.2
1972           2.0                    4.7                 14.4             21.1            18.6
1973           2.0                    4.6                 15.2             21.8            18.2
1974           2.1                    7.8                 20.1             30.0            19.2
1975           2.6                    7.7                 14.3             24.6            13.0
1976           2.0                    8.3                 17.8             28.1            11.5
1977           2.6                    9.6                 17.0             29.2            10.1
1978           2.5                    9.8                 27.2             39.5            11.8
1979           NA                    10.3                 NA              (10.3)         ( 2.7)
Source: DGC
September 1979



-51i -                            TABLE 3.1
GUATEMALA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Maintenance Staff
(1979)
Skilled       Unskilled
Description                Professional      Personnel       Personnel      Total
Maintenance Division            2                  19              4           25
MZ No. 1                                          529            729        1,258
MZ No. 2                                          253            566          819
MZ No. 3                                          274            610          884
MZ No. 4                                          261            739        1,000
MZ No. 5                                          336            831        1,167
MZ No. 6                                          257            505          762
MZ No. 7                                          206            608          814
MZ No. 8                                          369            778        1,147
Asphalt Group                                      94             86          180
Mobile Group                                      105            200          305
Signalization                                      21             10           31
Totals                          2               2,724          5,666        8,392
Source: DGC
September 1979



- 52 -
TABLE 3.2
GUATEMALA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Maintenance Allocations 1979 1]
(quetzales)
Amount               Percentage
Salaries                6,780,910                 65.6
Spare parts               502,750                   4.9
Tires                     208,500                   2.0
Materials2/               576,733                   5.6
Tools                      31,600                  0.3
Fuel and Asphalt_2/     2,094,131                 20.3
Miscellaneous             143,976                   1.3
Total              10,338,600                 100%
1/ Including 35% allocated to road rehabilitation, reconstruction, and
minor improvements and waterway dredging
2/ Steel and cement Q.205,800; paint Q.280,925; Other Q.90,008
3/ In 1978,Q.640,000 were spent for asphalt supply (about 5,000 tons)
Source: DGC 1979 budget
September 1979



TABLE 3. 3
- 53 -
GUATEMALA
HIGWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Number and Age of the DGC Equipment
(January 1, 1979)
Ag
Type of Equipment       0 - 5yrs   6 - lOyrs  --1  -1yrs  15yrs  Total  Average Age
Equipment Working or
under Repair
Light vehicle        26          13            19         56        114
Heavy vehicle        53          85           121         89        348
Equipment            45        100             83        133        361
Other Equipment      14          25            31        104        174
Subtotal        138         223            254        382       997    12 years
Equipment to be Scrapped
Light vehicle         -           2             6         20         28
Heavy vehicle         3           7            16         45         71
Equipment             1           8            12         30         51
Other equipment       -         11             14         26         51
Subtotal           4         28             48        121       201    14.5 years
Total            142        251            302        503      1198
Proportion (%)   12          21             25         42       100
Source: DGC
September 1979



- 54 -
TABLE 4.1
GUATEMALA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Estimates of Recurrent Budget
Requirements for Maintenance
Program (1980-1985) 1/
(March 1979 values, '000 quetzales)
Budget Item                  1980      1981       1982       1983       1984      1985
Labor                   4368       4368       4368      4500       4500       4700
Asphalt                  325        620       1200       1530      1860       2260
Fuel                     975       1100       1250       1944      2180       2430
Equip. Maintenance       470        750       1250       1500      2000       2250
Other                    582        862       1132      1326       1560       1860
Total                   6720       7700       9200     10800      12100      13500
1/ Excludes budget requirements for non-maintenance activities carried out by
the Maintenance Division.
Source: Mission estimates
September 1979



- 55 -
TABLE 4.2
GUATEMALA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Tentative List and Cost Estimate of New Maintenance Equipment
(March 1980 values, 'ooo quetzales)
Number of Units    Cost per Unit       Total Cost
Pickups                                 40                   9               360
Tip Trucks                              95                  25             2,375
Patch Trucks                            10                  31               310
Bitumen tankers                          8                  28               224
Lubrication trucks                      10                  26               260
Low Loaders                             16                   9               144
Agricultural tractors                   40                  17               680
Tractor D6 type                          8                 110               880
Motorgraders-120HP                      14                  83             1,162
Front-end Loader                        10                  58               580
Rollers                                 10                  44               440
Mobile Crusher lOOt/day                   3                132               396
Mobile Asphalt plant                      2                110               220
Others                                  19                  11               209
Cost Estimate CIF Guatemala                                                8,240
Local Delivery and                                                           824
before Operations Service  (10%)
TOTAL                                  285                                 9,064
Source: DGC and Mission estimates
September 1979



- 56 -
TABLE 4.3
GUATEMALA
HIGHWAY KAINTENANCE PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(US$ '000)
Quarterly                     Cumulative
IBRDiFiscal Year               Disbursements                  Disbursements
1980
December  1980                       16                             16
March     1981                       66                             82
June      1981                      140                            222
1981
September 1981                      810                          1,032
December  1981                      988                          2,020
March     1982                    6,987                          9,007
June      1982                       732                         9,739
1982
September 1982                      469                        10,208
December  1982                      255                         10,463
March     1983                    1,910                         12,373
June      1983                    3,380                         15,753
1983
September 1983                      710                        16,463
December  1983                      255                         16,718
March     1984                      127                         16,845
June      1984                        39                        16,884
1984
September 1984                       39                        16,923
December  1984                        39                       16,962
March     1985                        38                        17,000
Assumptions:      Loan Signature:          May 1980
Invitation to Bid:      January 1981
Award-of Contract:      June 1981
Delivery of Equipment: December 1981
Source: Mission Estimates
September 1979



- 57 -                         TABLE 4.4
GUATEMALA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Monitoring Indicators of
Maintenance Program
1979     1982       1983       1984      1985
I. Maintenance Works Indicators (km/year)
Periodic overlay of asphalt concrete    NA          130        150        175       200
Single surface treatment                  NA        220        250        280       320
Regravelling                              NA        800        830        870       900
Grading unpaved roads                     NA    16,500    18,000    20,000    22,D00
II. Resource Indicators
Asphalt (Tons/year)                       NA      9,000    11,800    14,300    17,400
Aggregate (1m3/year)                       NA    49,000    56,000    64,000    73,000
LII. Equipment Indicators
III- EquiPraet ladicators40                    65         75        80         80
Availability (% of 220 annual
working days)
Utilization ( % of annual available        35         50        65         75         75
working hours) 1/
1/ Assuming total potential of 6 hours per working day that a piece of equipment
is available.
Source: Mission estimates
September 1979



GUATEMALA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Road and Terrain Characteristics
Type of Road Surface and Maintenance Policy
Paved                    Gravel                           Earth
Characteristics               Good      Fair     Minimum  Good      Fair      Minimum   Good      Fair       Minimum
Roughness (mm/km)             3,000    4,000    4,500    6,000    9,000    12,000    8,000    10,000          13,000
Water Content (%)               -         -        -           8.0      12.0      17.0      10.0       15.0        17.0
Degree of curvature              70.0      70.0      70.0     90.0      90.0      90.0    100.0       100.0      100.0
(degrees/km)
Rate of Rise/Fall (mm/km         30.0      30.0     30.0      40.0      40.0      40.0      50.0      50.0        50.0
Altitude (m)                  1,800    1,800    1,800    1,800    1,800        1,800    1,800      1,800       1,800
Source: Consultants' Report, "Guatemala Highway
Maintenance Project," August 1979
September 1979



- 59 -                       TABLE 5.2
GUATEMALA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Road Conditions in 1987
Without the Maintenance Program
Type of Road           Traffic              Road Condition (km)
Surface              (AADT)             Good    Fair    Minimum    Total Network
Asphalt concrete        1,188               78      -          347
3,219              194      -          564
8,772               68      -          129
Subtotal           340      -        1,040          1,380
Double surface            596              500      -        1,004
Treatment             3,219                -       -          381
Subtotal           500      -        1,385          1,885
Gravel                     28               -       -        1,209
66               -      -        1,162
113              127     -        1,058
209               47      -         912
Subtotal           174      -       4,341           4,515
Earth                      23               -       -       2,104
55               -      -          470
Subtotal            -       -        2,574          2,574
Total           1,014       -        9,340         10,354
Source:   Mission estimates
September 1979



- 60 -
TABLE 5.3
GUATEMALA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Road Conditions in 1987
With the Maintenance Program
Type of Road           Traffic              Road Condition (km)
Surface              (AADT)             Good    Fair    Minimum    Total Network
Asphalt Concrete         1,188             425      -         -
3,219             758      -         -
8,772             197      -         -
Subtotal         1,380      -          -            1,380
Double Surface             596           1,504      -         -
Treatment              3,219              381     -          -
Subtotal         1,885      -          -            1,885
Gravel                      28              -       -       1,209
66              -      -        1,162
113             127   1,058        -
209             959     -          -
Subtotal         1,086   1,058      2,371           4,515
Earth                       23             -        -       2,104
55             -       -          470
Subtotal           -        -       2,574           2,574
Total            4,351   1,058       4,945         10,354
Source: Mission estimates
September 1979



- 61 -
TABLE 5.4
GUATEMALA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Traffic Composition
(%)
1/                ~~~~~~2/
Type of Vehicles                                 Paved              Gravel/Earth
Automobile                                         65                     68
Bus                                                8                       9
Light Truck                                        22                     23
Heavy Truck                                         5                     -
TOTAL                                        100                     100
1/    Based on average conditions observed at permanent counting stations
2/    Based on assumption that tractor trailers do not operate on gravel and
earth roads
Source:  Consultants' Report, "Guatemala Highway
Maintenance Project," August 1979
September 1979



- 62 -               TABLE 5.5
GUATAMELA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Highway Maintenance Activities
Which Comprise the
Alternative Maintenance Policies
Activity                                                                        Type of
Number      Type of Activity          Type of Road Surface Affected          Maintenance
Asphalt   Double Surface                           Peri-
Concrete    Treatment     Gravel  Earth  Routine  odic
1       Cleaning ditches          x             x           x       x        x
2       Cleaning drainage
channels                x            x            x       x       x
3       Cutting grass             x             x           x       x        x
4       Repairing surface
manually                                          x       x       x
5       Machine grading surface                             x       x                x
6       Replenishing materials
for surface                                       x                       x
7       Repairing shoulders
manually                x             x                           x
8       Replenishing materials
for shoulder            x            x                            x
9       Repairing pavement
and sealing             x            x                            x
10       Single surface treatment                x                                    x
11       Overlay of asphalt
concrete                x                                                  x
Source: Consultants' Report, "Guatemala Highway
Maintenance Project," August 1979
September 1979



- 63 -
GUATEMALA                   TABLE 5.6
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Frequency Table for
Road Maintenance Activities l
(number of operations/year
Traffic               Maintenance Policy
Maintenance Activity               (AADT)            Good     Fair      Minimum
1. Cleaning ditches                  <25               3        1          0
25-50              4        2          1
51-100             5        3          1
>100            6         4          2
2. Cleaning drainage                 <25               3        1          0
channels                       25-50              4         2          1
51-100             5        3          2
>100             6        4          3
3. Cutting grass                    <25                1       0.5        0.2
25-50              1       0.5        0.2
51-100             1       0.5        0.2
>100            1.5      0.75       0.3
4. Repairing surface                 <25              0.5      0.25        0
manually                        25-50              1       0.5         0
51-100             2        1          0
>100             3       1.5         1
5. (a) Machine grading               425              0.9      0.4         0
surface                    25-50             1.8       1.3        1.1
(gravel surface)             51-100            4.5       2.6       2.0
)100            12        9         7.5
(b) Machine grading              <25              1.2       0.9       0.6
surface                    25-50             2.7        2        1.3
(earth surface)              51-100             6         4          3
>100            16       12          8
6. Replenishing materials           C25               0.11     0.07       0.06
for surface                    25-50             0.24      0.16      0.13
51-100            0.32     0.21       0.18
>100            0.44     0.29       0.24
7. Repairing shoulders             <1000               1       0.6         0
manually                     1000-3000             3       1.7         1
v3000               7        4          3
8. Replenishing materials          (1000             0.25      0.10       0.05
for shoulders                1000-3000            1        0.5       0.25
>3000               2        1         0.5
9. Repairing pavement              <1000              0.6      0.4        0.1
and sealing                  1000-3000           0.8       0.6        0.13
>3000               1       0.8        0.16
10. Single surface                 '1000               0.2      0.14       0.10
treatment                     >1000              0.33      0.25      0.16
11. Overlay of asphalt              (1000              0.08     0.04       0.03
concrete                     1000-3000           0.20      0.11      0.09
Y3000              0.40     0.22       0.17
1/  Frequencies renresent general averages used to approximate resource requirements for
the project. Revisions are required before adopting frequencies to guide detailed
work programs.
Source: Consultants' Report, "Guatemala Highway
Maintenance Project," August 1979
September 1979



- 64 -                            TABLE 5.7
GUATEMALA
HIGHWAY LAINTENANCE PROJECT
Policy Costs for Paved Roads!/
(MIarch 1979 values,quetzales/Km/year)
Asphalt Concrete Roads
Traffic (AADT):         <1000                 1000-3000                  3000
Policy:             G     F       M         G       F       M         G       F      M
Maintenance
Activity
1             1ll     74      37      111      74      37       111      74      37
2             149    99       74      149      99      74       149      99      74
3              98    49      20        98      49      20        98      49      20
7               6      4     -         19      11       6        45      26      19
8             147    59      29       589    295    147    1,178    589    295
9             161   107       27      214    161       35       268    214       43
11           1,532   766    575    3,831  2,107  1,724    7,662  4,214  3,256
Total         2,204 1,158    762    5,011  2,796  2,043    9,511  5,265  3,744
Double Surface Treatment Roads
Traffic (AADT):                   <1000                     >1000
Policy:                      G       F       M         G       F       M
Maintenance
Activity
1                       111      74      37       111      74     37
2                       149      99      74       149      99      74
3                        98      49      20        98      49     20
7                         6       4       -        19     11       6
8                       147      59      29       589    295    147
9                       161    107       27       214    161       35
10                      -062    675    481    1,588  1,203    770
Total                   1,634  1,067    668    2,768  1,892  1,089
1/ G= Good; F= Fair; M= Minimum
Source: Consultants' Report, "Guatemala Highway
Maintenance Project," August 1979
September 1979



- 65 -
TABLE 5.8
GUATEMALA
HIGHWAY MAINTE1NANCE PROJECT
Policy Costs for Unpaved Roads I
(March 1979 values, quetzales/Km/year)
Gravel Roads
Traffic (AADT):         c 25             25-50            50-100   .        '100
Policy:             G    F    M       G    F    M      G    F    M       G    F    M
Maintenance
Activity
1              56   19    -    74   37   19    93   56   19   111    74    37
2              74   25    -    99   50   25   124   74   50   149    99    74
3              65   33   13    65   33   13    65   33   13    98    49    20
4              49   25    -    98   49    0   196   97    -   294   147    98
5              22   10    -    44   32   27   110   64   49   293   220   183
6             499  318  272 1,090  726  590 1,453  953  817 1,998 1,317 1,090
Total           765  430  285 1,470  927  674 2,041 1L278 948 2,943 1,906 2,502
Earth Roads
Traffic (AADT):
Policy:
1              56   19    -      74  37   19    93   56   19   111    74    37
2              74   25    -      99  50   25   124   74   50   149    99    74
3              65   33   13      65  33   13    65   33   13    98    49    20
4              49   25    -      98  49    -   196   98    -   294   147    98
5              29   22   15      66  49   32   147   98   73   391   293   196
Total           273  124   28    402 218   89   625  359  155 1,043   662   425
1/  G= Good; F= Fair; M= Minimum
Source: Consultants' Report, "Guatemala Highway
Maintenance Project," August 1979
September 1979



- 66 -
TABLE 5.9
GUATEMALA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Economic Vehicle Operating Costs on Varying Road Surfaces
with Different Maintenance Policies
(March 1979 values, quetzales/1000 Km)
Type of Road         Type of               Maintenance Policy and Resultant Road Condition
Surface             Vehicle                      Good             Fair           Minimum
Cost   Index    Cost   Index    Cost   Index
Paved                Automobile  1/          115.45   100    123.63   107    127.62   110
Bus         21         297.31   100    305.96   103    310.27   104
Light Truck            318.38   100    333.91   105    341.47   107
Heavy Truck 3/         733.41   100    807.46   110    843.44   115
Gravel               Automobile  1/          156.52   100    181.94   116    207.64   133
Bus                    346.73   100    377.69   109    409.44   118
Light Truck 2/         381.56   100    431.98   113    512.44   134
Heavy Truck 31         926.30   100   1071.91   116   1182.12   128
Earth                Automobile 1/           191.74   100    213.40   111    243.28   127
Bus                    393.43   100    420.35   107    456.58   116
Light Truck 2/         502.21   100    523.97   104    556.21   111
Heavy Truck 3/        1104.00   100   1189.55   108   1317.45   119
1/ Includes all light vehicles such as automobiles, pickups and panel trucks
2/ Includes single unit trucks with an average payload capacity of 10 tons
3/ Includes all tractor trailer combinations
Source: Consultants' Report, "Guatemala Highway
Maintenance Project," August 1979
September 1979



- 67 -
TABLE 5.10
GUATEMALA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Annual Net Economic Benefits of
Alternative Maintenance Policies
(March 1979 values, quetzales/Km)
Net Benefits                   Selected Policy
Type of Road           Traffic                                     Without Budget    With Budget
Surfaces              (AADT)     Fair Policy    Good Policy         Constraint        Constraint
Asphalt Concrete        500           762             2010               Good            Good
2000         3785            10885                Good           Good
4000          7817           22717                Good           Good
Double Surface          500           789             2633               Good            Good
Treatment            2000          3641            12178               Good            Good
4000         7444            24905                Good           Good
Gravel                   15          (-1)            (-301)           Minimum         Minimum
35          262              138               Fair         Minimum
75          791             1018               Good            Fair
230         2839             4424               Good            Good
Earth                    15            47             (-5)               Fair         Minimum
35          259              346               Good         Minimum
75          685             1048               Good            Fair
200         2013             3304               Good            Good
Source: Consultants' Report, "Guatemala Highway
Maintenance Project," August 1979
September 1979



TABLE 5.11
- 68 -
GUATEMALA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Net Program Costs
(March 1979 values, loon auetzales)
Recurrent Budget      Recurrent Budget  1/    Net Project   Present
Year       Project Cost      "with" Program         "without" Program            Cost         Worth  -/
1980        64                  6720                   6720                        64            64
1981      8098                  7700                   7700                     8098           7231
1982      1369                  9200                   7700                     2869           2287
1983      4971                 10800                   7700                     8071           5745
1984       135                 12100                   7700                     4535           2882
1985        -                  13500                   7700                     5800           3291
1986        -                  15200                   7700                     7500           3800
1987        -                  17000                   7700                     9300           4206
1988      1200                 17000                   7700                    10500           4241
1989      1200                 17000                   7700                    10500          3786
3/
1990      1200-4800            17000                   7700                     5700           1835
Total                                                                          72937          39368
1/       Estimated as 65% of 1979 Highway Maintenance Improvement Budget of Q10,338
Thousand with a 15% increase in real terms by 1981
2/       Opportunity cost of capital = 12%
3/       Residual value of equipment assuming a 10 year useful life.
Source:   Mission estimates
September 1979



- 69 -                          TABLE 5.12
GUATEMULA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Summary of Program Benefits
(March 1979 values, '000 quetza]es)
Vehicle Operating Cost           Time              Total                         2/
Year                    Savings                 Savings 1/        Savings          Present Worth
1980
1981
1982                        2598                 1742               4340                 3460
1983                       13120                 9233              22353                15911
1984                       17709                 9071              26780                17019
1985                       23903                 8910              32813                18619
1986                      32264                  8748              41012                20777
1987                      43549                  8586              52135                23580
1988                      46162                  9101              55263                22321
1989                      48932                  9647              58579                21124
1990                      51868                 10226              62094                19994
Total                     280105                75264             355369                162805
1/ For salaried operators of commercial vehicles
Z/   Opportunity cost of capital = 12%
Source: Mission estimates
September 1979



TABLE 5.13
- 70 -
GUATEMALA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Feasibility Indices of the Maintenance Project
Feasibility Indices
Internal Rate        Benefit/Cost      Net Present
Sensitivity Tests                            of Return             Ratio             Value
(in millions
of Quetzales)
1. Best Estimate                              119%                 4.1:1                123.4
2. Excluding Time Savings of salaried
Operators of Commercial Vehicles           83%                  3.2:1                85.9
3. Two Year Delay in Benefits                  51%                 2.8:1                 84.2
4. Decline in Benefits (-25%)                  92%                 3.1:1                82.7
5. Increase in Costs (+25%)                    98%                 3.3:1               113.6
6. Goal Achievement Limited to
1983 Targets                              105%                  3.9:1                76.2
Source: Mission estimates
September 1979



- 71 -
ANNEX 1
Page 1
GUATEMALA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Outline Terms of Reference for
Technical Assistance Program
on
Highway Maintenance
Objectives
1.        The purpose of the technical assistance program is to provide
consultant services over a period of about four and one-half years to guide and
assist the Direccion General de Caminos (DGC) in the implementation of a four-year
highway maintenance program designed to achieve lasting improvements in highway
maintenance operations. The principal objectives are:
(a) To improve DGC's capability to plan and program highway mainten-
ance activities;
(b) To assist in the preparation and implementation of annual work
programs for each of the maintenance zones and specialized
units;
(c) To assist in the refining of the lists of equipment and spare
parts to be purchased under the project and in the preparation
of bidding documents;
(d) To improve the organization and operational procedures related
to highway maintenance especially with regard to the proper
application of labor-intensive techniques;
(e) To raise maintenance equipment availability and utilization;
(f) To assist in the establishment and initial operation of a
permanent training program for maintenance personnel at all
levels;
(g) To provide guidance in the preparation of a four-year road
rehabilitation and strengthening program; and
(h) To improve DGC's capability to conduct economic analyses for
different types of highway projects.



- 72 -
ANNEX 1
Page 2
Scope of Consulting Services
2.        The project shall be carried out under the authority of the Director
General of DGC. The tasks shall include, but not necessarily be limited to,
the following functional areas:
(i) Maintenance Organization and Management
3.        Provide advice and assistance in:
(a)  improving coordination within DGC between the Maintenance
Division and the other divisions and sections related to road
maintenance activities, i.e., the Planning Unit and the Labor-
atory Section;
(b) introducing accounting procedures to facilitate the separate
costing of individual routine and periodic maintenance activ-
ities and to distinguish maintenance operations from other
works of the Maintenance Division;
(c) reviewing and revising the organization and responsibilities of
the zones, the districts and the mobile units for carrying out
specific maintenance activities and determining manpower and
equipment distribution;
(d) assessing and improving the distribution of managerial respons-
ibilities of the professional staff in Maintenance Division
headquarters; and
(e) projecting general organizational requirements for extending
DGC maintenance responsibilities to cover FYDEP and INTA
network.
(ii) Maintenance Programing and Identification of Rehabilitation and
Strengthening Requirements
4.        Provide advice and assistance in:
(a) reviewing, updating and implementing the four-year highway
maintenance program through the preparation of annual work
programs for each maintenance zone and specialized unit,
including amount of physical works to be accomplished and
related resource requirements;
(b) properly applying labor-intensive techniques to maintenance
operations;
(c) monitoring of project works indicators;



- 73 -
ANNEX I
Page 3
(d) organizing a road diagnostic unit to conduct continuous surveys
of road conditions, including training in the method of data
collection, the use of equipment and the analysis of results;
(e) preparing a four-year program for road rehabilitation and
strengthening, including developing methodologies for the
identification of projects and the economic and engineering
assessment of technical alternatives; and
(f) projecting general resource needs for extending DGC maintenance
responsibilities to cover FYDEP and INTA network.
(iii) Maintenance Equipment and Facilities
5.        Provide advice and assistance in:
(a) refining the list of equipment and vehicles to be purchased or
overhauled and the list of spare parts for the overhaul program
and for the preventive maintenance stock;
(b) preparing bidding documents for equipment, vehicles and spare
parts to be purchased under the project and reviewing bids;
(c) preparing and implementing a plan for the disposal of obsolete
equipment, materials and stock;
(d) reviewing procedures for spare parts procurement and improving
the system for distributing spare parts purchased under the
project;
(e) establishing preventive maintenance techniques;
(f) instituting procedures for measuring equipment and vehicle
availability and utilization and monitoring these indices
during the project period;
(g) monitoring of equipment and vehicles purchased under the
project; and
(h) projecting equipment and vehicle replacement needs for the four
years following the project period.
(iv)  Training Program and Manpower Studies 1/
6.        Provide advice and assistance in:
(a) reviewing manpower requirements for the four-year maintenance
program and updating the inventory of all maintenance personnel;
(b) determining the number of personnel by category of work and
level of responsibility to be trained during the maintenance
program, establishing priority needs;
1/   See Annex 2 for details of training program and job descriptions.



- 74 -                       ANNEX I
Page 4
(c)  developing a phased training program for different types and
levels of personnel based on manpower requirements and budgetary
constraints;
(d) establishing a mobile Training Production Unit (TPU) and a
center at Las Vacas for training of road foremen, operators,
drivers and mechanics;
(e) reviewing the number and types of instructors required to
implement the proposed program;
(f) determining equipment and materials required for on-the-job
training as well as classroom equipment such as audio-visual
aids; and
(g) reviewing personnel policies of DGC with relation to mainten-
ance operations, including recruitment, career development and
salaries.
(v) Highway Project and Program Evaluation
7.        Provide advice and assistance in:
(a) improving the DGC Planning Unit's capability to conduct economic
evaluations of various types of road projects by establishing
standardized methodologies and data resources; and
(b) developing proper methodologies and criteria for the formula-
tion of highway investment plans to include both construction and
maintenance projects.
Staffing
8.        It is estimated that the following specialists would be required:
Specialist                                             Man-Months
One Highway Maintenance Engineer                           24
One Equipment Fleet Specialist                             24
One Soils and Pavement Engineer                            10
One Transport Economist                                    18
One Store Specialist                                       10
One Training Specialist for the training program           36
One Senior Instructor for Mechanics locally
recruited for the center at Las Vacas                    36
One Highway Engineer locally recruited, Chief of TPU    36
One Senior Instructor of Operators locally recruited
for TPU                                                  36
One Chief Mechanic locally recruited for TPU               36
Total     266



- 75 -
ANNEX 1
Page 5
Schedule for Reporting
9.        The consultant team shall be responsible for submitting the follow-
ing reports in Spanish within the time limits specified. The contents shall
be in accordance with the project implementation schedule:
(a) Inception Report: Within four months of the starting date,
stating the consultants' detailed work plan and schedule for
accomplishing the project objectives;
(b) Progress Reports: At four-month intervals after submission of
the Inception Report, listing the consultants' field staff,
work performed during the reporting period, difficulties and/or
delays encountered and proposed remedial actions and the plan
for the subsequent four months. Annexes shall be included when
more detailed information on specific aspects of the project is
appropriate;
(c) Draft Final Report: Three months before the closing date,
summarizing the work performed and the findings and recommend-
ations for subsequent highway maintenance programs in Guatemala;
and
(d) Final Report: Incorporating all revisions deemed appropriate by
the consultants within two months after receipt of comments
from the Government on the Draft Final Report.
(e) Other reports as may be reasonably requested by the Government.
10.       Regarding the training program, the consultant team shall be respon-
sible for submitting the following detailed reports in Spanish within the time
limits specified:
(a) an inception report following the first visit of the training
adviser, detailing training needs and recommendations for a
four-year program to meet these needs, including measures
required to implement the program. The report shall contain
a concise first chapter summarizing the contents;
(b) quarterly progress reports during the implementation of the
training program describing the work carried out during the
previous three months and the work program for the following
three months; the progress report shall identify actual and
anticipated difficulties and delays in implementing the
training program and suggested remedies;
(c) a brief report on personnel policies and recommended
improvements;



- 76 -
ANNEX I
Page 6
(d) a Draft Final Report four months prior to the completion of
consultants' participation in the training program summarizing
(i) work performed; (ii) progress made; (iii) benefits from
training program; (iv) areas where progress has been unsatis-
factory; and (v) recommendations for further action; and
(e) a Final Report within two months of receipt of comments on
the Draft Final Report from the Government, incorporating all
revisions deemed appropriate by the consultants.
11.       Two copies of all reports shall be sent to the Bank by the contracting
agency as soon as issued for information.
February 1980



- 77 -
ANNEX 2
Page 1
GUATEMALA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Training Program
1.        A proposed four-year training program would aim at improving the
standard of highway maintenance through the training, retraining and upgrading
of a total of 800 to 900 road and equipment maintenance personnel (allowing
for 15% attrition) including foremen and overseers, equipment operators and
drivers, mechanical maintenance personnel, engineers and administrative staff
(Table 1 of this Annex). 1/ A permanent training section should be estab-
lished within DGC with responsibility for the planning, implementation and
supervision of all training activities. Initially, this section would consist
of a staff of four--the chief, one administrative officer, one draftsman and
one clerk/typist--financed by the DGC maintenance budget. The overall organiza-
tion of the proposed training section within DGC is illustrated in Chart 1
of this Annex and the staff requirements are shown in Table 2 of this Annex.
The cost of the program and the funding sources are presented in Table 3.
2.        Retraining and upgrading of road foremen, overseers, equipment
operators and drivers would be carried out mostly in the field, in collabora-
tion with the Zones, by adopting a system of training through actual produc-
tion. This would require the establishment of one mobile Training Production
Unit (TPU) to conduct maintenance operations on selected road segments in
various Zones. It is estimated that a well organized and supervised TPU could
maintain up to 100 km of road per year, which represents what would normally
cost about Q 200,000 per year in recurrent budget outlays.
3.        Retraining and upgrading of mechanical personnel would be princi-
pally implemented in a training workshop to be built at Las Vacas. In addition
to some general courses, the training program would include the repair of road
maintenance equipment (some 40 units during the four-year program), enhancing
DGC's equipment maintenance capabilities and raising the level of equipment
availability. DGC would be required to provide adequate spare parts for
the training of mechanics throughout the duration of the program.
4.        Seminars on different topics related to maintenance management,
accounting and administration would be conducted periodically by technical
assistance experts for middle- and high-level staff. The program would also
include short courses abroad for high-level maintenance staff, the eight
chiefs of the Zones, and two staff members of the proposed training section.
5.        Limited physical training facilities would be built near the central
workshop at Las Vacas for the training of mechanics. They would consist of a
workshop, offices, a dormitory and related facilities totaling about 520 m2.
1/   Numbers represent approximations to be reviewed during the preparation of
the Plan of Action for the training program.



- 78 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2
Training equipment and materials varying from heavy items such as a motor
grader, a front-end loader, and a roller to lighter workshop equipment and
tools, and audio-visual training aids would also be provided through the
proposed loan.
6.        All training activities would be coordinated by an expatriate
training adviser (see attached job description) who would be assisted by four
Guatemalan instructors (see attached job descriptions) to be recruited from
the private sector and 12 assistant instructors to be provided by DGC.
The estimated man-months of personnel training to be provided under the
project are as follows:
1 international training specialist = 36 man-months
4 Guatemalan instructors             = 144 man-months
12 DGC assistant instructors          = 552 man-months
February 1980



- 79 -
ANNEX 2
Page 3
GUATEMALA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Outline Job Description for Training Adviser
Duration:       36 months
Duty Station: DGC headquarters, Guatemala City, with frequent field trips
to Las Vacas Center, TPU sites and other areas as needed
1.   Qualifications and Experience
(a)  A good general and technical education up to university level.
He should be a road maintenance specialist, preferably an engineer,
with five to seven years experience in managing training activities,
particularly in establishing programs and facilities. Moreover,
he should be capable of (i) organizing a comprehensive policy of
staff development through practical and productive training;
(ii) taking part in active training by conducting seminars and
discussions on a specific road maintenance problem; and
(iii) reviewing and recommending improvements of existing
personnel policies;
(b) working experience in Latin American countries; and
(c) fluency in Spanish.
2.   Responsibilities
The training adviser will be responsible for:
(a)  establishing and coordinating training policies;
(b)  identifying manpower training needs to carry out the road
maintenance plan;
(c)  preparing the required training programs, taking into considera-
tion existing conditions in Guatemala and DGC's administrative
structure;
(d)  determining the resources required to conduct the training
program;
(e)  developing a methodology for personnel training and quality
control;



- 80 -
ANNEX 2
Page 4
(f) approving training curricula and materials;
(g) implementing the training program, bearing in mind the necessary
coordination of activities between the proposed Training Section
and the Las Vacas Center and the TPU (field training), availability
of personnel and other constraints;
(h) conducting liaison with senior officers, Zones' staff and consultants
of DGC to obtain their cooperation for all matters related to
training and staff development policies;
(i) carrying out workshops/seminars on maintenance management and
related topics for high level staff;
(j) designing an evaluation system within the training program both to
monitor the results of training while it is performed and, later,
to evaluate the effectiveness of completed programs;
(k) reviewing and making recommendations for the improvement of
existing personnel policies, in collaboration with the Director
of Administration and Chief of Personnel; and
(1) taking necessary measures to ensure the satisfactory implementation
of all seminars and programs required to meet DGC's training needs,
including the training of the Chief of the Training Unit to take
over his responsibilities, and supervising the training of
Guatemalan instructors.



- 81 -
ANNEX 2
Page 5
GUATEMALA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Outline Job Description for Chief of Training Production Unit
Duration:       36 months
Duty Station: TPU on road maintenance sites in Guatemala
1.   Qualifications and Experience
(a) A good general and technical education up to university level or
equivalent - road engineer or senior road construction/maintenance
superintendent;
(b) effective previous training and subsequent extensive field
experience in road construction and maintenance;
(c) experience in developing and implementing on-the-job productive
training in road construction and maintenance at supervisory level;
(d) capacity to plan, organize and control work activities, and
maintain a team spirit;
(e) working experience in Latin American countries; and
(f) fluency in Spanish.
2.   Responsibilities
(a) planning, organizing and implementing practical productive
training of DGC personnel assigned to TPU, as well as maintenance
works to be carried out while training takes place; during the
last quarter of his service, he will have only an advisory role
while a DGC staff member will manage the TPU;
(b)  providing on-the-job training to road foremen, overseers,
equipment operators, drivers and certain levels of mechanics,
and ensuring that they also receive some instruction in theory;
(c) supervising the activities of the chief equipment operator and
chief mechanic assigned to the unit;
(d) ensuring an adequate supply control system to enable the TPU
to be properly stocked with materials, lubricants, etc.;



- 82-
ANNEX 2
Page 6
(e) ensuring appropriate use of all training equipment and other
resources allocated to the TPU; and
(f) training a Guatemalan counterpart, and supervising the training
of counterparts for the chief operator and chief mechanic as
well as other Guatemalan instructors assigned to the unit.
3.        In discharging his duties, the Chief of the TPU will report to the
Chief of the Maintenance Division through the training adviser.



- 83 -
ANNEX 2
Page 7
GUATEMALA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Outline Job Description for Senior Instructor, Equipment Operators
Duration:       36 months
Duty Station: TPU on road maintenance sites in Guatemala
1.   Qualifications and Experience
(a) A good general and technical education up to technician level or
equivalent - senior equipment operator;
(b) sound prior training with seven to ten years responsible experience
in heavy and light construction and maintenance equipment,
particularly in preventive maintenance; should have experience
as operator of most important road equipment;
(c) experience in developing and implementing on-the-job productive
training of equipment operators and drivers of supervisory level;
(d) working experience in Latin American countries; and
(e) fluency in Spanish.
2.   Responsibilities
He will be responsible for:
(a) organizing and implementing on-the-job productive training of
DGC equipment operators and drivers periodically assigned to TPU,
as well as maintenance works while training takes place;
(b) developing, in collaboration with the training adviser and the
Chief of TPU, basic training materials to be used for those
trainees with limited backgrounds;
(c) ensuring appropriate use of all training equipment and materials
allocated for training; and
(d) training a Guatemalan counterpart and other instructors assigned
to him.
3.        In discharging his duties, the senior instructor, equipment operators
will report to the Chief of the TPU.



- 84 -
ANNEX 2
Page 8
GUATEMALA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Outline Job Description for Senior Instructor, Mechanics
Duration:       36 months
Duty Station: Las Vacas Center or other suitable location
1.   Qualifications and Experience
(a) A good general and technical education up to technician level or
equivalent - mechanical superintendent or senior workshop foreman;
(b) sound practical training and subsequent extensive practical
experience in the maintenance and repair of heavy road construction/
maintenance equipment, dump trucks and other road vehicles. Insti-
tutional training experience would be an advantage;
(c) experience in developing and implementing on-the-job productive
programs in maintenance and repair of road equipment;
(d) capacity to plan, organize and control activities of others, while
maintaining a team spirit;
(e) working experience in Latin American countries; and
(f) fluency in Spanish.
2.   Responsibilities
(a) Planning, organizing and implementing the training of DGC mechanics
assigned to Las Vacas (or other suitable location) as well as the
overhaul of road equipment;
(b) developing, in collaboration with the training adviser and, later,
the Chief of the Training Section, basic training materials to be
used for those trainees who never benefited from prior training;
(c) ensuring an adequate and timely supply of spare parts to carry
out productive training, i.e., the repair of existing equipment;
(d) ensuring appropriate use of all training equipment and materials
and other resources allocated to the center; and
(e) training a Guatemalan counterpart and other instructors assigned
to the center.
3.        In discharging his duties, the senior instructor, mechanics will
report to the training adviser.



- 85 -
ANNEX 2
TABLE 1 - Page 1
GUATEMALA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Estimated Road and Equipment Maintenance Personnel
Expected to be Trained17
Description                              Number                 Totals
I.  Administrative
1.  Engineer                            3
2.  Chief of Zone                       8
3.  Assistant Chief of Zone             8
4.  Administrative Chief                1
5.  Assistant Accountants              36                      56
II.  Civil Engineering
1.  Assistant Engineer                  4
2.  Road Foreman                       74
3.  Road Overseers                     62
4.  Soils & Materials Technicians       4                     144
III.  Equipment Operation & Drivers
A. Operators
1.  Chief Operator                     20
2.  Grader                             50
3.  Loader                             50
4.  Roller                             40
5.  Tractor                            10
6.  Asphalt Mixer                      23
7.  Asphalt Distributor                 9
8.  Crusher                            18                     220
B. Drivers
Miscellaneous                     170                     170
1/ Numbers represent approximations to be reviewed during the preparation of
the Plan of Action for the training program



- 86 -
ANNEX 2
TABLE 1 - Page 2
Description                              Number                   Totals
IV.  Mechanical
1.  Assistant Mechanics                116
2.  Diesel Mechanics                    58
3.  Auto Mechanits                      62
4.  Chief of Workshops                   8
5.  Equipment Inspector                  8
6.  Electricians                        16
7.  Welders, Blacksmith, Greaser        30
8.  Storekeeper                         12                    310
Total                                                         900



-87-                               ANNEX 2
TABLE 2
GUATEMALA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Staff Requirements of the Training Section During Project Period
ProJect                                         Man-Months
I.   Program Management and Administration
1 Section Chief                                        Permanent
1 Administrative Officer                               Permanent
1 Draftsman                                            Permanent
1 Clerk/Typist                                         Permanent
1 Training Specialist 1/                                   36
II.   Training Production Unit (TPU)
1 TPU Chief 1/                                              36
1 Senior Operator 1/                                        36
1 Senior Mechanic 1/                                        36
1 Counterpart for TPU Chief                            Permanent
I Counterpart Operator                                 Permanent
1 Counterpart Mechanic                                 Permanent
1 Clerk                                                Permanent
1 Guard                                                Permanent
2 Assistant Instructors for Foremen                    Permanent
3 Assistant Instructors for Operators                  Permanent
III.   Center for Mechanics
1 Senior Instructor 1/                                     36
1 Counterpart                                          Permanent
3 Assistant Instructors for Mechanics                  Permanent
1 Storekeeper                                          Permanent
1 Clerk                                                Permanent
1 Guard                                                Permanent
1/ To be provided through the Technical Assistance Program.



- 88 -                                      ANNEX 2
TABLE 3
GUATEMALA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Funding Sources for Training Program
(March 1980 quetzales)
Sources of Financing        Item to be Financed                                      Year of Expenditure
1981        1982         1983        1984      1985    Total
Loan for Training          1.  Permanent Training Section        17,600       105,600      105,600      88,000      -     316,800
Component
2.  Fellowships                        -           36,020       23,980        -         -      60,000
3.  Center for Mechanics             47,000        17,000         -                     -      64,000
4.  Training Production Unit           -             -            -           -         -
Sub-Total              64,600       158,620      129,580      88,000      -     440,800
Additional DGC Budget
Requirements         1.  Permanent Training Section         7,300        24,200         -          -                 31,500
2.  Fellowships                        -             -            -           -         -
3.  Center for Mechanics             42,100        29,400       15,600      11,700      -      98,800
4.  Training Production Unit         11,700        46,800       46,800      35,100      -     140,400
Sub-Total              61,100       100,400       62,400      46,800      -     270,700
Transfer from DGC          1.  Permanent Training Section        16,260        22,350       22,350      22,350   22,350  105,660
Recurrent Budget
2.  Fellowships                        -             -            -           -
3.  Center for Mechanics             14,560        26,590       26,590      26,590   26,590  120,920
4.  Training Production Unit         24,420        95,040       95,040      95,040   95,040  404,580
Sub-Total              55,240       143,980      143,980    143,980  143,980  631,160
Funds from other           1.  Permanent Training Section         -
Loan Categories
2.  Fellowships
3.  Center for Mechanics               -           44,990       50,490       61,490  61,490  218,460
4.  Training Production Unit-/                     39,160       22,440       22,440  22,440  106,480
Sub-Total                -           84,150       72,930       83,930  83,930  324,940
TOTAL                                               180,940       487,150      408,890      362,710 227,910 1667,600
1/ Does not include equipment needs of 1 grader,l patch truck, 1 loader, 1 roller, 1 tractor and 4 tip trucks.
Source: Mission estimates
September 1979



GUATEMALA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Organization Chart of Training Section
DIRECCION GENERAL DE CAMINOS
|MAINTENANCE DIVISION
TRAINING SECTION
FELLOWSHIPS |- -           - -  - - - - - - - - -                                           SEMINARS
Program Management                  1. Accountants, Guatemala City & Zones
2. Equipment Supervisors and
Storekeepers, Zones
3. Maintenance Engineers, Guat. City
|  TPU   l                                                  | TRAINING CENTER FOR MECHANICS  |  O
(Zones)                                                                   (Las Vacas)       | 
|ROAD FOREMEN |     E5QUIPMENT ||SMALL REPAIRS|
& OVERSEERS         OPERATORS     MECHANICS       _
DRIVERS
ZI @j
I-tX



- 90 -
ANNEX 3
Page 1
GUATEMALA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available
in the Project File
A.   General Reports and Studies on the Sector or Subsector
1.   Plan Nacional de Desarrollo 1979/1982, Sector Transportes (Resumen).
Consejo Nacional de Planificacion Economica. 1978.
2.   Memoria.  Direccion General de Caminos.  1977 and 1978.
3.   Reglamento para el Control de Pesos y Dimensiones de Vehiculos
Automotores. Direccion General de Caminos. 1978.
4.   Lista de Companias Precalificadas para Obras Viales.  Direccion
General de Caminos. 1979.
5.   Caracteristicas Geometricas de las Carreteras.  Direccion General de
Caminos. 1968.
6.   Transito por Carreteras de Guatemala, 1977.  Direccion General de
Caminos. 1978.
7.   Guia Kilometrica.  2 Vols.  Direccion General de Caminos.  1978.
B.   General Reports and Studies Relating to the Project
7.   Project Brief Highway Maintenance Project.  July 1979.
8.   Guatemala Highway Maintenance Project.  Consultants' Report to the
Direccion General de Caminos. 1979. Vols. I and II.
9.   Report on Management of MOPT Fleet.  Back-to-Office Report.
A. Mackie (Consultant). 1979.
10.   Staffing and Training.  Back-to-Office Report.  G.A. Morra (CPS).
July 1979.
11.   Plan Anual de Mantenimiento de Carreteras y Puentes.  Direccion
General de Caminos. 1979.
12.   Presupuesto Analitico de Gastos por Actividad.  Direccion General de
Caminos. 1979.
13.   Notebook of Project Worksheets.  1979.
14.   Vehicle Operating Costs.  Computer Output.  1979.
January 1980



GUATEMALA
HIGHW'.Y MAINTENANCE PROJECT
General Direc.orate of Highways Organizational Structure
D irector 
|   -          -|   ~~~~Planning Unit 
r         .                             |    De~~~~~~~~~~~~putyDietr             SaitcScio 
.Vehicle Size ond
Secretariat            Wyeight Sect ion                                                         _       LgiUi
Tec n Pa                              Maintenance                              Administrative                 Fiania
Division                                ~~~~~Division                       |      Division       nDivision                  r
F~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Dephartmen               Supervision               Maintenance                    Maintenance                 Personnel    .Account ing                  _
Department   l      ~~Zone 5                 Zone No. 1       _Zone No. 2                                Section       .Section                   _
I                        I                                                                                          - I     X      
Bridges                Construct ion             Maintenance                      Maintenance   |     |    Equipment                  Internal Audit 
Department          ~~~Zone 6                Zone No. 3                      Z L one No. 4    |   |     Section                     SeL ctio-
| Laboratory    |                               | Maintenance                        Maintenance   |       | Procurement                 Ban ,;;;    oans and|
Department   |               Zone 7                  Zon No                          Zon No|                     Section                 Re  traioo
| Technical    l       l[l_                                                                              
| Specificat ion   |   |      Zone 8                   Maintenance   l_Maintenance                                 Stores       L
Deepartment   |                                           Zone No. 7                   Zone No. 8                  Section 
Zon  {9                        Noj                             o                      catiOns L
Zon 1 0                      Asphalt       L_         | Signalization   |       |     Financial      L
X  Zone 10  |               L                          1 roupUni                 Division      r
Zone11            Pet Cas                         Wtra
(~~~~~~~~~eto                                        Drdgnnei
Source: DGC Statistical Section
Septemnber 1979                                                                                                                              WAorld Bank -21219






GUATEMALA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Tentative Implementation S'chedule
1980                1981                1982                 1983                 1984                1985
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROGRAM                     -                                                                                                        
-Assignment ot Four Maintenance Engineers
and Four Technicians
Road Diagnostic Updating
-Annual WVork Prog,amn and Budget
Preparation Including Bank Revievv
- Annual Work Program and Budget
Review for Submission so Finance
Field Program Authorization                                                           Ii
- Field Operation Implementation
- Preparation of Rehabilitation and
Strengthening Program
EQUIPMENT ACQIUISITION
- Preparation of Bidding Qocuments
-  Invitation to Bid. Preparation of Offers                                               a 
- Bid Evaluation                                                                                                0  
- Contracting                                                       c- ~      ~               c
-  Contracting                                               o                    in   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
- Delivery of EquiPment
ACQUISITION OP SPARE PARTS
FOR OVERHAUL & INITIAL STOCK
-  Preparation of Equipment and.....
Spare Parts Units Lists
- Preparation of Bidding Documents
- Invitation to Bid. Preparation of Offers,
Bid Evaluation
- Contracting and Delivery
- Scrapping Preparatioin
- Scrapping Implementation,
-  Equipment Overhaul                                                              -    -     - --                     -
WORKSHOP TOOLS, HAND TOOLS
- Preparation of Unit Lists
- Preparation of Bidding Documents
- Invitation to Bid, Preparation of
Offers, Bid Evaluation
- Contracting and Delivery
- Installation
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
- Preparation of Preselection
- Preparation of Terms of Reference
- Invitation to Propose
- Proposal Evaluation
- Contracting
-  ImplementationH -                                                                                                                           -
-Highwvay &Mechanical Engineer                                                           -    -    -    -
-Soil Engineer
-Store Specialist
-Economnist
-Training Advisor--
TRAINING PROGRAM
--Assignment of a Permanent
Training Sectioin Chief
Program
-Revievv of Training WVork
Program & Plan of Action
-Implementation-
-Annual Updating of Plan of....
Act ion
Bank Concurrence
fDelivery
Source Mission Estimates
September 1979                                                                                                                                           World Bank   21220






GUATEMALA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Errata Sheet
On Map IBRD 14654, Maintenance Zone numeral for
Guatemala City should read "1"






IBRD-14654
9 9  (
W- 8nc, r,e                                                                                                                                                                                          J.N   C c   I  S   LI rAMAICA
A -~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
ttztolilroe~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a                                                                                                                                 e           
To ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I 7ALO    IAIII.
San Ma 001Staton                                                  L              \               \ y            .t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Tn
Dua ennocrma                                                                                                                              SanFe                   lao     o    nv  
\   <                                                        _    =~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Lqi  Chob6n  Fl Fs\to_~
/ICA.n A,.pZMAAA. MAiS/
g 5fH HUETENANGO- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ lo~ChjlL Arae 80-  
> )      g~ ~ So M       o m\iniostnLo                                                                                                                           S      ____________________________; 
To".                                        3   hlche Joyaba               /               CA                  PA                                  Ko;
SANTA i$             u gwrnump<                               oD                                   HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE EECJECI
T,teoj         CRUZ DEn                                                              Rio Hond
J,                                                HE   - sA                                                              k
ZACAIA~~~
T     A   C/ll  C                     OCEAN                                                                AgOn1n
\ / VLLIi7  }> Csls R.d  taarmMda;;Lit JheptOLZipr 
K.                                                           {( / SioProv75n/~-> MParlin  Sn Pda    CruE  Naron l El  PrOgres Jmo> ~   +  tr trparts n   \          E
ElTuh9te5 gvr \J oteTro @) / \ / FosaquaX PNuUeeblvv fr P Sg t =.  9 i; (g I f                            :   L                                       UAT5MALA
1.211.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ f,                                        I;3WM 1i.~:i; Z;  inr< ; i "S   ' i
F  A  t  /  f  I  C  O  C  E  A N 2 . - 1 = tCa:RS- tx ',; \? i 0 tim . *i x i .-; .- ! S L s ]   .     .            ;     ;           b    er   vo  av  t
sr~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~B                                                 C-* Njj        El ; ,g. : :  Ws  :lF   LX i;1 't   EE.X.pb    '$      1 H      ' -t b   



