LOAN NUMBER 1846 GU
Loan Agreement
(Highway Maintenance Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF GUATEMALA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated                               , 1980


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1846 GU
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated      .- L ;              , 1980, between
REPUBLIC OF GUATEMALA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter
called the Bank).
ARTICLE 1
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974,
with the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth
herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements of the Bank being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in th s Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "DGC" means Direcci6n General de Caminos of the Bor-
rower's Ministry of Communications and Public Works;
(b) "Maintenance Zone" means any of the regional adminis-
trative units of DGC responsible for carrying out DGC's Mainte-
nance Program;
(c) "Maintenance Program" means the maintenance program
for the road system of the Borrower for the years 1981-1985, as
described in the report entited "Staff Appraisal Report - Highway
Maintenance Project (Guatemala)", dated April 29, 1980;
(d) "DGC road network" means the roads under the jurisdic-
tion of the Borrower's Ministry of Communication and Public Works,
as defined in the "Guia Kilometrica, 1978," of the Borrower;
and
(e) "Road Diagnostic Unit" means the unit to be established
in accordance with Section 4.05 of this Agreement.


﻿- 2 -
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth
or referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
seventeen million dollars ($17,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall
otherwise agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, shall be governed by the
provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1985
or such later date as the Bank in consultation with the Borrower
shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of
such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of eight and twenty-five hundredths per cent (8.25%) per annum
on the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semianually on January 1 and July 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE'III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appro-
priate administrative, engineering, financial and highway main-
tenance practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
purpose.
(b) The Borrower shall carry out the Maintenance Program
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appro-
priate administrative, engineering, financial and highway mainte-
nance practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. (a) In order to assist the Borrower in carry-
ing out Part B of the Project, the Borrower shall employ consul-
tants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank; such consultants to
include one road maintenance engineer, one mechanical engineer,
one transport economist, one soils and pavement engineer, one
stores specialist, one training advisor, one chief instructor for
the Center of Mechanics of DGC, one chief for the Training
Production Unit of DGC, one chief operator and one chief mechanic.
(b) The Borrower shall assign to each one of the consultants
employed pursuant to paragraph (a) above adequate counterpart
staff.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall, for the purpose of carrying
out the Project:
(a) not later than December 31, 1980, prepare a detailed
list, satisfactory to the Bank, of DGC's equipment and vehicles to
be reconditioned under Part A.2 of the Project;
(b) (i) not later than December 31, 1980, prepare a program
for a systematic scrapping of DGC's worn-out equipment, vehicles
and obsolete parts; and (ii) start the execution of such program
not later than March 1, 1982;
(c) (i) in each year, until the completion of the Project,
prepare for each of the Maintenance Zones, a detailed work program


﻿to be carried out during the next following calendar year; and
(ii) exchange views with the Bank, not later than March 31 of each
year, on the scope and content of such work program before its
inclusion in DGC's operational budget;
(d) not later than October 31, 1981, furnish to the Bank a
plan of action, satisfactory to the Bank, for purposes of carrying
out Part B (2) of the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) The Borrower shall cause all equipment and vehicles
either acquired or reconditioned under the Project and spare parts
therefor financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to be used
exclusively for the Project until its completion and for minor
improvement works, provided that such minor works account for no
more than 10% of the annual working hours of such equipment and
vehicles, and consist of road works which include improvements to
existing drainage systems (pipe and box culverts); excavations of
less than 1,000 m3 per km for limited improvement in road
geometry; or asphalt paving of short segments (less than 100 m) of
existing gravel or each roads.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules for
the Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project (in-
cluding its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Bank's accredited representatives to visit the facili-
ties and construction sites included in the Project and to examine
the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any rele-
vant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank at


﻿-5-
regular intervals all such information as the Bank shall reason-
ably request concerning the Project, its cost and, where appro-
priate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reason-
ably request, on the execution and initial operation of the
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from
it, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their respec-
tive obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment
of the purposes of the Loan.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek,
in normal circumstances, special security from the member con-
cerned but to ensure that no other external debt shall have
priority over its loans in the allocation, realization or
distribution of foreign exchange held under the control or for the
benefit of such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created
on any public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for
any external debt, which will or might result in a priority for
the benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the alloca-
tion, realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien
shall, unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no
cost to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower,
in creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot
be made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of
its political or administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall
promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent
lien on other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.


﻿-6-
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i)
any lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof,
solely as security for payment of the purch-,a price of such
property; and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of
banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than
one year after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets"
means assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative
subdivision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by,
or operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any
such subdivision, including gold and foreign exchange assets held
by any institution performing the functions of a central bank or
exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the
Borrower.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to
be maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices the
operations, resources and expenditures of DGC.
(b) The Borrower shall: (i) differentiate the road mainte-
nance budget of DGC from DGC's budget for other activities; (ii)
establish and put into effect, starting in fiscal year 1981 and
apply thereafter, accounting procedures in DGC that will differen-
tiate the cost of routine maintenance works from periodic mainte-
nance activities, and maintenance operations from other operations
of DCG's Maiatenance Division; and (iii) establish by January 31,
1981 a monitoring and control system to evaluate the works carried
out by DGC's Maintenance Division and assess expendituies related
thereto.
(c) The Borrower shall put into effect, starting in 1981, a
system for monitoring the availability and utilization of its
equipment fleet.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall:
(a) adequately maintain DGC's road network in accordance
with sound engineering and financial practices;
(b) adequately maintain all of DGC's road maintenance
equipment and make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof,
all in accordance with sound engineering practices;


﻿-7-
(c) establish and maintain suitable workshops and inven-
tories of spare parts as required for the foregoing;
(d) not later than March 1, 1981, establish and maintain
a supply and distribution system, satisfactory to the Bank,
for the spare parts financed out of the proceeds of the Loan;
and
(e) take all action, including adequate budgetary alloca-
tions for DGC and the provision of the means and funds, necessary
for the foregoing.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall:
(a) not later than January 1, 1982, carry out a review of
DGC's road classification system;
(b) (i) not later than May 31, 1982, review the feasibility
of extending DGC's maintenance responsibilities to include roads
of economic and social significance for which DGC is not respon-
sible on the date of this Agreement; and (ii) assess the tech-
nical, financial and administrative implications of such extension
of DGC's responsibilities.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall: (i) not later than March 1,
1981, establish, and thereafter maintain, a Road Diagnostic Unit
to carry out a continuous survey on the condition of roads in the
DGC network; and (ii) provide such unit, promptly as needed, with
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for
the purpose.
Section 4.06. The Borrower shall ensure that:
(a) DGC efficiently enforces the vehicle dimension and
axle-road regulations of the Borrower in force on the date of this
Agreement, including night checks at key control stations; and
(b) DGC monitors the data collected in the enforcement
of such regulations and exchanges views annually with the Bank on
the results of such monitoring.
Section 4.07. The Borrower shall, from time to time, exchange
views with the Bank on the transport planning studies undertaken
by the Borrower: (i) to provide guidelines for the selection of
transportation projects; and (ii) to assess the institutional and


﻿- 8 -
policy changes necessary to strengthen the Borrower's transport
sector and to improve transport services, in each case with
special attention to the parts of such transporL planning studies
relating to road rehabilitation and strengthening.
Section 4.08. The Borrower shall:
(a) assign four additional qualified engineers to DGC's
Maintenance Division; and
(b) assign, not later than January 1, 1981, four additional
qualified technicians to DGC's Maintenance Division.
Section 4.09. The Borrower shall, until the completion of
the Project and except as required for emergency situations,
maintain the number of unskilled workers of DGC's Maintenance
Division at or below the level existing on December 31, 1979.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
(a) that the Borrower has employed, for purposes of carrying
out Part B of the Project, the consultants referred to in Section
3.02 (a) of this Agreement and has assigned to such consultants at
least the following counterpart staff: one road maintenance
engineer, one mechanical engineer and one training officer;
(b) that the Borrower has assigned the four additional
engineers referred to in Section 4.08 (a) of this Agreement to
DGC's Maintenance Division.
Section 5.02. The date    OC49-r Q     3l8fD , is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Condi-
tions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Ministerio de Comunicaciones y Obras
PG'blicas of the Borrower is designated as representative of the


﻿-9-
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Condi-
tions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio de Comunicaciones
y Obras P'blicas
Palacio Nacional, Zona 1
Guatemala City
Guatemala
Cable address:
MINISCOP
Guatemala
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the


﻿- 10 -
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF GUATEMALA
By I qtk%a TLU.L
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                Dollar Equivalent)  to be Financed
(1) Civil works for                64,000        55%
Part B(2)(ii) cf
the Project
(2) Equipment:
(a) Replacement            8,240,000        100% of foreign
Program                              expenditures and
91% of local
expenditures
(b) Workshop and             660,000        100% of foreign
laboratory                           expenditures and
91% of local
expenditures
(3) Spare parts                 4,014,000        100% of foreign
expenditures and
91% of local
expenditures
(4) Consultant's services       1,078,000        84%
and training
(5) Scholarships                   60,000        100% of foreign
expenditures
(6) Unallocated                 2,884,000
TOTAL       17,000,000


﻿- 12 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule: (a) the term "foreign
expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any country
other than the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from
the territory of any country other than the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the
Loan shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services,
or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in
respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower,
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned
policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expen-
ditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph I above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the
amount of the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insuffi-
cient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in
that Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i)
reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet the
estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated
to another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are
not needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such realloca-
tion cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the dis-
bursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order
that further withdrawals under such Category may continue until
all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting


﻿- 13 -
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under
the Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount
of the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents
the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is part of the Maintenance Program. The purpose
of the Project is to strengthen DGC's procedures and standards;
to upgrade road maintenance manpower at all levels; to enhance the
application of labor-intensive techniques to road maintenance
operations; and to ensure an adequate supply of equipment and
vehicles. The Project includes the following Parts:
Part A:   Equipment, Parts and Tools
1.   Acquisit4on and utilization of road maintenance equipment and
vehicles, including hand tools; building up of an initial spare
parts inventory; and acquisition of equipment for a Road Diag-
nostic Unit.
2.   Reconditioning of existing maintenance equipment and vehicles
and related acquisition and utilization of spare parts.
3.   Improvement of DGC's maintenance workshops and related
acquisition and utilization of,workshop tools and equipment.
Part B:   Institutional Improvements, Training and Studies
1.   Strengthening of DGC's technical and managerial capabilities
as necessary to carry out the Maintenance Program.
2.   Establishment of a permanent training section in DGC and
the development and execution of a training program including
the following components:
(i) on-the-job training for DGC personnel at all
levels and scholarships for courses abroad for
DGC's technical and managerial staff;
(ii) construction and equipping of training facilities;
and
(iii) acquisition and utilization of teaching and
training equipment.


﻿- 15 -
3.   Preparation of a four-year road rehabilitation and strength-
ening program (1983-1986), including:
(i) review of the classification of DGC's road network;
(ii) identification   of  rehabilitation,  strengthening
and upgrading needs of DGC's road network, by
January 31, 1982;
(iii) preliminary engineering and economic studies for
projects of road rehabilitation and strengthening,
by May 31, 1982; and
(iv) final engineering for the first and second year of
such proposed projects by January 31, 1983.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1985.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*
On each January 1 and July 1
beginning January 1, 1985
through   January 1, 1997                   655,000
On July 1, 1997                                  625,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in
a currency other than dollars (see General Conditions,
Section 4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar
equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 17 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                              Premium
Not more than three years                             1.45%
before maturity
More than three years but not                         2.90%
more than six years before
maturity
More than six years but not                           5.35%
more than eleven years
before maturity
More than eleven years but not                        7.30%
more than fifteen years
before maturity
More than fifteen years                               8.25%
before maturity


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B hereof, goods and civil works
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by
the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the
basis of international competitive bidding as described in Part A
of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements
of paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare
and forward to the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event
not later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the
public of the first tender or prequalification documents relating
thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such
form and detail and containing such information as the Bank shall
reasonably request; the Bank will arrange for the publication of
such notice in order to provide timely notification to prospective
bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods and works in
question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary information
to update such notice annually so long as any goods or works
remain to be procured on the basis of international competitive
bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported
goods, or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other
goods, offered in such bid; and (ii) customs duties and other
import taxes levied in connection with the importation, or the
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken
into account in the evaluation of the bids.
4.   Before issuing the invitations to bid, goods to be procured
in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 above shall, for
bidding purposes, be divided into lots, such lots to be satis-
factory to the Bank.


﻿- 19 -
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Equipment, vehicles, parts and tools estimated to cost less
than the equivalent of $75,000 may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally in
accordance with local regulations; provided, however, that the
purchase price of all goods so procured shall, in the aggregate,
not exceed the equivalent of $1,000,000.
2.   Spare parts for specific makes estimated to cost less than
the equivalent *of $75,000 may be procured through negotiated
purchases from established and reliable suppliers; provided,
however, that the purchase price of all goods so procured shall,
in the aggregate, not exceed the equivalent of $500,000.
3.   Civil works financed under Category (1) of Schedule 1 to the
Loan Agreement may be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of competitive bidding advertised locally.
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for equipment, vehicles, spare
parts, tools and civil works estimated to cost the equivalent of
$75,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request.
Any further modification to the bidding documents shall require
the Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
.bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for
its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison
of the bids received, together with the recommendations for
award and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably


﻿- 20 -
request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the intended award
would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such
determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the delivery
to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds from
the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after
i.ts execution and prior to the delivery to the Bank of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account
in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such con-
tract, together with the analysis of the respective bids, recom-
mendations for award and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the
award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver
of the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an exten-
sion of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 20% of Lhe original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Bank of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Bank, if it determines
that the proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of
this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and state
the reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this          day of    A  ,,k 19 12.
FOR SECRETARY


