                                   Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                      Report No: ICR2227



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                       (IBRD-48150 TF-53533)



                                      ON A

                                     LOAN

                    IN THE AMOUNT OF USD100 MILLION


                                    TO THE

                        PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA

                                    FOR THE

                       HEILONGJIANG DAIRY PROJECT



                                  June 25, 2012




China and Mongolia Sustainable Development Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region
             CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

       (Exchange Rate Effective December 31, 2011)

          Currency Unit = Chinese Yuan (CNY)
          Chinese Yuan (CNY) 1.0 = US$ 0.158
                 US$ 1.0 = CNY 6.319

                     FISCAL YEAR
                   July 1 – June 30



         ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AHB       Animal Husbandry Bureau
AI        Artificial Insemination
CAS       Country Assistance Strategy
CPP       Community Participation Procurement
DHIP      Dairy Herd Improvement Programme
EA        Environmental Assessment
EPB       Environmental Protection Bureau
ERR       Economic Rate of Return
FRR       Financial Rate of Return
FYP       Five-Year Plan
GDP       Gross Domestic Product
GHG       Greenhouse Gas
HABC      Heilongjiang Animal Breeding Centre
HADP      Heilongjiang Agricultural Development Project
HDIA      Heilongjiang Dairy Industry Association
HDP       Heilongjiang Dairy Project
IBRD      International Bank for Reconstruction and
          Development
ICB       International Competitive Bidding
ICR       Implementation Completion and Results Report
KPI       Key Performance Indicator
MDGs      Millennium Development Goals
MTR       Mid Term Review
O&M       Operation and Maintenance
PAD       Project Appraisal Document
PDO       Project Development Objective
PFB       Provincial Finance Bureau
PLG       Project Leading Group
PMO       Project Management Office
PPMO      Provincial Project Management Office
QAG       Quality at Entry
R&D       Research and Development


                            i
     Vice President:     Pemela Cox, EAPVP
    Country Director:    Klaus Rohland, EACCF
     Sector Manager:     Mark Lundell, EASCS
Project Team Leader:     Andrew Goodland, EASCS
   ICR Team Leader:      Andrew Goodland, EASCS




                        ii
                                      PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
                                         Heilongjiang Dairy Project

                                                          CONTENTS


Data Sheet
  A. Basic Information
  B. Key Dates
  C. Ratings Summary
  D. Sector and Theme Codes
  E. Bank Staff
  F. Results Framework Analysis
  G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
  H. Restructuring
  I. Disbursement Graph

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ................................................... 1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .................................................. 5
3. Assessment of Outcomes .............................................................................................. 12
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ............................................................. 18
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ......................................................... 19
6. Lessons Learned............................................................................................................ 22
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners............... 23
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .............................................................................. 24
Annex 2. Outputs by Component...................................................................................... 25
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ..................................................................... 26
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes................. 29
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ............................................................................... 30
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results ....................................................... 31
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ......................... 32
Annex 8. Comments of Co-financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders .......................... 33
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents .......................................................................... 34
MAP .................................................................................................................................. 35




                                                                  iii
A. Basic Information
                                                                            China Heilongjiang
Country:                China                     Project Name:
                                                                            Dairy Project
Project ID:             P086629                   L/C/TF Number(s):         IBRD-48150,TF-53533
ICR Date:               06/25/2012                ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                            GOVERNEMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     SIL                       Borrower:
                                                                            CHINA
Original Total
                        USD 100.00M               Disbursed Amount:         USD 58.62M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 58.62M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
 Heilongjiang Provincial Development and Reform Commission
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:
 Italian Government

B. Key Dates
                                                                                 Revised / Actual
     Process             Date              Process            Original Date
                                                                                     Date(s)
Concept Review:       04/07/2004      Effectiveness:           06/22/2006           06/22/2006
Appraisal:            03/28/2005      Restructuring(s):                             12/29/2010
Approval:             01/24/2006      Mid-term Review:         09/17/2008           11/18/2009
                                      Closing:                 12/31/2010           12/31/2011

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                         Moderately Unsatisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                      Moderate
Bank Performance:                                 Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                             Moderately Unsatisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings               Borrower                     Ratings
                        Moderately
Quality at Entry:                               Government:                 Moderately Satisfactory
                        Unsatisfactory
                                                Implementing                Moderately
Quality of Supervision: Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:            Unsatisfactory
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower            Moderately
                        Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                                    Performance:                Unsatisfactory




                                                 iv
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                           Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           No                                              None
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           Yes                                             None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before           Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:   Satisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original            Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Agricultural extension and research                                   27                  20
Animal production                                                     69                  80
Crops                                                                  3
Sub-national government administration                                 1


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Climate change                                                        14                  0
Other rural development                                               29                  60
Rural policies and institutions                                       14                  15
Rural services and infrastructure                                     29                  15
Technology diffusion                                                  14                  10

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            Pamela Cox                           Jemal-ud-din Kassum
Country Director:          Klaus Rohland                        David R. Dollar
Sector Manager:            Mark R. Lundell                      Mark D. Wilson
Project Team Leader:       Andrew D. Goodland                   Mohamed Hedi Ben Ali
ICR Team Leader:           Andrew D. Goodland
ICR Primary Author:        Xuemin Liu


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The proposed project would have two key development objectives. The first objective
would be to improve the financial viability of existing and new dairy operations (about
10,000 HH) in selected areas of Heilongjiang province. The second objective would be to

                                               v
demonstrate innovative technologies to reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and
increase carbon sequestration.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
The PDO remained unchanged throughout the project implementation. Following formal
restructuring of the project, the scale of some of the components was reduced, and a key
indicator was modified.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)
                                               Original Target      Formally        Actual Value
                                                 Values (from        Revised         Achieved at
   Indicator            Baseline Value
                                                   approval           Target        Completion or
                                                  documents)          Values        Target Years
                  Targeted dairy farmers participating in smallholder and Dairy Park-based milk
Indicator 1 :
                  production sell more high quality milk.
                  No baseline was set, so
Value                                         No target was
                  productivity baseline (13
quantitative or                               specified in the   15.5 litres    17.5
                  litres per day) was used as
Qualitative)                                  PAD
                  proxy
Date achieved     06/30/2006                  12/31/2010         12/31/2010     12/01/2011
                  Note that target was added at the restructuring in Dec 2010. The target was made
Comments
                  consistent with intermediate productivity increase target specified in the PAD.
(incl. %
                  Actual achievement was 113% of target. Note that no measure for quality was
achievement)
                  included.
                  A sustainable system of milk recording is functioning, with plan for bull selection
Indicator 2 :
                  and progeny test in place
                                                                 A sustainable
                                                                 system of milk
                                              A sustainable                     System is
                                                                 recording is
Value                                         system of bull                    functioning, and
                                                                 functional,
quantitative or   System not functional       selection and                     plan is in place for
                                                                 with plan for
Qualitative)                                  progeny testing is                bull selection and
                                                                 bull selection
                                              functioning                       progeny testing
                                                                 and progeny
                                                                 test in place
Date achieved     01/24/2006                  12/31/2010         12/31/2010     12/01/2011
Comments          As noted in the ICR main report, this indicator was formally modified at the
(incl. %          restructuring, when it became apparent that there was insufficient time for
achievement)      progeny testing to take place. Revised target fully achieved.
                  Targeted dairy demonstration farms and parks are equipped with functioning
Indicator 3 :
                  manure treatment units and selected pastures.
Value
                                            27 (7 demo farms;
quantitative or   0                                           16*               16**
                                            20 dairy parks)
Qualitative)
Date achieved     01/24/2006                  12/31/2010          12/30/2011     12/01/2011
Comments          *revised target agreed with the PPMO at restructuring to reflect the scaling down
(incl. %          of the project, however, an incorrect figure was included in the project paper.
achievement)      **At the time of the final supervision 16 facilities had been provided equipment,




                                                  vi
(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)
                                           Original Target                      Actual Value
                                                               Formally
                                            Values (from                         Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value                             Revised
                                              approval                          Completion or
                                                            Target Values
                                             documents)                         Target Years
                Targeted number of smallholder dairy farms, dairy parks and
Indicator 1 :
                demonstration farms established
                                                              Smallholders:
                                                              4,000 farms;
                                           Smallholders:      Dairy parks:
                                                                            Smallholders: 3,600
                                           5,500 farms. Dairy 40 new, 1
Value                                                                       farms; Dairy parks
                                           parks: 50 new, 20 existing;
(quantitative   0                                                           41 new; 1 existing;
                                           existing;          Demonstration
or Qualitative)                                                             Demonstration
                                           Demonstration      farms: 5
                                                                            parks: 5
                                           farms: 7           demonstration
                                                              farms
                                                              established
Date achieved 01/24/2006                   12/31/2010          12/30/2011    12/01/2011
                Achievements (%) of original / revised targets:
Comments        Smallholder farms: 65 / 90 %
(incl. %        Dairy parks (new): 82 / 102%
achievement) Dairy parks (existing): 5 / 100%
                Demonstration parks: 71 / 100%
                Anticipated increase in dairy productivity at household and parks dairy levels
Indicator 2 :
                achieved.
Value
(quantitative   13 liters per day          15.5 litres per day               17.5 litres per day
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 01/24/2006                   12/31/2010                        12/01/2011
Comments
                No end of project disaggregation between household and dairy parks. Last data
(incl. %
                for this is from Dec 2009: Household 13.1 l/d; dairy parks 20 l/d
achievement)
Indicator 3 : Number of dairy farmer associations established.
Value
(quantitative   0                          100                 82            84
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 01/24/2006                   12/31/2010          12/30/2011    12/01/2011
Comments
(incl. %        Achievement 84 % of original target; 102% of revised target
achievement)
Indicator 4 : Number of technicians and farmers trained.
Value                                                          700
                                           1070 technicians                  1000 technicians
(quantitative   0                                              technicians
                                           12750 farmers                     9000 farmers
or Qualitative)                                                8000 farmers
Date achieved 01/24/2006                   12/31/2010          12/30/2011    12/01/2011
Comments        Achievement (%) of original / revised targets:
(incl. %        Technicians: 93 / 143%
achievement) Farmers: 71 / 112%
Indicator 5 : Number of cows under milk recording (MR).

                                               vii
Value
(quantitative     0                          150,000             120,000        130,000
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     01/24/2006                 12/31/2010          12/30/2011     12/01/2011
Comments
(incl. %          Achievement (%) of original target: 87 %; and of revised target: 108%
achievement)
Indicator 6 :     Number of manure/waste treatment units established
Value
(quantitative     0                          20                  16             16
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     01/24/2006                 12/31/2010          12/30/2011     12/01/2011
Comments
(incl. %          Achievement (%) of original target: 80 %; and of revised target: 100%
achievement)
Indicator 7 :     Number of research topics funded
Value
(quantitative     0                          6                   16             16
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     01/24/2006                 12/31/2010          12/30/2011     12/30/2011
Comments
(incl. %          Achievement (%) of original target 266%, and of revised target: 100 %
achievement)
Indicator 8 :     Number of crop treatment for feed (silage) facilities established
Value
(quantitative     0                          5                   9              9
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     01/24/2006                 12/31/2010          12/30/2011     12/01/2011
Comments
(incl. %          Achievement (%) of original target: 180%; and of revised target: 100%
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
                                                                                        Actual
         Date ISR
 No.                               DO                          IP                   Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                                    (USD millions)
  1     04/24/2006           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                            0.00
  2     12/18/2006       Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                       3.25
  3     07/25/2007          Unsatisfactory           Unsatisfactory                            3.25
  4     03/19/2008           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                            8.24
  5     05/05/2009       Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                     16.02
  6     06/08/2010       Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Unsatisfactory                   40.36
  7     02/12/2011       Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Unsatisfactory                   54.38
  8     01/02/2012       Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                     58.34




                                                  viii
H. Restructuring (if any)
                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                         Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                 Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
                                                     Restructuring was done to
                                                     reduce the scale of the project
                                                     due to lower than expected
 12/29/2010               MS    MU           44.49   demand from farmers.
                                                     A cancellation of US$30
                                                     million was made, and targets
                                                     adjusted accordingly.


I. Disbursement Profile




                                         ix
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

Country and Sector Background

1.1.1 China’s rapid growth in Gross Domestic Product (GDP) since liberalization has
allowed the country to pursue ambitious, broad structural reforms and achieve remarkable
progress in poverty reduction and reaching its Millennium Development Goals (MDGs).
However, during this period the rate of growth was not constant across all areas of the
country, with eastern seaboard provinces growing more quickly than inland western areas
and incomes in cities increasing more quickly than those in rural areas. Government
concern over the steadily widening income gaps was reflected in the Government’s Tenth
Five-Year Plan (10th FYP 2001-2005).

1.1.2 Heilongjiang Province, located in the north east of the country, is a major corn
and soybean producer and China’s most important milk producing province. The national
dairy industry had been growing rapidly in the ten years prior to project appraisal, and
milk consumption had increased by ten per cent annually, driven be increasing income
levels. Despite this, average per capita consumption in 2002 of 11kg per head was only
about one tenth of the world average. As a means of exploiting this buoyant, expanding
market and improving rural incomes and employment and in line with the 10th FYP, the
Ministry of Agriculture prepared the Advantageous Milk Production Area Development
Plan 2003-2007. The plan paid particular attention to improved breeding stock, feeding
management and processing. This was followed and further developed by a provincial
plan entitled: Acceleration of Development, Rejuvenation of Dairy Industry and
Facilitation of Strategic Adjustment of Agricultural and Rural Economic Structure. Both
of these plans sought to increase rural incomes through intensification of dairy farming
and milk processing.

1.1.3 Although the Province has a suitable climate and resources for dairy farming the
plans listed various constraints. Farm size, the dispersed production base, and low yields
were critical constraints. Most of the milk (70 to 80 per cent) was produced by
smallholders on household farms with around 3 to 5 cows, with an average annual yield
of 4,300 litres per cow. Herd genetics, feeding and milk quality were unsatisfactory and
total milk production well below processing capability. Farmers’ associations were
poorly developed and marketing was unsophisticated, leading to further quality concerns.
The supporting services to the sector, including for research and extension, breeding,
grassland and feed management and waste treatment and disposal were inadequately
developed.

Rationale for Bank Assistance

1.1.4 The Bank had already acquired considerable experience of the Heilongjiang
livestock sector through the Heilongjiang Agricultural Development Project (HADP).
The Heilongjiang Dairy Project was fully in line with the Bank’s Country Assistance

                                            1
Strategy (CAS) goals of (a) improving the business environment and helping accelerate
China’s transition to a market economy; (b) addressing the needs of the poorer and
disadvantaged people and lagging regions; and (c) facilitating environmentally
sustainable development. It was also consistent with the Bank’s rural strategy in China,
which stressed shifting towards commercial agriculture and from quantity to quality in
production.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

1.2.1 The Project Development Objective had two parts (presented as two objectives in
the PAD). The first was to improve the financial viability of existing and new dairy
operations in selected areas of Heilongjiang province. The second objective was to
demonstrate innovative technologies to reduce GHG emissions and increase carbon
sequestration. This would contribute to the global objective of improving the
sustainability and impact of livestock production on the local and global environments.

1.2.2 The main project outcomes were (a) an increase in the marketed output of milk
and an associated increase in farm households’ income; and (b) the adoption of
technologies that mitigate climate change (increased carbon sequestration and reduced
GHG emissions). PDO level outcome indicators defined in the PAD Annex 3 Results
Framework and Project Agreement to monitor achievement of the project outcomes were:
(a) targeted dairy farmers participating in smallholder and dairy park-based milk
production sell more high quality milk; (b) a sustainable system of bull selection and
progeny testing is functioning; and increase in income of farmers participating in project-
financed dairy farm households and dairy parks; and (c) targeted dairy demonstration
farms and parks are equipped with functioning manure treatment units and selected
pastures. It should be noted that these outcome indicators are not completely consistent
with the main text of the PAD. This is discussed in greater detail in section 2.3 below.

1.2 Revised PDO and Key Indicators, and reasons/justification

1.3.1 The PDO remained unchanged throughout project implementation. Following
formal restructuring of the project1 the scale of some of the components was reduced2,
and a key indicator was modified3.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries (original and revised)

1.4.1 The primary beneficiaries were (i) smallholder farmer households and those who
jointly formed dairy parks to receive assistance in cow procurement and technical
training to improve the profitability of their operations, and (ii) Heilongjiang Animal
Breeding Centre (HABC) - a government technical services institution, which would


1
  Report No: 58534-CN Restructuring Paper on a Proposed Project Restructuring of Heilongjiang Dairy
Project Loan Number 4815-CHA December 29, 2010 to the People’s Republic of China.
2
  See Section 1.6
3
  Key output indicator (para 1.2.4(d)) amended to: “A sustainable system of milk recording is functioning
with plan for bull selection and progeny testing in place?.

                                                    2
improve both technical and managerial capacities in the animal breeding under the
project. Secondary beneficiaries were other farmers in non-project areas as the benefits
of the Dairy Breed Improvement component would accrue beyond the project’s herd to
the provincial dairy herd. In addition, dairy production development would contribute to
employment creation in the milk collection and processing industry, and opportunities
also would have been created for farmers to supply animal feed to respond to the growing
needs of project beneficiaries.

1.5 Original Components

1.5.1 The project was located in eight prefectures/cities covering 32 districts/counties of
Heilongjiang. It had the following four components:

a) Dairy Production Development consisted of the following six sub-components:

       i. Household dairy farms. Loans (in kind) for households to receive from 1 to 6 dairy
          cows or yearlings, to construct a cattle shed, silage and effluent pits, farm tools,
          feed and veterinary medicines for the first three months. 5,500 individual farms
          were expected to benefit (in addition to the 4,500 intended household beneficiaries
          as part of the dairy park development (item (iii) below).
     ii. Milking stations. 55 to be established through loans to investors and farmers’
          groups/associations for civil works, equipment and initial input stocks.
    iii. Dairy parks4. Loans to investors and smallholder farmers’ groups/associations to
          establish 50 new dairy parks each of 500 head capacity and upgrade a further 20
          existing parks. This was to benefit 4,500 households.
    iv. Demonstration farms. Loans provided to public and private sector
          enterprises/investors to establish seven farms, each with 600 head of high quality
          cows, as well as all the equipment and materials required.
     v. Farmers’ associations. To encourage formation of Farmer Associations the project
          was designed to finance training for farmer association members, leaders and
          managers and small grants for registered farmers’ associations. In addition finance
          was to be provided for: national technical assistance on farmers’ association legal
          framework, social roles and values; training and study tours to provinces where
          associations had begun to play an active role in rural development; and preparation
          of training materials.
    vi. Training and technical transfer. The project would provide training for Animal
          Husbandry Bureau (AHB) staff, dairy park managers, park and demonstration farm
          owners, technicians, dairy farmer individuals and groups and training of trainers in
          AHB. In addition the project would finance production of training and technical
          manuals, vehicles, artificial insemination (AI) and extension equipment.




4
  Dairy parks can be described as follows: two or more hectares surrounded by a wall enclosing 5 to 50
sheds and housing from upward of 300 cows, along with a milking station, feed storage, processing
facilities and veterinary clinic. They are jointly owned by a public sector entity with one or several private
investors, as well as a number of smallholders, either as individuals or as a group.

                                                       3
b) Breed Improvement was to include establishment of a Dairy Herd Improvement
   Programme (DHIP) management Unit to provide policy, technical and operational
   coordination, and initial importation of 400,000 units of semen of proven bulls,
   increasing annually to a total of about 840,000 units, as well as civil works and
   equipment for semen storage, technical assistance and accreditation of the Animal
   Breeding Centre. In relation to local genetic evaluation the project would finance
   equipment for milk sampling and collection, civil works and equipment for a milk-
   testing laboratory, computer hardware and software and technical assistance and
   breeding expenses.

c) Climate Change Mitigation. Finance would be provided for civil works, equipment,
   technical assistance and training for (a) pasture improvement for fodder, carbon
   sequestration and combating desertification; (b) treatment of crop residues to increase
   feed value, reduce methane losses and discourage burning; (c) manure treatment to
   reduce methane and convert to fertilizer; and, (d) research programmes to assess
   climate change through experimental technology.

d) Project Implementation and Management. The project financed technical
   assistance, training and equipment for the Provincial Project Management Office
   (PPMO) and County PMOs so as to build capacity of the PMOs and the Finance
   Bureau. Provincial government’s capacity to monitor project impacts would be
   strengthened and the project would finance annual socio-economic and production
   surveys.

1.5.2 The components were designed to complement each other for the achievement of
the PDO. The dairy production and breeding components aimed at improving the
efficiency and quality of the production, which directly contribute to the achievement of
the first project development objective, while the climate change mitigation component
addressed the second project objective - to demonstrate innovative technologies to reduce
GHG emissions and increase carbon sequestration.

1.6 Revised Components

1.6.1 At formal restructuring approved in December 2011, a number of adjustments
were made due to the lower than anticipated beneficiary demand, other external factors
impacting the scale of the project (for example restrictions on semen imports and
movements of animals) and the slow progress in implementation. As a result, the
Borrower requested the cancellation of US$30 million and the reduction in the scope of
the project. The main changes were as follows5:

a) Component 1: Household farms reduced from 5,500 to 4,000; new dairy parks from
   50 to 40; rehabilitated dairy parks from 20 to 1; demonstration farms from 7 to 5; and
   milking stations from 55 to 41.


5
 Details contained in Report No: 58534-CN Restructuring Paper on a Proposed Project Restructuring of
Heilongjiang Dairy Project Loan Number 4815-CHA December 29, 2010 to the People’s Republic of
China.

                                                   4
b) Component 2: The component objective, as stated in the PAD is that “A sustainable
   dairy herd improvement program established and producing proven bulls through
   contract mating programs?. While the establishing of a dairy herd improvement
   program remained the core objective of the component, it was concluded that there
   was insufficient time for the system to produce proven bulls. The revised objective
   therefore reads: “A sustainable dairy herd improvement program established, capable
   of producing proven bulls through contract mating programs?. Adjustments to targets
   were also made: semen import reduced from 840,000 doses to 340,000 ; target for
   milk recording from 150,000 cows to 120,000.

c) Component 3: The area of rehabilitated pasture increased from 16,500 ha to 20,000
   ha due to increased demand by farmers; manure treatment plants were reduced from
   20 to 16; number of crop treatment facilities increased from 5 to 9; and research
   topics from 6 to 16.

1.7 Other significant changes

In addition to the reduction of scale and associated cancellation of US$30 million IBRD
funds (from US$100m to US$70m), the project closing date was extended by one year
from 31 December 2010 to 31 December 2011 to provide additional time to complete
implementation to make up for previous implementation delays. The implementation had
been delayed at various points due to external events and shocks and delays in
procurement. During the final supervision mission in November 2011, the Provincial
Finance Bureau (PFB) notified the Bank team that a further cancellation of US$5-10
million was anticipated. The cancellation was required because some counties, which had
previously indicated a demand for dairy cattle, ultimately decided not to receive project
support, or were adjudged (by PFB) to lack the financial means to repay. The final
disbursement (at the close of the disbursement period on April 30, 2012) was
US$58,623,465, and therefore a further US$11,376,535 was cancelled.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

2.1.1 Soundness of the background analysis: The project was fully in line with the
Bank’s Country Assistance Strategy (CAS, 2002) for the rural sector in China - to sustain
rural income growth; alleviate poverty; assist local governments to improve
commercialization of agriculture; develop income generating opportunities in the
provinces; improve food security; encourage better utilization of agricultural production,
marketing and distribution resources; and to support investment in non-state sector
enterprises. The project design was also consistent with CAS strategies with regard to the
sustainable natural resources management and control of environmental degradation and
contamination. Background analysis showed that there was considerable potential for
growth in the dairy sector nationally and that given its natural resource base and climate,
Heilongjiang is well suited to be a major production base for the country. Furthermore,
there were identified weaknesses in the sector with regard to quality of the genetic stock
and breeding services, adequacy of infrastructure and management, and access to long
term credit for investment in the sector, especially for smaller scale producers. The

                                            5
rationale for Bank involvement was well articulated in the PAD and the lessons learned
were reflected in the project design6. One important lesson was to support small-scale
producers to enable them to increase productivity and the dairy park model, under which
farmers participate in associations in partnership with private investors, was proposed as
a means to achieve this.

2.1.2 Assessment of project design: Project design was well suited to Heilongjiang as
the major milk producing province in China. Under-used milk processing capacity could
be exploited, smallholder incomes could be raised and the productivity of the entire
sector needed to be improved. The components were well designed to complement each
other for the achievement of the PDO 7 . The main project outcomes and outputs -
improved productivity and dairy cattle genetics; fodder/forage production/conservation;
technical assistance/training; support to farmers’ associations; and waste
treatment/environmental impact mitigation/ carbon sequestration – were correctly chosen.
The installation of biogas generators, composting units to produce organic fertilizer and
drying units to make fuel bricks together with leak proof storage facilities, in line with the
country’s environmental protection policies, were well conceived. The Italian grant aid to
fund/assist with these measures was appropriate as a part of the project. The project
design also complied with environmental and social and other applicable Bank policies.

2.1.3 However, there were some weaknesses in project design including: (i) The major
expenditure to be supported by IBRD funds was for dairy cattle. The Bank has relatively
little experience in procurement of livestock, which presents distinct challenges as cattle
do not meet the classic definitions of “Goods? as all animals are unique in terms of
performance and quality (influenced by genetics). There are additional challenges
including fluctuations in market prices; need for quarantine; how to deal with mortality,
and importantly, a critical issue of timing as animals should be delivered to households at
a critical time (normally just before first impregnation) to fulfill productivity potential.
Consequently, obtaining large number of cows through ICB created delays in
implementation 8 . Some of these challenges should have been foreseen at the design
phase; (ii) Design of the Breed Improvement component overly optimistic in expecting
proven bulls to become available during the project implementation period. It is
impossible to get performance test results for large ruminants unless the implementation
period is 6 to 7 years; and (iii) the design of the Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E)
system was also inadequate9.

2.1.4 Government commitment for the project at appraisal was strong. The provincial
government had already produced the plans for the Dairy herd Improvement Programme
(DHIP). So the project was in fact funding a part of the government’s own programme.
Government was also fully supportive of the project in setting up the Project Leading
Group (PLG) and helping to set up the implementation structure at all levels, including
the county PMOs.


6
  See Section 1.1.4
7
  See Section 1.5.2
8
  See Section 2.2.3
9
  See Section 2.3.1

                                              6
2.1.5 Risks identified included a reduction in milk prices as a result of processing
companies’ strategies and monopolistic policies; and reduced profitability due to dairy
cattle prices increasing relative to milk price. Risk mitigation included increasing milk
yields, improving animal health, AI services, farmer training and milk quality control.
Milk sale contracts between producers and processors were proposed in order to stabilize
prices. It was further proposed that if milk prices fell to a level at which milk production
ceased to be viable that the Provincial authorities and the Bank would seek and agree to
fund alternative profitable livestock projects. Market risks therefore focused on medium
term trends in prices and omitted short term shocks which might impact on the dairy
sector. Although a shock such as the melamine contamination scandal in 2008 could not
have been foreseen, the very nature of a single commodity project creates a significant
risk with unexpected production and marketing shocks always a possibility. This should
have been explicitly recognized at the project design phase. Also neglected in the
analysis is the impact these market uncertainties would have on small holder farmers,
who ultimately bear the considerable risk of taking long term credit. The project was
dependent on demand from these small-holders, and it was assumed (ultimately
incorrectly) that this demand would be there throughout the project.

2.1.6 The appraisal also recognized that the Dairy Herd Improvement Programme
(DHIP) would be at risk if the provincial government did not give the necessary support
and commitment to the project and if the activities of milk recording, genetic evaluation
and selection were not organized on a sufficiently large scale. Improvement of the quality
of bull semen production, and improvement of disease control measures at the breeding
centre and establishment of goals for breed / genetic improvement were also subject to
risk. In mitigation of these risks, the provincial government had already endorsed the
DHIP strategies, the Heilongjiang Dairy Industry Association (HDIA) provided a forum
for agreement on breed improvement policies and the project agreed to fund TA and
training at all levels to support the DHIP.

2.1.7 The project carried an environmental risk which was not highlighted in the PAD,
but became an issue during implementation. Livestock waste management is a critical
consideration for all intensive livestock production systems and must be properly
managed. However, as the negative impact of poor waste management is generally
externalities, there was a risk that these would not be adequately addressed.

2.1.8 Overall risk analysis and mitigation measures were therefore only moderately
adequate at the appraisal.

2.1.9 QAG “Quality at Entry?: There was no QAG review of the project.

2.2 Implementation

2.2.1 Project implementation was impeded at various stages by a number of external
event and shocks listed below:




                                             7
   Initial start-up of the project was delayed due to an unfavorable market structure and
    conditions in the dairy sector which had led to a decline in farm gate prices shortly
    after the project was approved and hence a reluctance of farmers to invest in dairy
    production. Policy measures introduced in the second half of 2007 corrected these
    conditions and led to improved market conditions;

   The global and China milk market was hit hard in 2008 from the global economic
    downturn which further dented confidence and financial returns in the sector, and also
    reduced demand for dairy cattle;

   In October 2008, it was revealed that large scale contamination of milk powder with
    the industrial compound melamine had occurred in China. Although there was only
    one isolated incident of contamination detected in the province, the price of Chinese
    produced dairy products fell sharply, again affecting demand; and

   From December 2009 to July 2010, all movements of livestock within and between
    provinces were banned due to fear of the spread of infectious disease, which delayed
    the delivery of livestock procured under the project.

2.2.2 The above external shocks demonstrated the vulnerability of the sector and help to
explain the reluctance of smallholder farmers to take on debt to purchase dairy cattle
during the project implementation. Also during the course of the project, and largely in
response to the melamine scandal, the structure of milk production changed. Government
and the large milk processing companies were increasingly concerned about quality
issues in the sector, and this has led to tightening of controls throughout the system. Milk
processors are favoring larger units over smallholder production and village milking
stations, a trend which started during project implementation. The preference for larger
scale units had repercussions for the project design. The original design of the project,
which included the support of household farms, was under pressure and ultimately led to
larger dairy parks being favored over household based production and the price
differential between household farm produced milk and milk from dairy parks increased.
Note that smallholders still benefited from dairy parks, which they joined as farmer
associations. Note further that the financial analysis conducted at the MTR and at the
project’s close showed that farmers benefited from both the household farm and the dairy
park models, though rates of return are higher for dairy parks due to the price differential.

2.2.3 Furthermore, project implementation was delayed by the procurement
arrangements. The project got off to a very slow start due to unfavorable prices for milk
and also to delays in procurement of cows through ICB. During the project design,
different procurement methodologies were to be used for cattle: i) ICB (for contracts in
excess of US$500k); ii) NCB; and, iii) “purchasing of Livestock by Individual
Households (in accordance with the Bank guidelines on community participation
procedures). ICB procurement was favored during the project to import improved
genetics from countries with more advanced dairy sectors (limited to Australia, New
Zealand and Uruguay) and better bred animals. This was justified as a way of lifting the
overall quality of dairy cattle in Heilongjiang, thus contributing to increased productivity
and the achievement of the PDO. However, the importation of animals and the use of

                                             8
ICB procedures proved to be very challenging. By the end of the project only one
contract (covering three lots) was issued for the importation of 5000 animals. Even for
this contract, bidding was twice cancelled before it could be successfully concluded. The
difficulties of ICB were due to the following factors:

   Difficulty in attracting bidders: In all four rounds of bidding (including the two which
    were cancelled), it was difficult to attract qualified bidders. This appears to be a niche
    business, which is operated via agents (which increases costs). Furthermore, there are
    limited eligible source countries (Australian, New Zealand and Uruguay) due to the
    Government’s animal importation restrictions;
   Fluctuating market price: Bidding under ICB is challenging as the bidders generally
    cannot predict the price of dairy cattle, which is highly sensitive to the milk price, at
    the time of bid submission. This has further discouraged potential bidders from
    bidding, or has led to high prices being quoted;
    Long procurement process and complicated shipping and quarantine requirement: It
    takes at least one year to complete bidding, selection of cattle, quarantine and
    delivery of cattle to project households. This compounds the exposure to market price
    fluctuation, adds to costs and crucially can lead to animals being delivered to
    beneficiaries when already over-aged;
   Limited involvement of households in the procurement process. Households, which
    are taking credit for the cattle are not involved in the selection process, lack the
    confidence in the process to delivery cattle that are good quality and fair value; and,
    Due to biological difficulties, cattle shipped under ICB are generally not impregnated,
    leading to increased delay in their milk production, and added management costs for
    beneficiaries and loss of lifetime productivity.

2.2.4 The response to these delays was to gradually shift more procurement to the
Community Participation in Procurement methodology. This had the advantage of having
the final beneficiaries (who ultimately take the credit risk) directly involved in selection.
Also animals bought via CPP were generally less expensive than imported animals and
were preferred by beneficiaries. It should be noted that although imported animals are
potentially more productive than locally bred animals, to realize their full potential (and
hence value) requires that they be professionally managed, and often smallholders in
Heilongjiang lack the skills and resources for this.

2.2.5 Reluctance of farmers to join the project also has been partly due to the on-
lending arrangements. A grace period “not to exceed? two years was provided for in the
Terms and Conditions defined in the Project Agreement and typically was originally set
at 2 year, however this period began when the loan was agreed, not when the dairy cattle
were delivered and given the delays in procurement, some farmers were expected to start
repaying before they had received the livestock. Further, towards the end of the project,
the Provincial Finance Bureau removed the grace period altogether for farmers who
wanted to come into the project, which was clearly a disincentive for farmers to join.
Review of the on-lending agreement signed between county FB and dairy park/household
showed missing information, and the responsibility of the two parties was not properly


                                              9
presented. The frequency of principal and interest repayment was not clearly stated in
the agreement.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

2.3.1 M&E design as set out in the PAD had at least the advantage of simplicity and
relatively few key indicators. However there were obvious weaknesses in the M&E
design including: (i) the selection of indicators included those which were challenging to
measure and for which no methodology was provided (for example the outcome
indicators on carbon sequestration and reduced greenhouse gasses can only be inferred
and not measured accurately); (ii) the indicators (as included in the Results Framework
and were not fully adequate to capture the key performance indicators (KPIs) were
inconsistent between the PAD main text and the Results Framework (Annex 3 and the
outcome indicators were not consistent with those included in the arrangement for
monitoring results in Annex 3; and, (iii) KPIs such as (a) project dairy operations produce
and sell more high quality milk; and (b) increase in income of farmers participating in
project-financed dairy farm households and dairy parks, were only broad statements as
neither baseline nor target values were provided. A baseline survey undertaken in 2006
presented very limited information in relation to the requirement of designed key
performance indicators. The baseline survey should have provided a sound foundation
and point of reference for all the key performance indicators during implementation. In
fact the baseline provided only limited useful data and virtually no social information.

2.3.2 M&E implementation: The PPMO was expected to recruit an M&E specialist
under whose supervision the reporting, expanded baseline survey and subsequent annual
surveys together with other information and data gathering and processing should have
been accomplished. The M&E specialist would have been responsible for ensuring the
timely submission of reports from the counties and compilation of semi-annual reports
and data analysis. However this specialist was only recruited at a late stage of project
implementation, and there was no development of the M&E system beyond simple
monitoring of the project’s physical progress and coverage. The system in place was
therefore unable to track outcome level indicators. A socio-economic survey was
completed, after some delay, at the MTR stage. At the project close, further information
on outcomes was collected, but not through a detailed survey. The required semi-annual
progress reports were not submitted regularly and they even contained some inconsistent
data on physical achievements. In part to make up for this shortfall, the Bank MTR team
included an economist who completed a detailed financial and economic analysis of the
dairy production models supported under the project. This was used to determine whether
the overall PDO (to improve the financial viability of dairy operations in Heilongjiang)
was on track. This was repeated at the project close.

2.3.3 M&E utilization: Data collection under M&E was generally sufficient to provide
a view of physical progress in implementation, although some data, even at the output
level, were not comparable and varied year on year. Aside from the Mid Term Report, the
regular M&E system provided little information (except dairy productivity) on the impact
and quality of implementation in regard to items such as farmers’ income, impact of
study tours or progress of adaptive research funded by the project, and therefore could
not be used for decision making or allocation of resources. However, there was frequent

                                            10
contact between the PPMO and farmers and the socio-economic survey conducted at
mid-term also provided more detailed information on farmers’ perceptions of the project
and how they could benefit. This did lead directly to two trends under the project: i) the
shift in the balance between support to household farms and dairy parks, with dairy parks
(with farmer associations) favored over household farms; and (ii) a shift towards
increasing the share of CPP in the procurement of cattle. In both cases, this demonstrated
responsiveness to changing conditions during implementation.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

2.4.1 Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01): The main environmental issue during
project implementation was the handling and management of livestock waste. Project
compliance with OP4.01 in regard to treatment of waste from livestock units and
mitigation of environmental damage was not consistent, though there was a marked
improvement in the final year of project implementation when many livestock waste
management facilities were financed. At the close of the project not all facilities were
fully installed, though as of June 2012 it was reported that installation was near
completion. The issue of waste management was frequently stressed by the Bank during
project supervision as many investments in dairy parks (commercial production units)
were observed during project implementation to be lacking infrastructure for the
collection, storage and treatment of solid and liquid animal waste. With the improvement
of waste management facilities in the final year of the project it is concluded, based on
reports from the province, that the project is in compliance with OP4.01.

2.4.2 Due to reforms in the sector (partly as a result of the melamine contamination
scandal which was uncovered in 2008), there has been a push to larger scale units where
food safety concerns are more easily addressed. This resulted in higher concentrations of
animals and the consolidation of dairy parks. The environmental effects of medium to
large scale livestock units made the inclusion of animal waste control and utilization on
the larger units proposed by the project both practical and desirable. Each dairy park (and
also each demonstration farm) has been subject to an environmental assessment (EA) by
the local Environmental Protection Bureau (EPB). However waste collection, storage,
treatment and utilization facilities specified in the EA have often been delayed or only
partially implemented due to lack of funds from sub-loan beneficiaries and inadequate
enforcement by the EPBs. This was rectified in the final year of the project with the use
of Italian Grant financed waste management facilities. It is important that these waste
treatment facilities be fully operational and maintained, and this was agreed with the
Provincial Environmental Bureau. It is the responsibility of the local Environment
Protection Bureaus to monitor pollution from the production units and ensure that
national standards are enforced.

2.4.3 Involuntary Resettlement (OP 4.12). Though (OP/BP/GP 4.01) was triggered in
PAD, there was no involuntary land or productive assets acquisition during project
implementation.

2.4.4 Fiduciary Compliance. The Bank’s fiduciary (procurement management and
financial management) requirements have been generally followed during project
implementation. However, the provision of financial reports was generally late, and until

                                            11
late in the project implementation it remained unclear whether the PPMO or the
Provincial Finance Bureau was responsible for Financial Management. Supervision
missions repeatedly raised this issue and noted that financial management capacity was
weak. Despite this, no irregularities were found in the financial management system.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

2.5.1 Both household farms and dairy parks have been running as financially
independent entities from the very start of their operations and no transitional
arrangements were needed at the end of project implementation. The market risks have
been always present, but the introduction of the minimum support prices will, to a large
extent, reduce farmers’ exposure to price fluctuations, and therefore help to ensure the
sustainability of the dairy production.

2.5.2 A critical aspect of future operations of dairy parks is waste management. A well
designed, functional waste management system can support sustainability of investment,
by providing necessary sources of Nitrogen (N) and Phosphorus (P) to fertilizer
surrounding crop land, and the technologies supported under the Italian Grant offer
further income opportunities via bio-gas, treated fertilizer and fuel briquettes.

2.5.3 DHIP, as a public technical service provider and with adequate provincial budget
provision, has been providing “public goods? for genetic improvements in milk
productivity and hygienic quality. The government will continue to allocate adequate
financial resources for both its regular O&M and research and development (R&D)
program.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

3.1.1 The PDO remains as relevant at the close of the project as it did at the appraisal
stage. The dairy sector is still forecast for rapid growth in the coming years as demand for
dairy products increases in China. There remains an opportunity for smallholder farmers
to benefit from this growth. One change, as already discussed, is the move towards larger
production units such as dairy parks. The project has demonstrated that smallholders,
organized in farmer associations, can also participate and benefit from these larger scale
production units. During the course of implementation, the investments under the project
reflected this shift, and this was formally reflected in the restructuring which adjusted the
target number of household farms and dairy parks supported under the project. The focus
in the design for supporting dairy herd improvement also remains highly relevant. One of
the key successes of the project was to support the establishment, for the first time in
Heilongjiang, of a milk recording system which underpins the dairy breeding program.
With imported semen provided under the project, the building blocks of a herd
improvement system are in place under the Animal Breeding Centre. Finally, including
innovation and technology dissemination under the Italian Grant remains relevant to
supporting the dairy sector. Waste management, grassland renovation and management,
and the treatment of crop residues were well chosen areas of focus and remain relevant.


                                             12
3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

3.2.1 Assessment of achievement of the first part of the PDO, which is to improve
the financial viability of dairy operations in selected areas of Heilongjiang province.
Partially achieved. As stated in the PAD main text, progress towards the achievement of
this objective was to be measured by monitoring increases in the productivity of the dairy
farmers’ cattle and adoption of the Dairy Herd Improvement (DHI) system to improve
the genetic potential and management of the Heilongjiang dairy herd. As discussed in
Section 2.3 above, the best assessment of financial viability has been to conduct a
financial analysis of the dairy models supported under the project, which was done at the
Mid Term Review and ICR mission. Below therefore, is the assessment of progress on
the stated indicators, plus the findings of the financial analysis.

3.2.2 Increases in dairy productivity: The baseline value of dairy productivity was
reported at 13 litres per head per day10 and the target value was 15.5 in the PAD. The
dairy yields have been recorded by milking stations for both small householder farms and
dairy parks. The yield data presented continuous increases over project years, reaching
17.5 (averaged for household farms and dairy farms) in 2011. However, the number of
dairy units was significantly lower than had been targeted at the project design. Therefore,
even though the first PDO was satisfactorily achieved (113% of original target), it was
achieved at a smaller scale than anticipated

3.2.3 As a result of these productivity gains, there is evidence that farm incomes also
have increased. There are two estimates of farmer incomes. Prior to the Mid-term Review
in November 2009 a socio-economic survey was conducted with a total of 400
households, including 300 project households and 100 non-project households as a
control group. The survey found that for the non-project households, the average income
was RMB12,048.78 while for project households average income was RMB20,808, 73
percent higher. While this analysis did not provide a before and after analysis, it did
indicate that households benefitted from being in the project and concluded that
households were better off in all the surveyed villages due to investments in the dairy
sector. Characteristics between the project and non-project households were broadly
similar in terms of family size, though project households had slightly more land (average
7.5 mu) than non-project households (6.8 mu), and higher educational attainment, with 15
percent high school graduates compared to 8.5 percent for non project households,
indicating that the two groups may be expected to show some difference in income
outcomes even without dairy investments, though these characteristics in themselves
likely do not explain the large difference in recorded incomes.

3.2.4 The second means to determine the financial benefit of dairy investments was via
the financial analysis11, which indicated that both household farms and dairy parks were
profitable to farmers. Based on the approaches and assumptions detailed in Annex 3, the
Financial Rate of Return (FRR) for representative farmer household models is 16 percent;



10
     Based on a 305 day standard lactation period. See PAD Annex 3 (Arrangement for Monitoring Results).
11
     Section 3.3.2

                                                    13
the FRR for dairy park models is 17 percent. They indicate that the project is financially
profitable and attractive to farmers.

3.2.5 In addition to these indicators of the potential benefits from project participation,
the project generally achieved 80-90% of the output targets (as set at the time of project
restructuring, see Annex 2).

3.2.6 As a result of drop in demand, the total number of cows distributed fell short of
the targets set out when the project was restructured. As set out in Annex 2 some 11,260
and 9,260 cows were procured for smallholder households and dairy parks respectively,
reaching 89.90 and 77.90 percent of the revised targets. Some 3,600 individual
smallholder households benefited or 88% of the target after restructuring and 2,675
farmers in dairy parks – 89% of the restructured project target. Milking station
establishment reached 36 or about 88% of the 41 proposed at restructuring. Dairy Parks:
some 42 new dairy were established, two more than projected after restructuring but with
only 89% of the households and 77% of the cows targeted. Eventually only one dairy
park of the 20 originally proposed was renovated. Demonstration Farms: five farms were
established as planned in the restructured project. Farmer Associations establishment has
been successful with some 84 associations formed, two more than the target after
restructuring. Training and Technology Transfer. Training of both technical personnel
and farmers for milk recording and other purposes has been satisfactorily conducted and
well received by farmers.

3.2.7 Adoption of the Dairy Herd Improvement (DHI) system. In the PAD, this
component outcome is defined as “A sustainable dairy herd improvement program
established and producing proven bulls through contract mating programs?, which was
revised at project restructuring as “A sustainable system of bull selection and progeny
testing is functioning?; and the target for number of cows under milk recording was
reduced from 150,000 to 120,000. Main indicators are cited below and support a rating of
Moderately Successful for the DHI system component.

3.2.8 The component has been successful at attaining the revised outcome, as HABC
has established a milk testing and recording system with equipment installed and
technical training conducted under the project. Capacity of testing/recording has
increased from around 20,000 heads in mid 2007 to some 130,000 cows in 2011 covering
the whole province (72% of the original target and 108% of the revised target in terms of
number of cows). Testing covers not only milk yield but also quality including fats,
protein, bacteria and somatic cell count, urea and foreign contaminants such as water and
oil. This is a significant advance. A system has also been introduced for progeny and bull
testing. The component has been successful in supporting the Heilongjiang Animal
Breeding Centre (HABC) which has expanded its operations and now has 150 bulls at
stud producing some 2 million doses of semen annually. The Centre is well run and
progressive and has been given an award to being the best such station in China.

3.2.9 While the establishment of a dairy herd improvement remains the core objective
of the component, there was insufficient time for the system to produce proven bulls.
This requires: i) that the milk recording system is fully functional; ii) that the system has


                                             14
been used to identify a nucleus of high productivity bull mothers; iii) that bulls born from
these bull mothers have reached maturity and have been mated; iv) that the milking cows
born have reached maturity; and, v) performance of the cows has been assessed (under
the milk recording system) to identify proven bulls. This was an unrealistic target set at
during preparation given these biological constraints, which would require a minimum of
6-7 years to achieve. With initial delays in the establishment of the milk recording system,
any hope of reaching the objective to produce proven bulls was out of reach, even with
the twelve month extension. Therefore, this objective was only partially achieved against
the original targets and fully achieved against the revised targets.

3.2.10 Assessment of Achievement of second part of the PDO, which was to
demonstrate innovative technologies to reduce GHG emissions and increase carbon
sequestration. Partially achieved. This would contribute to the global objective of
improving the sustainability and impact of livestock production on the local and global
environments. As stated in the PAD, the key indicator for this objective is the number of
dairy farms and parks equipped with functioning manure treatment units and selected
pastures.

3.2.11 This objective was addressed by component 3 (climate change mitigation), which
was financed under an Italian Grant extended along with the IBRD Loan. At restructuring,
a few changes were made with the target values of some sub-component outputs
increased or decreased as follows:

    The area of pasture to be rehabilitated was increased from 16,500ha to 20,000ha, due
     to increased demand and availability of suitable degraded pastureland;

    The number of manure treatment units established was reduced from 20 to 16, due to
     the reduction in the number of demonstration farms and dairy parks supported under
     the project;

    The number of crop treatment facilities established was increased from 5 to 9, due to
     increased demand for good quality silage; and,

    The number of research topics funded was increased from 6 to 16 12 , due to the
     success of this sub-component in identifying innovative technologies for application
     by farmers.

3.2.12 All activities under the component (and under this part of the PDO) were
implemented except for the reduction of number of manure treatment units, and as shown
above, for three of the four sub-components the original targets were exceeded and the
second component did not achieve its original target. Innovative technologies were
researched and demonstrated. In terms of the reduction in GHG and increase in carbon
sequestration, this can be inferred from the completed activates, although it cannot be
accurately measured. For example 20,000 ha of land were rehabilitated, increasing


12
   Research topics ranging from livestock waste composting to waste brick-making as fuel with detailed list
in project file.

                                                    15
biomass and securing soils (where the majority of carbon is stored within these
ecosystems). Carbon sequestration was therefore increased. Pastures in the project area
vary widely in productive capacity and potential carbon storage per hectare. The
valuation of carbon sequestration is based on the methodology in the PAD. Average
production has been estimated at 3000kg OM/ha of which 80 percent would oxidize to
CO2, leaving an organic residue of 600kg OM/year/ha, or approximately 300 kg percent
C/ha/year. For a total of 20,000 ha rehabilitated, total carbon sequestered amounts to an
estimated 6,000 ton C/year. Using a conservative estimate of US$ 5/ton price, this
translates into a US$ 30,000 benefit per year. With regard to GHGs, the improved
treatment of animal waste, including the support for biogas facilities is a further example
of how the project achieved this objective, although the actual reduction of GHG
emissions was not measured. Given this inferred level of carbon sequestration, rather than
the actual measurement, the rating of this part of the PDO is MS, given the full
implementation of all activities under the component.

3.3 Efficiency

3.3.1 Economic Analysis: The major quantifiable benefits for economic analysis of the
project are the incremental value of milk production of both individual farms and dairy
parks financed by the project. Other significant but not quantifiable benefits come from
(i) improved pasture management, animal feeding practices, and the use of treated animal
manure as a saleable fertilizer; (ii) increased employment created in the dairy parks,
milking stations, and demonstration farms; (iii) improved breeds and better AI services
for the province’s dairy herd; (iv) social benefits derived from the establishment of
farmers’ associations and (v) benefits from carbon sequestration and GHG emission
reduction. The economic analysis has been carried out at project level. The ERR
calculation has taken into account all the incremental benefits and costs in an aggregated
economic cash flow, built up in line with physical achievements in the province. The
ERR is estimate at 17%, indicating the project is viable.

3.3.2 Financial analysis: Financial analysis is carried out for two major types of profit-
making entities: individual households and dairy parks. The model of individual
households is based on an initial investment of five cows which is representative of
household farms while the analysis of dairy parks is based on three-hundred cows which
is the average capacity. For both operations of smallholder farmers and dairy farms, the
technical parameters, such as fertility rate, mortality rate and adult death losses, are based
on the average productivity levels estimated by the local project management staff in
consultation with the household farms and dairy parks. The Financial Rate of Return
(FRR) for representative household farm model is 16 percent, while the FRR for dairy
park models is 17 percent, indicating both household farms and dairy parks are
financially profitable and attractive to farmers. The major fiscal impact of the project
after implementation completion will be the provision of the operation and maintenance
(O&M) costs of DHI program within HABC (which have been adequately covered
during the project implementation). The provincial government has fully committed to
continuing the O&M cost coverage by the budget allocations.




                                             16
3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

3.4.1 Based on Relevance of Objectives (MS); the assessment of achievement of PDO 1
(MS on yield increases, MS for the DHI system) and of PDO 2, (MS), project efficiency
(Satisfactory), the overall project outcome is rated Moderately Unsatisfactory. Although
the project was scaled down, the overall quality of implementation was reasonable (eg in
terms of the increase in productivity) although the original output targets (for the number
of dairy units and households) were not achieved due the factors explained above. These
targets were adjusted when the project was restructured and the revised targets were
largely met or exceeded. However, most of the disbursement (75%) had been completed
by the time the project was restructured. Most of the original target were only partially
achieved given the significant scaling down of the project scope. So the overall outcome
rating against the original targets is MU (carrying 75% weight) and against the revised
targets is MS (25% weight). Therefore, an overall MU rating is justified.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

3.5.1 The baseline survey did not include any data on poverty incidence in the areas
covered by the project. In general the project has been a significant source of
employment both for women and men and cattle owners have benefitted from an increase
in their incomes. As stated in the PAD, “while this is not a poverty alleviation project, it
will strive to help the neediest of those who meet the project's beneficiary selection
criteria". The selection of beneficiaries adhered to this and followed the selection criteria
for beneficiary households, which are those with the requisite skills in dairy management,
though with few animals (generally less than 10). These requirements may have excluded
the poorest households which likely do not have these skills. The villages selected needed
to be suitable for dairy production, including having adequate land resources. The mid-
term social assessment concluded that for the eight villages selected in the survey, they
were average for the province in terms of land availability per capita. The villages
included those both poorer and wealthier than provincial averages. Project household
members from these villages had generally higher educational attainment than non-
project households.

(b) Institutional Change and Strengthening

3.5.2 The project engaged in institutional strengthening at the provincial and local level.
At the provincial level, the second component was focused on the Heilongjiang Animal
Breeding Centre, at which the milk performance recording system has been established.
This is the basis for increasing the breeding services to the sector and the sustained
increase in productivity which will come with improved genetics. The HABC has
received an award for being the best station of its type in China.

3.5.3 At the local level, the project has supported the establishment of farmer
association as partners in dairy parks. This is an institutional innovation which has

                                             17
considerable promise to be further replicated and scaled up within the province. Although
no detailed analysis has been completed, the Bank team observed that the private investor
/management – farmer association has delivered benefits to farmers while providing
profession management of dairy production systems.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

None.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

NA

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Moderate

4.1     Despite the shocks received by the project due to fluctuations in milk prices,
demand in the medium and longer term for milk is likely to continue to rise with
increased incomes. The sustainability of project activities and outcome beyond the
implementation period is considered likely, as the project is specifically designed to
support and improve the competitiveness and profitability of the dairy industry.
Production units financed by the project have proven resilient to market price fluctuations,
especially for the larger scale dairy parks, particularly with the introduction of minimum
support prices following the melamine incident. The development of farmers’
associations formed under the project also strengthened collaborative efforts to
effectively manage project investments and resources, both technically and financially,
and to mitigate the future risks.

4.2    Under component 2, the DHIP provides for both managerial and genetic
improvements in milk productivity and hygienic quality, and project benefits have
accrued to producers, processors and consumers and, in the form of public goods, to the
community as a whole. The government is allocating adequate financial resources for
both its regular O&M and research and development (R&D) program. Further,
Heilongjiang DHIP has been incorporated into the national dairy herd improvement
program and Heilongjiang Animal Breeding Centre (HABC) was awarded by Ministry of
Agriculture as one of Top 10 Excellent Dairy Breeding Centers in China in 2011.

4.3     The treatment of waste from livestock units had remained problematic during
project implementation. Though at the project completion all dairy parks built under the
project had planned (which have subsequently been installed) or implemented waste
management systems and facilities (including bio-gas, composting and making fuel
briquettes), substantial risks exist. The Environment Protection Bureau approved all
designs for dairy parks which received support under the project and have the
responsibility to monitor environmental impacts from the dairy units and monitor the
dairy parks’ compliance with environmental regulations.



                                            18
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory
5.1.1 The rationale for the project was clear and remains valid. The project
development objectives were consistent with the Government's and the Bank's strategies
(Section 2.1.1), and the project design was good in overall choice of objective and
components in the context of the evolving sector policy and development trend. The
Bank's technical inputs during project preparation and appraisal were adequate and good
collaboration with the counterparts was maintained. However, the weaknesses in the
project design were (i) weak risk analysis which neglected the possibility of short term
external shocks and the impact that this would have of smallholder demand for livestock;
(ii) insufficient consideration of the challenges of ICB for cattle procurement; (iii) overly
optimistic targets for project outputs, including under the Breed Improvement
component; and (iv) a weak M&E design with inconsistent indicators and some outcome
indicators which were difficult to measure and attribute to the project interventions (see
Section 2.3.1).

(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Moderately satisfactory




                                             19
5.1.2 The supervision missions were composed of both international and local
professionals with sound technical expertise and knowledge of the dairy sector in China.
The missions identified and highlighted the key implementation issues and worked with
the PPMO to find appropriate solutions. The main issues highlighted repeatedly during
the supervision were: (i) procurement of cattle; (ii) animal waste management; and (iii)
monitoring and evaluation and data.

5.1.3 With regard to the procurement, the Bank procurement team worked closely with
the PPMO to develop a workable approach for the procurement of cattle, which as noted
above, do not fit the definition of “Goods?. At appraisal and during loan negotiations no
detailed procedures and processes were agreed for Community Participation in
Procurement. However, early on in project implementation it became apparent that there
would be demand for CPP and the Bank team and Heilongjiang PMO realized that
procedures for CPP were required. In May 2007, the Bank supervision team and PMO
reviewed the local practices for the purchase of cattle and agreed procedures and
processes within the principle of the Bank’s policy. The use of CPP was followed up, and
the Bank agreed in successive Procurement Plans to shift more of the proposed
procurement to CPP, meeting farmers demand. When, in June 2010, the Bank received a
request to revise the procurement plan to put all remaining cattle procurement under CPP,
the team quickly arranged a procurement mission to review in detail the practice under
the CPP. Finding that it had been well followed and even strengthened, the team agreed
to this request.

5.1.4 On livestock waste management, the Bank team provided continual focus during
supervision. At the Mid Term Review, a specialist focused on the issue and provided
detailed advice on suitable technologies to address the issue. A follow up mission in
June-July 2010 was arranged to focus exclusively on this issue and it was agreed at that
point to use the Italian Grant Fund to finance waste management investments at dairy
parks supported under the project. By project close, the funds allocated to this had been
fully disbursed.

5.1.5 On the M&E system, the supervision team repeatedly drew attention to the need
for reliable and accurate data. The MTR was delayed because the supervision team
insisted that the mid-term socio-economic survey was completed. As already noted, there
were issues with the quality of data from the PPMO throughout the project, including on
basic output indicators. Nevertheless, the studies executed at the MTR and after project
completion provided substantial evidence for measuring project performance and
outcomes.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory




                                           20
5.1.6 Based on the above assessment of ensuring quality at entry (Moderately
Unsatisfactory) and supervision (Moderately Satisfactory), overall Bank performance is
conservatively rated Moderately Unsatisfactory.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance

5.2.1 Overall the government has provided an enabling environment at both macro-
economic and sectoral levels for achieving project development objectives. On macro-
economic dimension, a number of financial incentives have been instituted for dairy
operations, including abolishing agricultural taxes and providing better access to credit
and technical services, while at the sector policy level, the government at both central and
local levels has formulated policies, including introduction of support prices after
melamine scandal, to promote the dairy sector development. During the project
preparation, the provincial government committed adequate financial and human
resources to work with the Bank team and set up a well-proven project management
structure from province down to the township level, following the experience gained
under the Bank financed Heilongjiang Agricultural Development Project (HADP).
Furthermore, the government has committed substantial public resources to ensure
efficient operation and good maintenance of artificial insemination and breeding
improvement program under component 2.

5.2.2 However, the government performance could have been improved in the
following areas: (i) changing the cost recovery policy for semen imports under the project
and incorporating them into the government free supply system13; and (ii) enforcing more
strictly environmental controls in regard to animal waste management and disposal.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Moderately unsatisfactory

5.2.3 Despite the unexpected external shocks during the project implementation, the
project management offices (PMOs) at both provincial and county levels, staffed with
dedicated multi-disciplinary professionals and administrative personnel, had made efforts
to address implementation issues, such as the change of cow ICB/NCB procurement 14
and the switching dairy operations from households to dairy parks. The PMOs also
developed operational manuals and conducted training for procurement and financial
management. The PMOs generally maintained good working relationship and
communication with the Bank.

5.2.4 However, the PMO could have done better with regard to (i) following up closely
with the development of animal waste treatment and disposal, with the Provincial and
local EPBs; (ii) according due priority to developing an adequate M&E system and


13
     See Section 3.2.8
14
     See Section 1.7.1

                                            21
providing consistent implementation progress reports on a regular basis; (iii) working
more closely with financial bureau to monitor the arrangements for on-lending
arrangements; (iv) requesting timely the government interventions with regard to the use
of imported semen; and (v) adequately staffing the PPMO. On this last point, it should be
noted that from October 2010, when the Provincial DRC office was rearranged, all senior
PPMO staff were reassigned. For the final year of the project, the PPMO only consisted
of a temporary, skeleton staff under a new PPMO Director.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Moderately unsatisfactory

5.2.5 Based on the assessment of the Sections 5.2.1-5.2.4, overall borrower’s
performance is rated moderately unsatisfactory.

6. Lessons Learned

6.1     The project was focused on a single sub-sector. The basis for this focus was a
careful analysis of the sector, potential market growth and the physical conditions in the
province. The selection of the dairy sector for support was therefore done properly and
this was demonstrated in the project to be an appropriate choice. Many farmers have
benefitted from the project. However, a single sector focus also comes with risks and is
susceptible to supply and demand shocks which can have a major impact on project
implementation. This vulnerability needs to be recognized and explicitly addressed
during preparation and appraisal. Although the specific external shocks could not always
have been predicted, the risks are apparent, especially for livestock related sectors.

6.2     The majority of IBRD funding under the project was allocated to private assets
(dairy cattle) provided on a credit bases to participating households. This approach by the
Bank in the agricultural sector in China was quite prevalent during the period when the
project was approved. In this case, this was justified by the fact that households have
limited access to finance (long term credit) for such investments. Since this project was
approved, the Bank generally does not support this type of investment, with instead a
preference for supporting public goods in the agricultural sector, thereby creating a better
investment environment for private goods. The project did not contribute to supporting
the development of financial service provision to rural communities. Future projects may
be advised to limit the procurement of private assets and instead support access to
financial services and provision of public goods.

6.3     The procurement of livestock proved to be problematic throughout the project,
especially when World Bank guidelines for ICB and NCB were applied. This forced
some innovation with the development of guidelines for applying the Bank’s Community
Participation in Procurement methodology. Through the project, this was demonstrated to
be an effective approach and was highly supported by beneficiaries. Future Bank
financed projects should learn from this experience. It can be concluded that the Bank
procurement guidelines for Goods cannot easily be applied to livestock (which are non-
standardized, have critical delivery timing issues, and carry additional risks for suppliers
due to disease etc).

                                            22
6.4    All intensive livestock sectors must pay close attention to livestock waste
management issues as these are elements for the success and sustainability of investments
in the sector. Under this project, although provisions were in place to ensure that
appropriate waste management facilities were included in the infrastructure development,
there was an over-reliance on the Environmental Protection Bureau to monitor and
enforce compliance. Future IBRD projects might consider to including the financing of
waste management (which has a public good justification).

6.5     Monitoring and evaluation received too little attention from the project
implementation agency, which may have not recognized the importance of this and
therefore were unwilling to devote sufficient time and resources. Some indicators could
have been better designed to make them easier to measure. If M&E systems under
perform during project implementation, Bank teams need to facilitate the execution of
evaluative studies at the MTR and after project completion.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

7.1.1 No comments provided.

(b) Co-financiers

7.1.2 No comments provided.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders

None




                                           23
 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

   (a) Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
               Component                               PAD                  Actual   Actual/PAD
I. Dairy Development                                   148.2                118.12     79.70%
      Household Dairy Farms                             88.9                 68.54     77.10%
      Milk and Collection Stations                      6.7                   5.93     88.51%
      Dairy Parks                                       28.9                 24.35     84.26%
      Demonstration Farms                               21.3                 18.98     89.11%
      Training and Technology Transfer                  2.1                   0.27     12.86%
      Dairy Farmer Association                          0.3                   0.05     16.67%
II. Breed Improvement                                   6.5                   4.35     66.92%
III. Climate Change Mitigation                          9.5                   8.87     93.37%
IV. Project Management and M&E                          1.1                   0.6      54.55%
Total Baseline Cost                                    165.3                131.94     79.82%
      Physical Contingencies                            3.8                    0        0.00%
      Price Contingencies                               9.6                    0        0.00%
 Total Project Cost                                    178.7                131.94     73.83%
      Front-end Fee                                     0.25                  0.25    100.00%
 Total Financing Required                             178.95                132.19     73.87%


   (b)Financing
              Fund Sources                              PAD                 Actual   Actual/PAD
Borrower                                                 25.5                24.29     95.25%
IBRD15                                                   100                 56.91     56.91%
Italian Grant                                            5.5                  5.32     96.73%
Sub-borrowers                                            27.8                26.48     95.25%
Local Farmers                                           20.15                19.19     95.24%
Total                                                  178.95               132.19     73.87%




 15
      Estimation by ICR mission (to be confirmed by the final disbursements).

                                                       24
 Annex 2. Outputs by Component

                                                       Apprais      Revised                  % of       % of
  Component             Indicator              Unit                           Actual
                                                       al target     target                appraisal   revised
                 Number of farmer
                                          No.               5500       4100     3600           65.45     87.80
                 households
                 Milking station                              55         41       36           65.45     87.80
                 Number of cows in
                                                           17000      12710    11260           66.24     88.59
                 household farms
                 Number of dairy parks                        50         40       42           84.00    105.00
                 Number of farmer
                                          No.               3500       3000     2675           76.43     89.17
                 households in parks
                 Number of cows in
                                                           15000      12000     9260           61.73     77.17
                 parks
                 Number of renovated
                                                              20          1            1        5.00    100.00
                 parks
                 Number of farmer
                 households within        No.               1500         75       75            5.00    100.00
1. Dairy         renovated parks
Production
                 Number of cows within
                                                            3000        150      150            5.00    100.00
                 renovated parks
                 Number of
                                                               7          5            5       71.43    100.00
                 demonstration farms
                 Number of cows within
                                                            4200       3000            0        0.00       0.00
                 demonstration farms
                 Average daily milk
                 production of the cows   Litre              15.5      15.5      17.5         112.90    112.90
                 in the project
                 Technician training                        1000        700     1000          100.00    142.86
                 Number of farmer         person.
                                                           10000       8000     9000           90.00    112.50
                 trained                  day
                 Dairy farmer
                                                             100         82       84           84.00    102.44
                 association
                 Number of cows
 2. Dairy Herd
                 participated in milk                      180000    120000   130000           72.22    108.33
 Improvement
                 sample testing
                 Areas of improved
                                          ha               16700      20000    20000          119.76    100.00
                 pasture
                 Number of waste
3. Climate       treatment facilities                         20         16       16           80.00    100.00
Change           constructed
Mitigation       Number of straw
                 processing facilities                        10          9            9       90.00    100.00
                 constructed
                 Supported studies                              -        16       16               -    100.00




                                                      25
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

A. Introduction

The analysis presented in this annex reassesses the economic rate of return (ERR) and
financial rate of return (FRR) calculated in the PAD using updated prices, actual project
costs, and latest information on the operations of dairy production. The methodology of
the analysis by and large follows that of PAD with increased level of details, as more data
are available compared with at PAD. The project costs and physical achievements were
drawn from project records while the future production projections are based on actual
performance of current operations and data from project entities.

B. Project Benefits

The estimated incremental stream of benefits is derived from a comparison of the
“without? and the “with? project situation. The “without? project case assumes a
continuation of the present milk quality level and of the present productivity level of
dairy production activities. The “with? project case reflects an increase in milk
production from better livestock management and genetic improvement of the herd, and
an improvement in milk quality, as a result of project activities.

The major quantifiable benefits for economic analysis of the project are (i) smallholder
farmers’ increased incomes generated by investments in dairy cows, better milk quality,
and improved productivity through genetic improvement. They are directly derived from
the incremental value of milk production of both individual farms and dairy parks
financed by the project; and (ii) benefits from carbon sequestration. Other significant but
not quantifiable benefits come from (i) improved pasture management, animal feeding
practices, and the use of treated animal manure as a saleable fertilizer; (ii) increased
employment created in the dairy parks, milking stations, and demonstration farms; (iii)
improved breeds and better AI services for the province’s dairy herd; and (iv) social
benefits derived from the establishment of farmers’ associations.


C. Financial Analysis

Financial analysis is carried out for two major types of profit-making entities: individual
households and dairy parks. Based on a 6-year project implementation period, models of
their costs and benefits are constructed according to the following assumptions:
      Dairy production activities’ costs and benefits have been evaluated over 15 years.
      A discount rate of 12 percent has been used.
      All cost-benefit calculations are in 2011 constant prices.
      The model of individual households is based on an initial investment of five
       cows which is representative of household farms.
      The analysis of dairy parks is based on three-hundred cows which is the average
       capacity.



                                            26
The prices of milk sold in individual farms and dairy parks are based on an average of the
past 5 years. It’s close to the governmental minimum support price so the estimation of
future returns is very conservative.

Feeding costs represent the main variable production costs and are based on observation
in the project area with improved feeding formulas. Under the project, improved feeding
practices were introduced and training was provided on the use of lease-cost feeding
formulas.

The evolution of the herd structure depend on given technical parameters over the time
period considered for analysis (fertility rate, mortality rate and adult death losses, culling
rate) and farmer’s management decisions (number and age of animals sold, number of
replacement heifers kept). For both operations smallholder farmers and dairy farms, those
parameters were based on the average productivity levels estimated by the local project
management staff in consultation with the household farms and dairy parks.

Based on the approaches and assumptions outlined above, the FRR for representative
farmer household models is 16 percent; the FRR for dairy park models is 17 percent, with
an NPV. They indicate that the project is financially profitable and attractive to farmers.
The detailed calculations for FRRs for both household farm and dairy park are available
in project file.


D. Economic Analysis

Economic analysis is conducted based on all quantifiable incremental benefits including
increased income all the individual smallholder farms and dairy parks established and
environmental benefits from carbon sequestration achieved by pastureland rehabilitation;
while project costs covered not only those for household and dairy park production, but
also for project management and investment in components 2 &3. The project costs used
in the analysis were based on actual costs incurred.

At appraisal, parity prices were used to estimate farm-gate economic prices for traded
inputs and outputs. Economic prices for non-traded goods were estimated by using
conversion factors. However, the Chinese economy during the project implementation
period, actually since its accession to WTO in 2001, has been increasingly integrated into
world economy and it is generally acknowledged that Chinese economy has achieved
“market status?. Therefore, the current market prices of both inputs and outputs, by and
large, reflect the actual export and import parity prices for the products of identical
quality if they are tradable. Furthermore the inter-provincial trade is far more important
than international trade for dairy products in China. As such, the financial prices are used
as “proxies? for economic prices. Similarly no further adjustments are made to the prices
of non-tradable farm inputs and outputs, as Chinese currency has been under pressure for
appreciation. The foreign exchange premium is therefore not relevant in China now.

Carbon sequestration is the main quantifiable environmental benefit from the project.
Pastures in the project area vary widely in productive capacity and potential carbon
storage per hectare. The valuation of carbon sequestration is based on the methodology in

                                             27
the PAD. Average production has been estimated at 3000kg OM/ha of which 80 percent
would oxidize to CO2, leaving an organic residue of 600kg OM/year/ha, or approximately
300 kg percent C/ha/year. For a total of 20,000 ha rehabilitated, total carbon sequestered
amounts to an estimated 6,000 ton C/year. Using a conservative estimate of US$ 5/ton
price, this translates into a US$ 30,000 benefit per year.

Based on the above, the ERR calculation has taken into account all the incremental
benefits (dairy production and carbon sequestration) and all the project costs (including
costs for project management) in an aggregated economic cash flow, built up in line with
physical achievements in the province. The ERR is estimated at 17% , indicating that the
project is economically viable (Detailed calculations are contained in the project file).

The notably lower ERR achieved at ICR in comparison with PAD estimates (23%) is
mainly due to the exclusion at ICR of the quantifiable benefits from component 2, which
was included in the PAD as incremental farmers’ benefits from increased milk
productivity through genetic improvement at the provincial level. As discussed in the
main report, due to slow progress and readjusted outcome from component 2(breed
improvement), the analysis at ICR, taking a conservative approach, does not include the
benefits from components 2 at provincial level.

As the above calculations were done on a very conservative basis (not including the
significant unquantifiable benefits, see Section 1), and the milk price were averaged from
the past 5 years which experienced so many external shocks, the ERR should be
considered as a low bound estimate. No sensitivity test therefore was conducted at ICR.

 The major fiscal impact of the project after implementation completion will be the
provision of the operation and maintenance (O&M) costs of DHI program within HABC
(which have been adequately covered during the project implementation). The provincial
government has fully committed to continuing the O&M cost coverage by the budget
allocations




                                           28
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                              Responsibility/
                Names                      Title                   Unit
                                                                                Specialty
Lending
Mohamed N. Benali          Consultant                             EASCS    Technical
Yi Dong                    Sr Financial Management Specialist    EAPFM     Financial Mgmt
                                                                 EASRE -
Jennifer Ifft              Junior Professional Associate                   Technical
                                                                   HIS
Zong-Cheng Lin            Senior Social Development Spec          EASCS    Social Safeguards
Steven William Oliver     Consultant                             EAPCO     Technical
Margaret Png              Lead Counsel                           LEGEM     Lawyer
Jinan Shi                 Senior Procurement Specialist           EAPPR    Procurement
Chongwu Sun               Senior Environmental Specialist         EASCS    Env Safeguards
Mei Wang                  Senior Counsel                          LEGES    Lawyer
Zhengxuan Zhu             Consultant                             EASHS     Operations
Cornelis de Haan          Consultant                               ARD     Technical
Supervision/ICR
Andrew Goodland           Sr Agricultural Specialist             EASCS     Task Team Leader
Mohamed N. Benali         Consultant                             EASCS     Technical
Yi Dong                   Sr Financial Management Specialist     EAPFM     Financial Mgmt
Jingfu Feng                                                      EACCF     Technical
Qun Li                    Senior Operations Officer              MNSWA     Operations
Zong-Cheng Lin            Senior Social Development Specialist   EASCS     Social Safeguards
Ian P. J. Nightingale     Lead Procurement Specialist            OPCPR     Procurement
Jinan Shi                 Senior Procurement Specialist          EAPPR     Procurement
Yuan Wang                 Procurement Specialist                 EAPPR     Procurement
Jian Xie                  Senior Environmental Specialist        EASER     Economic Analysis
Zhuo Yu                   Finance Analyst                        CTRLN     Disbursement
Qi Zhu                    Consultant                             EAPFM     Technical
(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                            Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                            USD Thousands (including
                                        No. of staff weeks
                                                                  travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY04                                                                       108.88
  FY05                                                                       329.52
  FY06                                                                        60.71
  FY07                                                                         0.00
  FY08                                                                         2.59
                          Total:                                             501.70
Supervision/ICR
  FY04                                                                         0.00
  FY05                                                                         0.00
  FY06                                                                        37.03
  FY07                                                                        82.23
  FY08                                                                        75.59
                          Total:                                             194.85



                                            29
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

None




                                      30
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

None




                                   31
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

To be provided by PPMO




                                  32
Annex 8. Comments of Co-financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders




                                    33
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

 1.   PAD and its technical Annexes
 2.   Aide Memoires and related Annexes prepared by the supervision missions
 3.   Aide Memoire and related Annexes of the last supervision /ICR mission
 4.   Annual Monitoring & Evaluation Reports from PPMO
 5.   List of Research Topics under Component 3
 6.   Models for financial and economic analysis (spreadsheets)




                                             34
