                                                                            ReportNo. 31369-HN


                                             Documentof
                                           The WorldBank


                              FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY



                    INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENTASSOCIATION



                                     PROGRAMDOCUMENT


           FORA PROPOSEDFIRSTPROGRAMMATIC FINANCIAL SECTOR


                               DEVELOPMENTPOLICY CREDIT


     INTHE AMOUNT OF SDR 16.2 MILLION(US$25.0 MILLIONEQUIVALENT)

                                               TO THE

                                   REPUBLICOF HONDURAS




                                         January 24,2005




Finance, Private Sector and InfrastructureDepartment
Central America Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region

This document has arestricteddistributionand may be usedby recipients only inthe performanceof their official
duties. Its contentsmay not otherwise be disclosedwithout World Bank authorization.

             HONDURAS     - GOVERNMENTFISCAL         YEAR
                       January 1 - December 31

                     CURRENCYEQUIVALENTS
                       Currency Unit - Lempira


                           EXCHANGE    RATE
           (Exchange Rate Effective as of January 21,2005)
                          US$l.OO = L 18.66
                              L 1 = US$0.054


                     WEIGHTSAND MEASURES
                            Metric System


              ABBREVIATIONAND ACRONYMS

ACH              Automatic Clearinghouse
AHIBA            HonduranAssociationof BankingInstitutions(AsociacidnHondureiia de
                 InstitucionesBancarias)
AMLICFT          Anti-Money LaunderingandCombatingthe Financingof Terrorism
AND1             NationalIndustrialAssociation(AsociacidnNacional de Industriales)
BCF              BioCarbonFund
BCH              CentralBank of Honduras (BancoCentral deHonduras)
CABEI            CentralAmericanBank of EconomicIntegration
CAFTA            CentralAmericaFreeTrade Agreement
CAS              Countrv AssistanceStrategv
CFAA            1Country FinancialAccountabilityAssessment
CNBS            INationalBank andInsuranceCommission(ComisidnNacional de Buncos y

                                                              FOROFFICIAL USEONLY




                                 Adauisiciones)




        UIF                      Financial Information Unit (Unidad de Informacidn Financiera)
        UNDP                     United NationsDevelopment Program
        UPEGs                    Planningand BudgetEvaluation Units (Unidudesde Planificacidn y Evaluacidn



                                   Vice President: PamelaCox
                                 CountryDirector: Jane Armitage
                                  Sector Director : John H. Stein(Acting)
                                  Sector Manager:     Susan G.Goldmark (Acting)
                                Task Team Leader: Aquiles A. Almansi

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in
the performance of their official duties. I t s contents may not be otherwise disclosed
without W o r l d Bailk authorization.


                                                                   HONDURAS
                PROGRAMMATIC              FINANCIALSECTOR DEVELOPMENT                                                    POLICYCREDIT

                                                    TABLEOF CONTENTS


  I INTRODUCTION                                                                                                                                                                 3
  I1
   ..                     .............................................................................................................................................
          COUNTRY CONTEXT          ....................................................................................................................................          3
                  RECENTECONOMICDEVELOPMENTSINHONDURAS............................................
                                                        ................................................................................................................         3

  Iv
  I11
    ..    THE GOVERNMENT PROGRAM                                                                                                                                                 7
          BANK SUPPORTTO THE GOVERNMENT'S STRATEGY                                                   .....................................................................       8
                  LINKTO THE CAS............................................................................................................. 8
                  COLLABORATION WITH THE IMFAND OTHER DONORS .......................................                                                                             9
                  RELATIONSHIPTO OTHER BANK OPERATIONS.......................................................                                                                    10
                  LESSONSLEARNED..........................................................................................................                                       11
                  FINANCIAL SECTORISSUES                                                 ....................................................................
  V.      THE PROPOSEDPROGRAMATIC FINA                                                  CTOR DEVELOPMENT POLICY CREDIT                                                      .....15
                  OPERATIONDESCRIPTION.............................................................................................                                               15
                  CREDIT AMOUNT AND TRANCHING............................................................................                                                         15

  VI.             POLICY AREAS .................................................................................................................. 16
          OPERATIONIMPLEMENTATION                         ..............................................................................................................         26
                  POVERTYAND SOCIALIMPACTS.................................................................................                                                      26
                  SUPERVISION....................................................................................................................                                28
                  FIDUCIARY ASPECTS....................................................................................................... 28
                  DISBURSEMENTAND AUDITING..................................................................................                                                      35
                  ENVIRONMENTALASPECTS.......................................................................................... 35
                  RISKS...........................................            ............................................                                            .............35


                                                                     ANNEXES

  ANNEX 1: LETTEROFDEVELOPMENT POLICY                                  ..................................................................................................         38
  ANNEX 2: OPERATIONPOLICYMATRIX                                                                                                                                                  47
  ANNEX 3: IMFRELATIONS NOTE              .............................................................................................................................
                                                         ...............................................................................................................
                                                                                                                                                                                  51
  ANNEX 4: STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS                                   ............................................................................................         52
  ANNEX 5: STATEMENT OF IFC'S HELDAND DISBURSEDPORTFOLIO                                                                                                                          53
  ANNEX 6: COUNTRY AT A GLANCE (includes country map)                                    .................................................................................
                                                                                                                    ........................................................
                                                                                                                                                                                  54




This Creditwas preparedby an IDA team consisting of Aquiles Almansi (Task Manager. LCSFF). Juan Carlos
Mendoza(LCSFF). Mariluz Cortes (LCSFF). SaraZekri (LCSFF). Micky Ananth (LCSFF). and Pilar Gutierrez
(LEGLA).The team benefitedfrom the extensive preparatorywork done by Modibo K.Camara(ECAVP).


                                    HONDURAS
                 FINANCIALSECTORDEVELOPMENTPOLICYCREDIT

                       CREDIT ANDPROGRAM          SUMMARY

                     Republic of Honduras
 Implementing Agency Comisi6n Nacional de Bancos y Seguros (CNBS) and Central Bank of
                     Honduras (BCH)
I Amount             SDR 16.2 million (US$25 millionequivalent)
 Terms               Ten years grace period and amaturity of 20 years, with principal
                     repayable at 10percent per annum for years 11to 20.
 Tranching           The proposed credit would be disbursedintwo tranches. A first
                     tranche of SDR 8.1 million would be disbursed uponeffectiveness,in
                     support of up-front reform measures taken by the Honduran
                     authorities. A secondfloating tranche of SDR 8.1 million would be
                     disbursedagainst agreed tranche conditions when these are met.
                     This would be a programmatic development policy operation intwo
                     phases. The first phase-the      SDR 16.2 millioncredit proposedhere-
                     would support financial sector institutional development through
                     reforms inthe following five areas: a) strategyfor managementof
                     systemic risks, b) legal and regulatory framework, c) anti-money
                     laundering and prevention of terrorism financing, d) strengthening of
                     supervision andcontrol of systemic risks, and e) payments system. A
                     secondphase, that would partially fund a systemic consolidation
                     strategy, would be triggered by key indicative actions such as: a)
                     private consensus on a consolidation strategy, b) demonstrated
                     practical relevance of the institutional development supportedby the
                     first phase; andc) a diagnosis of the solvency position of the largest
                     banks.
                     The proposed credit would support sorely neededinstitutional
                     development inkey areas affecting the financial sector. It would also
                     strengthenthe dialogue between the Bank and Honduras, placing the
                     Bank in a better position to assist inthe financial sector's
                     consolidation process.
                     There i s little risk that the actions required under the first credit are not
                     taken. However, substantial additional reform, built on solid
                     analytical work and consensusbuildingamong stakeholders, will be
                     required for the eventful second Credit to be possible.
  Operation IDNumber PE-PO83311-LEN-BB

~




                                          2

                          IDA PROGRAMDOCUMENTFORA
PROPOSEDFIRST PROGRAMATICFINANCIALSECTORDEVELOPMENTPOLICY
                                CREDITTO HONDURAS


                                I. INTRODUCTION


1.      The Financial SectorAssessment Program(FSAP) conducted in2002/3 found two
fundamental problems in Honduras: a) low bank capitalization; and b) weak institutional
framework for financial sector transactions, regulation and supervision. The Government
of Honduras (GoH) fully recognizes both problems and so far has made substantial
progress with regard to addressingthe institutional problem.

2.      The Bank's support for the GoH's program to strengthen the financial sector
would consist of a two phased programmatic development policy operation. The first
phase-the    SDR 16.2 million Credit proposedhere-would be executed over a period of
two years. The proposed Credit would support the institutional development of the
financial sector through reforms in the following five areas: a) development of a strategy
for management of systemic risks, b) strengthening of the legal and regulatory
framework, c) anti-money laundering and system for the prevention of financing of
terrorism, d) strengthening of supervision and control of systemic risks, and e)
strengthening of the payments system. The second phase of the programmatic operation
would partially fund a systemic consolidation strategy. Key triggers for the second phase
would be: a) reaching formal agreement between the GoH and a substantial part of the
private financial system on a consolidation strategy, b) practical relevance of the
institutional development supported by the first phase, as shown by generalized
compliance with prudential norms and the eventual resolution of financial institutions
within the existing legal framework; and c) a diagnosis of the solvency position of the
largestbanks.

3.       Since this proposed operation supports an institutional development effort widely
perceived as necessaryand that it i s beingactively implemented, there i s little risk that the
actions required for disbursement of the first Credit are not taken. However, substantial
additional reform, built on solid analytical work and consensus building among
stakeholders,will be requiredfor the eventful secondCredit to be possible.



                             11.     COUNTRY CONTEXT

RECENTECONOMICDEVELOPMENTSINHONDURAS

4.       Honduras is characterized by a historical record of poor economic growth but
relatively high income stability compared to other Central and Latin American countries.


                                             3

Over the period 1960-2003, Honduras grew at an averageannual rate of 0.8 percent inper
capita terms, which i s less than half the Latin American average of 1.7 percent and lower
than the 1.2 percent averaged by all developing countries worldwide.              Similarly, the
Honduran economy historically has had low inflation rates compared to other countries in
the region. This reflects a traditional adherence to conservative monetary policies and a
preferencefor fixed exchange rates.'

5.      Honduras is the most open economy in Latin America and ranks among the most
open in the world. This makes it more vulnerable to external shocks and i s periodically
affected by major terms of trade fluctuations, natural disasters and developments in its
major trading partners. Over the last decade, Honduras has made vigorous efforts to
reduce its vulnerability to terms of trade shocks through a greater diversification of its
exports. The country's three main traditional export commodities (coffee, bananas, and
shrimps) have been superseded by nontraditional exports and maquila exports (offshore
assembly for re-export), mainly in textiles. While reducing the vulnerability to terms of
trade fluctuations, the growth of the maquila sector has increasedHonduras' vulnerability
to trade shocks through greater competition from low-cost Asian producers in apparel and
textiles (once the World Trade Organization (WTO) agreement on quotas i s currently
scheduled to end in January 2005) and possibly to trade disputes associated with the
exemptions grantedto export processingzones.

6.      Inthe early 1990s, Honduras reconsideredits inward-lookingpolicies andbegana
process of reform that included the reduction of trade barriers, more flexible exchange
rate arrangements, financial market liberalization, liberalization of agricultural trade,
adjustments of public utility tariffs, and the development of a legal framework to
strengthen property rights. This reform process was not sustained, however, as the
quality of economic management varied greatly over the political cycle. Accordingly,
fiscal discipline began to relax in the run-up to the November 1993 elections, and many
of the trade liberalizingreforms taken inthe early 1990s were reversedinorder to prevent
a collapse of reserves. A similar pattern occurred also inthe run-up to the 1997 and 2001
elections. In both cases, PRGF (Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility) programs that
had been arduously negotiated with the International Monetary Fund (IMF) in the first
half of the electoral period subsequently went off-track due to deviations from fiscal
targets and an inability to implement programmed structural reform measures as the
elections came nearer.

7.      Recent Macroeconomic Developments. The Honduran economy has been
stagnant since 2001. Economic growth increasedmodestly to 3 percent in2003 (or barely
0.4 percent in per capita terms), driven by a mild recovery in construction, tourism and
maquila activity, while inflation declined to 7.2 percent, in line with the exchange rate
crawl.    Unfortunately, the fiscal and external deficits also increased, limiting the
prospectsfor amore robust economic take-off.




  Honduras - Development Policy Review, Accelerating Broad-Based Growth (April 2004).

                                                 4

8.       Public Sector. The public sector deficit (after grants) has been exhibiting a
progressive deterioration, from 0.2 percent of Gross Domestic Product (GDP) in 1999 to
4.6 percent in 2003. This deterioration is mainly attributable to declines in the operating
surpluses of the public enterprises and the erosion of tax revenues. The decline in
operating surpluses i s largely associated with rising oil prices and sluggish tariff
adjustments by the public enterprises, while the erosion of tax revenues i s due to the
proliferation of tax exemptions, weakening tax administration and declining import
duties. Administrative measures taken by the Government halted the deterioration in the
operating surpluses of the public enterprises in 2003, but did not reverse it. The
Government also implemented a three-stage tax reform (October 2002, May 2003 and
December 2003), which succeeded inpartially reversingthe earlier tax revenue decline.

9.       External Sector. The current account deficit increased to 5.2 percent of GDP in
2003 (from 3.1 percent in 2002), reflecting a continuing deterioration of the terms of
trade, weak export growth (except for the maquila services sector), and a significant jump
in imports (9 percent) that is largely attributable to higher oil prices. Depressed global
economic conditions, particularly in the United States, are partly responsible for the
lackluster export performance. However, in the near future, Honduras' external sector
will receive a major impulse with the creation of the U.S. - Central America Free Trade
Area (CAFTA). Negotiations on the CAFTA between the Central American countries
and the United States were successfully concluded in December 2003.              Once the
agreement i s ratified by the respective legislatures, Honduras and its Central American
neighbors will face major opportunities as well as challenges. The free trade area
promises significant opportunities for export led growth and employment creation, but it
i s also likely to require internal adjustments in responseto increasedexternal competition
and declines intariff revenues.

10.      The combined fiscal and external deficits       has put pressure on international
reserves and resulted in an increase in arrears on the repayment of Honduras' substantial
foreign debt. Realizing that this situation was untenable, the authorities reached a new
PRGF arrangement with the IMFBoardinFebruary 2003. Since then, the IMFBoard has
made a successful conclusion of the first review in September 2004.

11.      Recent Structural Reforms. The Government has introduced some important
structural reforms. One of the most significant has been in the area of tax revenues.
Congress approved the new tax reform package in 2003 which will, inter alia, increase
tax equity (through taxing some bonus payments and introducing a temporary 5 percent
solidarity profits tax), widen the tax base (through additional taxes on tobacco and
alcohol and a new withholding tax at the wholesale level as well as reduced exemptions
in sales tax) and introduce measures to reduce fiscal evasion. The Government expects
that the tax packagewill yield additional revenues of about 3.3 percent of GDP when it i s
fully implemented.       Consideration is also being given to the design of additional,
contingent measures in the event that these expected revenue estimates do not
materialize.



                                               5

MACROECONOMICOUTLOOKAND DEBTSUSTAINABILITY

12.      The Medium Term Macroeconomic Framework. The economic program
negotiated with the IMF and presented in the first PRSP (Poverty Reduction Strategy
Paper) Progress Report seeks to reverse Honduras' fiscal deterioration, and create the
basis for faster growth and reduced poverty in line with PRSP and MDG (Millennium
Development Goal) targets. It aims to raise annual growth to 4.5 percent by 2006 and
reduce inflation gradually to the rates prevailing among the country's main trading
partners in 2008. Also, the authorities are seekingto implement all the reforms neededto
reach the HIPC (Heavily Indebted Poor Countries) completion point by early 2005.

13.      The program contemplates a progressive decline in the overall fiscal deficit to 3.0
percent of GDP in 2004, 2.5 percent in 2005 and 1.7 percent in 2006. This fiscal
adjustment will reduce the amount of crowding-out inthe domestic financial market and,
thereby, permit an expansion of credit to the private sector. The deficit reduction is to be
brought about through measures on the revenue and expenditure sides. Revenues are
scheduled to increase with the implementation of the 2003 tax reform over a full year.
Further measures include the strengthening of customs administration and a Tax Code
reform, designed to improve tax collection and enforcement. Adjustments in public
tariffs, especially in the energy and telecommunications sectors, are contemplated in the
program to improve the operating surpluses of the public enterprises, while greater
discipline in setting public sector wages will help bring down current expenditures.
Additional reforms in the area of human resources are contemplated to further reduce
labor costs and increase labor productivity in the public sector. The resultingincrease in
public savings will permit the expansion in public investment within an overall deficit
reduction context.

14.      Debt Sustainability.Honduras reached the HIPC Decision Point in June 2000,
qualifying under the fiscal criteria (net present value (NPV) of debt-to-revenue ratio
above 250 percent), but not under the export criteria (NPV of debt-to-export ratio above
150 percent).     Since then, Honduras' external public debt has remained virtually
unchanged in US Dollar terms. Its total external public debt amounted to US$4,228
million in nominal terms at the end of 2002 (no data available for 2003), versus
US$4,288 million at the end of 1999. This represents a significant decline in Honduras'
overall debt burden: in NPV terms, the total public external debt declined as a share of
exports of good and services from 142 percent in 1999 to 125 percent in 2002, and as a
share of GDP from about 59 percent to 46 percent. It also declined as a share of
government revenues, from 322 percent in 1999 to 252 percent in 2002, putting it very
close to the debt sustainability threshold under the fiscal window. The last IMF/World
Bank review in September 2004 indicates that Honduras already has complied fully with
two out of eight required conditions, and i s well on the way to satisfying the remaining
conditions to reachits Completion Point inMarch 2005.




                                             6

                       111.    THE GOVERNMENTPROGRAM


15.     The Government's medium-term priorities are in line with the PRSP program2
and supportedby aWorld Bank's Poverty Reduction Support Credit (PRSC -May 2004).
The Government program is structured around six pillars as follows: (i)        accelerating
equitable and sustainable growth to levels consistent with the income poverty reduction
targets, (ii)reducing rural poverty, (iii)
                                         reducing urban poverty, (iv) enhancing investment
in human capital, (v) strengthening social protection for specific vulnerable groups; and
(vi) ensuring the sustainability of the strategy through governance and institutional
reforms and enhancedenvironmental sustainability.

16.     The Government has prioritized the following areas for accelerating PRSP
implementation inthe short- to medium-term, namely:

        (i)   Restoring economic dynamism and employment creation, through: firm
        commitment to the maintenance of a stable macroeconomic framework; a revival
        of private investment as key sectors are opened to the private sector (e.g.,
        electricity generation and telecommunications) and inhigh-growth sectors such as
        tourism textiles and maquila; complementary public investments in infrastructure,
        property rights and regulatory and other reforms included in the National
        Competitiveness Plan; successfulconclusion of CAFTA; an ambitious program of
        financial sector strengthening; and, reforms in governance and transparency
        designedto improve the investment climate (see below).

        (ii) Development of human capital, with a focus on improving the efficiency and
        quality of education, health, nutrition and water and sanitation services, through a
        strategy of increased municipal and community involvement in the design,
        management, and monitoring of the delivery and quality of key services and
        efficiency of resource use.

        (iii)  Strengthening governance, with an emphasis on: political and judicial
        reform, including steps to reduce the length of the campaign cycle, improve the
        accountability of elected officials, and build on measures to strengthen the
        independence and probity of the courts by eliminating immunities of public
        officials and the legislature and strengthening civil and penal codes; enhanced
        personal security, through continued measures to combat crime and violence via
        strengthened policing and programs targeted to youth at risk of becoming
        involved with criminal gangs; and, transparent and accountable public sector
        management, via introduction of limits to political appointments in the civil
        service and accelerated implementation of systems aimed at budget transparency,
        competitive public procurement, enhanced tax administration and internal and
        external controls.

* IMF's PovertyReductionStrategyPaper (PRSP-February2004).

                                              7

17.     The above priorities systematically incorporate cross-cutting emphasis on
environmental sustainability and risk prevention, gender equity, and decentralization. In
addition, the medium-term strategy highlights the need to strengthen management of
national forests and other protected areas, as a key element for maintaining the country's
rich environmental assets, while promoting their effective economic use in an
environmentally sustainablemanner.

18.     Inresponseto the findings of the 2003 FSAP, the authorities haveembarkedon
financial system reform aimed at: (i) reducing vulnerabilities and improving institutional
soundness inthe financial sector; (ii)strengtheningthe regulatory framework andongoing
supervision; (iii)enhancing the efficiency and effectiveness of the financial safety net;
(iv) strengthening the financial system infrastructure, including mechanisms to prevent
money laundering and financing of terrorism. Critical elements are being implemented
with support from the IDA-financedFinancial Sector Technical Assistance Credit (Credit
No.3800-HO) which was approved by the Bank's Board in June 2003. Additional policy
and institutional reforms in the sector would be supported by the proposed Financial
Sector InstitutionalDevelopment Policy Credit.

19.     To implement its financial sector reform plan the Government has gone trough a
lengthy consultation process. This process started in January 2004, with the banking
association (Asociaci6n Hondureiia de Instituciones Bancarias - AHIBA), and has
included institutions from the non-financial private sector such as Consejo Hondureiio de
la Empresa Privada (COHEP) and Asociaci6n Nacional de Industriales (ANDI), the civil
society and, thanks to an IDB-financed public campinglast August, the public at large.


         IV.    BANKSUPPORTTO THE GOVERNMENT'SSTRATEGY

LINKTO THE CAS

20.     The Bank's assistance strategy for Honduras i s outlined in the 2003 CAS (Report
No. 25873-HO) discussed May 29, 2003, and covers the FY03-06 period. The report
emphasizes the World Bank Group support to Honduras' efforts to implement its poverty
reduction strategy as laid out in the PRSP. The core goal of the CAS i s to support the
country's efforts to shift to a sustainable and inclusive higher-growth trajectory as a
principal means of reducing poverty and inequality in line with PRSP and MDG targets.
Within this broad objective, the Bank Group's support over the CAS period is fully
aligned with the six pillars of Honduras' PRSP, namely: (i)    accelerating equitable and
sustainable growth through operations aimed at strengthening and deepeningthe financial
sector, improving the investment climate and enhancing competitiveness; (ii)      reducing
rural poverty, though projects aimed at improving rural infrastructure and rural
productivity, and strengthening land ownership rights; (iii)  reducing urban poverty, by
improving income earning opportunities through support for the development of small
and medium industries and by helping improve the provision of urban services; (iv)
investing in human capital, through health and education projects; (v) improving social
protection and support for vulnerable groups, through projects which help address

                                             8

malnutrition and strengthen communities and indigenous people's development; and (vi)
ensuring sustainability by supporting Honduras' efforts to improve governance and
transparency includingajudicial reform.

21.    Starting from a portfolio and recent lending program dominated by investment
projects, this CAS contemplates a moderate increase in programmatic lending (including
quick-disbursing budgetary support and sector-wide approaches) to allow for better
alignment with the Government's own implementation processes and procedures and an
increased emphasis on outcomes. In terms of new lending, the base case CAS program
comprises 14 operations over FYs03-06, amounting in total to about US$296 million
(SDR 211 million), of which, about US$70 million would be in the form of quick-
disbursingbudgetary support. This represents a somewhat lower IDA allocation than was
made available to Honduras over the last CAS period, reflecting both the tapering off of
extraordinary support related to post-Mitch reconstruction and Honduras' poor fiscal
outcomes since 2000.

22.    Within the first PRSP pillar, (Accelerating Equitable and Sustainable Growth), a
major emphasis of Bank Group support to Honduras involves strengthening and
deepening the financial sector. Following on the completion of the joint IMF-World
Bank FSAPreport (FY03), two financial sector operations were envisagedover the CAS
period. The first i s a Financial Sector Technical Assistance project which was presented
to the Board alongside the CAS, and aims at strengthening the financial sector through
changes in the legal and institutional framework for managing banking crises, improving
supervision of financial institutions and strengthening corporate governance and
bankruptcy proceedings and enhancing the regime for anti-money laundering and
combating terrorism financing (AMLKFT) (including training for prosecutors and
judges). The CAS indicates that the proposed Financial Sector Adjustment Credit
(FSAC) would follow inFY04 to support the implementation of actions developed under
the Financial Sector Technical Assistance Credit (FSTAC) and provide budgetary support
for poverty reduction goals. In addition to these Bank Group supported activities, the
CAS indicates that the IFC would also seek opportunities to support the financial sector
with the aim of helping to improve the private sector's access to capital.


COLLABORATIONWITH THE IMFAND OTHERDONORS

23.    The Bank has worked in close collaboration with both the IMF and the IDB to
ensure a coordinated approach to support Honduras' efforts to strengthen its financial
sector. Financial sector reforms are an important aspect of the IMFdialogue. In addition,
the IMF has provided technical assistance to strengthen the financial system's safety net
and maintained a resident advisor on financial supervision from June 1998 to December
2002. The IDB has supported the development of a modem communications network
between Comisidn Nacional de Bancos y Seguros (CNBS), Central Bank of Honduras
(BCH) and the different institutions of the financial sector, and has provided technical
assistance on bank supervision and on regulation and supervision of the insurance and


                                            9

securities markets; the Central American Bank of Economic Integration (CABEI) has
supported the adoption of its proposed regional bank-accounting standards. Finally, the
US Treasury Department has provided technical assistance to organize the Financial
Information Unit (UIF). The CNBS has been quite effective in coordinating technical
assistance from various agencies to insure a consistent policy approach and to avoid
wasteful duplication of efforts.

RELATIONSHIPTO OTHERBANKOPERATIONS

24.      Since 1955, the World Bank Group has approved 87 operations for Honduras, of
which 19 are active and 68 closed. There are 4 additional operations under preparation
(see Table 1). The financial sector has received three investment projects, one of which is
still active: the Financial Sector Technical Assistance Credit (FSTAC), approved in 2003.

      Table 1:History of Projects(by sectorsandtypes)inHondurassince 1955

         Projects                          Numbers Proposed Active Closed lnvestment Adjustment Amount (USDm)
FPSl     Finance                                 3        0      1      2         3          0              77.3
         PrivateSector                           2        0      0      2         2          0             26.4
         lnfrastruture                         33         2      2     29        31          2             696.3
Subtotal                                     38       2      3       33       34         4         943.5
ESSD     Environment                             0        0      0      0         0          0                 0
         Aqricuiture&RuralSector               18         0      5     13        15          3             398.9
Subtotal                                     18       0      5       13       15         3         398.9
HD       EducationSector                         6        0      3      3         6          0              94 a
         Health, Nutrition&PopulationSector      6        0      2      4         6          0            274.76
         SocialProtectionSector                  4        1      1      2         4          0              105
Subtotal                                     16       1      6       9        16         0         474.56
PREM     Public Finance                      19       1      5       13       10         9         429.62
TOTAL                                        91       4      19      68       76         15       2246.58




25.      The proposed Programmatic Financial Sector Development Policy Credit
(PFSDPC) has strong links with two ongoing operations: the FSTAC and the PRSC,
approvedinJune 2004. These links are describedbelow.

26.     Links between the proposed operation and the FSTAC. The proposed operation
complements the financial sector reform already initiated under the ongoing FSTAC
(Credit 3800-HN) in the following areas: (a) upgrading of the legal and regulatory
framework of the CNBS, FOSEDE (Deposit Insurance Fund) and BCH to lower the risk
of systemic crises in the sector and manage the occurrence of such crises; (b) improving
the supervisory practices of the CNBS, particularly with respect to financial institutions
deemedto be inhigher risk of insolvency; (c) strengthening the capabilities of the CNBS,
the private financial sector and the judiciary with respect to anti-money laundering
(AML); and (d) modernizing the systemically important payment systems. The policy
actions supportedby the proposed operation ineach of these areas would help ensure that
the knowledge acquired through technical assistance is put into practice. In turn, the
technical assistance provided by the FSTAC would ensure that the institutions involved
have the requiredcapability to implement the policy reforms required under the PFSDPC.



                                                         10

27.      Links between the proposed operation and the PRSC. The one tranche, US$58.8
million PRSCI,     i s the first in a series of quick-disbursing programmatic credits in support
of the country's Poverty Reduction Strategy.              The linkages between the proposed
operation and the PRSC are at two levels. At one level, both operations are guided by the
PRSP strategy structured around six pillars (see paragraph 14). Inparticular, the PRSP's
first pillar, which aims at acceleratingequitable and sustainable growth through improved
investment climate, increased competitiveness and a healthier financial sector.              At
another level, both operations are linked because the PRSC Isupports measures to: (i)
strengthen private sector competitiveness and property rights through the implementation
of the Administration Simplification Law and the Property Law which establishes a
unified property registry; and (ii)     strengthen public sector financial managementthrough
the approval by Congress of the IntegratedFinancial Management System(SIAFI) Law.


LESSONSLEARNED

28.      The design of the proposedprogrammatic development policy operation takes into            .
account the lessons learned from the FSTAC, several adjustment operations in Honduras
(Public Finance adjustment credits managedby PREM), as well as other recent financial
sector adjustment operations in Latin America.              In particular, lessons learned were
incorporated from two adjustment operations that focused on financial sector institutional
strengthening: GuatemalaFinancial Sector Adjustment Loan (Ln. 7130-GU), approved in
June 2002, and Uruguay Financial Sector Adjustment Loan (Ln.454O-UY), approved in
February 2000 (Implementation Completion Report (ICR) issued in December 2000).
The most important lessons from these operations are the following:

         The value of prior strong analytical work.               In preparing financial sector
         development policy operations, the Bank should lead with its comparative
         advantage which is bringing to bear strong technical capacity and ample cross-
         country experience. The Borrower must be confident that its dialogue with the
         Bank will be of added value to its own efforts. The financial sector institutional
         development supported by this proposed operation i s based on the findings of the
         FSAP and subsequent work by Bank staff that presentedto the authorities a range
         of policy proposals for both the short and the long term.               The authorities
         welcomed the analytical work which becamethe basis of a dialogue with the Bank
         to define the policy actions to be supported by this adjustment operation, as well
          as for possible future reforms.

          The need to take into account the political economy of reform. In designing a
          sector adjustment operation, political factors and the legislative needs of the client
         need to be understood and included in the dialogue with the client, particularly if
         the implementation of the reform program will involve a future administration. In
         preparing this operation, the Bank understood that some of the policy reforms
         needed to consolidate and strengthen the solvency of the banking sector could not
         be implemented within the current political cycle. The decision to reduce the

                                                   11

scope of the loan and its size, rather than to cancel or postpone it, would
strengthen the basis for a continued policy dialogue with the future Honduran
authorities that will take office in2006.

The need to set limited objectives. An ambitious objective, such as the restoration
of the solvency and soundness of the banking system is a long-term goal that
involves difficult decisions concerning the allocation of losses among the owners
of the banks, the Government and depositors. In designing this operation, the
Bank understood that under current constraints, it i s more realistic to focus the
first programmatic Credit on institutional development (improving the legal and
regulatory framework and the capacity of the supervisory agencies), and to leave
the restructuringkonsolidation of the banks for a follow up operation, once the
Government, the banks, and other stakeholders, have agreed on a strategy for
banking sector consolidation.

The role of the Bank infacilitating thepolicy dialogue between stakeholders. The
sustainability of policy reforms to strengthen the financial sector depends on the
acceptance of the reforms by all the stakeholders. Inthe context of the FSAP and
the design of this operation, Bank staff discussed the needs for and implication of
the proposedreforms,withbank managers, government officials and legislators.

The Government's commitment is key in ensuring the success of the program.
Previous adjustment and investment operations all pointed to the important role of
strong government leadership in their success. The proposed Credit effectively
responds to the Borrower's own priorities and commitment as reflected in the
actions already taken, such as the recent passage of important financial legislation.

Adequate supervision of structural adjustment requires a close monitoring of the
overall situation in the country. In the implementation completion report (IDA-
28160-28161-28162-28163-28164) for a Public Sector Modernization Structural
Adjustment Credit (June 2002), IDA was overly optimistic inits assessment of the
time needed to implement the reforms. Having a representative field office in
Tegucigalpa has significantly improvedIDA'Spulse-taking function.

The importance of aflexible design. There i s a need to include some flexibility in
the design of an adjustment operation to respond to new needs and priorities that
can emerge during the implementation process The programmatic approach
involves flexibility through the use of triggers to open the possibility of a second
operation andby leaving open the specific conditionality of the secondoperation.

Theapproval of newfinancial sector laws must be accompanied by the enactment
of specific regulations and strengthening of the government agencies in charge of
their implementation in order to be effective. This operation has been designed to
be disbursed in two tranches: the first tranche in support of the passage of new
legislation, and the second tranche in support of the implementation of that

                                      12

        legislation through the enactment of regulations and the strengthening of
        supervision.

        Coordinating eforts with other international financial institutions such as the
        IMF and the IDB, is critical in ensuring a consistent policy approach towards
        borrowers. Close collaboration between the Bank, the IMF and the IDB in
        providing consistency of advice and support for financial sector reform has been
        crucial for the success of the Guatemala FSAL. This proposed operation also
        builds on close collaboration among the Bank and the IMFin the FSAP, and in
        the support given to the Honduran Government to strengthenthe financial sector.

FINANCIAL SECTORISSUES

29.     The FSAPconducted in 2002/3 found two fundamental problems inHonduras: (i)
low bank capitalization; and (ii)weak institutional framework for financial sector
transactions, regulation and supervision.

30.     Low Bank Capitalization. Low bank capitalization was found to be a systemic
problem because it involved many banks in the financial system. This solvency problem
developed over time due to negative external shocks such as Hurricane Mitch, the
subsequent decline in coffee prices and the current increase in oil prices. This situation
should be resolved through an efficient restructuring of the financial system. For such a
restructuring to be efficient, however, it has to be implemented through a smooth
consolidation process, something which will require consensus among key stakeholders
in the private sector and the Government, and the underpinning of appropriate fiscal
resources.

31.     Weak InstitutionalFramework.The legal framework for financial transactions,
and its regulation and supervision presentedseveral weaknesses inthe following areas:

32.      Bank Regulation and Supervision:        The most important areas of prudential
regulation that required correction were the following: (i)    consolidated supervision, (ii)
capital adequacy, (iii) classification and provisioning, (iv) corporate governance and
                       loan
risk management, and (v) framework for prompt corrective actions. The supervisory
focus of the CNBS was limited to verifying compliance with laws and regulations,
instead of being forward-looking and risk-oriented, and the enforcement authority was
quite limited.

33.     Regarding consolidated supervision, banks were required neither to report
consolidated financial statements to CNBS, nor to comply with prudential regulations on
a consolidated basis. This situation made it impossible for CNBS to prevent regulatory
arbitrages and effectively limit exposures to no financial activities.

34.     Bank Resolution Framework The framework for bank resolution in Honduras
contemplatedtwo possible resolution mechanisms: (i)       the authorities could close a failing
bank after transferring its deposits to another institution (the "restitution" mechanism) or,

                                             13

(ii)alternatively, they could capitalize and temporarily manage the impaired institution
through FOSEDE, the deposit insurancefund (the "extraordinary" mechanism). Although
the "extraordinary mechanism" had been conceived as an instrument to cope with
situations that bear systemic risks, it ended up been used to handle non-systemically
important cases of bank insolvency.

35.     Bankrunto legislation: It i s rarely used, and troubled corporations frequently just
close down without honoring their debts. Creditors anticipating this situation demand
repayment in court by seeking an immediate preventive attachment of assets. This has a
variety of adverse effects on bank behavior: credit is almost always secured; there is
widespread early use of judicial enforcement mechanisms (which would explain the
significant amount of foreclosed assets owned by the banks); and the reorganization of
distressedbusinesses is often not considered as a sound alternative, which results in loss
of output andjobs.

36.     Payments System: The Central Bank had not implemented its oversight function,
and no formal cooperation arrangements existed among financial-sector authorities and
private sector entities. The legal basis was incomplete and did not have the elements
required for the operation of modern payment systems. Two payments systems were
identified as systemically important in Honduras (the private checks clearing house and
the funds transfer system associated to the accounts of financial institutions and the
Government at the Central Bank), and a detailed assessment against the "Core Principles
for Systemically Important Payments Systems" (CPPS) showed significant risks and
efficiency problems.

37.     Anti-Money Laundering (AML) and Combating Terrorism Financing (CTF).
While Law 45-2002 was perceived as a significant step forward in the control of money
laundering, much work remained to be done for its effective implementation.              Of
overriding concern were the limited resources, skills and experience within all
responsible institutions. A major legislative gap, however, was that the crime of financing
of terrorism (CFT) was neither criminalized as a separate offense, nor as a predicate
offense for AML (although terrorism itself was appropriately captured).

38.     The authorities agreed with the basic diagnostic and findings of the FSAP and
requested technical assistance from the Bank, the IMF and IDB to search for solutions
and to implement them. While lack of fiscal resources has made it impossible so far to
effectively tackle the problem of low systemic solvency highlighted by the FSAP, the
GoH has made significant progress in tackling various institutional weaknesses,
specifically by enacting a new banking law and introducing the necessary amendments to
the charters of CNBS, BCH and FOSEDE. It i s now actively implementing the new legal
framework on bank regulation, supervision and resolution, and it i s drafting new
legislation to overcome the weaknesses of the existing bankruptcy law and AMLKFT
law.




                                             14

V.      THE PROPOSEDPROGRAMATICFINANCIALSECTOR
        DEVELOPMENTPOLICYCREDIT

OPERATIONDESCRIPTION

39.     The development goal of this operation is to support the Honduran Government's
efforts to consolidate the financial sector, so as to ensure its positive contribution to long
term growth and poverty reduction. IDA support for the Government's financial sector
reform program would be a programmatic development policy operation in two phases.
The first phase-the    proposed Credit-would      be executed over a period of two years.
The proposed Credit would support the institutional development of the financial sector
through reforms in the following five areas:

   0    Strategy for managementof systemic risks
   0    Strengthening of legal and regulatory framework
   0    Anti money laundering and financing of terrorism prevention system
   0    Strengtheningof supervision andcontrolof systemic risks
   0    Strengthening of the paymentssystem

40.     A seconddevelopment policy credit would support an orderly consolidation of the
financial system. The triggers that would justify a second development policy credit
would be the following:


    0   As proof of achieving the required consensus among key private-sector
        stakeholders, the GoH and entities representing a substantial part of the financial
        system have formally agreed upon an orderly consolidation strategy which is
        basedon an in-depth knowledge of the state and perspectivesof those institutions.
    0   As proof of CNBS's ability to enforce the regulatory framework, banks are in
        compliance with prudential norms, and as proof of the practical relevance of the
        new framework for bank resolution, the authorities have been able to resolve any
        adversesituation within its terms, without issuing ad hoc new legal instruments.
    0   Congress has enacted a new corporate law, thus creating a more favorable legal
        framework for financial sector transactions.
    0   Honduras maintains status of FATF cooperating country, and complies with
        FATF40+8 recommendations.
    0   CNBS is carrying out consolidated supervision of all the financial groups that
        operateinthe country, and i s evaluating and controllingthe risks of these groups.
    0   Payments between members of the system, including checks and payments
        mechanisms contemplated under the LBTR system, are processedin less than 48
        hours.

CREDITAMOUNT AND TRANCHING

41.     The proposedSDR 16.2 million first programmatic Credit would be disbursedin
two tranches. A first tranche of SDR 8.1 million would be disbursed upon effectiveness,

in support of up-front reform measures taken by the Honduran authorities. A second
floating tranche would be disbursed against agreed tranche conditions when these are
met. I t i s expected that the first tranche would be disbursed upon effectiveness in early
2005, andthat the secondtranche would be disbursedinearly 2006.


POLICY AREAS
I.StrategyforManagementofSystemicRisk

42.      Description/GovernmentActions. The overall institutional strengthening of the
financial sector supervisory and regulatory capabilities, which underpins Honduras'
strategy for the sector, should ultimately help address the solvency limitations in the
banking sector. However, the Government also recognizes the need to develop a more
immediate plan to manage the systemic risk already present in the sector and have a
detailed contingency plan seeking to provide early warning of potential crises in specific
institutions to lower the chances or their escalation into a system-wide crisis; and, if a
systemic crisis occurs, define the steps to managethe crisis and minimizefiscal outlays.

43.      With this aim, the new Financial System Law (FSL) was enacted in September
2004, and mandates the development and formal adoption, through an executive order
signed by the President of the Republic, of a Contingency Plan (CP) for systemic crisis
management. The Financial Sector Policy Committee, created in January 2004, which
includes the presidents of the BCH and CNBS, and the Minister of Finance, has been
leading the preparation of the CP with the collaboration of international experts. The CP
will include four key components:
    1. Risk map and early warning system covering all banking and savings and loan
         institutions in the system. Along with the program for intensive supervision of
         institutions at risk, this will provide the CNBS with a detailed methodology to
         identify stresses in the financial system early enough to allow intervention to
         decrease the chance of a full fledge crisis developing.
    2. Crisis management policies that describe in detail both the ex-ante measures
         needed to increase flexibility for policy makers during a crisis, as well as the steps
         to be taken within the framework of the new FSL, to contain the effects of a
         limited crisis or the measures needed if such crisis develops into a systemic
         problem.
    3. Legal, regulatory and organizational needs to ensure an effective crisis
         management. Duringthe process of preparingthe CP, the CNBS will review and
         issue the regulations needed to implement the banking resolution framework
         contained in the FSL. However, in the context of a systemic crisis, that legal
         framework may be insufficient to manage the risk, minimize loses to depositors
         and ensure the integrity of the payments system. Therefore, the CP will identify
         legal and regulatory gaps needed to address a potential systemic crisis. Finally,
         the CP will assign responsibilities to the different functional groups within CNBS,
         BCH, andMOF during the execution of the CP.

                                               16

    4. Communications plan. Given that the perception of the soundness of the system
         i s a key factor in determining the possibility of a bank run, the CP will provide the
         Government with a detailed communications plan with all stakeholders during a
         systemic crisis.


44.      Challenges. Unpredictable circumstances may prevent the implementation of the
contingency planthat has beenprepared. However, preparationof a detailed CP increases
the chanceof avoiding or, if necessary, managinga systemic crisis effectively.

45.      Bank's Assessment/Recommendation. Inclusion of the CP within the FSL
confirms the commitment of the Government to have an effective plan to avoid or
manage potential systemic crises. The Bank has initiated the process of supporting the
preparation of the CP under the FSTAC and should continue its support through the
phase of formal adoption by the President given its importance, particularly during the
transitional period untilbanks achievehigher solvency ratios.

46.      Measures to be Undertaken as Part of the ProposedOperation

    For second tranche disbursement:

         The Financial Sector Policy Committee has recommended a CP for systemic
         financial crisis management; and

         The Borrower has issued an executive order (Acuerdo Presidential) approving the
         CP for systemic financial crisis management as recommended by the Financial
         Sector Policy Committee.

47.      Indicative Measures for the Preparation of the Second Loan. Given the fiscal
and political costs associated with solving a systemic crisis, the issue of solvency of the
financial sector can only be addressed through a consolidation strategy agreed by all
parties: the regulatory entities (CNBS and BCH), the Government, political actors and,
very importantly, the banks themselves. A strategy for consolidation of the banking
system (through recapitalization, closing, mergers or acquisitions) which has the
agreement of banks accounting for at least sixty percent of the assets of the system, and
which i s based on an in-depth knowledge of the state and perspectives of those
institutions, should serve as indicative action for the preparation of the second loan under
this programmatic operation.

11. Strengtheningof LegalandRegulatoryFramework

48.      Description/Government Actions. The 2003 FSAP found diverse weaknesses in
the legal frameworks for bank regulation, supervision and resolution, as well as for
corporate governance and resolution (bankruptcy law), and for the protection of creditor
rights.    The FSAP concluded that the bank resolution framework was limited and
inconsistent with the then existing full deposits guarantee. Regarding regulation and

                                               17

supervision, there was no legal basis to initiate consolidated supervision, capital
requirements were inconsistent with Basel's capital adequacy standards, and CNBS had
very limited authority on the licensing of financial institutions, and little power to enforce
bank regulations.

49.     In the context of preparation of this proposed operation, and with help from
international experts, the Government has undertaken a generalreform of the bankinglaw
andrelated legislation to address the shortcomings identifiedinthe FSAP,including:

    *:* The new Financial System Law (Ley del Sistema Financier0 -LSF). The new law
        underpins the Government's overall institutional development program in the
        financial sector and addresses the key recommendations made in the FSAP. This
        law includes: (i)modern bank resolution framework which facilitates the use of
                           a
        market mechanisms for the liquidation or acquisition of unviable banks by other
        financial institutions, thus minimizing the potential for Government fiscal outlays
        during this process; (ii) the legal framework to enable the CNBS to supervise on a
        consolidated basis all the financial companies, including those abroad, having
        common ownership ties to any of the institutions currently under its supervision;
        (iii)strengthening of the legal powers of the CNBS with respect to licensing of
        financial institutions including requirements regarding disclosure of shareholders'
        names and, in the case of branches of foreign institutions, extent of guarantees
        providedby the parent company; (iv) new minimumcapital requirements andloan
        portfolio classification rules aligned with international standards including those
        in the Base1Core Principle on capital adequacy as well as increasedenforcement
        powers to the CNBS on this area, including the ability to mandate corrective
        business actions such as the suspension of new credit activities by financial
        institutions in violation of the capital adequacy rules; and (v) an improved
        framework for corporate governance of financial institutions including mandating
        financial institutions to have detailed guidelines defining ethical standards,
        accountability of senior management and board, internal controls, and internal
        audit function strengthening.

    *:* Implementation of the new legislation.            Norms and resolutions for the
        implementation of the LSF have been issued with respect to: (i)          consolidated
        supervision of financial groups requiring institutions that are part of a financial
        group to provide information on all activities of the rest of the group; (ii)
        corporate governance of financial institutions describing in detail the new internal
        structure and processes that will have to be developed by these institutions to
        comply with the LSF; and (iii)       norms regulating the currencies and maturities
        mismatchesbetween assets and liabilities to ensure that financial institutions have
        appropriate asset-liability managementfunctions to minimize liquidity risk.

    *:* Amendments have been made to (i) Deposit Insurance Fund Law (FOSEDE)
                                                the
        defining its role within the new resolution framework in the LSF, (ii)     the Central
        Bank Law defining its role as Lender of Last Resort (LOLR) and as supervisor of


                                               18

         the systemically important payment systems and (iii) Law of the CNBS to
                                                                the
         increaseits enforcementpowers consistently with the new LSF.

50.      Challenges. The most immediate challenge for the Government is to achieve an
effective implementation of the new legal framework for bank regulation and supervision,
specially on politically difficult fields such as corporate governance of financial
institutions and consolidated supervision, and on financially challenging matters such as
meeting the Base1 capital adequacy standards. A second challenge i s to replicate the
successful legislative effort made in the field of banking law with the politically more
difficult one of corporate law, specially on bankruptcy matters. The hardest challenges,
however, will be to handle future bank resolution processes within the new legal
framework, without recourse to ad hoc solutions inevery new situation.

51.      Bank's Assessment/Recommendation. Honduras has shown seriouscommitment
to institutional reform in the financial sector, undertakingmajor legislative and regulatory
initiatives. The Bank, through the FSTAC, has supported the Government's effort to
improve the legal framework for bank regulation, supervision and resolution, and it i s
supporting the current effort to effectively implementthe new legal framework, as well as
to improve the corporate law. This proposed operation would support the legislative
reform recently approved and the issuing of the regulations needed to impleme.nt the new
legislation.

52.      Measures to be Undertaken as Part of the ProposedOperation

     Before Board approval and first tranche disbursement:

     0   Enactment of the Financial SystemLaw (LSF). (Legislative Decree No. 129-2004,
         enactedon September 24, 2004.)

     0   CNBS has issued norms and resolutions for the implementation of the LSF with
         respect to: (i)consolidated supervision of financial groups; (ii)corporate
         governance of financial institutions; (CNBS Resolutions No. No. 1126/02-11-
         2004 and 1318/28-12-2004)

     0   CNBS has issued norms regulating the currencies and maturities mismatches
         between assets and liabilities; (CNBS ResolutionNo. 055/29-06-2004)

         Amendments have been made to (i) Deposit Insurance FundLaw (FOSEDE),
                                               the
         (ii) CentralBankLaw,and(iii) LawoftheCNBS,totakeintoaccountthe
             the                              the
         changes made to the LSF. (Legislative Decrees No. 106-2004, 111-2004 and 110-
         2004, enactedon September 22,2004)

     For second tranche disbursement:


     0   CNBS has issuednorms and proceduresfor:

         a) the implementation of the new mechanism for the resolution of financial
             institutions set forth in the LSF covering: (i)  forced liquidation (Title 8,



                                              19

            Chapter 3, First Section), and (ii)restitution (Title 8, Chapter 3, Second
            Section); and

        b) the liquidation of assets remaining in the resolved financial institutions'
            balance sheets after the execution of the restitution processes referred to in
            paragraph 2 (a) (ii) above.


   0    The Borrower has approvedthe creation of a bank capitalization fund (BCF) with
        structure and operating procedures agreed with the Association;

   e    The Executive has presentedto the Congress a draft law to improve the following
        legal systems of the Borrower: (a) bankruptcy and corporate reorganization, (b)
        creditor rights; and (c) corporate governance of non-financial business
        corporations.

53.     IndicativeMeasuresfor the Preparationof the SecondLoan.
        (i) bankshaveriskmanagementsystemsaccordingtoCNBSnorms;
            all
        (ii)adverseeventsthathaveoccurredinthefinancialsystemhavebeenresolved
        within the framework of the new LSF;
        (iii) areincompliancewithportfolioratingsandprovisioningnorms;
             banks
        (iv) letters of interest to use BCF funds have been received to recapitalize banks
        participating inthe consolidation strategy; and
        (v) Congress has approved a new legal framework to improve the following
        procedures:
            0   bankruptcy and corporate reorganization;
            0   creditor rights; and
            e    corporate governanceof non-financial business entities.

111. Anti-Money LaunderingandFinancingofTerrorismPreventionSystem

54.     Descrzption/Government Actions. Given its strategic location south of the United
States, Honduras recognizes its susceptibility to be used as a money laundering base,
especially in the context of trans-shipments of illegal narcotics. The Government has
moved to develop the legal, regulatory and institutional structures neededto comply with
international standards on AML and CFT such as those of the Financial Action Task
Force Recommendations(FATF40+8). The legal framework for AML policy i s provided
by the Law Against Money Laundering (Decree 45 of 2002). Among other requirements,
this Law: (i) a financial intelligence unit (Unidud de Informucio'n Finuncieru,
               created
UIF) within the CNBS; (ii)     mandates institutions supervised by the CNBS to report all
suspicious transactions to the UIF; and (iii)requires from all these institutions the
development of internal processes and policies to identify and prevent money laundering
activities.

55.     The CNBS has played a key role in the implementation of the Law through the
issuance of regulations specifying the data required from supervised institutions,
incorporating compliance with AML requirements as part of its regular examinations, and

                                             20

providing institutions with software for suspicious transaction identification, as well as
training in AML techniques within their day-to-day operations. By the end of 2003, the
reporting system had been implemented for all banks, credit cooperatives, insurance
companies and the larger foreign exchange houses.            Concurrently, an institutional
strengthening plan i s being developed for the UIF and its implementation will begin by
early 2005 with the support of the FSTAC.

56.    With the basic AML structure in place, the Government's program contemplates
strengthening its policies inthis area through the following actions:

    a) Creation of a multiagency AML taskforce.           Given the broad nature of AML
       policies, the Government has created a multi-agency AML taskforce (Comite'
       Interinstitucional para la Prevencio'n del Lavado de Dinero) which brings
       together regulators (CNBS), prosecutors, judges, and other government agencies,
       to coordinate policies. Inthe case of the financial sector, the taskforce focuses on
       ensuring an adequate flow of information from the UIF to the prosecutors in
       charge of criminal investigations (Ministerio Phblico).

    b) Implementation of Know Your Customer (KYC)policies. Effective AML policies
       require that financial institutions train their line agents to identify customers and
       transactions which may involve illegal activities to facilitate the process of
       suspicious transactions reporting. As CNBS facilitates the training of banks,
       insurance and securities companies staff in these techniques, it has issued
       regulations on KYC requirements.

    c) Inclusion of Financing of Terrorism within the Penal Code.                 A serious
       shortcoming of the existing framework i s the fact that financing of terrorism is not
       contemplated as an autonomous crime within the penal code but can only be
       prosecuted as an accessory crime to other activities. The Government i s in the
       process of developing changes to the Penal Code to define this crime, an essential
       requirementto comply with the FATF40+8 recommendations.

    d) Inclusion of other high-risk entities in the reporting system to the UIF. The FATF
       defines (FATF Recommendation #12) other non-financial activities highly
       susceptible to be used for money laundering activities, including casinos, real
       estate agents, lawyers, notaries, and dealers in precious metals and stones. The
       Government plans to develop the necessary legal framework to include this
       entities within the group of entities required to report suspicious transactions to
       the UIF. Given the experience it has already gathered, the existing UIF i s the
       agency best positioned to carry out these activities, but it will require changes to
       the legal framework to give it authority to collect information beyond entities
       supervisedby CNBS.


57.    Challenges. Implementation of this "second step" of AML regulations can be
particularly difficult as it will require close cooperation between CNBS and the regulated

                                               21

entities. Normal commercial practices may be at odds with KYC regulations. Also, this
new regulation will affect parties normally not subject to this type of supervision, as is the
case of the entities covered by the FATFRecommendation#12. CNBS will address these
challenges through the provision of training to line agents of its supervised entities and
other dissemination activities.

58.     Bank's Assessment/Recommendation. Honduras has shown serious commitment
to comply with all the FATF recommendations and has been implementing an effective
AML framework for the past two years. This has been recognized by the FATF which
has included Honduras in its list of "cooperative" countries. Given its current level of
implementation, Honduras expects to gain admission to the Egmont Group, the
international body of financial intelligence units, by the end of 2005. The Bank has
supportedthis processboththrough direct technical assistancefrom the Banks AML/CFT
unit, as well as through activities carried out in the FSTAC, and would continue its
support of this program under the PFSDPC.

59.     Measuresto be Undertakenas Part of the ProposedOperation

    Before Board approval and first tranche disbursement:

        The KYC policy has been implementedin all the banks, finance companies, and
        savings and loans institutions subject to CNBS supervision; (CNBS Resolution
        N0.869/29-10-2003)

        The KYC policy has been issued for the insurance and securities sector subject to
        CNBS supervison; (CNBS Resolutions No. 1134 and 1135/09-11-2004) and

        The Interinstitutional Committee for the Prevention of Money Laundering has
        been established. (Executive Decree No. PCM-024-2004, issued on December 3,
        2004)

    For second tranche disbursement:

        Congress has:

           a) approved an amendment to the Criminal Code to include the financing of
               terrorism as an autonomous crime and the amendment has entered into
               effect; and

           b) amended the Anti Asset Laundering Law to incorporate the following
               activities into the system that reports suspicious transactions to the UIF: (i)
               business activities with high risk (Le., sale and purchase of real estate,
               vehicles, artwork, antiques, jewelry, etc.); and (ii)business activities
               carried out by independent professionals (Le. notaries, accountants, etc.).

60.     Indicative Measures for the Preparation of the Second Loan.                Honduras
maintains status of FATF cooperating country and complies with FATF 40+8
recommendations.

                                             22

IV. Strengtheningof Supervision and Control of Systemic Risks

61.     Description/Government Actions. At the time of the 2003 FSAP, the weakest
aspect of the bank supervision effort in Honduras was the limited legal and operational
capability of CNBS to control the exposure of the banking sector to related parties in the
non financial private sector. Inthe context of preparation of this proposedoperation, and
with help from international experts, CNBS has developed a map of the links of the
banking system with non financial groups and is keeping that informationupdated. The
objective i s to subject the most exposed institutions to intensive supervision, and to
enforce the exposure limits set by the LSF.

62.     Challenges.     In Honduras, as in many other small economies with scarcely
developed capital markets, most large banks were created by local economic groups in
search of capital for their non financial activities.      While this institutional set up
introduces significant moral hazard in bank management, it has obviously played its role
in raising capital. Consequently, imposing limits to that activity requires both to find a
new business plan for the banking system, and a substitute instrument to raise capital for
large local corporations.

63.     Bank's Assessment/Recommendation. Related lending is the most challenging
aspect of the bank supervision effort in Honduras, which should lead to reshaping the
entire bankingindustry. This area requires continued support, as well as close supervision
from IDA.

64.     Measuresto be Undertaken as Part of the Proposed Operation

    Before Board approval and first tranche disbursement:

    0   CNBS has approved a program, agreed with IDA, to strengthen the capacity of
        intensive supervision of high risk institutions; (CNBS ResolutionNo. 1309/28-12-
        2004)

    0   CNBS has approved programs to reduce related-party loans in institutions that
        exceed the legal limit (CNBS Resolutions No. 589/06-05-2003, No. 7631'24-06-
        2003, No. 766/24-06-2003, andNo. 795/01-07-2003; and

    0   CNBS and BCH have completed a data base of bank-related parties and have
        established procedures to update it on a quarterly basis.(CNBS Resolution No.
        1310/28-12-2004)

    For second tranche disbursement:


    0   The CNBS is complying with the program to strengthen intensive supervision of
        high risk institutions set forth in CNBS' Resolution No. 1309128-12-2004, dated
        December 28, 2004, as evidenced by reports issued by consultants satisfactory to
        the Association;


                                             23

    0  Financial institutions that are subject to CNBS' programs to reduce related party
       loans are incompliance with such programs, as evidencedby reports issued by the
       respective financial institutions' external auditors.

    0  The CNBS andBCH are:

       a) maintaining operational their on-line database of related parties referred to in
           CNBS' ResolutionNo. 1310/28-12-2004; and

       b) generating quarterly reports to assess the financial situation of the largest
           debtors of the Borrower's financial system.

65.    Indicative Measuresfor the Preparation of the Second Loan. CNBS i s carrying
out consolidated supervision of all the financial groups that operate in the country, and is
evaluating and controllingthe risks of these groups.

V. Strengthening the PaymentsSystem

66.    Description/Government Actions. The FSAP identified a number of limitations
of the Honduran payments system, most of them with serious systemic-risk implications:

    0  Credit and liquidity risks: Due to the lack of risk management tools (e.g., net
       debit caps, settlement fund, loss sharing procedures), participants in the check
       clearinghouseface systemic risk becauseof potential unwinding of the transaction
       unless the risk i s covered by BCH;

    0  Legal risk: The legal basis for payments system operations is incomplete.          It
       supports paper-based payments but lacks the elements required for electronic
       systems, and checks still need to be exchangedphysically. Furthermore, there are
       no clear rules on how to undo transactions in case of insolvency, or clarity on the
       legal liability of participants inthe payment system incase of insolvency;

    0  Operational risks: No rules exist regarding operational standards for the payment
       systems or back up facilities for their computing centers; and

    0  Custody and settlement risksfor securities transactions: The securities settlement
       infrastructure i s very weak and this has contributed to the underdevelopment of
       capital markets. Current settlement arrangements consist basically of custody
       arrangements offered by the stock exchange.

67.    The Government, with technical support from the Bank, and the participation of
all stakeholders (banks, securities company, stock exchange) has designed a Payments
Project to address the risks discussed above. To supervise the execution of this Project,
the Financial Policy Committee has created a High Level Payment Systems Committee
including all participants in the system. This Project will be implemented by mid 2006
and includes: (i) implementation of the legal and regulatory changes needed to upgrade
the payment systems within the framework given by the amended BCH Law which has
expanded BCH's role with respect to payment systems; (ii)    implementation of a real time
gross settlement system (RTGS) for large payments within BCH; (iii)          evaluation and

                                              24

recommendations for the upgraded automatic clearinghouse (ACH) being implemented
by CEPROBAN; and (iv) implementation of a securities depository system. In addition
to this Project, BCH has initiatedthe regulatory and operational upgrade of its function as
provider of temporary liquidity for participants in the payments system and its LOLR
role, as well as a modernization program for its accounting and treasury systems to make
themconsistent with its enhancedpaymentssystemrole.

68.     Challenges. The key challenge in the implementation of the Payments Project i s
the fact that it involves so many stakeholders. However, the Government has addressed
this through the formation of the PaymentsSystems Committee to ensure a fluid dialogue
that prevents delays. With respect to the LOLR mechanism, the Bank has assistedBCH
in developing a modern mechanism that emphasizes the temporary liquidity role of the
LOLR and prevents its use to address insolvency.

69.     Bank's Assessment/Recommendation. The Government is committed to address
the systemic risk derived from the payments system and has already made the budgetary
allocations, both from their own resources, as well as through the FSTAC, to implement
the Payments Project and the upgraded LOLR mechanism. This approach i s consistent
with recommendations made by the Bank and the IMFinthe FSAP. Support through the
First PFSDPC will assist the Government in finalizing the implementation of this
strategy.

70.     Measures to be Undertakenas Part of the ProposedOperation

    Before Board approval and first tranche disbursement:

    0   The BCH Law has been amended to widen BCH's role with respect to the
        payment system, includingits role as LOLR; (Legislative Decree No. 111-2004)

    0   BCH's Boardhas acknowledged and approved by resolution the tentative timeline
        for the implementation of the Payments Project (BCH Resolution No.357-11-
        /2004); and
        The Financial Sector Policy Committee has issued a resolution to acknowledge
        the constitution of the High-Level Payments-System Committee representing all
        participants inthe payments system. (Committee Resolution No.002-11/04)

    For second tranche disbursement:

    0   BCH has issued a resolution approving a regulatory framework for payments
        system.

71.     Indicative Measures for the Preparation of the Second Loan.               Payments
between members of the system, including checks and payment mechanisms
contemplatedunderthe LBTR system are processedinless than 48 hours.




                                           25

                      VI.    OPERATIONIMPLEMENTATION

POVERTY AND SOCIAL IMPACTS

72.      Honduras has the third lowest per capita income in Latin America (US$920 in
2002) with more than 60 percent of households classified as poor and about half as
extremely poor (those living under the poverty line). Poverty headcounts fell steadily
from 1991 to 1998, before rising again after the devastation of Hurricane Mitch. Since
then, poverty has been againon a downward trend, although improvement has been slow,
due to low GDP growth and highpopulation growth. This low progress makes it difficult
to achievethe PRSPgoal of loweringpoverty to 42 percent of households by 2015.

73.      The Government's PRSP-PR and the Joint Staff Assessment carried out by the
IMF and the Bank (Report No. 27648- HO, presented to the Board in February 2004)
presents a candid assessment of PRS results over 2002-2003 and of the factors which
impeded its implementation during those years. Cited as important factors are: (i) policy
failures with respect to achieving a sustainable macro framework; (ii)  adverse external
developments (including prolonged US recession and high oil prices); and (iii)     weak
institutional mechanisms to implement the PRSP in a coordinated fashion. Together
these factors combine to dampen economic growth, cause declines in per capita income
and constraints on the implementation of social and basic services programs. Taking into
account these findings, the Government's medium-term priorities for poverty reduction
are to: (i)restore economic dynamism and employment creation through a stable
macroeconomic framework and improved investment climate; (ii)      develop human capital
through better education, health and sanitation services; and (iii)strengthen governance
with emphasis on political andjudicial reform.

74.      A major element of uncertainty for the Government's program to strengthen
growth and reduce poverty are the risks emanating from the financial sector; inparticular
the risk of unforeseen fiscal expenditures to restructure or close failing banks. The
Government's financial sector reform program will have a bearing on poverty reduction
by restoring confidence in the banking system and reducing the probability of a financial
crisis and the resultingeconomic disruption and highfiscal cost. Moreover, in the longer-
run, the reform program will have an impact on reducing poverty by stimulating
economic growth and by broadening access to financial services, particularly to SMEs.
Since this proposed development policy Credit would be an important support for the
Government's reform program, it would also contribute to poverty reduction. These links
are discussedbelow.

75.      Improving Honduras' financial system depth will help sustain long-term
growth and reducepoverty. There is a strong evidence of a causallink betweenfinancial
depth and soundness and economic growth. Different measuresof financial development,
at a point in time, help predict subsequent economic growth, even after account i s taken




                                           26

of other determinants of g r ~ w t h .In turn, the international experience clearly shows a
                                          ~
positive effect of growth on poverty reduction. A study by Dollar and Kraay (2000)
suggests that growth in per capita GDP would rise almost one-for-one the income of the
poor.4

76.      The Government's financial sector reform program involves the strengthening of
the financial, legal and regulatory framework and introduces a mechanism for the
regularizatiodresolution of weak and insolvent banks. Strong prudential regulation and
the gradual increaseinbank capitalization levels will help reducethe uncertainty resulting
from the insolvency problems of major banks in operation, and enhance the capacity of
the financial sector to performits functions of mobilizing savings and allocating capital to
productive activities, stimulating economic growth. Sustained economic growth, in turn,
should help reduce poverty inHonduras.

77.      Reducing the risk of a financial crisis in Honduras would imply big gains in
poverty reduction. The Government's financial sector reform program involves the
enactment of basic financial laws and prudential regulations, with the objective of
reducing the risk of a banking crisis. Recent experience shows that financial crisis entail
huge fiscal costs that crowd out social spending, with dramatic effects on poverty
increases. The fiscal cost of the 1999banking crisis inIndonesia amountedto 50 percent
of GDP.' The Brazil crisis of 1994 had a fiscal cost of about 13 percent of GDP, the
Mexican banking crisis of 1994/1995 has left a debt to the Government, not yet fully
realized, of about US$lOO billion, about 20 percent of GDP; and, more recently, the
financial crisis of the Dominican Republic is estimated to cost over 20 percent of GDP.
To face these costs, governments must adjust other expenditures, generally social
expenditures and other investments, which comprise a large share of the budget, with
devastating effects on the levels of poverty6 and future rates of growth and
competitiveness. Resources needed to capitalize insolvent banks and/or to compensate
depositors, cannot be usedfor social programs. A reduction inthe risk of a banking crisis
in Honduras would, therefore, have a significant payoff in terms of both avoiding the
increasein the ranks of the poor causedby a financial crisis and inliberating public funds
for use inpoverty reduction programs.

78.      In summary, reducing the vulnerability of Honduras to a financial crisis, such as
those suffered by other developing countries in the last decade, would have important
long term social implications. Just a small reduction inthe risk of a bankingcrisis would

  A review of evidence on the contribution of financial system development and growth is presented in
Caprio and Honohan (2000).
  Dollar, David and Aart Kraay, "Growth is Good for the Poor", the World Bank (2000). The positive
impact of growth on poverty reduction i s supported by extensive research, including Gallup, John Luke;
Radelet, Steven; and Warner Andrew, "Economic Growth and the Income of the Poor", Harvard Institute
for International Development, November 1998; Roemer, Michael and Gugerty, Mary Kay, "Does
Economic Growth Reduce Poverty?", Harvard Institute for International Development, March 1997.
  See the World Bank, Finance for Growth, December 20, 2000.
  The 1982-82 Brazilian debt crisis caused incomes of the poor to decline by as much as 33%, well above
the decline in average income. See David De Ferranti, and Guillermo Perry, Securing our Future in a
Global Economy, Chapter 5, p. 78.

                                                  27

have a significant social impact in terms of reducing the potential negative effects on
poverty that a banking crisis would produce, as evidenced by the negative effects of
banking crisis on poverty levels in other countries. A banking system less vulnerable to
crisis is better able to sustain growth and, therefore, avoid poverty. The new financial
legislation would create a more efficient banking system, capable of providing greater
access to credit to small and mediumenterprises, which currently have limited access to
financial services. New legislation in the areas of movable guarantees and non-bank
intermediaries would further increase access to financial services. Greater access to
credit would generate more job opportunities, an important objective in a country with
high rates of under employment, one of the lowest per capita income in the region, and
where about 60 percent of the population i s below the poverty level.


SUPERVISION

79.     The Ministry of Finance will be the representative of the Republic of Honduras
(the Borrower). CNBS will be responsible for overall implementation of the proposed
operation and for reporting progress and coordinating actions among other concerned
ministries and agencies.

80.     Bank staff will monitor actions and review progress of the implementation of the
proposed operation, as well as the subsequent actions of the Government's program with
frequent visits to the country and constant communication with CNBS's authorities.
Bank staff will focus on the impact outcomes of the financial sector institutional
strengthening program and the adjustments that need to be made to the operation as it
evolves, to take into account the latest country developments, stakeholder support, and
feasible options for realizing the intended development goals (see paragraph 39). The
Bank reviews will monitor progress towards the indicative actions for the second
programmatic credit and the goals of the program. At the same time, the overall status of
the Government's program will be monitored to determine whether the country
conditions and the specific conditions of the proposed operation have beenmet.

FIDUCIARYASPECTS

81.     Honduras' fiduciary framework i s being strengthened with Bank assistance and is
expectedto be adequate to receive the proceeds of the proposed credit and to ensure that
the funds are used for intendedpurposes.

82.     Financial Accountability and Transparency

83.     The World Bank, in coordination with the Inter-American Development Bank
(IDB), publisheda Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA) for Honduras
in January 2004 (Report No. 28418-HO). This diagnostic review points to a series of
important weaknesses that undermine public sector management inHonduras inthe areas
of (i)budget preparation, planning and format, (ii) management information systems, (iii)


                                            28

internal controls, (iv) treasury management, (v) tax administration, and (vi) extemal
auditing.

84.      The report found that the quality of governance in the public sector, and the
accountability of senior public officials that goes with it, needed to be upgraded. Efforts
inthis directionwere recommendedto focus on strengtheningthe legal andaccountability
framework for public financial management, improving transparency and oversight
mechanisms of public financial management systems, streamlining processes and
procedures, and rationalizing and strengthening the institutions responsible for ensuring
accountability.

85.      In response to these needs, the Government of Honduras has embarked on an
ambitious program to reform public financial management with the assistance of the
World Bank, the IDB and other donors (supported by the World Bank's restructured
Honduras Economic and Financial Management Project Credit No. 3414-HO, and the
June 2004 PRS TAC and May 2004 PRSC, as well as by the IDB's 2004 Fiscal Reform
program, HO-0208, with co-financing by the Swedish International Development
Agency, SIDA). Important advances to date include (i)       the passage of a comprehensive
Financial Management Law, (ii)improved budget formats and internal controls to
facilitate a sector-wide approach in Education, (iii)the expansion of SUFI to increase its
programmatic functionality, (iv) the production of the first government financial
statement preparedby the Accountant General's Office and a preliminary inventory of all
government assets, and (v) the promulgation of new regulations for external audits by the
TSC.

86.      A recent IMF-World Bank joint assessment of Honduras's poverty reduction
tracking mechanism also has noted significant improvements Honduras's public financial
management due to reforms in critical areas.        A multi-donor formal review of the
implementation of the CFAA Action Plan and associated programs is planned for mid-
2005.

87.      Budgeting. The Government of Honduras has made significant progress in
developing the budget as an expenditure management tool since the end of 2003 fiscal
period. Inparticular, the 2004 and 2005 NationalBudgets were delivered to Congress on
time (by September 15, 2003 and 2004) and in a multi-annual format, which represents a
significant improvement over past practice. The budget has been re-classified along
programmatic classifications, and additional technical assistance is planned to implement
the IMF GFIS system of expenditure classification. The comprehensivenessof the budget
also improved considerably with the parallel submission of the budgets for the
decentralized public agencies. A significant amount of donor credits, grants and in-kind
assistance are now reported in the budget, which i s facilitating efforts to analyze the full
extent of public efforts in certain areas and coordinate public activities. Despite these
advance, there still remain some systemic deficiencies inbudget management:

    0    Final budget allocations are based on incremental allocations, often made with
    little or no input from ministries, and the final allocations are not reconciled with


                                             29

     annual operating plans. This has weakened the usefulness of sector operating plans
     and has resulted inlow budgetcredibility.

     0   A significant number of budget amendments are still passedthroughout the year
     that reflect Congress's discretionary powers to reallocate financial resources for
     political purposes, rather than strategic priorities.     Although Congress has a
     constitutional role to overseepublic sector management, it lacks the capacity to fulfill
     this role

     0   A weak planning capacity at the sector level adds to the overall weakness in
     budget preparation and contributes to the needfor repeatedbudget amendments.

     0   Revenues raised by many ministries through the sale of services are still not
     reported on timely basis.

88.      Budget Execution and Reporting. Although the frequency of budgeting reporting
i s not consistent, the quality of central government reporting has improved. Reporting i s
now along programmatic lines and the government has created a virtual "sub-budget" to
report on PRSPERP expenditures. While decentralization (budget execution at the
municipal level) does not yet represent a significant impact, the Bank i s joining on-going
efforts to improve, update and implement the municipalframework.

89.      These changes also entail a modernization of the Chart of Accounts in SIAFI, as
well as a need for training and capacity building among the sector planning and
evaluation groups (UPEGs) throughout the Government. The new programmatic budget
i s based on Government spending priorities as articulated in the PRSPERP, and efforts
are now targeted to ensure that annual operating plans (POAs) follow clearly established
guidelines for programmatic budgeting.       Also, the Government's ability to consistently
implement budget reform will enable it to implement a medium-term expenditure
framework and facilitate the management of sector wide approaches (SWAps).             The
Education, Health and Agriculture sectors currently provide the best opportunities for
piloting SWAps, which holdthe promise of generating significant improvements in sector
coordination and policy effectiveness.

90.      The medium-term plan for capacity building and institutional strengthening
includes significant actions to strengthen the monitoring and evaluation capacity within
the ministerial units. Moreover, the Bank is working with government managed sector
roundtables, Mesas Sectoriales, and work along side other donors, to implement the new
budget guidelines for planning, execution and evaluation. This implementation i s being
put into practice in parallel to the preparation of SWAps. Additional work is planned to
deliver broader orientation of budget analysis to civil society groups and NGOs. The
expected additional improvements in reporting will enable a much broader participation
inbudget monitoringandevaluation, and will also enable even more effective tracking of
poverty reduction efforts.

91.      SIAFI (Government Integrated Financial Management System). The recent
upgrades to the integrated financial management system has improved the Government's


                                              30

ability to control and manage expenditures. In the past, SIAFI's usefulness has been
limited, however, by rigidities in its format, a lack of comprehensiveaccess to the system
by all sectors that results in delays in recording transactions:      and a failure to integrate
SIAFI with various other government information systems. This had ledto a proliferation
of information systems in other agencies,' without a common platform of operating and
technical standards, resulting in a duplication of databases and effort, and an overall
incompatibility of the flow of information within the government.

92.      The Government has begunimplementation to strengthenSIAFIthrough technical
upgrades and to link the system to the Public Investment Data Base, the Public Credit
Management System, and the Debt Management System in order to ensure a more fluid
flow of public financial information. Inaddition to business process improvements (both
within SEFIN and line ministries), additional system upgrades include implementing a
web-based application to reduce maintenance costs and facilitate further coverage at the
decentralized level. SIAFI will also be linked to SIERP, one it has been fully
implemented, in order to create a direct link between public financial execution and
outputdoutcomes of poverty and growth programs (the ERP).

93.      Accounting and Financial Reporting. In parallel to the expansion of SIAFI, the
CFAA recommendedthat the Central Government accounting function should gradually
move from merely recording transactions toward including analyses that add meaningto
Government financial statements, in a manner consistent with international practice. As
such, the Government has taken the following actions:               (i) ensured that all global
allocations/transfers to decentralized entities are properly recorded inreports on the use of
funds, while the overall number of such opaque allocations have been reduced, and (ii)
begun a comprehensive effort to reconcile budget execution and cash flow statements,
and properly identify any inconsistencies or leakages. Accounting reform also includes a
comprehensivereview of fixed assets and the creation of a government asset registry.

94.      Internal Controls. Internal controls are widely dispersed and uncoordinated.
Furthermore, the Office of the Budget (DGP) exerts a centralized ex-ante control that
does not allow for efficient budget execution. At the same time, internal audit functions
are not well defined and continue to be controlled by the Supreme Audit Institution
("Tribunal Superior de Cuentas", TSC), blurring the lines between internal and external
audits.

95.      The TSC has recently issued new internal control and internal regulations.
Implementation of these regulations, however, has been delayed due to continued weak
support and weak institutionalcapacity. The Government's desire to implement SWAps


'*TheHonduranSocial InvestmentFund(FHIS), for example, still operates outsidethe SIAFIsystem.
  These informationsystems include the IntegratedDebtManagementSystem (SIGADE), Integrated
 Systemfor Public Investment(SISPU), IntegratedPovertyReductionTracking System(SIERP), an
 integratedsystemfor recordingforeign assistanceinflows (SINACOIN),andthe public sector's human
 resource database(SIARH). The Governmenthad linkedSIAFIand SISPUby April 2004, and SIAFI
 and SIGADEby July 2004.

                                                 31

in at least 5 sectors represents a unique opportunity to implement new regulations in a
consistent manner across the central government.

96.     Treasury Management. Fiscal and expenditure management responsibilities are
dispersed among several public entities, rather than being concentrated in the Treasury
(TGR), which exhibits significant institutional weaknesses. The dispersion of fiscal
responsibilities has resulted infunctional voids that directly affect the security and control
of management of public funds. Adding to this void is the TGR's practice of issuing
negotiable government paper (treasury checks), which prevents the verification of the
final recipient of government payments.

97.     The responsibility for revenue and cash management should be vested in TGR.
Any reform to redistribute responsibilities must first address the lack of capacity,
knowledge and experience inthe TGR, which will require technical assistanceto develop
the rules, regulations and procedures to govern its fiscal operations. An efficient and
effective management of the TGR also will depend on a timely transfer o f funds and
related information from the spending agencies. It i s necessary, therefore, to coordinate
the capacity building efforts in TGR with parallel efforts to strengthen the spending
agencies and to upgrade SIAFI.

98.     The Government has approved a plan for the shift of responsibilities from the
Office of Public Credit and the Central Bank to TGR, and has also recently appointed a
new Treasurer to oversee the implementation of the plan.           This plan also includes
intensive efforts to modernize the institutional capacity of the TGR.              The TGR
modernization program i s coordinated with specific efforts to improve budget
management and government accounting, and includes a comprehensive program to: (j)
reconcile all government accounts; (ii)   produce interim government financial statements
(e.g., statements of cash flow and income statement); and (iii)        to implement a single
treasury account to manage all public funds, including external resources.

99.     Tax and Revenue Administration. Procedures governing tax collections are
deficient and unclear. There is no proper reconciliation between the funds paid by the
taxpayers with the funds declared by the banks as collected; and there i s no reconciliation
between the funds received by the banks and the funds transferred to the treasury
accounts. There i s little security with respect to the funds collected by the banks, whose
solvency i s not previously certified.

100.    The tax collection system needs to be upgraded, and must be subject to a strong
and effective regulatory system. This upgrading should include measures to improve the
timeliness of revenue reporting, as well as procedures to ensure that revenue projections
and collections are included inperiodic budget reports.

101. The proposed Programmatic Financial Sector Development Policy Credit and the
on-going Financial Sector Technical Assistance Credit (3800-HO) are actively supporting
improvements in the payment system and with reconciling o f revenue accounts, as
already noted inthis program document.

                                             32

102.     External Auditing. The external audit functions are still evolving in the wake of
reforms that led to the creation of the TSC.            The effectiveness of the TSC is currently
limitedby a lack of qualified personnel, insufficient financial resources to fully discharge
its responsibilities and a lack of operational guidelines and regulations. One reflection o f
these deficiencies i s that the annual reports for fiscal years 2001 and 2002 were just
recently finalized and presented to Congress.

103.     Even though its mandate has been broadened, TSC's first priority should be to
continue the ongoing, donor-supported efforts to build the technical capacity of its staff.
TSC does not need more staff. However, it requires qualified staff, fully capable o f
carrying out the financial audit of the public accounts of the Government, with sufficient
knowledge of internationally accepted standards and audit methodologies.                 The Bank's
PRSCsupported the implementation of the TSC's strategic humanresource plan.

104.     TSC has plans to review and approve the eligibility of private auditing firms hired
by public sector entities and to monitor the work of those firms. Furthermore, the Bank is
supporting "twinning" arrangements between the TSC and private sector firms contracted
to audit Bank financed programs (including SWAps) in order to render on-the-job
trainingopportunities to TSC staff. This is a satisfactory approach for the medium term,
after it has built up the capacity of its own staff. TSC's long-term sustainability depends
on the quality of its human resources and a capacity-building program that focuses on
upgrading skills i s by far its highest priority.          The Bank's Economic and Financial
Management Credit and PRS-TAC (with co-financing from SIDA) are supporting
additional capacity buildingactivities inthe TSC.

105.     Kev CFAA Recommendations. The CFAA Report included a number of key
recommendations, many of which are supported through various Bank instruments, by
multiple donors and are under implementation across the public sector. Box 1represents
a summary of these key actions and progress to date.

106.     Public Procurement.           Honduras does not have an adequate system for
government procurement. In spite of an improved legal framework enacted in 2001, the
system remains ineffective because o f (i)          a weak implementation of the procurement
rules and procedures, (ii)     the lack o f dissemination of the new system in the public and
private sectors, (iii)   absence of a procurement regulatory office; (iv) lack of capacity
among working level staff and members o f the tender committees and approving
authorities; and (v) an absence of project managers and procurement practitioners, and of
a career stream in project and procurement management.                  These deficiencies have
seriously undermined trust in local procurement legislation and systems, with the result
`that the Government has had to rely on UNDP as its primary procurement agent to
handle aid resources. A set o f specific recommendations inthis area are being developed
based on a CPAR that was finalized in September 2004. Inthis context, the Government
has issued the implementing regulations needed for the procurement law "Ley de


  The constitutionalreforms of 2002 transformed the previousComptrollerGeneral's office, headedby one
  Auditor General, into the Supreme Audit Court(TSC), which is headedby a board of auditors.

                                                  33

Contrataciones" and for establishing the procurement regulatory office Ofcinu Nomzativu
de Contrutucidn y Adquisiciones (ONCAE) and its consultative committee.                                The
Government's program to strengthen public procurement contemplates the development
of an electronic public information system for procurement and an electronic system for
procurement transactions to be administered by ONCAE, culminating in the
establishment of a more efficient e-government and contract management system.
Furthermore, ONCAE is expected to prepare plans for the systematic public
dissemination of new regulations and procedural manuals, with the aim of ensuring their
application in all central government agencies. ONCAE will also be responsible for the
development and implementation of standard bidding documents in all public sector
agencies and municipalities.

       Box 1. Summary of Key Recommendations: CFAA Action Planfor Honduras

Budgeting
   e    Strengthen programming and evaluation capacity (UPEGs) in both SEFINand sectors - in
        process;
        Develop evaluation methodologies for investment projects or programs in specific sectors - in
        process;
   e    Ensure that approved budget allocations are reconciled with POAs and PRSPIERP - inprocess;
   e    Include all resourcesfinancing public expenditures (including grants and in-kindassistance) -
        continuous revision and updatinz in budgetand interim revortinq;
   e    Include revenue projections, and revenue generated from agencies - in process;

Accounting and Financial Reporting
   e    Carry out an integral review of the Government accounting function - comvleted;
   e    Onthe basisof the review, develop a plan to move fromaccounts that are merely arecord of
        transactions to ones that provide an analytical capability - comvleted;
        Extend the coverage of S I N 1and the proposed single treasury account system to all entities
        receiving budgetary allocations - inprocess;
   e    Produce cash-basedGovernment financial statementsconsistent with international practice, while
        increasing capacity to manageaccrual accounting - in process;
   e    Update the register and reconciliations of Government assets - in process.

Treasury - TGR
   e    Review TGR's capacity, functions, responsibilities vis-&-visDGCP and B C H - completed;
   e    BuildTGR's capacity to managecash inthe long term, and develop transitional arrangements
        where the responsibilities and functions move gradually from DGCPBCHto TGR - inprocess;
   e    Create a class of non-negotiable checks that TGR can issue to Government suppliers - completed;
   e    Create a Registry of Suppliers - in process.

Revenue and Expenditure Reporting
   e    Certify the solvency of banks acting as tax collection agents, and provide a plan for the periodic re-
        certification of those banks - on-going;
    e   Establish collection accounts of the TGR for tax collections - on-going;
    e   Reconcile funds collected and funds transferred - on-going.

External Auditing - TSC
    e   Enact TSC Regulations - completed;
    e   Draft procedures and an operating manual with guidelines - completed;
    e   Certify private sector firms to audit public sector agencies - in process;

                                                     34

     0   Develop of training plan for capacity development - on-going.

Oversight of Public Financial Management
     0   Strengthen the Congressional committee for budget monitoring and evaluation - still under
         discussion;
     0   Disclose publicly all Congressional budget proceedings - still under discussion;
     0   Ensure the participation of civil society through creation of social audit mechanisms - inprocess.



DISBURSEMENTAND AUDITING

107.     Disbursement and Implementation Arrangements. The proposed Credit will
follow the Bank's new simplified disbursement procedures for development policy
loanskredits.      The untied balance of payments support will be disbursed against
satisfactory implementation of the program and not tied to any specific purchases. No
procurement requirements will be needed. Once the credit i s approved by the Board and
becomes effective, the proceeds of the first tranche will be deposited by IDA in an
account at BCH at the request of the Borrower. The proceeds of the second tranche will
be deposited after all the conditions for the second tranche release are met. If, after
depositing in this account, the proceeds of the credit are used for ineligible purposes as
defined in the Development Credit Agreement, IDA will require the Borrower to either
(a) return the amount to the account for use for eligible purposes, or (b) refund the
amount directly to IDA.

108.     The administration o f this Credit will be the responsibility of the Ministry of
Finance. Although an audit of the deposit account will not be required, the Bank reserves
the right to require audits at any time.

ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS

109.     The reforms supported by the proposed Credit are not expected to have any
significant effect on the environment.

RISKS

110. Since the proposed operation supports an institutional development effort widely
perceived as necessary, and that the Government is already actively implementing, there
i s little risk that the actions required for disbursement o f both the first and second
tranches of the first credit are not taken.

111. However, substantial additional reform, built on solid analytical work and
consensus building among stakeholders, will be required for the eventful second Credit to
be possible.

112.     Somewhat paradoxically, the intimate connection between banks and non-
financial groups, which i s the usual cause o f related party lending and the consequent

                                                      35

poor risk management, might play an stabilizing role in the particular case of Honduras.
Economic groups holding substantial interests in the non financial private sector, which
are bound to be adversely affected in the event of a problem in their affiliated banks, have
clearly better incentives (because of the implicit collateral) than purely financial groups.

113.    Another risk i s that, if full recovery of non-performing loans has become
unfeasible, attempting to recover infull may result innil recovery for creditors, as well as
permanent loss of access to credit for debtors. This deadlock would lead to a progressive
destruction of credit, with negative impact on economic activity, thus increasing non
performance and the losses to be distributed. Debtors have an incentive to repay only if
the value of regaining access to credit exceeds the amount required to cancel the
preexistent debt, which may require a partial write- off of that debt. Without fiscal
resources to assume the resulting loss (or, alternatively, without an orderly mechanism to
transfer that loss to bank creditors), it may be impossible for the authorities to break the
vicious cycle of insolvency forcing regulatory forbearance, and regulatory forbearance
eliminating all incentives to overcome insolvency. But the indefinite deferral of an
orderly bank resolution makes a traumatic resolution eventually unavoidable, in which
typically the poor, either as small depositors or as taxpayers, endup assuming most of the
losses.




                                             36

37

                                   ANNEX 1:LETTER OFDEVELOPMENTPOLICY


                                                   Tegucigalpa, M.D.C., January 21,2005




Mr.JAMESD.WOLFENSOHN
President
International Development
Association
Washington. D.C.


Dear Sir:

During the past two and a half years the Government of Honduras has implementedan
economic program in the framework of a poverty reduction strategy containing policy
changes and programs intended to attain sustainable economic growth and improve the
social conditions of the Honduran people.

As result of the above, we have achievedmacroeconomic stability, the fiscal deficit of the
consolidated public sector was reducedfrom 5.1% in 2003 to about 3% of GDP in 2004,
an important accumulation of international reserves of the Central Bank was achieved
reaching US$ 1,657.4 million, the equivalent to 4.6 months of imports, and a slowdown
of the depreciation annual rate to 4.9% and an inflation rate of 9.1% in 2004, despite of
the higher international oil prices.

Complementing those positive results, we have conducted an ambitious program to
strengthen our financial sector, adversely affectedby external and internal factors, that led
during 1999 to 2002 led to a reduction of a third inthe number of bankinginstitutions, an
important deterioration of the stock market and the use of considerable amounts of scarce
public resourcesto restore public confidence on financial intermediaries.

This program includes actions to improve the prudential regulatory framework and
ongoing supervision and to enhance the efficiency' and effectiveness of the financial
safety net including the Central Bank's lender of last resort function, along with the
modernization of the payment systemand monetary policy instruments.

A far reaching legal reform was passedby the National Congress on September 19, 2004
giving the National Commission of Banks and Insurance (CNBS) the necessary tools to
assure that all financial institutions reach and maintain healthy solvency and liquidity
indicators. This reform include the introduction of consolidated supervision, new
regulations on capital adequacy in line with Base1 standards, criteria for loan



                                             38

classification and provisioning reflecting risk of probable losses more in line with
conditions prevailing inHonduras economy.

Regulations aimed to improve corporate governance, better risk management practices by
reducing bank's related lending and shares on nonfinancial firms, were also issued and
enforced. New requirements to publish financial statements and key indicators are in
place and being observed by supervised institutions.

The reform also included legislations to strengthen CNBS and the Central Bank
autonomy and accountability, improve the sanctions regime, introduce preventive
measures to deal with weak institutions and a completely new legal framework for crisis
resolution in line with international practice.

At the same time, the CNBS has created a preventive anti-money laundering regime and
established   a monitoring system for          suspicious transactions trough financial
intermediaries, exchange houses and money remitters. The Deposit Guarantee Fund
(FOSEDE) is being capitalized, and the universal guarantee of deposits provided by the
Government was eliminated, limiting the guarantee to an amount equivalent to US$9,600
by depositor.

As a result of all reforms and actions described above, by the end of 2004 financial
intermediation has reached 82% of GDP. By the end of November 2004, credit to the
private sector was growing at an annual rate of 11.3% and total deposits by 15.9%.
This reform process i s being supported by financial and technical assistance provided by
the Inter-AmericanDevelopment Bank, the International Monetary Fundand IDA.

With the purpose of continuing with the strengthening of the financial system, the
Government of Honduras i s requesting a financial sector development credit from IDA,
We are certain that these resources and the technical assistance o f your institution are
crucial for the success of the reform process.


Sincerely,




WILLIAM CHONGWONG
Minister of Finance




                                              39

                                GOVERNMENTOF HONDURAS
                          FINANCIAL SECTORREFORMPROGRAM



    I. RECENTECONOMICDEVELOPMENTS


1.     When the present Administration took office in January 2002, the fiscal situation was
very weak. The consolidated public sector deficit, which had averaged 1.8 percent of GDP in
1995-2000 rose to 3.2 percent of GDP in 2001 and the quality o f expenditure deteriorated
markedly with increasing current expenditure, particularly from generous salary increases
granted beginning in 1998, and low investment in social sector. Furthermore, the new
government inherited substantial wage and other expenditure demands that had not been
incorporated in the 2002 budget. As a result, the deficit widened further to 3.6 percent of GDP
in2002 despite several revenue measuresadopted midyear.

2.     The Honduran economy had been hurt by numerous external shocks, some of which
continue to have repercussions. These include natural disasters, the slowdown of the U S
economy, and a persistent decline in the terms of trade caused by unprecedented low coffee
prices and rising world oil prices. This situation put severe pressures on the external current
account deficit, and despite large aid inflows, on the financing needs of the balance o f
payments. Real GDP per capita declined by an average ?hpercent a year over the precedent five
years, while two-thirds of the populationremains poor- with half inextreme poverty.
3.      The Government's program aims to raise growth to an annual 56% by 2006, targets a
gradual decline in inflation to the level of trading partners by same year and to provide adequate
funding to lower the incidence of poverty through the execution of a Poverty Reduction
Strategy. In spite of a temporary widening of the external current account deficit, gross
international reserves will be accumulated to a level consistent with maintaining import
coverage of four months at minimumto ensure external sustainability.
4.      Revitalizing growth required an increase in public investment to meet key infrastructure
needs and complement private investment, especially in road construction, low-income
housing, tourism infrastructure and expansion and upgrading of telephone and health facilities
network. Along, large private investment projects inelectricity generation, telecommunications,
tourism, maquila (textiles) and other areas have initiated. The Government also has introduced
reforms in governance and transparency aimed to improve the investment climate and attract
further new investment.
5.      A key element of the program is the fiscal reform. Inthis regard the Government has
taken measures to slow the rate of increase of public sector wages and generated savings in
other areas of non-poverty reducing spending. The tax base has been broadly expanded and
public services tariff structure has been aligned to costs to improve the operating balance of
public enterprises. A significant recovery of assets from sectors which received taxpayer-
financed bail-outs i s in execution and the budget process has been made with the view of
improving the equity of spending over the medium term.
6.      The Central Bank has initiated a process to improve the efficiency of its monetary policy
instruments. This reform will lead to improved interest rate signalling to the market and aims to
reduce the cost of open market operations. A new regulation for the lender of last resort facility
                                                 40

has been issued in order to redefine the Central Bank liquidity support for commercial banks to
ensure that this support will be granted only to illiquid but solvent banks at the higher interest
rates in the market and within clear amount limits not to exceed 50% of the recipient bank's
capital.
7.      The Central Bank will upgrade the payments system to separate large-value and low-
value payments. Large-value payments will be moved to a parallel payments system with
adequate risk management mechanisms and the securities settlement infrastructure will be
modernized to support the development of an efficient interbank market.
8.      Central bank's capital was eroded by losses attributable to the increasing cost o f
monetary absorption during several years. Reforms to Central Bank legislation include the
recapitalization of the institution through a gradual substitution of paper issued by the Central
Bank for government bonds startingin 2006.
9.      The medium term government's program priorities are aimed to reduce poverty to a 42
percent of the population by 2015. The program is structured around six pillars as follows: 1)
Acceleration of equitable and sustainable growth to levels consistent with the poverty reduction
targets; 2) Reducing rural poverty maintaining environmental sustainability; 3) Enhancing
investment in human capital; 5) Strengthening social safety net for specific vulnerable groups,
and 6) Executing governance andinstitutional reforms aimed to assure the sustainability of the
strategy.
10.     To ensure that scarce fiscal resources are spent as planned, the government i s enhancing
its mechanisms to track anti-poverty spending, which will be identified by budget code before
the program i s approved, so that it can be fully monitored under the program.

11.     Preliminary results for 2004 are encouraging. In spite o f higher than expected
international oil prices, real GDP growth i s projected to reach 4.3% by the end of the year, net
international reserves has increased by around US$ 400.0 million and annual inflation, affected
by adverseexternal factors will be within a range of 8.75 -9.5% by end-december.


    11.    FINANCIAL SECTORREFORMPROGRAM


12.     Recognizing that a sound and efficient financial system can make a significant
contribution to economic growth and social development, the Government has embarked on a
comprehensive reform program to improve the soundness of the Honduran financial system.
The program i s aimed to gradually restore the soundness of the financial system, improve the
prudential regulatory framework and ongoing supervision and enhance the efficiency and
effectiveness of the financial safety net.
13.     The program addresses (i)       the needed improvements in the legal foundations for
finance, including addressing financial crime; (ii)    weaknesses in the key prudential regulations
that underpin prudent banking and the integrity of the banking; (iii)shortcomings in the
supervisory practices, including sanctioning and enforcement; (iv) some of the institutional
weaknesses in the oversight structure; and (v) the flaws in framework for banking resolution.
Furthermore, the program envisages using the new regulatory and supervisory tools to address
the state of undercapitalization of the system by inducing the banks to recapitalize, and
providing smooth exit strategies for the weakest among them, including mergers and

                                                  41

acquisitions, given the lack of fiscal resources to finance a shock treatment on resolving
insolvent banks.

         BACKGR0U.VD IIVFORMATIOY


14.      At the end of 2001, the banking sector was in a fragile financial situation, reflected in
low profit margins and undercapitalization. Indicators showed a sustained deterioration in the
quality of assets since 1998. The authorities requested an FSAP from the IMF and the World
Bank that was finalized in the first quarter of 2003. The assessment found that the bank's asset
quality was overstated as a result of poor portfolio rating and the application of special rating
standards to a portfolio of agricultural loans refinanced by law andunlikely to be collected. The
overdue portfolio had remained relatively stable, representing approximately 12.5% of the
portfolio. Added to it, contingent claims and foreclosed assets increasedthe proportion of bad
quality assets to 13.5% as of June 2003.
15.      FSAP results also demonstrated that along with the unfavourable evolution of the
macroeconomic environment and impact of natural disasters, the weakness of Honduran
financial institutions was also determined by structural factors, as follows: 1) An excessive
number of players competing for a limited market potential; 2) A weak sector oversight and a
deficient legalhegulatory framework; and, 3) Poor risk management practices in private
institutions.
16.      Since 1999, the number of commercial banks decreased from 24 to 16 as a result of
bank resolution processes for insolvent banks, as well as voluntary closures with no systemic
repercussions. Consequently, concentration in the banking systemhas increasedand is expected
to further increase as a result of additional closures, mergers and acquisitions, driven by the
market size and the needto generate economies of scale. By October 2004, the six largest banks
assets represented 75% of total assets. Foreign participation in the banking system has also
increased from 2 to 7 banking institutions owned or controlled by foreign shareholders, as a
result of the process of mergers and acquisitions already mentioned.
17.      With the assistance of the IMF, IDB and IDA, the government traced a strategy to
address the financial sector vulnerabilities taking into account the lack of fiscal resources,
central bank's weak financial position and the incapability of the deposit insurance agency to
execute its banking resolution legal obligations, related not only to insured deposits restitution
but to administer the several phases of the liquidation process.
18.      The government presentedthe strategy to the banking sector, and to private enterprise
organizations, seeking support for the legal changes that neededto be made. After six months
of discussions, the Congress approved, in September 2004, a whole new legal framework in
line with Basle Core Principles for effective supervision that permitted the CNBS to issue new
regulations for capital adequacy, loan classification and provisioning, corporate governance and
consolidated supervision.
19.      The new legislation also improved the preventive regime for dealing with weak
institutions, allowing the Superintendency of Banks to start a program of intensive supervision
inthe weakest institutions emergedfrom an ongoing diagnostic and classification procedure of
the banking institutions by degree of risk and from an early warning indicators system, created
to identify clearly the vulnerability associated with each institution and identify holding actions
requiredto contain solvency deterioration.
                                                 42

20.     At the same time, related party credit limits were lowered and investments in non-
financial companies were also limited related to bank's capital. Reduction plans were approved
and are being enforced and monitoredon a monthly basis.

21.     Currently, the Superintendency of Banks i s receiving technical assistance on the areas of
intensive supervision, contingency planning, analysis of bank's business plans to evaluate their
financial viability and its information systems improvement. New regulations on the areas of
risk management, private credit bureau operations and sanctioning are being prepared. Next
step of the reform process includes the operational design of the new resolution framework, the
creation of a recapitalization fund as a vehicle for further consolidation and the initiation of
consolidated supervision.
22.     The next table i s showing Honduras banking system indicators evolution, since 1999.


    111.     OTHERAREAS OF REFORMWITHIN THE FINANCIALSYSTEM


23.     Along with reforms in the banking sector and taking into consideration financial groups'
composition in Honduras, the CNBS issued and enforced a new set o f regulations for the
operation of insurance companies, where the liquidation o f one company and the voluntary
closure of another were necessary. New regulations include increased capital requirements,
maintenance o f adequate margins of solvency, reinsurance operations, insurance intermediation,
foreign companies' branch operations, investment policy, and reserve requirements.
24.     The stock market operations were also included in the reform process. As a result of a
crisis that included fraudulent bankruptcies o f listed companies and irregular practices, market
activity decreased to almost none. One of the stock exchanges and three broker dealers were
closed and regulations for broker dealers, stock exchanges, mutual and investment funds, rating
agencies, central depository, securitization, information and disclosure, public offerings, trading
of foreign paper and the guarantee fund were issued and enforced. The reform process included
the creation of a public registry that can be consulted on line.
25.     Microfinance institutions regulated by the CNBS received operation manuals and a
special regulation for loan classification and provisioning, in line with best international
practice. A draft law to regulate credit unions was presented to Congress and i s pending of
consideration.


    IV.      ANTI-MONEYLAUNDERINGPREVENTIONPROGRAM


26.     InJune 2002 Congress approved a law for money laundering prevention. According to
that law, the CNBS i s responsible of receiving and analyzing the suspicious transaction reports,
the cash and non- cash operations above a predefined ceiling and recompilation of information
required by the Attorney General's office in the investigation o f related crimes. To execute
these responsibilities, the CNBS established the Financial Information Unit, with technical
assistance from the US Treasury Department.




                                                 43

                    Table 1: HONDURAS: BANKING SECTOR FINANCIAL INDICATORS, 1999-oct2004
                                      (In percent, unless otherwiseindicated, inmillions)


                  CONCEPTOS                            1999       2000         2001         2002       2003       OC~-04


Total Assets (inmillionsof lempiras) 11               53.070,6    60.3793      66.9232       75.1183   89.386,4   102.126,2
(inpercent of GDP)                                        68,8       61,5          67,6         69.5       74,3        84,9

Number of Banks                                             22          21           21           19          16        16
of which: Inprocess of liquidation or taken over             1            0             1           1          0          0
Domestic                                                    20          19           19           17          10        10
Foreign                                                      2            2            2            2          6          6

Bank Concentration
Numberof banks accountingfor at least
  25 percent of total assets                                 2            2            2            2          2          2
  75 percent of total assets                                10            9            e            7          6          0

Bank Rating (CAMEL)
Number of banks (Category IV and V)                          4            5            5            3          2          2
Share of total assets                                     11,9        183           16,C         15.3       11.2      1135

Capital Adequacy
Regulatory capital to risk-weighted assets                11,4        12,3          l2,i         12,9       13,O      13,9t
Capital (net worth) to assets                              8,7         8 3           9,;          8,1        7,6        8,1

Asset Quality and Composition
Nonperformingloans( NPLs) to total loans                   9 2        10,6          11,4         11,3        8,7        7,;
NPLsnet of provisions to capital                          48,2        51,l         52,c          43,O       37,4       23,s
Restructured loans to regulatory capital                     -         9,9         41,s          47,2       20,5       755
  Provisions to total loans                                2,1         2,8           3.4          4,o         32        3,f
  Provisions to NPLs                                      24,l        27,l          27,:         38,7       38,2       50,5

Sectoral Distribution of Loans to Total Loans:
21
Commerce                                                  21,l        20,3          19,:         17,i       15,E       15,-
Construction and real estate                              14,9         15,5         15,:         12,s       18,i       19,:
Agriculture and related sectors                           15,6         16,5         13,f         11,i         798       8,
Manufacturing                                             19,4         18,C         165          17,:       19,4       20,)
Consumption                                                6 3         6,s          lo,(         13,E       13,C       13,:
Other                                                     21.5        22,f          24,t         26,5       25,:       23,(

Profitability
Returnon assets (ROA)                                       1 4         0,s          O,!          O,E         1,;        1..
Returnon equity (ROE)                                     11,2          7,f          8,'          8,;       11,E        14,:
Interest margin to total income                           37,4         37,4         39,'         41,:       45s        44,(
Personnel expenses to administrative expenses             42,3         39,s         40,2         38,(       36,;       36,:

Liquidity
Liquidassetsto total assets                               23,l         23,:         26,(         30,l       242        2 6 ~
Liquidassetsto total short - termliabilities              63,2         59,2         58,:         64,l       53,:       58,

Dollarization

Foreigncurrency inpercentof total deposits          !6,8       21,6          32,8        34,2         34,5              35,'

Foreigncurrency credit inpercent total credit       !8,1       26,3          254         26.2         28,7              33,


Nominal GDP (inmillons of lempiras) 3/                  77.096      89.401       99.03:       108.121     120.32:   120.32

1/ Includes contingent assets
2/ Only principal of loans
3/ Frommay 2004 GDP as december 2003.
                                                                 44


27.     The CNBS also issued anti-money laundering regulations including know your
customer policy requirements for banks, foreign exchange houses and money remitters,
insurance companies andbrokeragefirms.
28.     Honduras is a member of CFATF (an FATF regional body for the Caribbean region)
and its Financial Information Unit i s applying for an EGMONT Group membership.

29.     During December 2004, Congress introduced reforms to the Penal Code to make the
financial crime a punishable act, adequate sanctions were defined for financial wrongdoing in
complement to the new legal framework for financial sector operations.


    V.      THEFUTUREOF THE REFORMPROCESS


30.     Inthe near future, the reformprocess will be dedicatedto contain systemic risk through
the execution of preventive measures and intensive supervision of weaker institutions.
Regularization plans and holding actions are being required from such institutions while the
requiredtools for further consolidation and low-solvency problemsolving are created.

31.     The continued evaluation of the bank's business plans and the ongoing diagnostic and
classification of banks will be supported by a gradual introduction of better risk management
andcorporate governancepracticesto give sustainability to the reformprocess.

32.     The regulations required to the operation of the new resolution mechanism will be
issued to provide a working framework if the solvency situation of a banking institution
requires prompt intervention and a detailed contingency plan will be submitted for Executive
approval, where the funding and operational procedures for a systemic risk contingency will be
established.
33.     The insurance fund for deposits is being recapitalized through a Government transfer of
funds of US$ 15.0 million from anIDBfinancial sector adjustment loan and aUS$ 10.0million
equivalent transfer funded with resources provided by the recovery of assets from liquidated
banks. At present, more than 95% of the resources invested by FOSEDE in the deposit
restitution processduring the banks' liquidation were recovered.
34.     One of the more important tasks of the reform is the creation of the recapitalization
fund. This vehicle will provide the funding for the further merger and acquisition procedures
needed to definitely consolidate the Honduran banking system. The regulations for this fund
will be carefully designedto provide incentives for a marketbasedsolution where the allocation
of losses arising from the solvency solution for viable banks is within the private sector.
35.     The Government considers the proposed gradual strategy is adequate for the financial
sector consolidation given the constraints it faces and the need to preserve macroeconomic
stability which is a crucial factor for success of its mediumterm poverty reduction strategy.




                                                 45

46



a




a    a               a    a    a




a          a    a    a   a


   22 %
     e,
     0

       5




a    e    a          a    a    e


                                                        ANNEX 3: IMFRELATIONSNOTE

1.      Honduras's performance under the PRGF arrangement has been strong. The economic
recovery is gathering pace; the external position has strengthened, notwithstanding the impact
of high oil prices, and anti-poverty spendinghas begunto rise. The fiscal program remains on
track, and all performance criteria underthe program havebeenobserved. These favorable
early results augur well for the economic outlook inthe period ahead, and testify to
authorities' resolve inimplementing their program, underdifficult circumstances. It i s now
critical to buildon these achievements and consolidatethe hard-won stabilization and reform
gains, to ensure sustainedrapid growth andpoverty reduction.

2.      The government's commitment to social consensus has played an important role in
maintaining domestic support for the program-which has remained strong across a wide
spectrum of society. Congressional support for reformhas been a key and welcome element in
the success of the program to date.

3.      Continued implementation of sound fiscal policies will be key to sustaining the
success of the program. Inparticular, this will require enactment of a 2005 budget inline with
the program, followed by steadfast implementation of the budget. The continued support of
congress, inrefraining from any unfinanced appropriations, will play a vital role in this regard.

4.       Adherence to the revised teachers' wage agreement reachedinJuly 2004 will be
essentialto the success of the program, and the development of apermanent teachers' wage
policy is key to the medium-term sustainability of Honduras's public finances. Moreover,
wage policy inother partsof the public sector will also needto remain consistent with the
macro-framework of the program.

5.      The central bank has sent a clear signal of its determination to preserve the important
gains made inreducing inflation inrecent years. Its plans for modernizing monetary
operations are welcome, inparticular, by strengtheningmonetary instrumentsand improving
interest rate signaling. Successfulimplementation of these reforms will allow aprogressive
strengtheningof the monetary policy framework.

6.      The four financial sector laws recently approvedby congress are a significant
milestone inaddressingthe weaknesses of Honduras's bankingsystem. It i s important that the
new framework be implemented fully, as planned. Successfulprogress with financial sector
reform is one of the trigger conditions for achieving the completion point under the Enhanced
HIPC initiative-which     Honduras aims to reachinearly 2005.

7.      Good progresshas also been made with other institutionalreforms. The important
politicalandjudicial reforms under way will contribute to reducing perceptions of corruption
and improvingthe investment climate.

8.      Overall, Honduras's satisfactory performance under the PRGFhas contributed to a
sharply improved economic outlook. Continued implementation of the authorities' program
should lay a strongfoundation for durable growth and poverty reduction.
                                               51

                                                                     ANNEX 4: STATUSOFBANKGROUPOPERATIONS




                                                       CAS Annex BE HONDURAS
                                                                          -
                                                 OperationsPortfolio(IBRDADA and Grants)
                                                          As of Date01/21/2005
 Closed Projects 55




                                                                                                                                 DinefenceBetween
                                                                                                                                E w t e dand MuaI
                                                         Supervision Rating       OriainalAmount in US$ Millions

P r o p t ID     Proled Name

Po44343          GEFHN-BIODIVERSITYCONSERVATION           s           s      1998                    7           125323376   125323376         1.25323376

~073035          HN Accesslo Lard Pilot(PACTA)            s           s     xxll             8                   4 46568634  3.33725389       -0.28414678

Po37397          HNCOMMUNITY-BASEDEDUCATIONPROJECT        S           S      xxll         41 5                  18.69573605  11.56289594

w60785           HN ECONOMiC 8 FIN MANAGEMENTPROJECT      s           s      2001            19                  8 3400331   9 18102547        1.03046993

PoM913           HN EMERG DISASTER MGMT(TAL)              s           s      2 m          10.82                  600811791   5 07013577

wM895            HN FIFTHSOCIAL INVESTMENTFUNDPROJECT     S           s      2031           60                  15.02705148  7.15441451

Po64914          HN FORESTS8 RURALPRODUCTIVITY            s           s      2024           20                  18.78952933  -1.91ffi9471

PO40177          HN RnaneialSectwTechcai Asslame          s           s      2w3           9 9                   9.W229i7    4.03366327

PO55991          HN LANDADMlNlSTRATiONPROGRAM             s           s      2004           25                  18.58688063  3.38921744

P083244          HN NwS1msRmeS Pmgram                     s           s      2w4             15                   15633184    2.53333333

Po57350          HN PROFUNRO                              s           s      1999          12.3                   1a937737   -2.60543998       1.7-5

Po83851          HN PRS TAC                               s           s      2004            8                     8 667904  2.07666667

PO5753           HN ROAD RECONSTRUCTIONAND IMPROVEMEh     s           s      2001          66.5                  31 5507645  1t ,83556797

PMll172          HN R q m lDevinlheCopen Valley           s           s      xx13            12                 11.84900474   136212449

PO57859          HN SUST COASTALTOURISMPROJECT(LlL)       HS         HS      2002             5                  157919632    0.73551748       0.13551748

PO70038          HNTrade Fanlnaho8 PmductFntyEnha         s           s      2004         28.06                 27.65632487   3.67825828      -2.02425779

POu575           HN- HEALTH SYSTEMREFORMPROJECT           s           s      m2            27.1                 26.97257876  1242387568

Overali R e a                                                                            368.18       7         226.8172293  75.11104924       183924755




                                                                            52

       ANNEX 5: STATEMENTOF IFC'SHELDAND DISBURSEDPORTFOLIO




                       CAS Annex BS (IFC) for Honduras

                                   Honduras
                               Statement of IFC's
                           Heldand DisbursedPortfolio
                                As of 11/30/2004
                            (In US Dollars Millions)




                                       Held                 Disbursed

FY Approval Company         Loan Equity Quasi Partic Loan Equity Quasi Partic
       1998 Camino RealPlaz 5.79        0       0    0 5.79    0     0      0
       1999 Granjas Marinas   3.45      0       0    0 3.45    0     0      0

       Total Portfolio:       9.24      0       0    0 9.24    0     0      0




           ApprovalsPendingCommitment
                            Loan Equity Quasi Partic




                              53

                                                           ANNEX 6: HONDURAS AT A GLANCE (Page 1of 2)

                                       Honduras at a glance                                                                           9115/04


                                                                       Latin     Lower-
POVERTYand SOCIAL                                                   America      middle-
                                                         Honduras   & Carib.     Income       Developmentdiamond'
2003
Population,mid-year (millions)                                7.0         534      2,655                    Lifeexpectancy
GNI percapita (Atlas method, US$)                             970      3,260       1,480
GNI (Atlas method, US$billions)                               6.8      1,741       3,934

Average annual growth,1997-03
Population (%)                                                2.6          1.5       0.9
Laborforce (%)                                                3.8          2.1        1.2     GNI                                    Gross
                                                                                              per       -
                                                                                                                                    primary
Mostrecentestimate(latest year available, 199743)                                             capita                              nrollment
Poverty(% ofpopulationbelownationalpovertyline)
Urbanpopulation ("hof totalpopulation)                         46          77         50
Life expectancyat birth (years)                                66          71         69
Infantmortality (per 1,000livebirths)                          32          28         32
Childmalnutrition (% of childrenunder5'                        17                     11     i       Access to improvedwater source
Accessto an improvedwater source (%ofpopulation)               88          86         81
                                                               20          11         10
Gross primaryenrollment I"/.ofschool-agepopulation)
Illiteracy (% ofpopulationage 154
                                                              106         129        112           -Honduras
    Male                                                      105         131        113                 Lower-middle-incomegroup
    Female                                                    107         126        111

KEY ECONOMICRATIOSand LONG-TERMTRENDS
                                                   1983      1993       2002        2003
                                                                                               Economicratios'
GDP (US$billions)                                     3.1     3.5          6.6        7.0
Grossdomestic investmenffGDP                        13.8      33.5       27.7       29.2
Exportsof goodsandservicedGDP                       25.3      31.1       37.2       36.5                         Trade

Grossdomestic savingdGDP                              9.9     21.6       12.1       11.9
Gross nationalsavingdGDP                              5.9     21.4       20.7       21.3                            T

CurrentaccountbalancdGDP                             -8.0    -12.1        -6.8       -7.5
InterestpaymentdGDP                                   3.1     4.4          1.4        1.4
Total debffGDP                                      69.1     125.2       81.8       80.2
Total debt seriicdexports                           24.4      29.0       12.1         9.0
Presentvalue of debffGDP                                                 46.8
Presentvalue of debffexports                                             94.4
                                                                                                               Indebtedness
                                       1983-93 1993-03       2002       2003     2003-07
(average annualgrowth)                                                                              -
GDP                                       3.7         2.7     2.0          3.0        4.0                  Honduras
GDP percapita                             0.6         0.0     -0.6         0.5        1.3                  Lower-middle-incomegroup
Exportsof goodsandservices                2.1         1.7     2.1         -2.5        2.1



STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
                                                   1983      1993       2002        2003       Growthof investmentand GDP(%)
(xof GDP)                                                                                                                                    I
Agriculture                                         21.2      20.6       13.4        13.5
industry                                            25.3      30.1       30.6        30.7
    Manufacturing                                   15.1      17.7       20.3        20.2
Services                                            53.5      49.3       56.0        55.8

Privateconsumption                                  77.0      67.8       74.1        74.4      -10 1
Generalgovernment consumption                       13.1      10.6       13.8        13.7                                                    I
imports of goods and services                       29.2      43.1       52.8        53.8                 -GDI            +GDP



                                               1983-93 1993-03          2002        2003       Growthof exports andimports (%)
(average annualgroowth)                                                                                                                      I
Agriculture                                           3.8      2.2         4.8        9.0      10 -
Industry                                              3.9      3.2         0.7        4.4       5
    Manufacturing                                     4.0      4.1         2.8        3.8       0
Services                                              3.4      3.6         2.9       -0.6       5
                                                                                                                                             I
Privateconsumption                                    3.1      3.2         1.7        2.5     -10

Generalgovernment consumption                         1.4      6.6         0.5        1.4     -15 1
Gross domestic investment                           10.2       1.8         3.3        8.4               -Expork           -.O-lmports
Importsof goods and services                          4.0      3.2         2.1        1.3


Note:2003 data are preliminaryestimates.
This table was producedfrom the Development Economicscentral database.
* The diamondsshow four key indicatorsinthe country (inbold)comparedwith its income-groupaverage. If dataare missing, the diamond will
     be incomplete.                                                 54

Hondurasat a Glance (Page2 of 2)                                                                                       Honduras

PRICESand GOVERNMENTFINANCE
                                               1983    1993       2002    2003
Domesticprices
(% change)
Consumerprices                                         10.7         7.7     8.4
ImplicitGDP deflator                            7.0    13.6         7.3     8.6

Governmentfinance
(% of GDP, includescurrenrgrants)
Current revenue                                13.0    16.6        18.3   19.9             98    99     w          01      02
Current budget balance                         -3.1     -1.1       -0.6     1.4             -GDP      deflator *CPI
Overallsurpluddeficit                         -10.1     -9.6       -5.5    -4.1

TRADE
                                               1983    1993       2002    2003
(US$ millions)                                                                    Exportand import levels(US$ mill.)

Totalexports (fob)                             699      856       1,371  1,396
 Bananas                                       203      225         171           4,000 1
 Coffee                                         151     125         175           3.000
 Manufactures
Total imports (cif)                             823   1,320       2,920  2,994    2.000

 Food                                           123     166         546
 Fueland energy                                 164     183         408           1,000

 Capitalgoods                                   126     292         809    892       0

Exportprice index (1995=100)                             80          89                  97   9.3   99     M)       01     02    w

Importprice index (1995=100)                             88         109                       Exports             Imparts
Terms of trade (1995=100)                                91          82

BALANCEof PAYMENTS
                                                                                                                ~~
                                               1983    1993       2002    2003
(US$millions)                                                                      Current account balanceto GDP(%)

Exportsof goods and services                    801    1,084      2,437  2,550
Importsof goods and services                    912    1,498      3,456  3,758
Resourcebalance                                -111    -415      -1,019  -1,208

Net income                                     -152      -75       -177   -165
Net current transfers                            18      68         748    849

Current account balance                        -246    -421        -448   -524

Financingitems (net)                            202     327         577    524
Changesin net reserves                           43      94        -129       0   -15 1
Memo:
Reservesincludinggold (US$millions)                      134      1,493   1,492
Conversionrate ( D E ,bca//US$)                 2.0      6.5       16.4    17.4

EXTERNALDEBTand RESOURCEFLOWS
                                               1983    1993        2002   2003
(US$millions)                                                                      Compositionof 2003debt(US$ mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed          2,127    4,360      5,395   5,598
  IBRD                                          268      479        105      85
  iDA                                            81      236      1,014   1,143                     466


Totaldebt service                               203      374        397     311
  IBRD                                           26       85         20      28
  IDA                                             1        3         13      17

Compositionof net resourceflows
  Officialgrants                                 62       93        130
  Officialcreditors                             165      218         82      92
  Private creditors                               5      150        -43     -54
  Foreigndirect investment                       21       27        143
  Portfolioequity                                 0        0          0

World Bank program
  Commitments                                    45      183         27      22     A IBRD                               E -Bilateral
  Disbursements                                  60       81         51      45     B IDA     D-Other multilateral       F Private
                                                                                                                          -
  Principalrepayments                             8       47         16      29     C IMF
                                                                                     ---                                G -Short-term
  Net flows                                      52       34         36      15
  Interestpayments                               18       40         17      15
  Nettransfers                                   34       -6         19       0


Note:Thistable was producedfrom the DevelopmentEconomicscentraldatabase.                                                       9115104




                                                                55


