Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 4036-HO 
 
Development Credit Agreement 
 
(First Programmatic Financial Sector Development Policy Credit) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated May 18, 2005 
 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 4036-HO 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated May 18, 2005, between REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the 
Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received from the Borrower a letter dated 
January 21, 2005, describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to 
promote growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty (hereinafter called the 
Program), declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution of the Program, and 
requesting assistance from the Association in support of the Program during the 
execution thereof; and 
(B) 
on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of the foregoing, the Association has decided in 
support of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making the Credit 
in two tranches as hereinafter provided; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through May 1, 
2004), with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions), constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement: 
(a) 
Section 2.01, paragraph 12, is modified to read: 
“‘Project’ means the program, referred to in the Preamble to the 
Development Credit Agreement, in support of which the Credit is 
made.”; 
(b) 
Section 4.01 is modified to read: 
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, 
withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be made in the currency  
Page  3
-
2
-
specified in Section 2.02 (b) of the Development Credit Agreement; 
provided, however, that withdrawals in the currency of the Borrower 
shall be made in such currency or currencies as the Association shall 
from time to time reasonably select.
”; 
(c) 
Section 5.01 is modified to read: 
“The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Credit 
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of the 
Development Credit Agreement and of these General Conditions”; 
(d) 
The last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted; 
(e) 
Section 9.06 (c) is modified to read: 
“(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Association a 
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall 
reasonably request,
 
on the execution of the program referred to in the 
Preamble to the Development Credit Agreement, the performance by the 
Borrower and the Association of their respective obligations under the 
Development Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes 
of the Credit.”; and 
(f) 
Section 9.04 is deleted in its entirety and Sections 9.05, 9.06 (as modified 
above), 9.07 and 9.08 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06 and 9.07.  
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a) 
“Anti Asset Laundering Law” means 
Ley Contra el Delito de Lavado de 
Activos
,
the Borrower’s anti asset laundering law issued by Decree No. 45-2002 of March 
5, 2002 and effective as of June 3, 2002; 
(b) “BCH” 
means 
Banco Central de Honduras
,
the Borrower’s central bank 
established pursuant to the Borrower’s BCH Law; 
Page  4
-
3
-
(c) 
“BCH Law” means 
Ley del Banco Central de Honduras
,
the Borrower’s 
Central Bank Law of February 3, 1950, as amended to the date of this Agreement; 
(d) “CNBS” 
means 
Comisión Nacional de Bancos y Seguros
,
the Borrower’s 
national banking and insurance commission, established pursuant to Article 245, Section 
31 of the Borrower’s Constitution, and governed by the CNBS Law; 
(e) “CNBS 
Law” 
means 
Ley de la Comisión Nacional de Bancos y Seguros
,
the Borrower’s National Banking and Insurance Commission Law issued by Decree No. 
155-95 of November 18, 1995 and effective as of December 8, 1995, as amended to the 
date of this Agreement; 
(f) 
“Congress” means the Borrower’s legislative branch of government; 
(g) 
“Criminal Code” means 
Código Penal
,
the Borrower’s criminal code 
issued by Decree No. 144-83 of August 23, 1983, as amended to the date of this 
Agreement; 
(h) 
“Executive” means the Borrower’s executive branch of government; 
(i) 
“Financial Sector Policy Committee” means 
Comité de Políticas del 
Sector Financiero
,
the Borrower’s financial sector policy committee established by the 
Borrower’s Executive Decree No. 001-2004 dated January 22, 2004 and published in 
the Borrower’s Official Gazette No. 3,313 dated February 11, 2004; 
(j) 
“Financial System Law” means 
Ley del Sistema Financiero
,
the 
Borrower’s Financial System Law issued by Decree No. 129-2004 of September 21, 
2004 and effective as of September 24, 2004, as amended to the date of this Agreement; 
(k) “SEFIN” 
means 
Secretaría de Estado en el Despacho de Finanzas
,
the 
Borrower’s Ministry of Finance; and 
(l) “UIF” 
means 
Unidad de Información Financiera
,
the Borrower’s 
financial intelligence unit under the CNBS, established pursuant to Article 44 of the Anti 
Asset Laundering Law. 
Page  5
-
4
-
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to sixteen million two hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 16,200,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) of this 
Section, the Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Credit from the 
Credit Account in support of the Program. 
(b) 
Except as the Association may otherwise agree:  (i) all withdrawals from 
the Credit Account shall be deposited by the Association into an account in United States 
Dollars designated by the Borrower and acceptable to the Association; and (ii) the 
Borrower shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the Credit into said 
account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the Borrower’s budget management 
system, in a manner acceptable to the Association. 
(c) 
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Credit shall not be 
used to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement.  If the Association determines at any time that an amount of the Credit was 
used to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Association, refund an amount equal to the amount of said payment 
to the Association.  Amounts refunded to the Association upon such request shall be 
cancelled. 
(d) 
No withdrawals shall be made from the Credit Account, after the 
aggregate amount of the Credit withdrawn from the Credit Account has reached the 
amount of SDR 8,100,000, unless the Association is satisfied, after an exchange of views 
as described in Section 3.01 of this Agreement based on evidence satisfactory to the 
Association: 
(i) 
with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the carrying out 
of the Program; 
(ii) 
that the macroeconomic policy framework of the Borrower is 
satisfactory, as measured on the basis of indicators agreed 
between the Borrower and the Association; and 
Page  6
-
5
-
(iii) 
that the actions described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement have 
been taken. 
 
If, after said exchange of views, the Association is not so satisfied, the 
Association may give notice to the Borrower to that effect and, if within 90 days after 
such notice, the Borrower has not taken steps satisfactory to the Association, in respect of 
(i), (ii), and (iii) above, as the case may be, then the Association may, by notice to the 
Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the Credit or any part thereof. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2006 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such 
later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set 
by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of 
one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the 
rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates 
as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as 
of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement. 
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or 
in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for 
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency 
or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the 
provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on June 15 and December 15 in each year. 
Page  7
-
6
-
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit 
in semiannual installments payable on each June 15 and December 15 
commencing June 15, 2015 and ending December 15, 2024. Each installment 
shall be five percent (5%) of such principal amount. 
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Particular Covenants 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at 
the request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program and the actions specified in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
(b) 
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out 
the Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request. 
(c) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall exchange views with the Association on any proposed action to be 
taken after the disbursement of the Credit which would have the effect of materially 
reversing the objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the Program, including 
any action specified in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.02.  Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 9.01(a) of the 
General Conditions, the Borrower shall promptly furnish to the Association such 
information relating to the provisions of Article II of this Agreement as the Association 
may, from time to time, reasonably request. 
ARTICLE IV 
Additional Events of Suspension 
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a) 
A situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, 
or a significant part thereof, will be carried out. 
Page  8
-
7
-
(b) 
The Borrower’s macroeconomic policy framework has become 
inconsistent with the objectives of the Program. 
(c) 
An action has been taken or a policy has been adopted by the Borrower 
or its agencies to reverse any action or policy under the Program in a manner that would, 
in the opinion of the Association, adversely affect the achievement of the objectives of 
the Program. 
(d) 
An action has been taken or a policy has been adopted by the Borrower 
or its agencies to reverse any action listed in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE V 
Termination 
Section 5.01.  The date August 16, 2005 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 6.01. The Secretary of SEFIN is designated as the representative of the 
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions. 
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 For 
the 
Borrower: 
 
Secretaría de Estado en el Despacho de Finanzas
 
Tegucigalpa, M.D.C. 
 
Honduras 
 
Cable address:     
 
 
 
Facsimile: 
 
HACIENDA 
    (504) 
237-4142 
 
Tegucigalpa 
    (504) 
237-5033 
 
Page  9
-
8
-
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association  
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
  248423 
(MCI) 
or 
(202) 
477-
6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  
 64145 (MCI) 
Page  10
-
9
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Tegucigalpa, Honduras, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS 
 
By  /s/ William Chong Wong 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION 
 
By  /s/ Pamela Cox 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  11
-
10
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Excluded Expenditures 
 
For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Credit 
shall not be used to finance any of the following expenditures: 
1.  
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national 
or international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the Association 
shall have financed or agreed to finance, or which the Association or the Bank shall have 
financed or agreed to finance under another credit, loan, or grant; 
2.  
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of the 
Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the 
United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or any 
successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the 
Association by notice to the Borrower: 
 Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112 
- 
  Alcoholic 
beverages 
 
121 
- 
  Tobacco, 
unmanu- 
 
factured, tobacco 
 
refuse 
 
122 
- 
  Tobacco, 
manufactured  
 
(whether or not 
 
containing tobacco 
 
substitutes) 
 
525 
- 
  Radioactive 
and 
 
 
associated materials 
 
667 
- 
  Pearls, 
precious 
and 
 
semiprecious 
 
stones, unworked 
 
or
worked 
 
Page  12
-
11
-
718 
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and  
 
parts thereof; fuel  
 
elements (cartridges), 
 
non-irradiated, for 
 
nuclear reactors 
 
728 728.43 
 
Tobacco 
processing 
 
machinery 
 
897 
897.3 
 
Jewelry of gold,  
 
silver or platinum 
 
group metals (except 
 
watches and watch 
 
cases) and 
 
goldsmiths’ or  
 
silversmiths’ 
 
wares (including  
 
set gems) 
 
971 
- 
  Gold, 
non-monetary 
 
(excluding gold 
 
ores and concentrates) 
 
3. 
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for 
luxury consumption; 
4. 
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this 
paragraph the term “environmentally hazardous goods” means goods, the manufacture, 
use or import of which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international 
agreements to which the Borrower is a party);  
5. 
expenditures on account of any payment to persons or entities, or any import of 
goods, if such payment or import is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations 
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; and 
6. 
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Association determines that 
corrupt, fraudulent, collusive, or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of 
the Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Credit during the procurement or execution of 
such contract, without the Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action 
satisfactory to the Association to remedy the situation. 
Page  13
-
12
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Actions Referred to in Section 2.02 (d) (iii) of this Agreement 
1. 
(a) 
The Financial Sector Policy Committee has recommended a 
contingency plan for systemic financial crisis management; and 
(b) 
the Borrower has issued an executive order (
Acuerdo Presidencial)
 
approving the contingency plan for systemic financial crisis management as 
recommended by the Financial Sector Policy Committee. 
2. 
The CNBS has issued norms and procedures for: 
(a) 
the implementation of the new mechanism for the resolution of 
financial institutions set forth in the Financial System Law covering:  (i) forced 
liquidation (Title 8, Chapter 3, First Section); and (ii) restitution (Title 8, Chapter 
3, Second Section); and 
(b) 
the liquidation of assets remaining in the resolved financial 
institution
s’ balance sheets after the execution of the restitution processes referred 
to in paragraph 2 (a) (ii) above. 
3. 
The Borrower has approved the creation of a bank capitalization fund with 
structure and operating procedures agreed with the Association. 
4. 
The Executive has presented to the Congress a draft law to improve the 
following legal systems of the Borrower:  (a) bankruptcy and corporate 
reorganization; (b) creditor rights; and (c) corporate governance of non-financial 
business corporations. 
5. 
The Congress has:  (a) approved an amendment to the Criminal Code to 
include the financing of terrorism as an autonomous crime and the amendment 
has entered into effect; and 
 
(b) 
amended the Anti Asset Laundering Law to incorporate the 
following activities into the system that reports suspicious transactions to the UIF:  
(i)  business activities with high risk (i.e., sale and purchase of real estate, 
Page  14
-
13
-
vehicles, artwork, antiques, jewelry, etc.); and (ii) business activities carried out 
by independent professionals (i.e., notaries, accountants, etc.). 
6. 
The CNBS is complying with the program to strengthen intensive 
supervision of high risk institutions set forth in the CNBS’s Resolution No. 
1309/28-12-2004 dated December 28, 2004, as evidenced by reports issued by 
consultants satisfactory to the Association. 
7. 
Financial institutions that are subject to the CNBS’s programs to reduce 
related party loans are in compliance with such programs, as evidenced by reports 
issued by the respective financial institutions’ external auditors. 
8. 
The CNBS and the BCH are:  (a) maintaining operational their on-line 
database of related parties referred to in the CNBS’s Resolution No. 1310/28-12-
2004; and  
(b) 
generating quarterly reports to assess the financial situation of the 
largest debtors of the Borrower’s financial system. 
9. 
The BCH has issued a resolution approving a regulatory framework for payments 
systems. 
Page  15
-
14
-
Karen Borges 
M:\HONDURAS\Financial Sector Development Policy Credit\DCA-FS-DPC.doc 
January 25, 2005 3:02 PM
 
