Page  1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
31801 
 
Project Name 
Honduras :First Programmatic Financial Sector Development 
Policy Credit  
Region 
LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN 
Sector 
Finance 
Project ID 
P083311 
Borrower(s) 
Government of Honduras 
Implementing Agency 
Comisión Nacional de Bancos y Seguros (CNBS) 
and the Central Bank of Honduras (BCH) 
Date PID Prepared 
January 14, 2005 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
January 12, 2005 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
February 22, 2004 
1. 
Country Sector and background 
 
A
vulnerability for the Honduran economy, which could undermine the Government’s 
poverty reduction program, is the fragility of the financial sector due to institutional 
factors and external shocks,  such as major terms of trade fluctuations and natural 
disasters.   
 
In the past 18 months, the Honduran Government has embarked on a financial system 
institutional reform aimed at: (i) reducing vulnerabilities and improving institutional 
soundness in the financial sector; (ii) strengthening the regulatory framework and 
ongoing supervision; (iii) enhancing the efficiency and effectiveness of the financial 
safety net; (iv) strengthening the financial system infrastructure, including mechanisms to 
prevent money laundering and financing of terrorism.  Critical elements are being 
implemented with support from the IDA-financed Financial Sector Technical Assistance 
Credit (3800HO) which was approved by the Bank’s Board in June 2003.  Additional 
policy and institutional reforms in the sector would be supported by the proposed 
Programmatic Financial Sector Institutional Development Policy Credit. 
 
2. 
Loan Objectives and Description
 
The proposed credit would be a programmatic development policy operation in two 
phases.  The first phase would support financial sector institutional development through 
reforms in the following five areas: a) strategy for management of systemic risks, b) legal 
and regulatory framework, c) anti money laundering and prevention of terrorism 
financing, d) strengthening of supervision and control of systemic risks, and e) payments 
system.  A second phase, that would partially fund a systemic consolidation strategy, 
would be triggered by key indicative actions such as: a) consensus on a consolidation 
Page  2
strategy, and demonstrated practical relevance of the institutional development supported 
by the first phase. 
 
3. Loan 
financing 
 
The proposed credit would be for SDR16.2 million, to be disbursed in two tranches.  A 
first tranche of SDR 8.1  million would be disbursed upon effectiveness, in support of up-
front reform measures taken by the Honduran authorities.  A second floating tranche of 
SDR 8.1 million would be disbursed against agreed tranche conditions when these are 
met 
 
4. Project 
Implementation 
 
The implementing agencies will be the Co
misión Nacional de Bancos y Seguros (CNBS) 
and the Central Bank of Honduras (BCH).   
 
5. Program 
sustainability 
 
The Government has demonstrated its commitment to a program of financial sector 
reforms with the enactment in September 2004 of the Financial Systems Law and the 
subsequent amendment of the Deposit Insurance Fund Law and the Law of the CNBS to 
reflect the new Financial Systems Law.   
 
6. 
Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector 
 
Lessons learned from past banking sector operations in other countries in Latin America 
have been taken into account in the design of this operation.  These include: (i) a strong 
borrower ownership is indispensable in complicated, time-intensive, banking sector 
operations; (ii) banking sector operations should set limited objectives, because over 
ambitious objectives may be beyond the reach of a single operation; and (iii) loan 
disbursements should be linked to the enactment of major pieces of legislation and the 
completion of specific bank resolution transactions. 
 
7. Poverty 
category 
 
The measures supported by this operation would lead to a less vulnerable banking 
system, better suited to support economic growth and poverty alleviation.  
 
8. Environmental 
aspects 
 
This operation would not have any direct effect on the environment.  For that reason, it 
has been placed in Category “C”, in accordance with the Bank’s Operational Directive on 
Environmental Assessment (OD 4.00 Annex A). 
 
9. 
Program Objective Category.  
The Program Objective Category is Economic 
Management (EA). 
Page  3
10. Contact 
Points 
 
Aquiles Almansi 
Senior Financial Economist 
Telephone: (202) 473-5970 
Fax: (202) 614-0107
 
aalmansi@worldbank.org 
 
Public Information Center 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone: (202) 458-5454 
Fax: (202) 522-1500 
 
