Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 4500-HO 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Supplemental Financing for the  
First Programmatic Financial Sector Development Policy Credit) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated October 13, 2008 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 4500-HO 
 
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated October 13, 2008, entered into between REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS 
(
“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (“Association”) for 
the purpose of providing supplemental financing in support of the Program (as defined in the 
Appendix to this Agreement).  The Association has decided to provide this financing on the basis, 
inter alia: of (a) the actions which the Recipient has already taken under the Program, including 
those described in Schedule 2 to the Original Financing Agreement; and (b) the Recipient’s 
maintenance of an appropriate macro-economic policy framework.  The Recipient and the 
Association therefore hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have 
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II 
—
FINANCING 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions set forth 
or referred to in this Agreement, a credit in an amount equivalent to six million two 
hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 6,200,000) (variously,
 “Credit” and 
“Financing”). 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in support of the Program in 
accordance with Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
 
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the Unwithdrawn 
Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
2.04. 
The Service Charge payable by the Recipient on the Withdrawn Credit Balance shall be 
equal to three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum. 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are February 15 and August 15 in each year. 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Credit shall be repaid in accordance with repayment 
schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.07. 
The Payment Currency is United States Dollars. 
Page  3
-2- 
 
ARTICLE III 
—
PROGRAM 
 
3.01 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.  To this 
end: 
 
(a) 
the Recipient and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either 
party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program and 
the actions specified in Schedule 2 of the Original Financing Agreement; 
 
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Recipient shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in 
carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably 
request; and 
 
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section, 
the Recipient shall exchange views with the Association on any proposed action 
to be taken after the disbursement of the Financing which would have the effect 
of materially reversing the objectives of the Program, or any action taken under 
the Program including any action specified in Schedule 2 of the Original 
Financing Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
—
REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following: 
 
(a) 
A situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a 
significant part of it, will be carried out. 
 
(b) 
The Recipient’s macroeconomic policy framework has become inconsistent with 
the objectives of the Program. 
 
(c) 
An action has been taken or a policy has been adopted by the Recipient or its 
agencies to reverse any action or policy under the Program in a manner that 
would, in the opinion of the Association, adversely affect the achievement of the 
objectives of the Program. 
 
(d) 
An action has been taken or a policy has been adopted by the Recipient or its 
agencies to reverse any action listed in Schedule 2 to the Original Financing 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE V 
—
TERMINATION
 
5.01. 
Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness Deadline 
is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no case later than 
Page  4
-3- 
 
eighteen (18) months after the Association’s approval of the Credit which expire on 
February 8, 2010. 
Page  5
-4- 
 
ARTICLE VI 
—
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. 
The Recipient’s Representative is its Minister (
Secretario
)
of
SEFIN. 
6.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
 
Secretaría de Estado en el Despacho de Finanzas 
 
Dirección General de Crédito Público 
 Avenida 
Cervantes 
 Tegucigalpa, 
M.D.C. 
 Honduras, 
C.A. 
 
Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 HACIENDA 
 1308 
  (504) 
237-4142 
 
Tegucigalpa 
 
FINANZAS HO 
(504) 238-6995 
 
6.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
 
International Development Association 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 248423(MCI) 
 1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
  
Page  6
-5- 
 
AGREED at the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS 
 
By /s/ Rebeca P. Santos 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION  
 
By /s/ Laura Frigenti 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  7
-6- 
 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Availability of Financing Proceeds 
 
A. General. 
 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Association may 
specify by notice to the Recipient. 
 
B. 
Allocation of Financing Amounts.
 
The Financing shall be withdrawn in a single 
tranche.  The allocation of the amounts of the Financing to this end is set out in the table 
below: 
 
Allocations 
Amount of the Financing Allocated 
(expressed in SDR)
 
Single Tranche 
 
6,200,000 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
6,200,000 
C. 
Deposits of Financing Amounts.
 
Except as the Association may otherwise agree:   
 
1. 
all withdrawals from the Financing Account shall be deposited by the 
Association into an account designated by the Recipient and acceptable to the 
Association; and 
 
2.  
the Recipient shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the Financing 
into this account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the Recipient
’s budget 
management system, in a manner acceptable to the Association. 
 
D. Audit. 
 
Upon the Association’s request, the Borrower shall: 
 
1. 
have the deposit accounts referred to in Section C of this Schedule audited by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Association, in accordance with 
consistently applied auditing standards acceptable to the Association; 
 
2. 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than four 
months after the date of the Association’s request for such audit, a certified copy 
of the report of such audit, of such scope and in such detail as the Association 
shall reasonably request; and 
 
3. 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning the deposit accounts 
and their audit as the Bank shall reasonably request. 
 
E. Excluded 
Expenditures
.
The Recipient undertakes that the proceeds of the Financing 
shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Association determines at any time that 
an amount of the Financing was used to make a payment for an Excluded Expenditure, the 
Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund an amount equal to the 
amount of such payment to the Association. Amounts refunded to the Association upon such 
request shall be cancelled.
 
Page  8
-7- 
 
F. 
Closing Date.  
The Closing Date is May 30, 2009. 
Page  9
-8- 
 
SCHEDULE 2
 
Repayment Schedule 
Date Payment Due 
Principal Amount of the Credit repayable 
(expressed as a percentage)* 
On each February 15 and August 15: 
 
commencing August 15, 2018 
 
to and including February 15, 2028: 
 
5% 
*
The percentages represent the percentage of the principal amount of the Credit to be repaid. 
Page  10
-9- 
 
APPENDIX 
 
Section I. Definitions 
 
1. 
“Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure: 
 
(a)  
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Association or the 
Bank has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Association or the Bank has 
financed or agreed to finance under another credit, grant or loan; 
 
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the 
United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), 
or any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as 
designated by the Association by notice to the Recipient: 
 
Group
Sub-group Description 
of 
Item 
112  
Alcoholic 
beverages 
121  
Tobacco, 
un-manufactured, 
tobacco refuse 
122  
Tobacco, 
manufactured 
(whether or not containing 
tobacco substitutes) 
525 
 
Radioactive and associated 
materials 
667 
 
Pearls, precious and 
semiprecious stones, 
unworked or worked 
718  
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and parts 
thereof; fuel elements 
(cartridges), non-irradiated, 
for nuclear reactors 
728 
728.43  
Tobacco processing 
machinery 
897  
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or 
platinum group metals (except 
watches and watch cases) and 
goldsmiths’ or silversmiths’ 
wares (including set gems) 
971  
 
Gold, non-monetary 
(excluding gold ores and 
concentrates) 
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
 
Page  11
-10- 
 
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of which is 
prohibited under the laws of the Recipient or international agreements to which 
the Recipient is a party; 
 
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United Nations 
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; 
and 
 
(f) 
with respect to which the Association determines that corrupt, fraudulent, 
collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Recipient or other recipient of the Financing proceeds, without the Recipient (or 
other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to 
the Association to address such practices when they occur. 
 
2. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association General 
Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended through October 15, 
2006) with the modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix. 
 
3. 
“Original Financing Agreement” means the Development Credit Agreement dated May 
18, 2005 between the Recipient and the Association for the First Programmatic Financial 
Sector Development Policy Credit. 
 
4. 
“Program” means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to promote 
growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or referred to in the 
letter dated January 21, 2005 from the Recipient to the Association declaring the 
Recipient’s commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from 
the Association in support of the Program during its execution. 
 
5. 
“Single Tranche” means the amount of the Financing allocated to the category entitled 
“Single Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
The modifications to the “International Development Association General Conditions for Credits 
and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended through October 15, 2006) are as follows:   
1. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for 
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety. 
2. 
Sections 2.04 (
Designated Accounts)
 and 2.05 (
Eligible Expenditures
)
are deleted in their 
entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered accordingly. 
3. 
Paragraph (b) of Section 3.03 is hereby deleted in its entirety. 
4. 
Sections 4.01 (
Project Execution Generally
), and 4.09 (
Financial Management; 
Financial Statements; Audits
)
are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in 
Article IV are renumbered accordingly. 
5. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 4.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above and 
relating to 
Use of Goods, Works and Services
)
is deleted in its entirety. 
Page  12
-11- 
 
6. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 4.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is 
modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 4.06. 
Plans; Documents; Records 
 
…
(c) 
The Recipient shall retain all records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures under the Financing 
until two years after the Closing Date. The Recipient shall enable the 
Association’s representatives to examine such records.” 
 
7. 
Section 4.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is modified to read as 
follows: 
 
Section 4.07. 
Program Monitoring and Evaluation 
 
…
(c)  
The Recipient shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and furnish 
to the Association not later than six months after the Closing Date, a report of 
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on the 
execution of the Program, the performance by the Recipient and the Association 
of their respective obligations under the Legal Agreements and the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Financing. 
 
8. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or deleted as 
follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in alphabetical order to 
the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered accordingly: 
 
(a) 
The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as follows:   
 
“‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Financing is put in support 
of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the 
Financing Agreement.” 
 
(b) 
The term “Financial Statements” and its definition as set forth in the Appendix 
are deleted in their entirety. 
 
(c) 
The term “Project” is modified to read “Program” and its definition is modified 
to read as follows:  
 
“‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Financing Agreement in support 
of which the Financing is made.”  All references to “Project” throughout these 
General Conditions are deemed to be references to “Program”.
 
