                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                   FOROFFICIAL USEONLY


                                                                             ReportNo 44805-HN




                                    PROGRAMDOCUMENT

                  INTERNATIONALDEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION

                  PROPOSEDSUPPLEMENTALFINANCING CREDIT

            UNDERTHE GLOBAL FOODCRISISRESPONSEPROGRAM

                         INTHE AMOUNT OF SDR6.2 MILLION
                               (US$lO MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                                   TO

                               THE REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS

                                                   FOR

                 THE FIRSTPROGRAMMATIC FINANCIAL SECTOR

                              DEVELOPMENT POLICY CREDIT


                                              July 24,2008




PovertyReductionandEconomicManagement
CentralAmerica Country ManagementUnit
Latin America and CaribbeanRegion


This documenthas arestricteddistributionandmay be usedby recipients only inthe performanceoftheir official
duties. Its content may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bankauthorization.

                     CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
               (Exchange Rate Effective as of July 24, 2008)

                   CurrencyUnit = HondurasLempiras
                            US$1 = 18.8957Lps.
                            1Lps. = 0.0529221 US$

                             FISCAL YEAR
                         January 1-December 31

                  ABBREVIATION AND ACRONYMS

AHIBA           Honduras Banking Association
AIN-C           Expansionofthe Child NutritionProgram
BANADESA        BancoNacional de Desarrollo, S.A.
BCF             BankCapitalizationFund
BCH             BancoCentral de Honduras
BT              Bono Tecnol6gico
CFAA            Country FinancialAccountability Assessment
CNBS            National Bank and Insurance Commission
CPAR            CountryProcurement Assessment Report
FOSEDE          Deposit Insurance Fund
FS-DPC          FinancialSector DevelopmentPolicy Credit
FS-TAC          Financial Sector TechnicalAssistance
IDA             InternationalDevelopment Association
IDB             Inter-AmericanDevelopment Bank
IMF             InternationalMonetary Fund
LSF             Financial System Law (Ley del SistemaFinaciero)
PASAH           Programa de Apoyo a la SeguridadAlimentaria de Honduras
PRAF            Conditional CashTransferProgram
PSIA            Poverty and Social ImpactAnalysis
PFM             Public FinancialManagement
SEFIN           Ministry of Finance
SENASA          National Service ofAgricultural and Animal Health
SIAFI           IntegratedFinancial Management System
TSC             Tribunal Superiorde Cuentas
        _e          Vice President:         PamelaCox
          Country ManagerDirector:          Laura Frigenti
                   Sector Manager:          Lily L.Chu
                Task Team Leader:   ii A uilesAlmansi

                                                                                               FOROFFICIAL USE ONLY

                                                           HONDURAS
                  PROPOSEDSUPPLEMENTAL FINANCINGCREDIT FORTHE
           FIRST PROGRAMMATIC FINANCIAL SECTORDEVELOPMENTPOLICY
                                                               CREDIT

                                                            CONTENTS
                                                                                                                                          PageNo     .
         I BACKGROUND
          .                        ........................................................................................................         1
         I1.    THE FIRST PROGRAMATIC FINANCIAL SECTOR DEVELOPMENT
         POLICY CREDIT        .............................................................................................................         2
              A. Financial Sector Reforms since Approval ofthe FS-DPC ..................................                                            2
               B   Impact ofthe Reform Process                  .............................................................................       3
                                                                                                                                                    3
         I11           FOODPRICE CRISIS                      ................................................................................       4
         I V.. C THEGOVERNMENT'S
                .. Emerging Challenges           ...........................................................................................

                 THE                                  RESPONSE               .................................................................      5
         V     BANK'S STRATEGY               ...............................................................................................        7
         VI..    RATIONALE FORPROPOSEDSUPPLEMENTAL FINANCING                                                                           ...............8
         VI1.    IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS                                           ......................................................     10
              A.                                                                                                                                  10
               B.     Terms ofthe SupplementalFinancing...........................................................
                                                                                                                                                  10
               C
               D..    Fiduciary Aspects ..........................................................................................
                      DisbursementandAuditing                   ...........................................................................       11
                      Poverty and Social Impact Analysis                       .............................................................. 11
                                                                                                                                                  11
         VI11 .E
               .    Environmental Issues          ........................................................................................
                   BENEFITSAND RISKS                     .................................................................................        11
              A .                                                                                                                                 11
               B.  Benefits..............................................................................................................
                    Risks................................................................................................................. 12




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties.Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without World Bank authorization.



                                                                      ...
                                                                      111


                                 PROGRAMDOCUMENT
                INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                PROPOSEDSUPPLEMENTAL FINANCING CREDIT
           UNDER THE GLOBAL FOOD CRISISRESPONSEPROGRAM
                                           TO
                            THE REPUBLICOF HONDURAS
             FOR THE FIRST PROGRAMMATIC FINANCIAL SECTOR
                           DEVELOPMENT POLICY CREDIT



                                  I. BACKGROUND

1.         Over the past few years, Honduras has enjoyed a period of rapid economic
growth. GDP growth, which had averaged 3.6 percent between 2001 and 2003 and a
mere 2.3 percent during the 1 9 9 0 ~ ~
                                      exceeded 6 percent from 2004 through 2007. Indeed,
growth is now at levels not seen since the late 1970s. Moreover, after years of stagnation
in poverty indicators, the recent growth episode has been accompaniedby a significant
reduction in poverty. In fact, the poverty headcount index which in May 2005 was 71
percent declined to 68 percent in May 2007. More dramatically, the extreme poverty
headcount index declined from 53.4 percent to 42.9 percent over the same period.

2.         While recent economic performance reflects to some extent, the favorable
global environment which existed until mid-2007, reforms on several fronts, including
the financial sector, are likely to havehadapositive contribution. Inthe particular case of
the financial sector, the Bank has been supporting Honduras reform efforts through the
Financial Sector Development Policy Credit (FS-DPC) and the Financial Sector
Technical Assistance (FS-TAC) credit. These operations have been instrumental to
develop institutional capacity in the sector through improvements in the legal and
regulatory framework andthrough domestic capacity building.

3.         The progress achievedover the last years in strengthening the financial sector is
now beingjeopardized by the onset of several major external shocks that are undermining
macroeconomic performance and threatening to weaken the quality of the assets in the
banking sector. These shocks include the rapid rise in global food prices, which in
Honduras are now increasing at an annual rate of 22 percent (May 2008). In addition to
their negative impact onpoverty, higher foodprices are contributing to: i)higher headline
inflation (11.2 percent in May 2008 vs. 6.1 percent in May 2007); ii)a deterioration in
the current account balance (which has deteriorated from 4.7 percent of GDP in2006 to
9.5 percent of GDP in 2008); iii)a weakening in the international reserve position
(Honduras was expected to accumulate US$253 million in 2008 but this target seems
difficult to meet inthe current environment); and iv) the emergence of fiscal pressures as
the government is responding to the food crisis, and the external financing envisaged in
the 2008 macroeconomic program is expected to be below target by US$50 million (due
inpartto a slower thananticipated implementation ofthe Petrocaribeagreement).



                                             1

4.        The Government is now seeking donor support to implement its food prices
crisis response program while maintaining a sound macroeconomic policy framework
and performance, and its progress in financial sector strengthening. The proposed
Supplemental i s a response to that request.

  11.     THE FIRSTPROGRAMATICFINANCIALSECTORDEVELOPMENT
                                    POLICYCREDIT

5.        Bank analysis conducted in 2002/3 found two fundamental problems in the
financial sector: a) a weak institutional framework for financial sector transactions,
regulation and supervision; and b) low bank capitalization. These problems made the
financial sector highlyvulnerable to both internal and external shocks.

6.        The weak institutional framework was the result o f a number o f systemic flaws,
such as poor bank regulation and supervision, the existence o f an inappropriate bank
resolution framework and antiquated legislation for bankruptcy, payments systems, anti-
money laundering, and combating o f terrorism financing. Low bank capitalization
appearedto be related to a number o f negative external shocks such as Hurricane Mitch,
which had hit the country in 1998, the subsequent decline in coffee prices, and the
increase inoil prices which had doubled between 1999 and 2004.

7.        Against this background, the FS-DPC focused on supporting the Government's
program to strengthen the financial sector through reforms aimed at: a) developing a
strategy for management o f systemic risks; b) strengthening the legal and regulatory
framework; c) introducing legislation to prevent money laundering and terrorism
financing;   d) strengthening supervision and control o f systemic risks; and e)
strengthening the payment systems. The FS-DPC was complemented with the FS-TAC to
support capacity-building at the financial sector regulatory and supervisory entities.

A.      FinancialSector Reformssince Approvalof the FS-DPC

8.        Progress in implementing the reform program supported by the FS-DPC has
been satisfactory.

9.        At the time of approval o f the FS-DPC, Honduras had already implemented a
number o f key actions, including: a) enactment o f a new Financial Sector Law (FSL); b)
the National Bank and Insurance Commission (CNBS) had issued rules on consolidated
supervision o f financial groups, on the corporate governance o f financial institutions, and
on currency and maturity mismatches; c) the Central Bank Law (BCH Law) and the
Deposit Insurance Fund Law had been amended for consistency with the FSL; d) the
know-your-customer policy had been implemented in all institutions subject to CNBS
supervision and an Inter institutional Committee for the Prevention o f Money Laundering
had been established; e) CNBS had approved a program to strengthen its capacity for
intensive supervision o f high risk institutions, had approved programs to reduce related-
party loans in institutions exceeding the legal limit and had completed a data base o f
related parties and established procedures to update it; and f) the B C H Law had been
amended to limit its role as lender o f last resort and widen its regulatory powers on the


                                              2

payments system; and a High-Level Payments-System Committee, representing all
participantsinthe payments system, hadbeen established.

10.       Subsequently, Honduras implemented a number of additional reforms: a)
adoption o f an adequate framework to manage systemic financial crisis; b) adoption of
norms and procedures for the effective implementation of the new bank resolution
framework; c) creation of a bank capitalization fund (BCF) to support bank resolution
processes; d) drafting and presentationto Congress of legislation on corporate bankruptcy
and corporate reorganization, creditor rights,          and corporate governance; e)
criminalization of the financing of terrorism; f ) continuation with the program to
strengthenthe intensive supervision of highrisk institutions; g) ensuringthat the financial
institutions subject to programs to reduce related-party loans remained in compliance
with such programs; h) maintaining operational the database of related parties; and i)
using the newly acquired BCHpowers to regulatethe paymentssystem.

11.       As a result of this progress, on May 16, 2008, the Bank disbursedthe second
andfinal tranche of the FS-DPC.

B.       Impactof the ReformProcess

12.       Among other achievements, the new laws have strengthened considerably the
lender-of-last resort and bank resolution mechanisms.The authorities successfully used
this bank resolution framework to resolve a financial institution in 2006, with
contributions from the deposit insurance agency (FOSEDE).

13.       Moreover, the quality of bank assets improved, with non-performing loans
dropping from 11.3 percent in 2002 to less than 3.9 percent in June 2007, reflecting
private sector efforts to strengthen bank balance sheets, combined with the Government's
program to write-off longstanding impaired agricultural loans, and the dilution effect of
rapid credit growth. Overall, financial soundness indicators showed a general increase in
profitability, efficiency, and solvency levels, with average capital ratios reaching 13.1
percent inJune 2007.

C.       EmergingChallenges

14.       Despite the progress made, the banking system still remains vulnerable to
exogenous shocks. According to the Bank's 2007 Financial Sector Assessment, the
banking system will find it difficult to absorb large shocks to credit portfolios. This is
relevant in this context because of the negative impact of high food prices on the real
income of households, which inturn is bound to negatively affect the performance of the
outstanding portfolio of consumer loans (the type of loans showing the largest growth
over the past 4 years). Indeed, there i s already evidence indicating that the share of non
performing loans, particularly as regards consumption credit, i s on the rise with some
commercial banks reporting a doubling of non performing loans. This situation calls for
additional efforts to sustain effective prudential supervision and ensure that the
institutional framework i s ready to adequately deal with potential threats to the banking
system.


                                              3

15.       Similarly, as discussed above higher food prices are having a negative impact
on macroeconomic stability, a critical element underpinning the FS-DPC. High food
prices are contributing to higher inflation, a deterioration inthe trade and current account
balance, lower international reserves accumulation than envisaged in the government's
macroeconomic program, and the emergence o f fiscal pressures.

16.       The fiscal pressures are particularly relevant given that the government i s
urgently seeking to respond to food crisis with a variety o f programs that aim to support
the income of the neediest and expand domestic food supplies. The external financing
considered in the government's macroeconomic program for 2008 is likely to be below
target by US$50 million, which exacerbates these pressures.

                             111.   THEFOODPRICE CRISIS

17.       Global food prices have dramatically increased inrecent months. The food price
index compiled by the World Bank indicates that global food prices doubled in the 2
years to April 2008. Honduras i s not an exception and domestic food price inflation
increased from 8.1 percent in May 2007 (year-on-year) to 20.1 percent in May 2008. The
price o f some basic staples such as rice has increased over the past year by almost 60
percent. More dramatically, the price o f beans has increased more than 100 percent over
the sameperiod.

18.       Like the majority of countries in the region, Honduras is a net food exporter.
However, differences inthe composition o f food imports and exports, and differences in
the price inflation o f different food items have resulted ina negative terms o f trade shock
for the country. In fact, the prices o f major Honduran food exports, such as coffee,
bananas and shrimp have increased, but at a lower rate than major Honduras imports such
as cereals which represent 30 percent o f Honduras' imports. Estimates for 2008 indicate
that the food balance surplus could decline to 0.2 percent o f GDP this year; this would
compare with a surplus o f 2.7 percent o f GDP in2005.

19.       Food prices are a large part o f the problem behind the recent rise in inflation.
Food accounts for about 1/3 o f the Honduran consumer price index basket. This weight is
similar to that found in other Central American countries. Not surprisingly, headline
inflation has been increasing inparallel to food price inflation: year-on-year inflation rose
from 5.6 percent inJanuary 2007 to 11.2 percent inMay 2008. Staff calculations indicate
that the evolution o f food prices over the past 18 months would account for about 40
percent o f the observed rise ininflation over the same period.

20.       The social problems associated with high food prices affect a large majority of
Hondurans. Bank analysis indicates that about 89 percent o f the country's population are
net food consumers. Inrural areas this is slightly lower but net consumers still represent
86 percent of the rural population. In urban areas the share o f net consumers i s 91
percent.

21.       Giventhat the poor spend a large share o ftheir income infood, food inflation is
particularly affecting the neediest. The Poor Person's Price Index (Le. the effective


                                              4

inflation faced by the poor) for Honduras showed an increase o f 14.1 percent in the
twelve months to May 2008 compared to 11.2 percent in the official price index (end-of
period). This impliesthat the decline inthe purchasingpower o f the poor over the past 12
months i s likely to have contributed to a higherpoverty rate than expected otherwise.

22*       The food price crisis has arrivedat a time characterized by several other adverse
developments such as record high oil prices and the slowdown o f the US economy, both
o f which limit maneuvering space for the government, The U S slowdown i s particularly
important because it not only negatively affects export oriented activities, but also
because o f the negative impact on remittances which in2007 represented 20.9 percent o f
GDP. The situation o f high food prices i s expected to continue over the short to medium
term.

                      IV.    THE GOVERNMENT'SRESPONSE

23.       The Government has adopted a two-pronged strategy that to a large extent is
consistent with the recommendations issued by the Bank for countries facing a food
prices crisis emergency.

24.       The strategy combines actions to support the income o f the poorest segments o f
the population, and actions aimed at expanding the supply o f agricultural products,
particularly staple crops such as beans, corn and rice. Regarding the income of the poor,
the government has recently announced an expansion of the existing conditional cash
transfer program, the Programa de Asignacidn Familiar (Family Allowance Program -
PRAF), both interms o f number o f families beingcovered and interms o f the amount o f
the transfers. PRAF currently covers about 148,000 households, and the Government is
aimingto increase this number to 200,000. These efforts are being supported bythe IDB,
which was already supporting PRAF, through a plannednew US$20 million operation.

25.       On the supply side, the recently passed Ley de Emergenciu pura Prevenir el
Desabastecimientode GranosBdsicos (Emergency Law to prevent the Shortage o f Basic
Grains), has created a framework through which the Government can address some o f the
negative impacts o f the emerging food crisis. The proposed investments under the new
legislationwould amount to Lps. 2.5 billion (US$129.5 million) over two years (of which
about Lps. 600 million to be executed this year) and include support for: (i)productive
infrastructure; (ii)technological inputs to boost historically low productivity in basic
grains; (iii)financial instruments to mitigate both credit and agricultural risk; (iv)
enhanced grain storage facilities; and (v) food safety.

26.       For the small- to medium-scale producers (from 3.5 to 35 ha.) with some market
exposure, some US$60.0 million o f finance is being made available through the National
Bank of Agricultural Development, BANADESA, at favorable terms. In addition,
binding purchase agreements would be accepted towards guaranteeing these loans.
Moreover, a guarantee fund of US$lO.O million i s to be established, and funds o f up to
US$1.25 million would partially cover the cost o f agricultural insurance for these
producers. Subsistence producers (less than 3.5 ha.) would benefit from a technological
package of improved seeds, fertilizers and technical assistance totaling US$l5.0 million

                                              5

under a grant program knownlocally as the Bono Tecnoldgico (BT), which is expectedto
reach some 250,000 farmers in2008. The BT i s targeted toward enhancing yields inkey
staple crops, such as red beans, corn and rice, that are of significant relevance in the
Honduran diet.

27.        At present, only 2.7 percent of cultivable land in Honduras is irrigated, while
the potential i s nearly 18 percent. The Government, through BANADESA, i s aiming at
finance the expansion of small-scale irrigation projects with funds totaling US$20.0
million. Similarly, the Government is planning to increasethe strategic grain reserve and
i s planning to fund the purchase and storage of strategic grains with US$9.5 million.
Increased allocations to the the Servicio Nacional de Sanidad Agropecuaria (National
Service of Agricultural and Animal Health) -SENASA- (US$1.5 million) would also
boost investment infood safety.

28.        The Government's efforts under the Emergency Law are being complemented
with the PASAH or Programa de Apoyo a la Seguridad Alimentaria de Honduras,
(JiIonduran  Food Security Program). This program, which is being supported by the
European Community, also focuses on productive activities. PASAH targets
municipalities where the poverty rates have an important gender component and tries to
reach households headedby women. In2007 PASAH reached43 municipalities, and 20
more will be includedduring 2008.

29.        Even though supply-side interventions can be viewed more as medium to long-
term responses than as emergency responses to the food crisis, there i s also a sense of
urgency (understood as a need for action over the coming weeks) on this front. In fact,
failure to address now the constraints faced by small and medium producers could
negatively affect the outcome of the approaching second planting season in September,
which would further contribute to and extendthe negative effects ofthe food crisis.

A.       The Government's Macroeconomic framework

30.        The Government is fully aware that its response to the food prices crisis needs
to be framed within the context of an adequate macroeconomic framework. The country's
macroeconomic program is currently being supported by an IMF's Stand-by
arrangement, which was approved by the IMF Board on April 7,2008. The IMF program
includesa comprehensive set of fiscal, monetary, and external policy measuresto address
emerging macroeconomic imbalances.

31.        Honduras is seeking to contain second round effects of food prices as the
evolution of core inflation suggests that the prices of non-foodnon-oil products are also
on the rise. The core inflation rate reached 9.3 in May 2008 up from 6.3 percent inMay
2007 and has beenclosely tracking the evolution of headline inflation.

32.        In response to higher inflationary pressures, the Central Bank of Honduras has
raised the policy interest rate eight times (275 basis points) since August 2007, with the
last adjustment taking place on July lS`, The monetary program i s also aiming at
                                           2008.
reversing the declining trend in international reserves observed during the second half of


                                              6

2007. Under the Stand-by arrangement the Government was expected to achieve a net
reserve accumulation of US$253 million during 2008. But with an estimated negative
impact of external price shocks (both food and oil prices) on the external balance of about
US$280 million, the target for international reserves accumulation may be difficult to
achieve. The IMF is now working with the government inorder to adjust the program to
this situation.

33.       On the fiscal front, the Government is committed to maintaining the deficit
under control (an expected 1.5 percent of GDP for the Non-Financial Public Sector in
2008) even though external financing flows are lower than envisaged by the program.
The government is addressing this gap through a combination of measures including: i)
requesting additional support from the international community, including the World
Bank; ii)reprogramming some of the expendituresinorder to find fiscal space to finance
the spending needs associatedto its responseto the food prices emergency crisis; and iii)
increasing the original amount of domestic financing inthe macroeconomic program for
2008.

                              V.      BANK'SSTRATEGY

34.       The Bank is supporting Honduras response to the food crisis through a variety
of instruments. To start with, the Bank is keeping an open dialogue with Honduras
stressing the need to maintain macroeconomic stability and avoid interventions that,
while potentially appealing over the short run, are likely to have unsustainable costs over
the longrun.The proposedsupplementaloperation will contribute to this dialogue.

35.       In addition to the proposed Supplemental, the Bank has also a number of
operations in its existing portfolio that are supportive of the Government's strategy for
expanding the supply of agricultural products inthe short and mediumterm. The recently
approved Rural Competitiveness project will contribute to increase the competitiveness
of the rural sector. The project has been designed to deploy market-oriented, demand-
driven mechanisms to assist rural producers to establish partnerships with commercial
actors. These linkages will also contribute to stimulating rural investment opportunities,
and bringing farmers close to markets as a medium-term measure to increase rural
producer incomes andthereby purchasing powers to ensure sufficient access to food.

36.       The Rural Competitiveness project will also assist rural producer organizations
to devise the right mix of technical inputs that can boost historically low productivity and
generate the gains neededto offset the rising costs of fertilizers and transportation.

37.       The Bank is also supporting an expansionof agricultural productionthrough the
non-lending technical assistance Price Risk Management of Agricultural Commodities in
Honduras project. This project is co-financed by the IDB and the World Bank, and
executed by the Honduran Banking Association (AHIBA). The project aims at reducing
risks for banks and non-bank financial intermediaries in the agricultural sector. These
efforts on the agricultural front are being complemented with the recently approved
Second Road Rehabilitation and Improvement Project which seeks to rehabilitate and
improve secondary roads inthe same target communities as the other Bank operations.

                                             7

38.        Similarly, the Bank is assisting in improving the design o f one o f the domestic
programs in the Government's strategy, the above mentioned Bono Tecnoldgico. As a
first step, the Bank i s completing a Poverty and Social Impact Analysis (PSIA) o f the
program (expected to be completed in September 2008), the results o f which will be used
to improve the targeting mechanisms. The Bank will work with the authorities to improve
the plan's procurement and financial management practices o fthe Bono

39.        The Bank i s well positionedto attend to requests along several other fronts.

    0   First, the Bank could step up its support to the neediest. Child malnutrition
        concerns could be addressedthrough the ongoing Nutrition and Social Protection
        Project which supports both the expansion o f the child nutrition program (AIN-C)
        to 1,000 new communities targeting 85,000 children under age 5, and provides
        assistance to the Red Solidaria social safety net strategy, which i s targeted to the
         100 poorest municipalities with coordinated investments including the PRAF
        conditional cash transfer program.

        Second, the Bank could also assist the Government by evaluating the possible
        environmental aspects o f its increased investments in and expenditures for
        irrigation infrastructure, expanded private sector production, and distribution o f
        fertilizers to small-scale producers.

    0   Finally, the Bank i s also ready to assist the Government with an impact
        assessment o fthe overall response to the food crisis.



      VI.      RATIONALEFORPROPOSEDSUPPLEMENTAL FINANCING

40.        The proposed SDR 6.2 million (US$lO million equivalent) credit, funded from
IDA 15 replenishment, would support the Government's commitment to maintain
macroeconomic stability and persevere in the FS-DPC's development objectives while
implementingits food crisis responseprogram.

41.       As discussed above, Honduras is committed to a reform program aimed at
strengthening the financial sector so as to ensure that it contributes to long-term growth
and poverty reduction. The authorities have expressed their intention to continue the
implementation of the financial sector reform program and more specifically their
intention to strengthen supervisory activities, keeping updated the database o f related
parties, and further strengthening banking resolution including through fully capitalizing
the recently created bank capitalization fund.

42.       This commitment is particularly important because o f the new challenges that
the food crisis is creating for the financial sector, as higher food prices negatively affect
the portfolio o f consumer loans and the country's macroeconomic stability. Inparticular,
strong supervisory activities and a well capitalized bank capitalization fund are crucial



                                              8

stabilizing factors for the financial system, because they signal to the market that the
authorities would be able to respondto banks indifficulties and avoid a systemic crisis.

43.       Maintaining an appropriate macroeconomic framework i s an integral part of the
Government's strategy to keep a strong financial sector. The country's macroeconomic
program is being supported by a Stand-by arrangement with the IMF. Unfortunately, the
government is facing unanticipated fiscal pressures arising from additional spending
needs resulting from the food crisis and lower than anticipated external financing. The
proposed SupplementalFinancing would help relieve partof the fiscal pressure.

44.       The proposed Supplemental Financing meets Bank requirements for
supplementalfinancing under OP 8.60 as follows:

      (i)The program is being implemented in compliance with provisions of
            Financing Agreement. The FS-DPC was approved in February2005. The first
            tranche of SDR 8.1 million was disbursedon March 2,2006. The second and
            final tranche of SDR 8.1 million was disbursed on May 16, 2008, following
            fulfillment of all agreed conditions. The government continues to implement
            the reform program supportedby FS-DPC satisfactorily.

      (ii)reasonable
            The Recipient is unable to obtain suficient funds fFom other lenders on
                        terms or in a coordinated manner. Addressing the multiple needs
            emerging from the food crisis is placing unexpected demands on the
            government's fiscal resources at a time when external financing flows are
            lower than anticipated in the government's program. The Supplemental
            Financing, together with resources from other development partners, such as
            the IDB,will help close the financing needs associatedwith the crisis.

      (iii)Thetimeavailableistooshorttoprocessafurtherfreestanding Bankcredit.
            Although the Bank is preparing a Development Policy Credit focusing on the
            quality of public services, some of the anticipated prior actions have not yet
            been taken. Hence, waiting for this DPC would delay the urgently needed
            financial support. Preparing an investment loan would also be ineffective in
            timely resource delivery. Incontrast, use of a SupplementalFinancing option
            can enable the Bankto deliver program support in a timely manner to help the
            government continue implementing both its reform program in the financial
            sector and its strategy to address the food crisis.

      (iv) The Recipient is committed to the program and the implementing agencies
            have demonstrated competence in carrying it out. The government has shown
            its commitment to the program as demonstrated by the fulfillment of all the
            conditions for disbursement of the second tranche on May 16, 2008, and its
            continued satisfactory implementation of the program.




                                               9

                  VII.    IMPLEMENTATIONARRANGEMENTS

A.     Terms of the SupplementalFinancing

45.      Besides the usual legal opinion required under the General Conditions for IDA
Credits, there are no other requirements to this proposed Supplemental Financing.
However, there will be an overall requirement that: (i)the Government continues to
maintain a satisfactory macroeconomic framework consistent with the objectives o f the
Program, as was required under the original operation; (ii) action i s taken or policy
                                                               no
adopted to reverse any action or policy under the Program in a manner that would
adversely affect the objectives o f the Program; and (iii)  no action i s taken or policy i s
adopted to reverse any o f the actions taken under the original credit.

46.      The closing date for the Supplemental Financing is May 30,2009.

B.     FiduciaryAspects

47.      The CFAA (2003) and CPAR (2004) identified a number o f strengths and
weaknesses    o f   Honduras'     financial  management      and procurement       systems.
Subsequently, a Public Financial Management Performance Report, completed in 2006,
highlighted the progress made in implementing public financial management (PFM)
reforms since 2004. These reforms provide adequate comfort to proceed with this
operation.

48.      Important advances to date include (i)  the passage of a comprehensive Financial
Management Law and its regulations, (ii)      improved budget classification and formats,
(iii)technical upgrades to the government's integrated financial management system,
SIAFI, that increased its programmatic functionality and expanded the system's coverage
across the central government, (iv) improved and functioning treasury operations, (v) the
production o f the first government financial report preparedby the Tribunal Superior de
Cuentus (TSC) together with the promulgation o f new regulations for external audits by
the TSC, (vi) new internal audit standards and regulations and (vii) the presentation of a
multi-annual budgetto Congress with overall fiscal and povertyreducing targets.

49.      In spite o f the notable achievements mentioned above, challenges still remain.
The modernization o f the Finance Ministry, SEFIN, i s progressing well and it will be
importantfor the government to identify a small cadre o fhighly qualified personnel, who
can assume the responsibility to operate, sustain and maintain the central public financial
management systems of the government.         It will also be important to consolidate the
advances made in PFM, especially those in budget execution and treasury management,
eliminating exceptions to the single treasury account system, assuring consistency inthe
use of SIAFI and consolidating the consistency o f rule o f law regarding Public resources
regulatory framework.

50.      Going forward, there are some additional key areas o f focus which would
require technical assistance, as the Government continues to build a modern, reliable and
transparent public financial management system. Improvements inthese areas are aimed
at strengthening governance and anti-corruption, and improvingthe public perception o f

                                             10

the control o f corruption. They include: support to the Implementation o f the
Transparency Law; support to Professionalization o f Civil Service; and strengthening o f
country P F M systems: SIAFI, Honducompras-SEPA,             and consolidation of the
Government use o f Results-based Management system.

C.      Disbursementand Auditing

51.      The IMF Safeguard Assessment Report conducted in 2004, found that the
Central Bank o f Honduras i s strengthening its safeguard framework and addressing its
weaknesses in financial reporting and independent oversight. In its review o f the IMF
report and other available information including the review o f external audit reports of
the Central Bank, nothing came to the attention o f the Bank that would indicate that the
control environment into which the loan proceeds will flow i s other than adequate, and
there would not be a requirement for additional fiduciary measures (i.e. dedicated account
and audit).

52.      The Bank would make the single tranche loan disbursement to an account
designated by the Government that forms part o f the country's official foreign exchange
reserves at the Central Bank o f Honduras. After the deposit o f the Supplemental FS-DPC
proceeds, the Central Bank o f Honduras would immediately credit the disbursed amount
to the Ministry o f Finance Treasury Single Account, thus becoming available to finance
budgeted expenditures. Within a week o f this operation, the Ministry will accordingly
provide the Bank with a written confirmation that funds have been received, and the
Bank'ssupervisionfor this operation will review such transaction.

D.      Poverty and SocialImpactAnalysis

53.      The policies and measures supported by this operation are expected to have
positive poverty and social consequences. By providing fiscal space, the Supplemental
Financing operation will allow the Government to continue responding to the food price
crisis.

E.      EnvironmentalIssues

54.      Policies supported by this Supplemental Financing are not expected to have any
significant effect on the environment.

                             VIII. BENEFITSAND RISKS

A.      Benefits

55.      The supplemental financing will be an important source of budget financing for
the Government, providing fiscal space to continue responding to the food price crisis,
while helpingto maintain the macroeconomic stability that ledthe IMFBoardto approve
a Stand-by arrangement on April 7, 2008. Timely program support will also assist
Government efforts to strengthen the financial sector in a period characterized by
exogenous shocks that could potentially weaken some banks.


                                           11

B.      Risks

56.      Institutional risks to program implementation are posed by weaknesses in
government financial management and weak audit functions. These risks are mitigated by
efforts in the areas of public financial management and auditing that the Bank i s
supporting through the Development Policy Credit under preparation.




                                         12



