Document of
FILE COPY                         The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-1836-HC
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS
FOR AN
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
May 6, 1976
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
US$ 1.00           2 Lempiras
L 2,00    =      US$1.00
Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT TO
THE REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS
FOR AN AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
1..       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Republic of Honduras for the equivalent of
US$14.0 million on standard IDA terms to help finance an agricultural credit
project. The proceeds of the credit would be relent to the Central Bank of
Honduras for 18 years, including 10 years of grace with interest at two
percent per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report entitled "The Economic Position and Prospects of Honduras"
(Report No. 339a-HO) was distributed in May of 1974. An economic mission
visited Honduras in October 1975, and a report on the current situation and
prospects is in preparation. The preliminary findings of the October mission
are summarized below, and a country data sheet is attached as Annex I.
Development Prospects
3.        The long-run growth rate of the Honduran economy has been modest:
real GDP per capita grew at less than 1 percent per year between 1950 and
1974. With a per capita GNP of US$300 in 1972 (World Bank Atlas), Honduras
is the poorest country in Central America and the majority of the population
lives on a subsistence income. A major reason for the poor growth performance
is the continued dependence of the economy on the production and export of
a few agricultural commodities, especially bananas, and thus on fluctuating
world market and weather conditions. This was illustrated dramatically when
substantial hurricane damage to the banana plantations in September 1974
reduced banana export volumes in 1975 to about half the level of previous
years. At the same time the recessicn in the developed world affected beef
and lumber exports, and rising oil prices led to a severe deterioration in
Honduras' terms of trade. In early 1975, an emergency basic grains program
designed to offset the consequences of the hurricane destruction failed, largely
because of a drought. The result has been two years of recession, with real GDP
stagnant in 1974 and down 0.5 percent in 1975.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only il the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be djsclosed without World Bank authorization.



- 2 -
4.        There are many reasons for the continued dominance of bananas in
the Honduran economy. The resource base is small. Known mineral deposits
are not extensive. Land suitable for agriculture does exist in limited
amounts and the country has sizeable forest resources, ht because of a
serious lack of basic infrastructure, and of deficient development policies
in the past, these resources have remained underutilized. Some progress
has been made during the last two decades, especially in the area of trans-
port development, but the mountainous topography of the country has made
the expansion of the road network slow and costly. This limits the size
of the domestic market and hampers industrial development. Honduras'
participation in the Central American Common Market (CACM) in the early
1960's was an attempt to gain access to a larger market for its industry,
but the process was halted by the conflict with El Salvador in 1969. How-
ever, even while the expanded protected market of the CACM lasted, Honduras
did not receive the expected benefits, as it was unable to compete with
its neighbors in attracting new investments or developing new industries.
A further obstacle to economic development in Honduras is the severe scarcity
of entrepreneurial talent and the low productivity of the labor force. Over
50 percent of the adult population is illiterate and nutrition and health
standards are very deficient.
5.        The agricultural sector has accounted for about one-third of GDP in
the 1970's and, as discussed further in Part III below, there is considerable
potential for improving utilization of resources and the productivity of the
agricultural sector, but uneven land distribution and frequent underutilization
of the larger holdings have retarded increases in productivity and resulted
in considerable peasant unrest. The Government recognizes that a correction of
this situation is vital for the future stable development of the country and,
although hampered by a shortage of competent personnel, it is making serious
efforts to address the problem. It began substantial land redistribution in
1973 under Decree Law 8. This was followed by Decree Law 170 in-1975, which
established the operating regulations for the comprehensive agrarian reform
program necessary for long-run improvements in agricultural productivity.Peasant
organizations, however, are demanding a quick as well as effective agrarian
reform process: failu-e to accommodate their needs on the part of the Government
could cause renewed rural unrest and seriously undermine private sector corfidenc
Thus far, however, this has not happened and the private sector is financing a
major expansion of sugar production. Four new sugar mills are scheduled to come
on stream in 1977 and 1978.
6.        The state forest corporation (COHDEFOR) has made some progress towards
the further development of the country's substantial forest resources. COHDEFOR
is now preparing a project in the Olancho, the area with the country's largest
forest reserve, for timber milling and industrialization and for a pulp
and paper plant. Decisions are scheduled for mid-1976 regarding the imple-



-3-
mentation schedule, the selection of a foreign partner and the financ'ing
package. In addition, several projects are being prepared for processing
installations for rough-sawn lumber; it is expected that these will stimulate
the development of intermediate and end-product industries such as furniture
and molding. Forest management work is being unde'rtaken through eight
district offices and negotiations are underway with Canada for assistance with
this and other forestry activities.
Balance of Payments
7.        The balance of payments situation deteriorated sharply during 1974
and 1975, mainly as a result of the combined effects of weakening terms of
trade, the world recession, the September 1974 hurricane, and the drought in
1975. Inflows frcm foreign grants, the IMF Oil Facility, the Venezuelan
Investment Fund, along with borrowings from bilateral and international lending
agencies financed the bulk of the deficit during these years. There were
also sizeable increases in private capital inflows, especially short-term
capital, but these were largely offset by factor payments abroad. Balance
of payments management is expected to continue to be difficult during the
next several years. Net international reserves were equivalent to about
six weeks' imports in December 1975. Given present expectations, sizable
resource gaps in the balance of payments are projected for the period 1976-81
owing to large import requirements and only moderate export growth. During
1976-81, the growth of banana exports will largely reflect recovery from the
1974 hurricane, and increases in the volume of the other major exports, coffee,
beef, and wood, are expected to be modest. However, anticipated increases
in the prices of wood, beef, and coffee would lead to a moderate improvement
in Honduras' terms of trade after 1975. Other exports are also expected to
grow, and sugar may become a significant export item by 1980 if the planned
production increases are realized on schedule. The projected recovery of
banana exports and the anticipated increase in sugar, beef, and wood exports
will depend, however, on improvements in managerial capacities and efficiency
as well as on orderly progress in the agrarian reform program.
Public Investment and External Debt
8.        The Government plans to improve the economic growth outlook over the
medium term through an ambitious public investment program, which would at the
same time alleviate major bottlenecks to long-term development. Large invest-
ments are planned in communications, roads and power, and in the area of
export production: lumber mills, a pulp and paper plant, a tourism project,
and agricultural projects and a sugar mill. Because consumer goods already
account for-only a small share of imports and cannot be reduced without hard-
ship, 'i'mports will be growing fairly rapidly as the public investin;ent program
is realized. The financing of the projected resource gaps will require substan-
tial capital inflows and the bulk of the foreign capital requirements will
have to be met through public borrowing. In the past, Honduras has managed
to keep its external debt service ratio fairly low, because foreign loans were



almost all on concessional terms. It is important that the country continue
to borrow on reasonably soft terms lest the planned public investment program
result in an excessive debt service burden in the future. Even if Honduras is
successful in obtaining most of the financing it needs for its investment
program on terms similar to those offered by the international lending agencies,
the debt service ratio is still likely to rise from about 5 percent in 1?75 to
at least 15 percent by the early 1980ts. Because Honduras will continue to
dep7end on exports of a few commodities with volatile price prospects, and because,
historically, natural disasters have sharply reduced the volume of exports every
few years, prudent debt management will require maintenance of rather lower
debt service ratios than might be considered sAfe for more diversified economies.
Public Finance
9.        During the last three years the public finance situation has remained
sound because of improvements in tax collection, and because the growth of
capital and current expenditures has been limited. Nonetheless, greater demands
on the public sector for reconstruction (after the 1974 hurricane) and develop-
ment expenditures have resulted in an increase of the overall public deficit
from 1.5 percent of GDP in 1973 to nearly 5 percent in 1975. The Government
has taken steps to improve the fiscal outlook and adopted new tax measures
in December 1975 expected to raise the tax ratio from 12 percent of GDP in 1975
to about 13.5 percent by 1976. Despite the greater tax effort, however, public
savings cannot be expected to finance all of the local costs of the public
investment program without unduly restricting current expenditures, nor can the
shortfall be financed out of domestic borrowing without generating unacceptable
levels of inflation. Therefore, some local cost financing on the part of
official lending institutions will be required to implement the stepped-up
public investment program.
External Assistance
10.       The Bank is Honduras' largest creditor, holding 28 percent of the
US$273.9 million external public debt outstanding -- including undisbursed --
repayable in foreign currency, as of December 31, 1974.   IDA holds an additional
13.1 percent of the total. Although IDB has made loans totalling the equivalent
of US$88.0 million, most of this amount is repayable in local currency, so
that IDB's share of the public debt repayable in foreign currency is only 4.6
percent. CABEI accounts for 23 percent of the total, the U.S. Government for
26 percent, Venezuela 2 percent and privately held debt for 4 percent.
1I.       In terms of the sectoral thrust of the lending by the principal external
agencies, apart from the Bank, AID has concentrated on agriculture, education
and health, the IDB on transport, power, agriculture and industry, and CABEI
on infrastructure and industry. The lending of these agencies from 1950 to the
end of 1975 is summarized as follows:



-5-
IBRD    IDA    AID   IDB    CABEI    Total
Total Gross Lending 1950-1975     130.4   34.2  94.4  124.5    88.3    471.8
Gross Lending 1950-1965           25.9   12.5  26.7   27.2     8.1    100.4
Gross Lending 1966-1975          1-04.23       67.7   97.3    80.2    371.4
Sectoral Lending 1966-1975
Transport                        41.2    --    --    32.1    51.9    125.2
Power                            60.3    9.5   --      --     9.0     78.8
Telecommunications                --     --    --      --     5.6      5.6
Education                         3.0    3.0  10.5   14.4     --     30.9
Health                            --     --    2.6    5.2     8.8     16.6
Housing                           --     --    5.0   12.5      --     17.5
Agriculture                       --     9.2  37.5   30.9     1.2     78.8
Industry                          --     --    1.5    2.2     1.3     5.0
Other                             --     --   10.6    --      2.4     13.0
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN HONDURAS
12.       Beginning with a loan of US$4.2 million for roads in 1955, Honduras
has to date received fifteen Bank loans totalling US$130.2 million and seven
IDA credits totalling US$33.6 million, both net of cancellations.  The proposed
credit would raise the total of Bank Group assistance from US$163.8 million
to US$177.8 million.
13.       Execution of projects financed by the Bank Group has, on the whole,
been satisfactory. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans, IDA
credits and IFC investments, and notes on the execution of on-going projects.
14.       In the past, Bank Grouap lending was heavily concentrated on trans-
port and power, where inadequate facilities hampered the developmeut of the
country. The First Livestock Development Credit approved in 1970, however,
marked a first step towards the diversification of our lending. Since then,
there have been operations for a Second Livestock project and for a First
Education Project, with the latter including as major components, primary
teacher training schools, support for the national agricultural secondary
school and vocational training centers.



- 6 -
15.       In future lending to Honduras, we plan to support the priorities
of the Government's investment program by giving increased emphasis to
investment in the productive sectors and in education, while continuing to
lend for physical infrastructure, where there are still substantial deficiencies
to be overcome. In addition to the pr6iect now under consideration, the Bank
Group contemplates undertaking other rural _evelopment projects to help support
agrarian reform and productivity objectives. Bank Group support is also being
considered for COHDEFOR's pulp and paper project. Honduras also has potentially
excellent tourism sites which are now being studied to determine whether a
project is feasible. As part of its agrarian reform program, the Government
has proposed the creation of rural development centers which would provide
comprehensive educational services to rural communities. Bank assistance in
this effort will be considered as a possible major component of a second
education loan.
16.       In transport, we hope to continue to assist the Government in complet-*
ing the high-41; 1inks between the main regions of the country, and a project has
been appraised for the Talanga-Juticalpa highway, which would extend eastward
to the Olancho Department the Tegucigalpa-Talanga highway financed under the
most recent highway loan (Loan No. 896-HO of May 30, 1973). After this project.
we would place emphasis on assistance in the construction of a network of feedei
and access roads to support the Govermnent's agricultural programs. In addition
we hope to continue our support for port expansion programs which will facilitat
the growth of Honduran exports. J2he Bank made a US$35.0 million loan for a
Sixth Power Project in 1975 and contemplates continuing its assistance to the
power sector in the future.
17.       IIC's activities in Honduras have so far included a 1964 loan and a
share subscription, of US$295,000 and US$66,750 respectively, in a tannery,
Empresa de Curtidos Centroamericana, S.A. (ECCASA); and a US$75,000 share
subscription in a pilot promotional company, Compania Pino Celulosa de Central
America (COPINO) in 1969. COPINO was established to develop an industrial
project based on timber from the Olancho Forest Reserve, but a series of
obstacles to project development arose and efforts to go forward with it were
virtually halted in 1971.   The Government's intention regarding a role for
COPINO in the COHDEFOR forest industries project remain to be determined.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURE SECTOR
18.       While agriculture is the most important economic sector in Honduras,
its growth has been slow in recent years. Crop yields in Honduras are generally
low, and efficiency in livestock production and forestry is only now beginning
to improve under the stimulus of externally financed programs. In addition
to the7land tenure problem, crop productivity suffers because improved seeds



- 7 -
are not widely used and fertilizer use and pest and disease control are minimal.
19.       The major exception to this pattern is bananas which are produced
efficiently by the two major foreign fruit companies, Standard Fruit and United
B&ands, in the Aguan and Sula valleys respectively.   Bananas are the country's
major agricultural product, and in the period 1972-74, they provided about
35 percent of total export earnings. However, because of relatively high cost
levels in Honduras and market uncertainty, rehabilitation by United after the
1974 hurricane has been slower than expected, and Standard Fruit has relinquished
its holdings in the Aguan Valley rather than rehabilitate. As a result, pre-
hurricane production levels are not expected to be reached again until 1979/80.
20.       Following bananas, coffee, forestryj and meat production together
contribute about 42 percent to value added in agriculture, and are important
export items representing 16 percent, 14 percent and 7 percent respectively,
of total exports over the 1972-74 period.   Performance is improving somewhat
for these products, but unstable export markets over the past few years have
tended to offset the gains in production efficiency. All other agricultural
production, including sugar, cotton, grains and tobacco together, represent
about 7 percent of exports. The production of corn, the basic crop of small
farmers, has been static, growing only 1 percent in the 1965-72 period, and
the production of beans, the other major food crop and an important source of
protein for the poor, declined in the same period.
The Rural Sector and Agrarian Reform
21.        Little is known about the income and asset profile of the rural
poor.  It is probable that about 60 percent of the rural population have annual
per capita incomes of less than US$100 with about half of this group living
on less than US$60 per year. Census figures for 1965 (now being updated)
indicate that there are about 180,000 farmers occupying about 2.4 million ha.
Land is unevenly distributed, with 68 percent of farms below 7 ha (average
2.5 ha) and occupying only 12 percent of total farm land.    Farms over 350 ha.
number about 7,000 (about 0.4 percent of total farms) and occupy about 28
percent of the farmed land. Many of the small crop farms are on marginal
land or in marginal areas ill served by roads, markets or other facilities.
Conversely, many of the larger farms are dedicated to livestock production,
although they are on land where intensive cropping could be practiced.    Under
the temporary Decree 8 program, which constituted the first serious effort to deal
effectively with this problem, the Government distributed 76,200 ha. to over
23,000 families from the beginning of 1973 to the end of 1974. The compre-
hensive reform program instituted by Decree Law 170 in 1975 proposes the
distribution of over 300,000 ha. to 62,000 families in the 1976-79 period.



22.       Decree Law 170 makes the Agrarian Reform Institute (INA), establish-
ed in 1961, responsible for carrying out the reform. In addition to redistri-
buting land, INA is responsible for the formation and training of peasant groups
who will receive agrarian reform land. The agrarian reform settlements, known
as "Associative Ehterprises', will be operated by groups of peasants on a
cooperative basis.
23.       The law provides an adequate legal basis for making land available
to the rural poor as well as stimulating the development of the on-going conmer-
cial farm sector. Allowable maximum farm sizes range from 100 ha. in irrigation
districts to 2,000 ha in the least developed areas of the country. Areas less
than the indicated maximums are subject to expropriation if (a) within six
months of the date of the Law the land is not operatdd directly by the owner
(b) within three years (January 1978) the farm is not exploited in accordance
with the efficiency standards contained in the law; or (c) the land is in
excessively fragmented units. Lands which are totally unexploited are subject
to immediate expropriation. At the end of three years, owners of partially
or inefficiently exploited lands may retain at least 50 ha, or double the amount
of the efficiently exploited area, whichever is larger up to the maximum imposed
for each region. Land in bananas, sugarcane, African palm, coffee, pineapple,-
citrus and tobacco are not subject to expropriation as long as efficient production
is maintained.
24.       The Agrarian Reform law is intended to promote a change in land tenure
that will result in expanded agricultural production and higher incomes for the
rural poor. Both economically and politically, the Government regards it as
its most important program; however, its implementation will be difficult, and
substantial investment will be needed to ensure its success. Beyond the diffi-
culties that have been encountered as a result of oppostion from large land-
holders, the authorities are only beginning to confront the problem of providing
the variety of farm services required for agricultural development, such as
credit, extension, education and technical assistance in the area of production,
marketing and cooperative management.
Public Sector Institutions
25.       The principal insitutions, in addition to INA, that are responsible
for implementation of the Agrarian Reform and other government agricultural
programs are the National Development Bank (NDB) (discussed in paragraph 28
below), the Ministry of Natural Resources (MNR) and the recently formed
Honduran Banana Corporation (COHBANA). Both the latter two institutions have
serious staffing problems due to the shortage of qualified personnel in
Honduras, and the difficulty of attracting them to public service in view of
low Government salary scales.



- 9 -
26.       The MNR is responsible for providing extension services for the
agrarian reform program. It also has small research and seed development
programs. The MNR has received some external technical and financial assis-
tance to support these programs and to improve its general administration
and planning operations. Further assistance,particularly in the areas of
improved seed development and extension will be necessary if the Ministry
is to be capable of providing adequate service for the agrarian reform
program. INA has, with external technical assistance, greatly improved
its ability to develop and support agrarian reform settlements since 1973,
as demonstrated by the Decree 8 effort. However, its programs to develop
new settlements and to train campesinos in farm management and administration
must be strengthened if it is to carry out an expanded agrarian reform
program.
27.       COHBANA, which is responsible for development and marketing of
banana production, was created in 1975 and is now fully staffed. Although
it plans eventually to;be involved in all aspects of the banana industry,
its major responsibility at present is the redevelopment of the Isleta
banana plantation. Isleta was expropriated by the Government after Standard
Fruit decided not to repair the damage caused by the 1974 hurricane and continue
its operation. An agrarian reform settlement has been created on Isleta and
COHBANA is administering the development of the plantation with financial and
technical assistance provided under the Second Livestock Project (see paragraph
39 below).
Agricultural Credit
28.       Tne NDB is the most important source of agricultural credit in Honduras,
and has primary responsibility for providing credit for agrarian reform settle-
ments and cooperatives since they are not served by the commercial banks. As
of December 31, 1974, NDB loans to agriculture totalled about US$48.0 million,
which represents about 55 percent of all lending to agriculture in Honduras.
Over half of the NDB loans were long-term credit for investment. The NDB is one
of the few sources of such financing, which is in short supply in Honduras.
The NDB has had a slow and cumbersome loan approval process, and a very
poor loan collection record. Substantial technical assistance in recent years
from the IDB and USAID has resulted in some improvement in performance. This
improvement qualified thO NDB for inclusion as a participating bank under the
Second Livestock project, and it has initiated sub-lending operations. Five
technicians were recruited for-farm plan analysis, loan supervision, and debt
recovery for sub-loans under the Second Project, and this seems to be speeding
loan processing. Further improvement should be achieved under the proposed project,
since the technical staff for the project will be expanded to fifteen.  With
continued technical assistance from AID and IDB, the prospects for strengthening
overall NDB performance in the future are good.



- 10 -
29.       Up to the end of 1973, most medium to large commercial farms
outained credits from overseas or from the country's ten private commercial
banks or used their own resources. Smaller farmers were udually clients
of the NDB. The commercial banks are soundly run and several are wholly or
in part owned by overseas interests. Forty to fifty percent of their lending
in recent years has been for agriculture; however, the great majority of
their agricultural loans, except for those which have been made under the First
and Second Livestock projects, are short-term production credits. The banks pay
5 percent to 6 percent interest on time deposits and generally charge 11
percent f-or agricultural, industrial and export loans. Medium and long-term
commercial bank credit will have to increase significantly in the next few
years if the private sector is to achieve the production levels established in
Law 170.
Development fotential in Agriculture
(a) Livestock
30.       The cattle industry in Honduras has been increasingly important
in recent years and the potential for development is great. Official preli-
minary figures from the 1974 Agricultural and Livestock census indicate a
national herd of 1.7 million although the actual figure could be as much as
2 million. The 1965 census lists 58 percent of all cattle on farms of less
than 65 ha., 22 percent on medium size farms (65 to 300 ha.) and 20 percent
on farms over 300 ha.
31.       Beef production has increased steadily,from 19,000 tons in 1965 to
41,000 tons in 1971, and exports during the 1965-74 period increased from
8,000 tons (19565) to a peak of 28,000 tons (carcass weight) in 1973. As a
result o 9 the large growth in the export market for fresh beef, seven modern
export-oriented slaughterhouses have been established. In 1971T and 1975
exports and prices declined significantly, and while gradual recovery is
expected, export volumes are not projected to reach 1973 levels avain until
at least 1979. Over the next few years, beef prices are expected to increase;
however, dual purpose beef/dairy farming is expected to be more profitable
than beef breeding operations alone. Beef and milk production are ordinarily
combined in Honduras since most of the milk produced in the country comes
from predominantly beef-type animals that are milked once a day. Poor
nutrition has limited productivity, but in spite of this; milk production
has risen from 138 million liters in 1965 to 196 million in 1974. This
increase has not been sufficient, however, to keep pace with rising demand,
and imports of milk in dry form increased from 14 to 25 million liters of
fluid milk equivalent in the 1965-74 period. With improvements in pastures
and in dairy farming practices there is a potential for substantial increases
in domestic milk production with corresponding reductions in imports.



(b) Crops
32.       Because of low productivity levels, the possibilities for expansion
of crop production appear substantial even though the natural resource endowment
is not one which is easy to exploit because of mountainous terrain and limited
precipitation in some areas. The structural change that would result from the
implementation of the agrarian reform should improve the prospects for the
development of the agriculture sector, as land which is now used for-extensive
livestock operations would be put to more productive use. Most agrarian reform
settlements as well as private farms are likely to combine cattle with crops
such as rice,bananas, or sugarcane in the Atlantic zone and maize and sorghum
in the Pacific. Such mixed crop/livestock operations are economically attractive,
and common in Honduras as indicated by the fact that one half of all cattle are
raised on relatively small holdings.
33.       A wide variety of crops might be grown (e.g., melons and vegetables
are now being grown in the Pacific under a project which is attempting to
develop commercial crops for export); however, two crops where special efforts
to improve production are necessary are bananas, which will continue to be
Honduras' major export product in the near future, and rice where there are
good prodspects for large scale expansion, both as a basic grain for the domestic
market and for export.
Marketing and Prices
34.       Farm products are marketed largely through private channels, both
for export and domestic consumption. For export products, mainly bananas, beef,
coffee, cotton, there exist well organized and relatively efficient marketing
systems. Bananas are handled by the fruit companies, coffee and cotton by the
producer cooperatives,and beef by the packing plants licensed for export sales.
35.       The export packing houses are the main outlet for beef cattle, since
few live cattle are exported because of Government controls. Animals are bought
by the packers through commission agents and are trucked direct from farm to
packing-house. The packers also tend to dominate the market in feeder cattle.
They purchase stock from farmers in the breeding areas and transport them to
fattening areas for finishing. The market power of the packers (exercised in
part by holding buffer stocks in fattening areas) has enabled them to
keep prices to producers low. Honduras' producers received, as an average
for an 800-pound steer (363 Kg.), US$0.32 per kilogram in 1974 and 1975,
while prices in the rest of Central America ranged upward to a high of
US$0.53 per Kg. in Guatemala.   Since most packing house fattening ranches
exceed the maximum farm size limits of the agrarian reform, they are now likely
to be expropriated, and smaller operations should become increasingly active in



- 12 -
this profitable area. This may tend to reduce packing house control over
prices.
36.       Basic grains and other major food products which move mainly in
the domestic market go through many channels, and a large (but unknown)
number of agents participate in collection and 'wL.olesale distribution. The
grain buying stations of the NDB; which is the public institution responsible
fox marketing farm products, and NDB retail outlets are playing a small but
increasing role in food marketing.   A Basic Grains Commission made up of the
President of the NDB, the Minister of Economy, the Minister of Natural Resources,
and two representatives of the private sector sets the minimum prices to be paid
at the buying stations of the NDB, the maximum selling price of NDB sales to
wholesalers and retailers, and the NDB transportation charges. In addition,
the Directorate of Internal Commerce of the Ministry of Economy has the authority
to control the prices of a few basic commodities,including sugar, basic grains,
milk, eggs, coffee and meat.        For meat , however, price controls have not
been implemented. Since Government authority to control prices and market
products is relatively recent and has been exercised sparingly, there is little
evidence that price controls have yet had much impact. At present, it appears
that the prices of most products are adequate to provide a reasonable return
to producers.
(d) Performance Under Previous Agricultural Projects
First Livestock Development Project (197-HO)
37.       IDA Credit 179-HO for US$2.6 million, which became effective on
October 5, 1970, was fully committed by ppril 1973 and was totally disbursed
in January 1975, almost a year before the closing date of December 31, 1975.
Medium- and long-term loans were made to farmers bo develop beef and dairying,
provide working capital for cattle fattening, and supply technical assistance.
Implementation and execution of the Project were satisfactory and Project ob-
jectives were generally achieved.
Second Livestock Development Proiect (434-Ho)
38.       The Second Livestock Development Project (IDA Credit of US$6.6 million)
continued development of the livestock industry, which commenced under the
First Prolect, and also provided financing for two abattoirs. This Project
became effective in January 1974, but, due principally to the uncertain invest-
ment climate during the period when the agrarian reform progran was being for-
inulated as well as a decline in export demand for beef as a result of world
m.rket conditions, it is now running behind schedule. In addition, the size of
individual sub-loans has been higher than estimated at appraisal due to the
reluctance of commercial banks to lend to smaller ranchers. As of March 31,
1976,_aboutL 61 percent of the credit had been committed.



- 13 -
39.       On March 10, IDA approved the use of US$1.0 million in uncommitted
Second Project funds for the urgent rehabilitation and improvement of the
Isleta agrarian reform settlement which was damaged by Hurricane Fifi.
(President's Memorandum of February 27, 1976). It was agreed that Second
Project funds would be made available since many campesinos were settled
there and it was important that rehabilitation proceed promptly. It is
expected that with this change, together with an improvement in the invest-
ment climate now that Government policy has been defined through passage
of the agrarian reform law and issuance of supporting regulations and
implementation guidelines, Second Project funds should be fully committed
by September 1976. The balance of the financing for Isleta is included in
the proposed Credit.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
40.       A report entitled "Appraisal of an Agricultural Credit Project -
Honduras" (No. 1044a-HO), dated May 6, 1976, is being distributed separately.
The main features of the Credit and project are summarized in Annex III.
The project was prepared by the Central Bank Project Unit (PCU), with the
assistance of staff from the MNR, INA, the NDB and the National Planning
Council (OONSUPLAIN). The project was appraised in October 1975. Negotiations
were held in Washington on April 19-23, 1976. The Republic of Honduras was
represented by a delegation led by Lie. Porfirio Zavala, Minister of Finance.
41.       The project has been designed to take into account the priority
being given to the agrarian reform program, and it will include, therefore,
credit to agrarian reform settlements created under Law 170 and operated by
groups of peasants, as well as to private farmers. Because the agrarian
reform program is relatively recent, it is difficult to predict what per-
centage of the credit under this project might go to agrarian reform settle-
ments. No attempt has been made, therefore, to allocate credit between
private farmers investing to comply with the efficiency requirements of the
agrarian reform law and reform settlements; however loans will be made for
the types of operations .likely to be undertaken by agrarian reform
settlements such as combined livestock and crop, dual purpose beef/dairy
operations. The proposed project also includes a large and important tech-
nical assistanoecomponent (about 30 pernent of total project cost) designed
to strengthen the agrarian reform program and its supporting services.
42.       Project components are as follows:
(1) On-farm investment for:.
a. 215 forty-ha. dual purpose beef/dairy units;
b. 40 fifty-ha. beef fattening units;
c. 20 fifty-ha. irrigated banana units;
d. 20 fifty-ha. irrigated rice units; and
e. combinations of the above and other crops, such as corn,
and beans, based on models to be developed by the Project
Unit.



The number of units for different produdts represents the best
estimate of the likely distribution of credit; however, there will be flexi-
bility t6 finance whatever products sub-borrowers want to produce, provided
the project administration unit determines the feasibility of the farm plan.
The sizes of the units were selected as a convenient basis for preparing farm
models and do not necessarily indicate the actual size of the farms to be
financed, since units (including units of different products) could be combined
in a single farm plan.
(2) The continued rehabilitation and improvement of the Isleta
agrarian reform settlement-
Of the US$2.3 million cost of rehabilitating and providing the neces-
sary technical assistance for the 2,000 ha. now being farmed, US$1.0 million
is being made available from the Second Livestock Credit as approved by the
Executive Directors on March 10, 1976. (R 76-18). The balance of the US$1.3
million would be financed under this Credit. As in the case of the financing
under the Second Credit, because of the limited capital of the beneficiaries,
100 percent of the cost, net of local taxes, of irrigation system rehabilita-
tion and expansion, farm and transport equipment, a packing shed, other equip-
ment and facilities would be covered, as well as the balance of the technical
assistance.
(3) The financing of agro-industry including:
a. Two rice mills; and
b. Four food processing industries (e.g. milk, meat, egg
packing, feed mills).
(4)  Financing of equipment for private contractors  including
two well drilling rigs and four heavy equipment units to
strengthen services available to private farmers for land
clearing and irrigation development.
(5) Provision of the following technical assistance and other
types of institutional support:
a. Ministry of Natural Resources - Fifteen man-years of foreign
specialists (including related expenses for equipment, etc.)
in the field of rice and oil crop research, production
extension techniques and training and crop seed production,
certification and multiplication. In order to attract the
best qualified local personnel, who would be trained by the
foreign specialists, the salaries of counterparts for these
specialists would be increased under the Project by 50 per-
cent (Section 3.05 of the draft Credit Agreement). The
Government has agreed to maintain salaries at the increased
level thereafter. Project preparation studies to be select-
ed by the Government (subject to IDA approval), from a group
of five potential projects which have been identified would
be financed as a basis for future rural development projects.



- 15 -
b. INA - Visual aid equipment, and transport and heavy equip-
ment, central and mobile equipment repair shops for
development of new agrarian reform settlements, and 5
man-years of specialists in training for the organiza-
tion and management of agrarian reform settlements.
c. Pan American Agriculture School of Zamorano - Financing to
increase the teaching staff and purchase equipment in order
to expand its training program for Honduran technicians and
campesinos.
d. Central Bank Project Unit - Financing for equipment for the
Unit's operation.
Project Administration
43.       The Central Bank which has administered the first two livestock
projects in competent fashion would administer this Project. The Project
Commission, which was established by decree to supervise and set policy for
the previous livestock projects, would continue in this role. It will also
serve as a coordinating body, since it includes representatives from the
Government agencies participating in the Project (the Central Bank-- Chairman,
MRN, Ministry of Economic Affairs and Commerce, INA, the Planning Council,
and the NDB), as well as the participating banks and the National Cattleman's
Association. In conjunction with this Project, membership would be revised
to include representatives of COHBANA and the campesino organizations in
Honduras
h4.       As in the previous livestock projects, this project would be managed
and executed by the Project Credit Unit (PCU) of CB, headed by a Project Director
acceptable to IDA, supported by an adequate technical and administrative staff
and logistic facilities. The PCU will be initially enlarged from four to eight
technicians to give better geographical coverage, and to diversify expertise to
include cropping as well as livestock activities.
45.       The PCU would review and approve on technical, financial, and economic
grounds all sub-loan applications for on-farm lending, agro-industries and
financing of heavy machinery prepared by participating banks (PBs). In addition,
it would advise the NDB and other PBs on the appraisal and implementation of
sub-projects. All Honduran banks and financial institutions would be eligible
to participate, subject to approval by CB and the signing of Project Alministra-
tion Agreements which would specify operational, lending, accounting and other
norms and procedures. PBs would be required to employ qualified technicians
for sub-loan analysis and supervision. NDB would employ technicians experienced
in handling loans to small farmers and to cooperatives or other groups formed
under the Agrarian Reform Law. The total of about 15 additional technicians
that would be require would be available locally.



- 16 -
46.       Sub-loans would be presented by PB for rediscount in the Central
Bank. Those of US$100,000 or less would require only the approval of the
Project Director; however, sub-loans for more than that figure and all those
for agro-industries would require approval by IDA. Grants to institutions
for the purchase of equipment, technical services and studies would be-made
pursuant to contracts between CB and the institutions concerned on terms and
conditions acceptable to IDA. The terms of reference, conditions of employ-
ment and contract terms for consultants to be employed under the Project
to assist MRN, Isletas, INA and PAS would be approved by IDA.
Cost Estimates and Financing
47.       The total cost of the project is estimated at US$20.0 million. A
detailed breakdown of costs is given in Annex III. On-farm development, the
largest component of the project, represents 34.5 percent of total project
costs, technical assistance 32.0 percent, agro-industries and heavy equipment
8.0 percent, Isleta rehabilitation and improvement 3.5 percent, and contin-
gencies 22 percent (Physical contingencies are calculated at 5 percent; price
contingencies are based on the following price escalation: 1976 -- 9 percent;
1977-79 -- 8 percent; 1980-85 -- 7 percent.) The proposed Credit of US$14.0
million represents 70 percent of total project costs, and will finance all
foreign exchange expenditures amounting to US$11.7 million plus US$2.3 mil-
lion of the project's US$8.3 million local cost. The balance of financing
for the project would be provided by sub-borrowers (10 percent), PBs (15 per-
cent) and the CB (5 percent).  Local cost financing is justified for the
reasons discussed in paragraph 9 above.
On-Lending Arrangements
48.       The Government will bear the exchange risk and on-lend to the CB
under a Subsidiary Agreement. Under the Firs and Second Projects the CB
received IDA funds at 2 percent for a term of 20 years including 10 years
grace. These terms were necessary to cover the CB's administrative costs
and, allow a sufficient margin to the PBs to cover the cost of technical
assistance. It has been determined that for the proposed project the loan
term to the CB could be reduced to 18 years, which would be sufficient to
cover the 3 year sub-loan commitment period and the repayment period of
all sub-loans.
49.       The PBs would make sub-loans under all sub-lending categories at
an interest rate of 11 percent. They would be able to rediscount with CB
70 percent of certified advances made for approved sub-projects at a redis-
count rate of 6 percent. For sub-loans advances made to Isleta, the NDB
would be permitted to rediscount 100 percent with CB at 6 percent. The
proposed interest rate of 11 percent to all sub-borrowers is in line with
rates now generally being applied within Honduras for similar loans, and
w,xould represent a real interest of 3 percent, assuming a continuation of the
1975 inflatLon rate of 8 percent. The Central Bank will on-lend to the PBs
for 6 to 12 years including 2-5 years grace, which are the same terms at
which th-e PBs will make sub-loans.



- 17 -
50.       The proposed 11 percent interest rate to sub-borrowers and the re-
discount rate of 6 percent with CB would give participating banks a margin
of 5 percent, which is one percent more than they were allowed under the First
and Second Livestock projects.   This proposed increase of one percent would
cover the additional costs PBs would incur for enlarged technical staffs.
The PBs would provide short-term loans and working capital for sub-borrowers
at 11 percent interest from their own resources.   The Project would not
differentiate in lending terms between individual small farms, agrarian
reform settlements, or commercial producers, as all are treated equally under
Agrarian Reform Law 170, nor would it set a maximum aggregate sub-loan size
because of the range of farms sizes likely to be involved.
51.       Since the passage of Law 170, private banks are reluctant to accept
rural land as collateral for long-term loans for farm development and are
demanding other guarantees, such as urban real estate. In the case of default
of an existing client who has offered land as a guarantee, the banks are
concerned that INA would be the only purchaser, and would pay in long-term,
low-interest earning agrarian bonds, which would effectively reduce their
liquidity. In order to provide adequate protection to the PBs so that they
will be prepared to participate in the project, the Government has agreed
to establish, as a condition of effectiveness, a system to maintain the
liquidity of PBs which acquire agrarian reform bonds as a result of the
expropriation of a sub-borrower's land. (Section 3.04 of the draft Credit
Agreement.)
Procurement
52.       Because of the number of individual sub-borrowers likely to be in-
volved and the variety of items to be procured, bulk purchases for farm loans
would not be feasible. Capital items would, therefore, be purchased from
local sources most of whom act as agents of foreign suppliers who are generally
well represented0 Competition is good and spare parts and service facilities
are adequate. The same procedure will apply to the procurement for the agro-
industries component of the Project, since this would also involve purchase
of a variety of items by individual sub-borrowers. Sub-borrowers for heavy
machinery would have their own preferences regarding standardization and
equipment, so that these purchases would again be made through commercial
suppliers.
53.       For the purchase of machinery, equipment and vehicles for Isleta
and under the category of technical services, the CB would issue instructions
to package items for bulk procurement under international competitive bidding
(ICB) according to standard IDA procedures. However, items that cannot be
grodped in packages of at least US$35,000 and would not in the aggregate
exceed the equivalent of US$200,000 would be procured in accordance with the
borrower-'s normal procedures which are acceptable to IDA.



- 18 -
Disbursement
54.       Project funds would be disbursed over a period of five years for
a. 70 percent of amounts disbursed for sub-loans for livestock
and crop farms, agro-industry loans and heavy machinery loans.
*. 100 percent (net of local taxes) of amounts disbursed for
rehabilitation and investment sub-loans for Isleta.
c. 100 percent of the cost of training and technical services;
d. 100 percent of the foreign cost of directly imported equipment
for INA, PCU and MRN, or 85 percent of their local cost
(representing the estimated foreign exchange component); and
e. 95 percent of incremental salaries of MNR counterpart personnel
during the first two years, and 66 and 33 percent respectively
in the third and fourth years of project implementation.
55.       Disbursements against sub-loans other than for Isleta would not be
made until the applicable Project Administration Contract between the CP and
the PB is executed.  ibr the Isleta sub-project, disbursements would not be
made until the overall Isleta development plan is approved by IDA, the Project
Administration contract between the CB, the NDB and COHBANA is executed, and
the conditions for effectiveness of the amendment to the Second Livestock
Project (i.e., the contracting of technical specialists and the conclusion of
a marketing agreement for Isleta bananas) are fulfilled. Disbursements for
the technical assistance programs would not be made until applicable technical
assistance contracts between the CB and the executing agency are signed. (See
Development Credit Agreement, Schedule 1, Section 4.)
Project Benefits
56.       The Project will assist the Government of Honduras in its efforts
to feed a growing population, and to pursue its socio-economic objectives of
land reform and improved income distribution. The Project also focuses on
products which have a direct foreign exchange earning potential, such as
bananas and beef, or which would substitute for imports, such as rice and
milk.
57.       The overall economic rate of return is estimated to be 41 percent.
The economic rates of return for the different components were found to be:
35 percent for dairy/beef operations; 40 percent for beef fattening; 24 per-
cent for bananas; 50 percent for rice; 39 percent for Isleta; and 50 percent
for rice mills. The wage rate for labor has been taken to be equal to the
market wages paid to unskilled workers, since there appears to be a shortage
of labor during harvest months, creating upward wage pressures at the farm
level. Prices used were farmgate prices for rice and milk and average f.o.b.
prices for beef and bananas. The calculations exclude sales taxes and import
duties on imported investment items and sales taxes on locally produced items.



- 19 -
58.       The annual farm value of incremental production of bananas,
rice, beef and milk would be about US$h.5 million per year at full
development (1975 farmgate prices), which would represent annual
foreign exchange earnings or savings of about US$9.6 million
(including value added in processing, transportation etc.).
'59.       The Project would provide additional on-farm  employment for
about 2,900 low income people. Off-farm employment in agro-industries
or supporting services would directly employ an additional 100 persons.
10th their dependents there would thus be some 17,600 labor beneficiaries.
There would be considerable, but unquantifiable benefits in professional
training and institutional strengthenihg through the Project's support
for the Project Credit Unit of the Central Bank, INA, the Ministry of
Natural Resources and the NDB.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
60.       The draft Credit Agreement between the Republic of Honduras and
the Association, the draft Project Agreement between the Central Bank of
Honduras and the Association, the Recommendations of the Committee
provided for in Article V, Section 1 (d) of the Articles of Agreement, and
the text of a draft resolution approving the proposed Credit are being
distributed to the Executive Directors separately. Conditions of
disbursement applicable to specific project components are referred to in
paragraph 55 of this report. A special condition of effectiveness would
be the establishment by the Central Bank of an acceptable system to maintain
the liquidity of PBs which acquire agrariah reform bonds. (See paragraph 51
above.)
61.       I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
62.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
May 6, 1976






ANNX I
Page I of ij pages
TABLE 3*
HONDURAS- SOCIAL INOICATORS DATA SHEET
LAND AREA (THOU NM?).                     ..... ....-...-.       -...............
. . . . . . . . . . . .4.HONDURAS                                          RErERENCE COUNTRIES (19?0)
T3TAL       112.1                                        NOSY RECENT
ARABLE         ..                       198        1970    ESTIMATE           PARAGUAY       DOMINICAN 1FF. COSTA 9ICA"
GNP PER CAPITA CUSA)19.                                27.         32.300                          300         560
-4....       _--
POPULATION-AND0 VITAL STATISTIES
PO'ULATION (HID-TR. MILLION)               1.9         2.5         2.7                 2.2         (.1         1.7
POPULATIOM DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                          17.0       22.0         25.0                 6.0        83.0        34.0
'ER SQUARE Kg. ARABLE LAN                 . f                     .                   .        232.0
VCRUDESAIRTIC RAEPER THOUSAND           A44. 0       49.0        45. 0/a             45.0        40.0        33.0
CRUDE DEATH RATE PER THOUSAND           30.0        17.0        14j.0 T-            11.0         6.0         Y.0
ENrANT NOATALI?V RATE (/THOU)             .            .       118.0                67F.0       50.0 L.     62.0
LIE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (VRS)            .         49.0        52.0                59.0          6. a.o
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE[.                            3.4         3.3                 3 .2        3.5         3.4
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (I)
TOTAL                                    3.0         2.7         2. 7                2.5         2.q         1.3
JRSBAN                                   0.3         7. 9        5.10                3.4         5 .         4 .?
URRAN POPULATION (I Of TOTAL)             23.0        32.0        31.0                36.0        4.0.0       46.0
AGE STRUCTURtE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                          4r.8        46.7        45.7                46.4        47.5        49.0
IS 10 64 YEARS                          49.?        50.9        52.1                50.4        49.4        48.0
65 YEARS AND OVER                        2.1i        2.4         2.2                 3.2         3.1         3.0
AGE DEPENOENET RATIO                       1.0         1.0         0.9                 3.0         1.0         I.1
EC)NOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                  1.6&         . a  1.5 Ai          1.5/b         &a      1.9         1.6 /a
FAMIILY PLANNING-
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE, THOU)              .         17.4        80.1                  .         32.7        30.2
uiSERS (1 Or MARRIlED 1308NE)             .            .
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANO)D            570.0       800.0       860.0               750.0      1200.0       540.0
LA80R FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (1)            67.0        b5.0        66.0                5 3.0       44. 0       43.0
UNEMPLOYCD CZ Or LABOOR VORCEJ             6.0         6. 0         ..                     IeA1.0 lb           3.0 /k
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
I IF PRIVATE INCOME REC-O 8Y-
HIGHEST   Sl OF POPULATION                ..        32.9 lb       .                  0.01kb     26.3 
AIGHEST 201 OF POPULATION                 b. 5.3                  ..62;                           : 
LOET 201 OF POPULATION                ..         1.6 A-,                                      a4'
LOWEST   401 0F POPULATION                .          6.4                                        t2.4. 12.
DISTRIBUTION Of LAND OWNERSHIP
-------q.4........
I OWNED BY TOP 101 OF OWNERS                .         57.-3         ...                           62.7
z OWNED BT SNALLEST 101 OWNVERS             ..         0.           ...                             .8
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
PO'ULAT ION fREM PHYSICIAN                  ..      ITS0.0 /c    3710.0 Li2340.0 /g             2100.0      163 0.
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON           2190.  1        .        2070. o4-          233 0.0 /,  3930.0      169o0.0
POPUJLATIaR PER HOSPITAL BED             390.0O, La  57.0.o      ago.o 4/ 20.0                   350.0       250.0
PER CAPITA SUiPPLY Or -
CALORItES (l Or REQUTREMENTS)           84.0        96.0        94.0               121.0        91.0       110.0
'ROTENW (GRAMS PER OAY)                 51.0        58.0        56.8                74.0        50.0        63.0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE           21.0 /d     25.0           .                41.0        29.0         35.0
DEATHf RAVE A/THOU) AGES 1-4              14.0        1 0. 0       9.0                  6.9        6.0         6.0
EDUCAT ION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
'RIMARY SCHOG..                         61.0        91.0        81.0                93.0 Ld    107.0       112.0
SECONDARY SCHOOL                         6.0        10.0        18.0                17.0        19.0        29.0
TEARS Or SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)                12.0        12.0        12.0                12.0        12.0        11.0
ROCKY tONAL CNROLLHEMT
(I OF,SECONDARY)                        24.0        18.0          ..6.0                          5.0        10.0 1k
AOJLT LITERACY RATE CZl                   47.0o.                  52.0                79.0        51.0        89.0
HOUSING
PE SONS PER ROOM (AVERAGE)                 1.8          .            ..                              .I
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER CZ)                         88.0 /e       .         60.0
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
(1 OF ALL DWELLINGS)                    15.0...
AUq4L OWELLINGS CONNECTED
10 ELECTRICITY (1)                       2.0...
CIANSJHP TION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)            68.0        57.0        56.0                71.0        38.8        71.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)              3.0         5.0         6.b                 7.0        10.0        23.0
ELECTRICITY (flWH/TR PER CAP)             52.0       120.0       145.0                91.0       226.0       591.0
NEWSPRINT (KGIYR PER CAP)                  0.4         1.0         0.7                 1.7         1.0         6.2
SEE NOTES ANA DEFINITIONS ONi NEVERSE



ANNEX 
Page 2 of I pages
Un1e,s otheruiee noted, data for 1960 refer to ay~ year hot.een 1959 ardI 1961, for 1970 bet,aee 1968 and 1970, end for Ihunt Recant Entlooate beL.een
1971 and 1973.
-1Cooto Rico boo been oei-ted a.5       o bjective country for Ilonduroc because both coontrien     r amoall, Open econOnico, dependen. on agricultural
uportoa and both bove special trade relationshipo ith other Ceotral Anerican cowatri.s. Yet, Coota Rica hoo achieved a ouch higher otandard
of liotg and a more even distributton of the benefits of development than IHunduras.
HONDUIRAS           1960     g  Ratio of population onder 15 end 65 and over co total labor force;         /b   1963, including midwi-e    and jsistmtt nurses;
~j1962;    /d  1961-63;         Piped water inside.
Ratio of pepulatiun under 15 and 65 and over to total labor forte;              /b   1967-68, households,    /c   Registered, cot all
practicing in the countcy.
NoSy' RECOIlT ESTIMATE,    /a. IBRD Misoli- estimate;     _/b  FaLim -   iof la-o      ne     5ad6       &dvrt        o1Ib         ..
LI. 197L.                                        puaceudr1an65adoetottlabrac;
PARAGUAY           19L      /a  Ral.i of population under 15 and 65 and over to total loabr force;          b   Houoseholds;   Lc  Coverage of data unknown;
/d  Including primary -uoning schools;        e  Registered only.
DOMIINICAN hEP.     19?0    /a  Recent miosion estimate 1n subetantisIly higher;        Lb  Santa Dlomingo only;    /c  Soots Domningo, orban household3.
COSTA RICA          1970    /a   Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to total labor force;        /b   Opec uuecpioy,set;    /c  Excluding teacher trai,-
ing.
R2, Marib 77, li/i,
DEFINrITONS OF SOCl%t rNDICATORS
teed Ares (thou ho7)                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Population Per noraioapeso  PoPulation divided by snumer of peacti-
Total - Total surface ares cspri.ing land      Lare  aod inland waters.                      eing -lte and female graduate nurses, `treened` or "certified" nor.sa.
Arabie                           I oticstetmt  f lend are  s ed tonporarily or peanasottly   end ...eillarypronlwttaing                r    prin.
for c-ltv-tio-.              marae.  oket sod bitches gardees or to Ie. fallow.         Popustmon, Per hospitsI bed - Popuistion divded by o.sbr of honpite1
beds avaislebl is public and Private geners1 and spacialiced hoapi-
msr  er  apia (S9 I- ONP percaplIteotoa      es t  -aket prio.... ..lo-                  Lal sod reh.bIlitstiin centere; eseludee nursing bones and establish-
lated by san   converoion method as World Rank Atlas (19 72-74 basis).                     merits for custodial and preventive care..
Per aooita ep      af calories ft of requlcrneto)       Compoted fron
_______________t_t________                                                             snePrgy squivelest of set food supplies avaiabl      int country per
KUpola tbonm1-id-yar.- ilitin) - A. of July first: if not available, avrage                  capita per day; aveilebje supplies comprise dosesti. production.
of two red-year estimates.                                                                 inports less exports, and ehoeges io stack; net supplies exclude
snt.ol feed, seeds. qanoctitie used In food prM.e-ing end Ionsas
iopultondnet           p.r asuare !   - Mid-year ppalatimo    par square kilo-               in distribution; requIrmonets were     otimated by PAO based on physi-
me,tar (10.0.becta,re) Of totsl%   C5                                                       Ltgi     at eds fornoenst activity mid heal1th considering environ-
Poplaio    density     e Par ar   -o     rable teed    -Cmputed,ssshv      fosenetaI ceperstrs., bdy weghts                      ag  and sea distributions of
arable lond only.                                                                          population, od allowing 10% for ..aste at household level.
Per capita supply of protein (grams pe      a)- Protein content of per
yita; stocistica                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~capita net supplyo  odprdy  net supply of food is defined a.
r,,ds b1ir`h rte1  prrasd-          csilv      bitsprhoadofi-above; requirements for all countries established by USAD EcOoneic
year poplactin;i.usuallytfive-ysac.. rvocges ending in 1960. 1970 sod                    RO..e.rch Seryl.e. provide    far a oliani     all1-ane of hi gran   of
1975 for developigcoustrie.                                                               total pruteio per day. and 20 gram of animal end pulse protein, of
Cr-de death rote Per thous-and - Aen...l deaths per thoosand of mid-yea                      which tO gram     should be animal protein; these standards are love
papultclno; usu ally five-year a-rages ending is 1960, 1970 aod 1975                      than thoac of 75 grams of total protein and 23 grams of animal pro-
fu  evlpng -oomtrins.                                                               te in as am average for the world. proposed by FAO in the Third World
lc[ vte7tllt  rae    /thou) - Acoca l deaths of icfant. .nder on     yea                  od   ovy
of age yer thacaund live bIrths.                                                       Per capita Protein   upply frm animal and pulse - Protein supply of food
tile  -pe-t-ny at birth (yrs) - Iverege number of years of life remin-                       derived iron eniml     and pulses in grams per day.
ing at birth, usually five- yesr averages ending in 1960, 1970 and                    Death rate (/thou) ages 1-4 - Ansoa     doaths per thmseand in age group 1-i
1975 fa_ d   elpic    aate.                                                              years   to childree in this aga group; soggested as an indicator of
Crc,. rep..d..tbo    rar    Avereg    ukrof live daughters a wans        wilt                 naotritio.n
bear in her norno reproductIve period If she experiences prenoot age-
upe-lfic fertilityraes; ....sIly five-year everages ending In 1960.                    Edac..tian
1970 end 1975 for developing conres                                                    Adjusted ereilmant ratio - primary school - Enroi11anL of all age. so
lonuIal-co  irouth rare (. - total      Compound annual growth rats. of nid-                 percentage of primalry school-age populationI; inrl,,dcu ehilqren aged;
y-ar popolation fur 1950-A0, 1960-7i, end 1960 to meat recent year.                       6-11 years but adjusted for different lengths of primary edanetion
Popuotu     gothrte il       - -rb-, - C-sputed like growth rate ef totl1                    for counstries with universal education, enrollmnut nay e-ceed lOOt
population   different dafluititne   of urban areas may affect cmpers-                    since some pupiis are below or shave the officil school age.
bIlt    ofdta amog couutrieo                                                           Adjusted enrollment ratio - secondary school - Copat ed a. shove; second-
trhon pop.1.tbon (. of total1) -     tia of urban tu total population;                       ary edoncian requires at least Four years of approved primary Icatru--
different. definiti~nc  of urban aresa say affect comparability of dats                   tion; providea general, vocationu.l or teacher training instructios foe
cog co,rie                                                                              pupila of 12 to 17 years of age, correspondenc.e courees are generally
Ace, -tr- n-   (percent) -Children (i-li Years), workiog-ose (15-A4 years),                  secluded.
arid retired (A5 years ucd o-e) as perc-ontgee of aid-year population.                 Years of a hoolina provided (first and second levels      - Total years of
Ace  epenencyrati  - ttie of population under 15 and 65 and over to                    sodig       atecondary levs1, vonatione1 intuton may he partially
ths  fae  5 through 6A.                                                           or completely exeludad.
'hnoi   dvof degncy ratio    E ai   fpopulation under 15 sud 65 and over                Veatimanl -enrotlmet ft of eecodary        - Vanational inatitutiona include
vtelbor force in agegroup of 11-64 years.                                             tecboicel, Indus trial or ote     rgrams shich operate Independently
family planniug -acptors ic-nultiv., thou)           Coutaltive somber of                    or os dopartnents of secondary institutions.
-,eeptota of birth--ctroI devices uod.r anepices of Isatio..al family                  Adult literacy rar.t.       Literate adults (abla to read and write) as
PI.arnig program since inception.                                                         percentage of total adult population aged 15 years and Iovr.
Fa-ily"P plaui     - curo (    . o  mrried women) - Percentage  of married
wome   ofchild-bhears      age (11-44 years) who use bi rth -control devices           RousIng
en all mrrcnod  -one  in  -ma, age group.                                              Parson  per roo    faver.ge) - Average nasker of persons per room in occupied
conventional dwellings in urban areas; dwIltisgs exclde non-p-rasnt
Eolo_Ynrct                                                                                  otrutures end unanoupied Parts.
Total labvr force (thc-uad) - Economi.ally acti-e persons, including                      Or..anied dwellns without piped wateri)- Occupied conveotiona1 d-ell-
an_ed forcos and    nemployod bu t  -oclding housewives.    tudenta, etc.;                I.gs in urban and rravl areas vitbout inside or outside piped water
d.flnitloos in.s-ariou-  -outrica are not cpotpable.                                      facilities as percentage of all occupied dwellings.
Lohur force   . agric-lture (7.) - igrina1turo1 labor forcc    (in farming.               Acce!s to 1eletricity ft of all dwellinea) - Convenional dwslliini       with
f-rttry, hunting and fishing) as perco..ttg. of total labor fore,                         electr Icity in living quarters sa percent of total dwellings In urban
IUntWc-ed _% of labor fac)- U..plcyod orc usually defined an persona                         and rural area.o
who  re abl.ensd willing to take a Jab. oat of a. Job on a given day,                  Rural d.eltlois connected to electricity it     - Computed as above for
r,,eicored out of a Jab, and ...eking work for a specIfied    inioom                      rural dwellings onY.
ycr,od nor Innti        n, weeb.may. not he coparable bnt-eeo coutriea
due to "dIffer  t def Int'ivn   of uvpIoyd and sourc       of data. e.g.,              Conuoptiun
emplov_ct afftcv     lal         ..., oPI.lesrey,Icompuloory uncoploymont              Radio receiver   (per thou pap) - All types of receivrer far radio broad-
inu,,roccr                                                        cas~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ts to general public per thousoed of population; seclu.des on-
liceseed receivers in countriesaund In years when registration of
It_Loro dlruiritniln -Percentage If private incomn (both in cash sod                         radio sets wa   in effect; date for recen.t years my not be comparable
k'r ) z-icved byrIchest St. richeut 20%. Poorest 701, and poor.est                       since uost coustrieu abe1ished lIcenio.g.
4C, of PopulaIo.t                                                                      Passenge  er         thou pop) -   'ssenger Loars comprise motor cars aesting
los  thou eight persons; exldes ambuis...... haarses and military
u  i" o  oflandgawnereIp - Percuntoges of land m-nd by oealthiest                      vehinle..
'.adpors      lI. If landonnu                                                      Elentri.ity (kwh/yr per cap) -     nnual conoption of industrial, con-
narc ie1, public and private electricity is kilowatt hour per capita;
ovi ;urt                                                                             generally hosed un production data, without allowance fur lo..e. in
,i.    per phyali-on - Pepul.tinc d-vided by Iun., Cf pratli-ing                     gr ids but a  -inwig for Imports and exports of electricity.
:~oqnals Plod fro  a meadical ouhoo  atniuly-                                N-osprint (hi/yr per cap) -Prcpt           nulcnuptni              iorm
estimated from domestic production plus met imports of newaprini.



AN!IF: 1
Page 3 of 4 pages
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1974                                     ANNUAL RATE OF GROWPH (%, constant pric(s)
US$ Mln.      ,8                      1963 -68          1968 -7h          1974
GNP at Market Prices        S95h.9        100.0                       5.8              3.3              2.14
Oross Domestic Inveatment    251.1         26.3                      9*9               6.5             31.3
Gross National Saving        109.7         11.0                     10.d               5.0             1(.3
Current Account BalancelJ    108.9         11.4
Exports of Goods, NFS        327.5         34.3                     13.4               3.4            17:2
Imports of Goods, NFS        455-5        47.7                      16.0               0.7            - 3.3
OUTPUT, LABDR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 197h
Value Added                  Labor Force 2/               V. A. Per Worker
US$ Mln.      %Mln.                       %                    S 
Agriculture                 282.0        32.3              0.5660     6h.3                 h98.0       50.1
Industry                    221.0        25.2              0.10143    11.9                2166 o     212.9
Services                    371.0        42.5              0.2095     23.8                1773.0     178.4
Unallocated                    .           .                ..
Total/Average        874.0       100.0              0.880     100.0                    O      100.0
OOVERNMENT FINANCE
GenerIl Government                           Central Government
(1    Mln.         %          of GDP         (US, Mln.)         % of GDP
I~7W         1974       !;2-72                1970       194         _9_- 74LI
Current Receipts                 '155.5         16.1       15.3                 126.1       13.0         12.6
Current Expenditure               132.4         13.7       13.6                 107.2       11.1        ;1.1
Current Surplus                    23.1          2.         1.13                 1.9         1.9
Capital Expenditures               b49.l        5.1        3.9                  46.8        1,.8        3.c
External Assistance (net)          11.4          1.2         1.2                  9.3        1.0          1.1
IDNFYN CREDIT and PRICES                             19          1971        1S72        197;       l7i,
(Million UST outstanding end periodT          -
Money and Quasi Money                   147.0        167.4       106.7       224.7      261.4       270.7
Bank credit to Public Sector             11.5         26.9       35.1         ho.x        3.        b41.7
Bank Credit to Private Sector           1h9.4        173.7      184.6        206.8      253.b       291.1
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GD         22.6         24.2       25.4         27.3       3D.2        2B.9
Oeneral Price Index (1966 -loo)J        110.6        114.5       117.4       122.0      127.7       134.2
Annual percentage changes ins
General Price Index                       5.2          3.5        2.5          3.9        0.7         5.1
Bank credit to Public Sector            172.6        130.9       30.5         11.1        9.2        -0.8
Bank credit to Private Sector            23.1         16.3        6.3         12.1       22.7       10.7
NOTE:  All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period
covered.
/ Includes transfers.                                         .. not available
not applicable
?/ Tbtal labor force; unemployed are allocated to sector of their normal occupation. "Unallocatod" consists
mainily of unemployed workers seoking their first Job.
/ GDP deflnter.



AN1liE 1.
aibe of is pages
TRADB PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FIDW4
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                   MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1972-74)
1972     1973      1974                                                US $ Mln    2
(Millions US $)
Bananas                            87.1     33.5
Exports of Goods, NFS         236.4    294.5     327.5               Coffee                             39.9     15.4
Imports of Goods, NFS         228.0    303.7     h5                 Wood                                35.6    13.7
Resource Gap (deficit    -)     8.4     -9.2    -12 l                Beef                               18.2      7.0
Interest Payments (net)        -5.6     -8.1     -14.0
Workers' Remittances            --        _-       _
Other Factor Payments (net)   -21.9    -25.1       0.6
Net Transfers                   6.6       7.0     32.5               All other commodities              78.9     30.0
Balance on Current Account    -12.5    -35.4    -10K                       Total                       259.7    100,0
Direct Foreign Investment       3.1      6.5      -1.2             EXTERNAL DEBT; DECEMBER 31, 191
Net MLT Borrowing 1/           16.3     11.3      22.0
Disbursements              (20.2)    (16.9)   (28.0)                                                       US $ Mn
Amortization                (.L2)     (5.6)    (6.OY
Subtotal                    19.4     17.8      20.8               Public Debt, incl. guarsnteedl,/          154.4
Capital Grants                  ..       ..        ..                Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Other Capital (net)             1.9     12.6      91.3               Total outstanding & Disbursed
Other items n.e.i               3.2      1..6      -J..L                                       2/
Increase in Reserves (+)       12.0     -L4.1      9.5             DEBT SERVICE RATIO for 1974d
Gross Reserves (end year)      35.2     41.8      44.4
Net Reserves    (end year)     26.6      22.5     32.0                Public Debt. incl. guaranteed             3.7
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Fuel and Related Materials                                            Total outstanding & Disbursed
Imports                      19.2     26.0      63.7
of which:  Petroleum
Exports                       3.4       4.1     14.5
of which:  Petroleum        --        --       --        IBRD/IDA LENDING, (January 31, 1976) (Million US $)s
IBRD         IDA
RATE OF EXCHANGE
Outstanding & Disbursed               57.1        28.7
houqh 1      1.71               Since  -       219 .0           Undisbursed                           55.4         6.9
US I 1. C    L 2.00             US $ 1.00 = L 2.00              Outstanding incl. Undi^burscd        112.5       35.6
L  1.00 aUS $0.50             L    1.oo - US $.5
1/ Repayable in foreign currency.
2/ Ratio of Debt Service to Exports of Goods and lon-Factor Services.
not available
not applicable
March 31, 1976



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 3
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN HONDURAS
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of March 31, 1976)
Loan or                                                          US$ million amount
Credit      Year           Borrower              Purpose        Bank     IDA   Undisbursed
No.'       _                                                   _        _
Fourteen loans and credits fully disbursed          52.1      26.5
767       1971     Emp. Nacional Portuaria     Ports
841       1972     Emp. Nacional de Energia    Generation &     9.0       -        4.5
El6ctrica                   Transmission 12.3        -        1.6
896        1973    Honduras                    Roads           18.8       -       11.6
434        1973    Honduras                    Second Livestock
Development      -       6.6       4.5
452        1974    Honduras                    Education         -       3.0       2.1
954        1974    Honduras                    Education        3.0       -        3.0
1081        1975    Emp. Nactl de Energia       Generation &
El6ctrica                  Transmission   35.0       -       31.5
Total                                              130.2      36.1    T7
of which has been repaid                          18.3       0.4
Total now outstanding                              111.9      35.7
Amount sold                              2.6
of which has been repaid               2.5         0.1       -
Total now held by Bank and IDA                     111.8      35.7    _
Total undisbursed                                   52.2       6.6     58.8
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of March 31, 1976)
Amount in US$ million
Year             Obligor             Type of Business           Loan    Equity     Total
1964/66  Emp. de Curtidos Centro-
americana S.A.(ECCASA)       Tannery                 0.30      0.08      0.38
1969/70   Cia. Pino Celulosa de Cen-
,tro Am6rica (COPINO)         Pulp and paper           -       o.o8       0.08
Total gross commitments                               0.30      0.16      0.46
less cancellations, termination, repayments
and sales                                           0.30      0.16      0.46
Total commitments now held by IFC                      -         --
Total undisbursed
] Prior to exchange adjustments.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 3
C. PROJECT IN EXECUTION
Loan/Credit No.
Ln. 767          Second Port Project: US$6.0 million Loan of June 25,1971;
and US$3.0 million Supplemental Loan of July 30, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1977.
The project consists of the expansion of Puerto Cortes on
the North Coast of Honduras, and the construction of the
new port of Henecan, in the South. The Henecan port was
delayed about 18 months as a result of Government recon-
sideration of its location. The Puerto Cortes expansion
was completed in March, 1975. The Bank provided addition-
al financing of US$3-0 million, which was necessary to
cover the increased cost of the Henecan port resulting
from the high level of inflation during the period of
the delay. Construction of this port is now proceeding
satisfactorily and should be completed in September 1977.
Ln. 841          Fifth Power Project: US$12.3 million Loan of June 28, 1972;
Closing Date: June 30, 1976.
The Honduras-Nicaragua interconnection line, a principal
element of this project is now complete. The extension
of service to the Aguan Valley was delayed because of
delays in negotiations with the principal potential cus-
tomer in the valley, Standard Fruit. Standard has now
relinquished its holdings in the Aguan and the Honduran
Power Company is studying other demand in the Valley to
determine whether an extension is justified. Other
elements of the fifth project (extensions to new areas,
the 26 MW La Ceiba Diesel plant, consulting services and
training) have either been completed or are proceeding
on schedule.
Ln. 896          Sixth Highway Project: US$18.8 million Loan of May 30,1973;
Closing Date: June II. 1977.
This project, for construction of the Tegucigalpa-Talanga
highway, was delayed by about six months while the Govern-
ment redesigned sections of the road in an attempt to lower
costs. Construction has proceeded satisfactorily and should
be completed by December 1976. Ehgineering studies of
feeder roads to complement the highway will be completed
shortly.
/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the progress
of projects in execution, and in particular to report any problems which are being
encountered, and the action being taken to remedy them. They should be read in
this sense, and with the understanding that they do not puport to present a ba-
lanced evaluation of strengths and weaknesses in project exectAtion.



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 3
Loan/Credit No.
Cr. 434            Second Livestock Project: US$6.6 million Credit of
October 29, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
This project is discussed in paragraph38.
Ln.954             First Education Project:   US$3.0 million Loan and US$3.0
Cr.452             million Credit, both of January 9, 1974; Closing Date:
June 30, 1975.
The Loan and Credit became effective on April 8, 1974.
The project is proceeding normally with the construction
of training and teaching facilities.
Ln. 1081           Sixth Power Project: US$35.0 million Loan of January 27,
1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1979
This Loan became effective May 5, 1975. Construction is
proceeding on schedule, and is expected to be completed
by December, 1978.






ANNEX III
Page 1 of 4
HONDURAS - AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
BORROWER:                           Republic of Honduras
AMOUNT:                             US$14.0 million equivalent
TERMS:                              Standard
BENEFICIARIES:                      Central Bank and Participating Banks
RELENDING TERMS:                       Interest
Government to
Central Bank of Honduras      at     2 percent       18 years including
10 years grace.
Central Bank to
Participating Banks           at     6 percent        6 to 12 years,
including 2 to 5
years grace.
Participating Banks to
Sub-Borrowers                 at    11 percent        6 to 12 years,
including 2 to 5
years grace.
PROJECT DESCRIPTION:
The Project would help finance dual purpose beef/dairy fanns, livestock
fattening operations, annual and perennial crop production; the rehabilitation
and improvement of the Isleta agrarian reform settlement; development of small
agro-industrial enterprises, and the provision of farm development contractor
services. The Project would also finance a technical assistance program which
would include the recruitment of specialists to assist in the strengthening applied
research and extension through the Ministry of Natural Resources (MRN); equip-
ment and specialists to strengthen the Instituto Nacional Agrariols (INA) program
for developing agrarian reform settlements; project preparation studies for
future agrarian reform projects by acceptable consulting firms; additional staff
and equipment for the Pan American Agricultural School (PAS) to provide training
to beneficiaries; and equipment for the Central Bank Project Credit Unit which
would administer the Project.



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 4
ESTIMATED COST:
Category           Local  Foreip   Total
--- (US millionT ---
Investments
Livestock           3.00    1.00    4.00
Crops               1.15    1.75   2.90
Isletas
Plantation        0.14    0.56    0.70
AgrQ-
industries        0.27    0.45   0.72
Heavy machinery     0.18    0.70    0.88
Physical Ctgy.      0.16    0.64    0.80
Sub-total           4.90    5.10  10.00
Technical
Service
Central Bank        1.00    0.20    1.20
MRN                 0.50    1.70    2.20
Isletas
Plantation        0.12    0.45    0.57
INA                 0.29    1.64   1.93
PAS                 0.05    0.45    0.50
Sub-total           1.96    4.44    6.40
Project Costs       6.86    9.54  16.40
Price
Contingencies     1.45    2.15   3
Total Project
Cost              8.30   11.70   20.00



ANNEX III
Page 3 of 4
FINANCING PLAN:
Participa-      Central         Sub-
IDA       ting Banks         Bank       borrowers     Total
US$ mil    L  US$ mi     %   US$ mi i      us$ mil   %   US mui
1. Livestock Farms        2.52    63    1.08    27      -     -     0.40    10    4.00
2. Crop Farms            1.83     63    0.78    27      _     -     0.29    10    2.90
3. Banana Rehabilitation 0.70    100      -     -                     -     -     0.70
4. Agro-industries        0.40    56    0.17    24      _     _     0.15    20    0.72
5. Heavy Machinery        0.49    56    0.21    24      -     -     0.18    20    0.88
6. Technical Services     5.40    84      _     _     1.00    16      _     _     6.40
Contingencies             2.66    -     0.74    -       -     -     1.00    -     4.40
Total Project Cost      14.00     70    3.00    15    1.00     5    2.00    10   20.00
ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENTS:                        (US$ million)
FY 1977      1978      1979       1980      1981      1982
Annual                     1.5         4.7       3.9       2.2       1.2        0.5
Commulative               1.5          6.2      10.1      12.3      13.5      14.0



ANNEX III
Page 4 of 4
PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS:
Because of the number of individual sub-borrowers likely to be
involved and the variety of items to be procured, bulk purchases would
not be feasible. Capital items would therefore be purchased from local
sources most of whom act as agents of foreign suppliers who are generally
well represented. Competition is good and spare parts and service
facilities are sufficient. The same procedure will apply to the procure-
ment for the agro-industries components of the Project since they also
involve purchase of a variety of items by individual sub-borrowers.
Sub-borrowers for heavy machinery would have their own preferences
regarding standardization and equipment, so that these purchases would
again be made through commercial suppliers.
For the purchase of machinery, equipment and vehicles for
Isleta and under the category of technical services, the CB would issue
instructions to package items for bulk procurement under international
bidding (ICB) accordingto standard IDA procedures. However, items that
cannot be grouped in packages of US$35,000 and would not in the aggregate
exceed the equivalent of US$200,000 (equal to about 5 percent of the
total cost of equipment, machinery and vehicles), would be procured in
accordance with the borrower's normal procedures which are acceptable to
IDA.
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE:
Local or foreign consultants will be contracted to provide
specialists services for research and extension, campesino training, the
organization and management of agrarian reform settlements, and the
management and operation of the Isleta agrarian reform settlement. The
cost of local and foreign consultants is estimated at US$30,000
equivalent/man year and US$50,000/man year, respectively.
RATE OF RETURN:
The overall economic rate of return of the Project is estimated
at 41 percent.
APPRAISAL REPORT:
No. lo44a-HO



IBRD-H1910
U'                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~JANL)ARY-UEA6
N                           o9  b,                                                                                                                                           CUsrA 
B 5AaAEAREIA  L1 GU,ANA AI'JArlA
ISLANTD  ISLAND
A  8,9 41 A IV                SEA                                                                   l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5  ASI eAR
>JX                     ~~~~~~~~~C A IPISi7t EA N           CATAN CLARSO           SEf A                                               <p aUTBSUZ'~, c,SEA T 
UIILA ISAND
Ull( 01 uCsoLUA5 L{.r
-W                                                                                          PUERTO CASTiCE  AF IAOUICUCA
PUERTO CORTES~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PETOCSTL
DE LANO          LA aIB    RM.NIA                 0. CORL ITO          I'f ;-- -
dI* *-- A /        - , h4  A.l -CA  CAIRN E     a ~ X 1X/0  L  0 _     -                                                     Al
CT) *                                 - >  l1l q, ,,  <  ,  >_,,00i<I. o   r-0-0F;,,,                            \\
A'A    IT                        C--- _P
4ACUALTCAv . ., 1 0INA __ LEO                                                              R A
PLAN CRUSOE                                                              I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ecum
EL l..QA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'.
_'                                                , '.     MINU            I  i5TU!PO55RALCEOROD
-15 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~'4
* UIBERTAC  EL POWAEN IR  GUAAPUE
9                      CLlf O;    tEDeSO\g   _                                           25    ,LO     rs~~~~ nOo      tRUV
f   >COCASCA RONSA
oE COCOS
)----~~~~~~~N>        I           EROtOL~~~~~~~~~ FRA~  I  ZAK  .H0N OUR AS
OCUTEPEQUE  I  0 1 I B~~~~~~~~~~~~~1            R
k~  ""2>h'L  E ~  P  I B  A  SPTRS IUANA                             )-<.-           I                                                       UBT  MINTIACCEACE
CUR BALSUEOR~~~~  BASCI~ lAUB .A11                                                                                                             rCULCET AREAS
IC                       ERRANO              ALABSUI                        OR         LS ANIMAl                                                       CU MILLSACUTDER LUTNATRJCTILAN iNOT CARI OF TOE PROJECT)
-,  C                                                       RAIS:jK\                                             LOCEE SUGAR MILALS
LA   PAL Z     EL                                                                                            R ESEARCR CENTERS
AL4I.AATAL L C                                                                            A   'UGUAT MILLS
\'    H~ -\rE     LCUREROUACCING IeLANTE 
 L  $ A L V A C) 0 R ~ ~~~~~~ALI      AC. CTO'A                0 UE~OIUU----- TIECIUSAL ZONE BOPUNDARIES
CITUMUSOUS TURFACED EOAUS
/                 ___                                                              UNTU~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-GIELlEARTA SURFACED RO3ADS
OLaF OF      EC                                                   25            ID~ EPARTMENT SOCTNUARIEN
PA CIfIC  0 CFAV ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o ECA                                         K~~~~~~~~~iLIELMETEI's          INTERNATIOSAL SOUNDATIES
IS'  RU'  SB'               ,.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ --'... 81      Q'                            ES'                          BA'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o



