PID
THE WORLD BANK GROUP                                                     AWorldFroioPoverty 4
U     -     _,i--.*,--*- _,  - _ ________________-- -----------
lnfoShop
Report No AB7
Updated Project Information Document (PID)
Project Name                DJIBOUTI-HIIV/AIDS, Malaria and Tuberculosis Control Project
Region                      Middle East and North Africa Region
Sector                      Other social services (60%); Health (30%), Central government administration
(1 0%)
Project ID                  P073603
Supplemental Project
Borrower(s)                 REPUBLIC OF DJIBOUTI
Implementing Agency         COMMUNICABLE DISEASES CONTROL INTERMINISTERIAL
Address                     COMMITTEE
Address Cabinet du Ministre, Ministere de la Sante Publique, Djibouti-Ville,
Djibouti
Contact Person Mr All Sillaye Abdallah, Directeur des Projets sante
Tel 253 35 32 82    Fax 253 35 21 38      Email sillay_fr@yahoo fr
Environment Category        B
Date PID Prepared           March 31, 2003
Auth Appr/Negs Date         March 25, 2003
Bank Approval Date          May 29, 2003
1. Country and Sector Background
Despite its relatively high nominal per capita income of US$780 (compared to an average of $510 for
Sub-Saharan Africa, US$320 for Yemenl, and US$110 for Ethiopia), Djibouti has one of the poorest sets
of social indicators in the world. Gross primary school enrollmenit is less than half the average for Africa
(39 percent of school age population, compared to 78 percent for Sub-Salharani Africa) Health indicators
are below regional standards. Approximately 33 percent of the population lacks access to potable water,
and sanitary conditionis, and, many are very poor. The incidence of infectious diseases suchi as malaria,
tuberculosis and HIV/AIDS is high and rising. Nation-wide HIV/AIDS sero-prevalence rate is estimated
at 3.0 % for the whole population (3 1% for womeni and 2.9% for men), wlhichi is lower thani expected
However, analysis of the data by age groups slhow a prevalence superior to 5% among persons aged 20 to
35 years of age, which indicates that HIV infects early the economilically productive and sexually active
persons. Malaria has been a problem in Djibouti only since the late 1980's. Before 1973, whenl there was
little urbanization, no irrigation and an active attempt at contr-ollinig the vector during the rainy season,
more than 80% of the notified cases were coming from neighborilig couLntries From 1973 to 1987, more
Djiboutian cases appeared along the maini transport axes linking Djiboutl to the neighlboring counltries
and later in the ulbani areas It is during this period that thousanids of refugees came to Djibouti. Since
1988, malaria is steadily increasing and reaching areas where it was unkinown until then, SuChi as the
northeril districts of Tajourah and Obock. Uncontrolled urbanization with inappropriate water supply,
non-existent used wvater evacuation system, the sedentarizationi of the nomliad population in rural areas



2
PID
whiich caused the increase of irrigated areas, and frequent inunidationis contributed to the endemization of
malaria Pro-active interventionls are needed to prevent malaria from becoming more prevalent.
With 588 cases of TB per 100,000 ihiiabitanits, Djibouti has the second highest rate of TB in the world,
after Swaziland. However, about 40% of the cases are cominig from neighbor-ing coulitries, in particular
from Ethiopia  Foreigners come to Djibouti because it offers more and better quality services (and free
of charge), which inflates the rate. Nevertheless, these TB patients are present in Djibouti and can infect
people around them. As in other counitries the link between HIV and TB is apparent. Although the
sero-prevalence rate in the general populationi is 3.0%, among TB patients it Is 23%  In the last few
years, two main factors contributed to the weakening of the nationial program  Although it remains one
of the best in the region with 72% therapeutic success (treatment completed and patients cured) in 2000,
an acute lack of personnel and the departure of the French Cooperation which ceased all assistance
(financial and technical) in June 2002 makes it difficult to keep it as performing as in the past Drugs are
presently supplied through the Global Fund Facility for the next three years  WHO, and to a lesser
extent, the Government of Djibouti (10% of the US$150 000 which are budgeted) provide some finiancial
assistance, but the program remains in increasing need of finanicial assistance.
Infant mortality is 106 per thousand live births, compared to an average of 92 for Sub-Saharan Africa, 45
for the Middle East and North Africa, and 82 for Yemen. High maternal mortality (740 per 1 00,000 live
births) can be largely attributed to high fertility rates, anemia caused by malnutrition, and the poor health
care facilities which are saturated by patients coming from neighiboring Ethiopia and Somalia  Free
health care contributes to the influx of patient-refugees seeking treatment in DjiboutI, in particular for
tuberculosis. Althoughi the country spends about 7 percent of GDP on health, well above the regional
average of 5%, service delivery is very poor External assistance, notably from France, Italy and Spaiin,
accounts for 30 percent of expenditires on health care, but assistance has declined, putting additional
pressure on an overtaxed and inefficienit system.
Indicators                     Djiboutl (in %)      Subsaharan
Africa
Life expectancy at birth                            50                  50
HIV/AIDS infection among adiilts                    3.9                  8
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)            106                 92
Unemiiploymenlt                                     45%
Gross primary enrollmenit                           39%                 78%
Male                                         44%                  85%
Female                                       32%
Mortality at delivery (per 100,000)              740 - 810
HIV/AIDS
The first AIDS cases were notified in Djibouti in 1986. Since then the situation has been steadily
worsening: At the end of 2000, 2,179 AIDS cases were registered. Between 1994 and 2000 several
surveys including among pregnanit women and blood donors, showed that prevalence was particularly
hiigih in some groups (as soon as 1994, it was 55% among Commercial Sex Workers (CSWs), 24% among
women working in bars, and 22.2% among STI patients), but the informationl was discordant for the
general population, varying from 4% or 6% in 1995 to 1.9% in 2000 Hlowever, nonle were as high as the
1999 UNAIDS estimate among Djiboutian adults aged 15-49 (11 9%). As the strategy was not to be the
same if the rate was inferior or superior to 5%, it was decided to carry out a sero-prevalence survey
durinig the preparation of the project. As mentioned above, the rate was found to be 2 9% following the



3
PID
results of the survey, and is still low. However, it should be underlined tihat the rate is more thani 5%
among persons aged 20-35, whvich confirms that the rate is on the increase, and that the critical threshold
of 5%, when the infectioni reaches the exponenitial growth rate, aggressively affects the most sexually
active and economically productive age group. This situation is cause for concern and calls for a
multi-sectoral response along witlh the full recognitioni of HIV/AIDS as a developmental issue
The analysis of the AIDS cases notified in 1998 and 1999 indicates that.
*   the transmission is mostly heterosexual (95.6% of declared cases amonig women and 91 6%
among men);
*   persons aged 15-29 represent 47.4% of registered AIDS cases, which shows that people are
infected at an early age, and confirimied by studies carried out In 2002; and
*   women are infected at a younger age than meni: womiieni aged 15-29 represent 54 3% of declared
cases, while men of the same age group represent only 42.7%.
Risk factor specific to Djibouti
Trade: Djiboiiti is a higilly urbanized state (more than 80% of population live in urban areas) with
economic activity centered arouLid the port whiich serves the Horn of Africa and services the French
military bases. In addition, about a thousand transport trucks enter in and out of Djibouti's port on a
daily basis to supply Ethiopia's needs (a counltry about 100 timies larger in population according to the
World Developmenit Social Indicators Database). The prevalence rate of HIV/AIDS in the adult
population of Ethiopia is 11% (end 1999). Djibouti is therefore highly susceptible to the spread of
HIV/AIDS through the transport sector, and the disease is likely to spread to the whole sub-region along
the truck routes  In addition, taking into accounlt that the city of Djibouti is a gravitational center for
trade and the location of French military bases, prostitution is higlhly prevalent. STIs, another factor
contributing to the spread of the epidemic, are frequent, the number of infections being estimated at
25,000 per year. The population is young and the age for first sexual contact is precocious  Finally,
condoms are not readily available and are expensive.
Migration: The situation is further complicated by the large influx of refugees and displaced persons.
Cooperation with neighbors, such as Ethiopia, Somalia and Eritrea, in assessing prevalence rates,
providing for voluntary testing and counselinig, formulating consistenit behavioral change communlication
messages and treatment of TB, are a strategic option which Djibouti and its neighbors need to explore to
mutual benefit This could be done througlh the Horn of Africa Regional HIV/AIDS project wlhichi is
being developed in the context of the MAP2, possibly in partinershiip with the Intergoverinmenital
Authority on Development (IGAD), a regional development organization includinlg seven countries
(Djibouti, Ethiopia, Kenya, Somalia, Sudani and Uganda) based in Djibouti Such discussions could also
be carried out through NGOs whiclh function inter-regionally such as "Save the Childreni", a US-NGO
financed by USAID-Ethiopia, whicih has carried out a Knowledge, Attitudes, Belief and Practices
(KABP) survey on the Djibouti/Addis Ababa corridor.
Gender Inequality: Women are the most vulnerable segment of the Djiboutian society Economically,
women have a low participation rate, and low levels of education (between the 20-29 age range, 60% of
womeni, compared to 30% of meni, have never attended school) Healthwise, materinal mortality is 740
per 100,000 births (according to estimiations made by the Safe Motherhood project finanlced by UNFPA),
one of the highest rates in the world  This is due to high fertility rates, anemia caused by i-nahlutritioni,
and the widespread practice of female genital cutting (FGC). About 99% of women have been subjected
to FGC (mostly infibulationi, i.e , the most extreme type of female genital cutting), which tends to lead to
other health problems. A law prohibiting the practice was adopted in 1995, but it not enforceable
because of the private nature of the procedure. UNICEF, the Ministry of Health, CARITAS (a Catholic



4
PID
charity NGO) and UNFPA in 1999 jointly initiated a project to reduce FGC. A multi-institutional
professional team conducted awareness meetings with a number of decision-makers In addition,
sensitization meetings were conducted witlh religious leaders to address the problem of FGC and to
identify ways to limit and/or eradicate it. The project approach, which emplhasizes gender as a key issue,
is consistent with one of the key levers of IDA's regional strategy.
Government response to HIV/AIDS
In the early 1990s, some HIV/AIDS preventioni activities -- mostly IEC activities -- took place when
financing from the Global Program for AIDS (GPA) was available. However, since the end of the GPA,
the National AIDS Control Programii (NACP) has been dormant In 2001, the Governmiienet of Djibouti
carried out a health sector study which was used to develop the Government's health sector reform
program, as well as a mediumi-termii plan for the development of the sector. In the context of this reforn
program, and in order to respond more equitably to the needs of the population, it was decided to
redynamize the NACP and STIs treatment. In October 2001, the President of the Republic himself
endorsed the fight against HIV/AIDS when he inaugurated the new NACP and treatment of STIs facility,
which dynamized the fight against HIV/AIDS  About a year ago, the HIV/AIDS program was
re-organized: a new director was nominiated, the program moved to newly renovated offices (with the
assistance of the Frenich Cooperation), and certain staff were trained in counseling Some timid
awareness campaigns were conducted. Outreach programs remained very limiited and involved mostly
some newly created NGOs in scattered activities, which were, for the most part, conducted in the context
of Internationlal AIDS day in December 2001 and 2002 The Ministry of Social Affairs and Promotion of
Women is carrying out some -LIV/AIDS IEC activities and the Ministry of Defense also distributes some
condoms. Durinig the appraisal of the Health Sector Development Project (HSDP), in May 2002,
HIV/AIDS was identified as an emergency situationl and the Government, through the President and the
Minister of Health, who are strongly and publicly backing the fight against HIIV/AIDS, subsequently
requested IDA's assistance to address the problem. It theni ilitiated, using a participative approach, a
National HIV/AIDS Strategic Plan which is now completed and whichi was approved at a consensus
seminar in December 2002.
As required in its National HIV/AIDS Strategic Plan, the Governmiienet has recently created an
Interministerial Committee against HIV/AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis (IC), which will have a policy
role (see section C4 on institutionial arrangemlenits for more details) and a Technical Interminiisterial
Committee (TIC), which will be the technilcal arn of the IC, to manage the response to HIV/AIDS. These
two entities are to be assisted by an Executive Secretariat (ES)  The Ministry of Health hired a
consulting firn to assist with the preparation of the National HIV/AIDS Strategic Plan  The prevalence
surveys carried out during project preparation provide baseline data for the general population and STI
patients, military personnel and CSWs and made it possible to identify the Priority Vulnierable Groups
(PVG). Also during project preparation, KABP studies were carried out among the general population,
school children, military personnel, and dockers in addition to the survey being donriwy Mhe
Children" mentioned above. UNICEF is in the process of setting up a Mother to Child Transmission
(MTCT) pilot program, wlhichi should start at the end of March 2003 The UNAIDS Thematic Group has
also been redynamized It has prepared a workplan which made it possible to coordinate activities while
the National Strategic Plan was being developed and the coordinatiig bodies being created so as to avoid
duplication. During the identification mission, it was decided that all documents and min1utes produced
by the Thematic group would be sent to IDA wlhich is to be considered a "virtual" member of the
Thematic group (note: there is no Country Office in Djibouti). In addition, the Thematic group is
informed of all visits planned by the Counltry Director or the Sector Manager who will also be informed
of the planned dates for the Thematic Group meetings so that they participate in the meetings wheniever
possible in order to raise the level of attention among donors and UN agencies In addition, the Thematic



5
PID
Group organizes meetings every time the IDA ImlissioIl comes to Djibouti and there is regular
communication between the President of the Tlhematic Group (the UNICEF Resident Representative) and
the Team
Recently, In the light of the setting up the institutional structure for the fight against HIV/AIDS, Malaria
and Tuberculosis, the mandate of the National Program for AIDS Control (NPAC) has been chaniged.
The Program for AIDS Control (PLS) of the Ministry of Health will lIilit its coordinating and planning
role to the Ministry of Health. A new Director has been nominated and a new organigram for the PLS
has been developed  The mandate of the Center Younis Toussainit has also been redefined. It will be a
reference center for ambulatory treatment of STIs and of opportunistic diseases, and later, whien the ARV
pilot program Is put In place, as a Ambulatory Treatmenit Center for the Ministry of Health. New job
descriptions are being prepared and the MOH has promised to provide the necessary personiel, during
the next 8 months The Center will be completely functional when the project becomes effective.
2. Objectives
In accordance with the main goal of MAP2, the overall objectives of the project are to assist the
Government of Djiboutl in settilg up and implementing the response agaaist HIV/AIDS, sexually
transmitted infections (STIs), malaria and tuberculosis (TB), whicih are important risk cofactors. Djibouti
meets the criteria for MAP2 eligibility and only key features are highiligited below which are relevant to
the HIV/AIDS epidemic in DjiboIiti and the Djibouti HIV/AIDS, Malaria and Tuberculosis Control
Project The proposed project will be to support the National Strategic Plans to respectively fight against
HIV/AIDS, malaria and tuberculoII1ai( stral2giqite national de prevention dc/  VIHJ/SIDA,
PlansStratu;gtqzte de Lzutte contre le Paludiav?ePlan strategique national cle Lutte conlre la
Tuberc2/lose) for the period 2003-2008. The objective of the Project is to contribute to the chanige in
behavior of the Djiboiitian popuilation in order to contain or reduce the spread of the HIV/AIDS epidemic
and to mitigate its impact on infected and affected persons and to contribute to the control of malaria and
tuberculosis. It will do so through a multi-sector approach by. (i) preventinig the spread of HIV/AIDS by
reducing transmission, in particular among high risk groups, (ii) expandinig access to treatment of
opportunistic illnesses and malaria, and to care, support and treatment to People Living withi HIV/AIDS
(PLWHA) in Djibouti; and (iii) supporting multi-sectoral, civil society and community initiatives for
HIV/AIDS preventioni and care and malaria preventioni In the context of the above mentioned strategic
plans, the project will support and promote civil society and comimiuniity ilitiatives, for prevention and
care of HIV/AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis put forward by beneficiary groups selected on the basis of
the technical quality, cost-effectiveness and likely impact of their proposals



6
PID
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The Multi-country HIV/AIDS Program for the Africa Region places HIV/AIDS at the center of the
development agenda for work in the region. The curtailment of the spread of the HIV virus is pivotal if
htiman development and overall development goals are to be achieved in Djibouti and in neighboring
countries In addition, IDA's comparative advantage is its past and present involvemenit in the sector, and
its flexibility to work across sectors, whiicih will facilitate the proposed multi-sectoral approach being
considered here Furthermore, there are clear liiks with other IDA-funded projects, such as the Social
Fun1d and Public Works Project, the School Access Improvemenit Project and the proposed Health Sector
Development Project, and the possibility of using these entry points to disseminate the message on
HIV/AIDS. Given the potential macroeconomic impact of HIV/AIDS in Djibouti, IDA's involvement
with structural adjustimenit, public sector reform and close working partnership with the IMF will help
reduce expenditures on noni-priority areas, thereby freeing up resources for the health and education
sectors primarily. IDA's involvemenlt will also be key in: (i) ensurinlg better coordination among key
stakeholders, (ii) preventinig duplication of efforts; and (iii) exploiting the complementary aspects of the
different projects currently being finaniced by IDA. As IDA is a key partner in the global STOP TB
Initiative in collaboration with UNAIDS, the ability to play a facilitating role in identifying expertise and
possible partners is also an asset
4. Description
The project will support the implementation of Djibouti's HIV/AIDS National Strategic Plan, the Malaria
Strategic Plan, and the National Tuberculosis Strategic Plan through a wide variety of public sector
agencies, private and non-governmental organizations, and communlity-based organizations. The project
WIill include four major componenits as follows: 1) capacity building and policy development; 2) public
healthi-sector responses to HIV/AIDS, the managemiienit of TB and STIs, includinig prevention, treatmelit
and care and malaria prevention; 3) multi-sector responses to HIV/AIDS prevention and care, and 4)
support to community-based initiatives for the three diseases These activities will take into account the
existing conditions and Djibouti's capacity level both at the central and the district levels, recognizing
that at present capacity is weak at both levels. Presented below are the main sub-components of each
component For inore details, see Annex 2.
Component 1. Capacity Building and Policy Development (US$ 4.5 million)
This component would aimi at strengthening Djibouti's capacity to cope with the spread of HIV/AIDS, of
malaria and tubercuilosis by supportling: (i) the work of the Initeriniilisterial Committee, the Technical
Interministerial Committee and the Executive Secretariat (ES), including project coordination and
facilitation, (ii) the up-dating of the National Strategic Plans (for each of the three diseases) and annual
Action Plans; and (iii) strengthening of public, private and nongoverinmenital institutions in preparing and
implementing prevention, care and treatmenit interventions.
Human resources are very liited both in number and in quality. The acute shortage of human resources
remains the most important constraint to the success of the project For instance in the MOH the number
of qualified persons is limited and most of these persons are already engaged in the launchinig of the
HSDP and/or in implementinig the ministry's programs. In order to address this problem, it has been
agreed with the Government that (a) some tasks would be contracted out (monitorinig and evaluationi);
(b) some Djiboutian experts will be recruited on the basis of a competitive process and hired withi
one-year contracts renewable on the basis of performiance; (c) training wvill be organized, in particular for
specialized tasks and for NGOs and ABC before they are awarded finanicinig to implement a project, and
(d) twvo long term international technical assistants (a procurement/implemenitationi specialist and a social
communicationi expert) and some short termi experts for specialized tasks (for example, trailing in
counseling or development of a condomli distribution strategy) will be recruited  All the terms of



7
PID
reference of the technical assistants specify that one of their task is to transfer competences. Each TA
will have an official counterpart named or recruited by the Djiboutiall authorities.
This componenit will also include training activities, Linder contract wvith local institLtiolIs, for the NGOs
and governmental institutions which will have the responsibility to supervise and train other entities and
for the minlistries' units and local NGOs and associations which will be implementinig activities. Some
study tours may be included as part of this training as well as for selected members of the IC, the TIC and
ES
Finally, the buIlding of a laboratory and the rehabilitation of the builiding next to the offices of the Aids
Control Program of the MOH and the Center Younis Toussaint, will be included in this component The
laboratory equipment is being financed under the HSDP, but the laboratory building itself is presently
located in unsafe or temporary buildings which need to be replaced as soon as possible.  The
rehabilitation work being envisaged will provide space for expandinig the role of Younis Toussaint
Center to counseling, voluntary testing and care aiid treatment of sero-positive persons  It will also
provide space whiere informationl will be available and where NGO and associations can meet This will
be one of the centers included in the AIDS treatment pilot project included in the Public health
component (see next section and Aniex 2 for more details).
Component 2. Public Health Sector Response to HIV/AIDS, TB and STI Management (US$2.3
million)
The Ministry of Health (MOH) and more broadly the health community, have special responsibilities for
malaria, STIs, HIV/AIDS, and opportunistic infections (including tuberculosis) preventioni and
management. This sector therefore warranits a separate componenit, making provision for prevention, care
and treatment from a health sector perspective. This component will ain at expandinig access to
preventive measures such as condoms, to treatment of  STIs, opportLIistic illnesses (includilig
tuberculosis and malaria, and to care, support and treat People Living withi HIV/AIDS (PLWHA) in
Djibouti. In addition, a subcomponent would have as an objective to increase clinical safety and
ameliorate the treatment of solid medical waste
Under this component, the project will include: a) development of Volulitary Counselinig and Testing
(VCT) protocols as well as a significant role in training counselors and in carrying out VCT activities
and follow-up; b) implemiientationi of syndromic algorithims for diagnostic and case managemenit of
sexually transmitted infections; c) the strengtheniniig of the health system for the treatment of malaria,
HIV/AIDS, STIs, and opportillistic infectionls in particular TB; d) the setting LIp of measures to prevent
the transilmission of the HIV in clinical settings; e) the procuremenit of condoms, and a significant role in
the distribution of condoms; f) the scaling up of activities geared to vulnerable/potentially highi
transmitter groups in collaboration with other sector partners (in particular, the project could finance
technical assistance for the IEC Uiiit of the MOH); g) the support to the decentralizationi program for TB
screening and treatmenit, Ih) the strengtheninig of the detection, preventionl and response to malaria, and 1)
the finanicinig of drugs, test kits, and medical consumables, which will be bought from the Central Drug
Procurement Agency once it is set up. The possibility of a partnership with WHO for the supervision of
some of the above activities is being explored, but needs to be discussed in detail with the MOH, the ES
and the Government
The Bankli has also been working closely with its UNAIDS     partners, drug companiies, and
developing-country governmeits on access to ARV therapy. This is an evolving situation which
progressively allows for low cost choices and alternative options. The project intenids to support the



8
PID
development of guidelines and the strengtheniing of health infrastructure to allow ARV therapy drug,s to
be used in a safe, effective, and sustainable manier. It will assist the MOH, in collaboration with other
partners (e g., the French Cooperation, WHO and UNICEF) in putting in place a one-year pilot project
including the treatment with ARV of sero-positive persons in the three public healthi systems of the
couLitry (Ministry of Health, Ministry of Defense and Ministry of Emp6Wnriuntimon de
Protection Sociale [OPS]) This pilot project will be used to assess the feasibility and cost of extendiig
the treatment program to the whole country The drugs for the pilot project are being included in the first
purchase being procured under the HSDP. The Government of Djibouti is now eligible to apply to the
Global Fund and is preparing a proposal for the next round. It is hoped that in future, at least part of the
drugs for the program can be bought with Global Fund financing
The prevention of mother to child transmission of the HIV (PMTCT) is not included in the project
because UNICEF is presently setting up a PMTCT program in two centers in Djibouti (one in a public
maternity center and the other in the MCH Center of SPO). The project, however, may contribute to the
training of counselors, as the pilot program may be scaled up, and to providing artificial milk for mothers
who decide not to breastfeed.
Finally, withi regard to condoms, a consultant may be recruited either under the PPF or early during
project launch, to develop a condom distribution strategy. Condoms will be provided on a no-cost basis
to STI patients, but condoms must also be made available outside of the health system as needed (based
on the strategy developed).
Component 3. Multi-sector Responses for HIV/AIDS Prevention and Care (US$ 3.1 mi llion)
As has been demonstrated in other countries, and in order for the fight against HIV/AIDS to be efficient,
it is necessary to have a multi-sectoral approach in order to better target Priority Vulilerable Groups
Although the multi-sectoral response is presently very weak, the ministries of Social Affairs and Women
Promotion, and Defense, already carry out some IEC and condom distribution activities. The project will
reinforce on-going activities and provide support to the following key ministries outside of the MOH the
miniistries of (a) Economy, Fiianices and Planninig, (b) Youth and Sport, (c) National Educationl, Women
Promotion, (d) Social Affairs and Family Welfare, (e) Defense (army), (f) Employment and National
Solidarity, (g) Communlication, Telecommunication and Culture, (h) Justice, Penitentiary and Religious
Affairs, (i) Ministry of Wakfs and Islamic Affairs, (j) Interior and Decentralizationi (police), and (k)
Equipment and Transport This component will provide these ministries with resources and training to
improve their capacity to respond to the HIV/AIDS epidemic, emphasizinig prevention and care Most of
the above mentioned ministries are finalizinig their action plans whichi include performance indicators and
define monitoring systems and budgets. The action plans are targeted to staff of Iine iniiiistries and focus
on training peer educators on issues of HIV/AIDS and STIs, the importance of condoms in the fight
against these diseases, including other support mechanisms to encourage a chanlge in behavior. These
plans will be integrated into the ministries' ongoing operations. At this point it is not planied that the
project assists the Ministry of Transport becau!ive the Childreq finanlced by USAID/Ethiopia, is
providing support to that Ministry, which could in addition, receive additional support througil the
Regional Project for the Horn of Africa being developed by ActAfrica in the context of the MAP2. The
Ministry of Communilcation will have a special role to play at the beginninig of the project, it will assist
the international specialist in communiicationl and its Djiboutian counterpart, in developing a nationial
communicationi strategy for the fight against HIV/AIDS, Malaria and Tuberculosis Durinlg this process,
its role in the strategy will be defined At a later stage, it is expected that it will disseminate audio-visual
and written materials prepared in the context of the communlication strategy  The preparationi of these
materials will be contracted out



9
PID
Activities in the Ministries will be financed on the basis of an annual workplan and budget The Ministry
will receive a first trancile which it will have to justify in order to receive the second tranche  The
Administrative and Financial Manager of each Ministry xvho will manage these funds will receive
training if necessary.
Component 4. Support to community-based initiatives (US$ 2.1 million)
In order to enlist communities in the fight against HIV/AIDS and to provide them with the means to
mitigate the impact of the epidemic, it is necessary to provide them the resources at the local level The
objectives of this componlenit are to. (a) strengtheni communities and Djiboutian associations and NGOs,
so that can implement some essential activities for the reduction of the vulnerability to HIV/AIDS,
malaria and tuberculosis; and (b) strengthien institutionial capacities of Djiboutian NGOs and associations
so that they can deliver essential services needed to the most vulnierable groups. Project support will be
provided in such a way as to ensure that community interventions are complementary and in synergy with
interventionis carried out by governmental services and other potential partners In order to ensure that
this component takes into account Djiboutian realities, a pilot project will be developed, with the
assistance of an NGO, to provide nutritionial support to PLWHA in Djibouti-Ville and the Hospital Paul
Faure (TB Hospital) This will done during the preparation phase of the project so as to fine tune the
mechanisms of intervention and define an acceptable and reasonably priced social package (which could
also include assistance for disabled HIlV/AIDS persons).
Essential activities identified for community intervenltions can be classified in three categories.(i)
prevention of HIV, TB and malaria transmission; (ii) reduction of the impact of HIV/AIDS (includinig
psycho-medico-social support and care to PLWHA and their- families, social/economic support, includinig
food, to PLWIIA and their families, and income generating activities for the families of PLWHA), and
(iii) legal support (see Annex 2 for more details on activities)
In order to implement the above activities, it will be necessary for the project to finanice support activities
to strengtlhen the institutionial capacities of the Djiboutian NGOs In order to do so, NGO personiel will
be trained in the following areas: (a) management and development of social projects; (b) basic
informationi on HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis and malaria; (c) analysis of vulnerability and identification of
appropriate solutions; (d) quality control for activities being financed at community level,  (e)
mobilization and promotion of commullity participation, and (f) supervision and evaluationl of services
This training could either be contracted out to local institutiolIs, or if the Goverinmenit agreed, by the
UNDP in the context of their 2003-2006 program, (througIl cost-shar-ing or other arrangements)
The need for training and supervision of local NGOs and associations was assessed durinig the
development of the HIV/AIDS National Strategic Plan. Support to local NGOs and associations will be
provided by governmenital and non-governmienital institutions whicil will be responsible for training and
supervision (called "Technical Assistance (TA) Institutions" or "TA NGOs"). The preparation team is
conscious of the fact that even the capacities of these TA Institutions will need to be strengthenied. At the
end of the training, an exam will identify the best 5 to 9 institutions to serve as TA institutiolIs, taking
into account the criteria defined durinlg a consensus workshop on traillilig and supervision.
The ES is currently preparing the Procedure Manual for Communilty Interventionis This Manual should
be finalized prior to effectiveness, throughi a consensus workshop organized in collaboration with the UN
Agencies and whichl would be attended by all the ministries concerned withi the fight againist HIV/AIDS,
civil society and other partners. The consultant being recruited under the HSDP to prepare the project
Procedure Manual will be requested to prepare the Procedure Manual for Community Intervenitionis as



10
PID
well as the Project Operations Manual (POM) on the basis of the model elaborated by the ActAfrica
team.
With regard to the identification of local projects for community interventionis for the first year of the
project, it will be done in a realistic maniner whichi will prioritize learning and the development of
capacities of the personilel involved as well as quality control. Coverage will be gradually increased. On
the basis of the response analysis carried out in 2002, it has been agreed upon that about 30 communiity
projects will be developed for 2004  These projects will be implemilented by 25 to 30 local NGOs and
associations assisted by 5-9 TA mistitutions, and the ministry dealing with the same vulnerable group and
the Community Intervention SuppoI-t Unit (CISU) of the ES
The preparation and selection process of community projects to be financed by the project will be an
annual process whicil will be carried out in each district (or neighborhood) ulider the responsibility of the
regional HIV/AIDS Councils. The project xvill be identified and selected taking into account the
essential activities necessary to reduce the vulnerability of priority groups in each district of the country
and neighborhood of Djibouti-Vilie and governmental interventions identified in the sectoral plans.
The implementation of these projects will be monitor and supervised, at the central level, by the
Community Interventioni Support Unit (CISU) in close collaboration with the person responsible for
sectoral response in the ES and at the regional level, with the TA institutions, the HIV/AIDS regional
committees and the consultanit to which monitorinig and evaluation will be contracted out.  The
modalities of these arrangements will be defined in the Monitoring and Evaluation Plan The financilig
of community projects and of contracts with TA institutions will be carried out by the CISU in agreemilent
with the Community Intervention Procedure Manual which will need to be finalized before the project
becomes effective. The mechaniisms to chaninel funds from the CISU to communities was agreed upon
during the February 2003 mission The selection process of the projects will be carried out by an
independent Committee Government, civil society and donor representatives. The selection iriodalities
will be stipulated in the Procedure Manual for Comminuity Interventions
Capacity Building and Policy Development
Public Hlealth Sector Response to HIV/AIDS, TB and STI Managemlient
Multi-sector Responses for HiV/AIDS Prevention and Care
Support to community-based initiatives
5. Financing
Total (US$m)
BORROWER/RECIPIENT         $1.52
I BRD
IDA
IDA GRANT FOR HIV/AIDS $1200
FRANCE MINISTRY OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS (MOFA)             $1.00
UN CHILDREN'S FUND         $0.10
UN DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMME $0.30
UN FUND FOR POPULATION ACTIVITIES $0.10
Total Project Cost         $15 02



11
PID
6. Implementation
The implementation arrangements of the project will follow general MAP guidelines, with the
establishment of an Interministerial Committee under the auspices of the Prime Minister, and a Technical
Interminisrerial Committee to be assisted by an Executive Secretariat. This was deemed as the most
appropriate mechanism for implementing the project given the multi-sectoral nature of the activities
being proposed, and the coordination efforts needed to ensure efficient use of funids, and impact of
project activities.
The Interministerial Committee (IC), is chaired by the Prime Minister, with the vice-presidency held by
the Minister of Health  The IC serves as the policy focal point, and will be made up of representatives
from sectoral ministries. The IC will have responsibility for coordinating the implementation of the
National Strategic Plans (HIV/AIDS, Malaria, and Tuberculosis), increasinig awareness and mobilizing
civil society in the promotion of prevention measures regarding HIV infection, malaria and TB, and
providing guidance to the project. The IC will meet at least twice a year.
The Technical Interimiinisterial Committee against transmittable diseases (TIC), is the technical arm of
the IC whiicih will oversee the preparation of annual action plans and budgets and the implementation of
the program  and project activities related to HIV/AIDS, malaria and TB  The TIC will have
responsibility for ensuring that the integrationi of activities (HIV/AIDS, Malaria and TB) are executed in
the public, para-public, and private sectors to promote the multi-sectoral impact of the actions being
carried out, and will validate and supervise the execution of the multi-sectoral action plans and associated
budgets through Its executilig arm, the Executive Secretariat (ES). The TIC will meet at least four timles
a year, and will have represenitatives from  the mniistries concerined, civil society, international
organizationis, and bilateral donors who are financing HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis, and malaria interventionis
The TIC will need to closely coordinate its efforts witil the UNAIDS Thematic Group.
Project funds will be budgeted in the Prime Minister's office whichi will delegate them to the Executive
Secretariat (ES) of the IC and the TIC, whicih will be responsible for day-to-day implementation of the
three National Strategic Plans (HIV/AIDS, Malaria, and Tuberculosis)  To do so, the ES will be
comprised of about ten full time professionals (including t-wo interinational technical assistants as
specified below in this paragraph), it will include an Administrative and Finalcial Unit (AFU), a
Planninig, Monitorinig and Evaluation Unit (PMEU), a Multisectoral Unit, a Community Intervenltioni
Support Unit (CISU) and a Social Communication Unit (SCU)   The technical assistants will be a
specialist in procurement and project implemenitation for five years and social communication specialist
who will be hired to transfer their competences to the staff of the ES. The ES will be responsible for
project execution, coordination, follow-Lip and moniitoring of project interventions, inCLidilig the
finalization of the M&E operations manual The ES will coordinate the activities of the proposed action
plans presented by the Ministry of Health (through the Epidemiology and Public Hygiene Department),
ministerial focal polints, and the communities. The ES will also need to closely liaise with the Ministry
of Health's Planning Unit, the Direction of Primary Health Care, as well as other national techniical
experts, who may be called upoIn to provide assistance, either as TA or as specialist trainers The ES will
also need to collaborate with the Regional Coulisels, whio should be in place once the deconcentrationi
efforts take place early in 2003. The ES will prepare all documentationi for the TIC (meeting documents,
minutes, progress reports on the national program, inter-miniisterial project activities, and community
interventionis) and the IC.
It is expected that the relationship between the new structure (IC, TIC and ES) and the MOH will be
satisfactory for the following reasons. (a) the MOH has been the architect of the new structure and has
defended it so that it could be ratified; (b) the Ministry of Health is the Vice-president of the IC, (c) the
president of the TIC is the General Secretary of the MOH, and (d) the Executive Secretary has been
selected among the key health civil servants The organizationi still give an important role to the MOH



12
PID
which is intimately involved in the new structure.
The different stakeholders will need to prepare aninual action plans with associated estimated buidgets
These actions plans will be submitted to the ES who will need to ascertain whether the plans match the
actions to be undertakell under the National Strategic Plans T he CIU will play a particular role within
the ES to ensure that the activities submitted by the communities respond to the targeted populations, and
fall withinl the predefined criteria established in the Project Operational Manual  The selection of
community sub-projects will be handled out by a tripartite committee (Governmelt, Donors, and Civil
Society)
Given the shortage of existing capacity in the country, and the complexity of the project that requires
in-depth follow-up, the responsibilities under the PMEU (Planninig and M&E) for M&E will be
sub-contracted out, and part of the civil works activities may be sub-contracted out to the Agence
Djiboutienne d'Execution de Travaux d'lnteret Public (ADETIP) In addition, as mentioned above, two
long-tern technical advisors will be hired to assist with procuremenit and social conimunication. Finally,
some partnerships are envisaged withi some UN Agencies whicih, being presenit in the field, might be able
to assist with supervision activities
Until such time as the above arrangements are runninig and functional, the Credit Adminiistration Unit
(CAU) of the MOH will be responsible for project activities in the "transition" phase, and withi oversight
and executive responsibility for the project's Project Preparation Facility (PPF)  The financial
managemenit and procurement capacities of the CAU were partially evaluated during the February 2003
mission and wvere foulid to be satisfactory.
Partnership Project preparation has been carried out in close collaboration wvith UN Agencies, il
particular those represented in the UNAIDS Thematic Group, the bilateral donors and the NGOs.
Interventions to be financed by the project have been selected after discussion of the National Strategic
Plans with the various partners. As mentioned above in the section on institutional arrangements, it will
be thie role the TIC and the ES to coordinate donor interventions and ensure that they are in agreement
with the objectives of the strategic plans as wvell as complementary. In addition, PPF funds were used to
contribute to the financinig of the POPFAM  study, whichi will provide baseline data needed for the
monitoring and evaluation of the HIV/AIDS activities, being carried out by the FNUAP. During project
implementation, it is envisaged to continue this close collaboration  In particular, the possibility of
partnerships with UN agencies and the Frencih Cooperation have been explored with the donor agencies.
These partnerships would make it possible for them  to participate in specific areas, and allow the Bank
to delegate certain aspects of program supervision thereby freeing up supervision funds. However, these
partnerships still need to be discussed in detail with the Executive Secretariat (ES) and the Minist-y of
Health. This could be undertakeni at the tine of the Donor's conferenice that the Djiboutianl autilorities
will organize In mid-May 2003. If the Global FuLid proposal results in additional resources for Djibouti,
it may free up some project funds which could be reallocated to other needs and whiich could not be
micluded at the time of preparation. If the funds were to be allocated to HIV/AIDS, they could contribute
to increasing the number of persons treated withi ARV after the end of the pilot project.
7. Sustainability
The sustainability of the project wvill depend on the degree to whicil the strategy and activities become
fully owvned by the various partners at nationial, district, and local levels. It will hinige on improved
capacity at all levels to develop and implemenit action plans and proposals that are effective in changiig
behaviors and providing care and support to affected groups



13
PID
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Lessons learned fronflIV/AIDS program development and implementation in other countries
shows that preventive measures suchi as IEC/BCC interventionis designed to bring about behavior chanige,
condom  use, treatimenit of sexually transmitted infectionis and opportullistic infectionls such as
tuberculosis, voluntary couLiselinlg and testing, the improvement in blood supply, and preventing
mother-to-child transmission, have all proven highly effective in reducing HIV transmission
Community-based programs have been especially effective in enilanicinig prevention, care, support, and
treatment for those infected and affected by HIV/AIDS. Lessons learned during the implemenitationi of
effective HI V/AIDS programs in various countries will be integrated into the project as appropriate.
Specific lessons taken into account, and learned fi-om internationial experience with HIV/AIDS programs
(MAP1) include:
Ismportance of political leadership and comli7itmient Experience shows that strong commiiitmeit from
the top political and religious leadership in the country is important for the success of HIV/AIDS
efforts In recent months the President of the Republic of Djibouti, includinig several Ministers, have
demonstrated strong support for the program
Need for a inulti-sectoral approach Experience in many countries in Africa has shown that
HIV/AIDS control activities start in the health sector, but need to be expanded to other sectors.
However, past experience has demonstrated difficulties in implementing projects across multiple
ministries. Obviously a multi-sectoral HIV/AIDS project must engage a number of line miniistries and
other governmiellt/public sector mechanisms. The risks iniherent in this arrangemenlt will be mitigated
by the fact that the project is to be "coordinated" by the Interministerial Committee which will be
placed in the Office of the Prime Minister
Stakeholder Conssultation Key stakeholders, particularly those with an important role in
implementation, should be involved as early-on in the process as possible. Project identification has
been done in consultation withi Inie miniistries, includinig that of Religious Affairs, NGOs (includinig
the NGO 'Oini a? la vie"which include PLWHA), UNAIDS and UN Agencies, other IDA projects,
OPS and donor agencies. Several workshops have taken place in the five districts and in
Djibouti-Ville to contribute to the finalization of the HIV/AIDS National Strategic Plan and to
discuss the KABP studies The HIV/AIDS National Strategic Plan was approved durinig a consensus
seminar which included all the partners consulted for project identificationi  Additional regional
workshops will be held aniually to set priorities and plan activities for the year at the level of the
communiities and the districts. It should be noted that PLWHA have been very active and involved
durinig project preparation and in the design and implementation of the ethnological studies of the
impact of AIDS on families and individuals.
Need for community participation Local comimlunities have a key role to play in the prevention of
HIV/AIDS, the care of infected people and the support to affected groups. They also have a role to
play in sanitationl and controlling malaria. The spread of infectious diseases, anid of HIV/AIDS In
particular, results in a heavy burdeni to local communities They need support to cope and to be able
to express their needs. Appropriate mechanisms must be put in place to facilitate the provision of
support and resources to communities (such as education of comimiunities to better engage themil in the
process, and so that adequate controls on finanicinig mechanisimis are put In place) It is recognized
that experience with NGOs have been difficult in Djibouti. An NGO institutional analysis carried oLut
during preparation indicated that NGOs were very weak, lack expertise, professionalism and know
how. These finding suggests that in-depth systematic institutional capacity building is ilecessary.
Consequently it was decided to have capacity building activities up front before launching
community interventions (see annex 2 section 4, for further details) In addition, the project intenids
to select 8 to 10 NGOs, or other institutiolns with recognized capacities, to train them, arid, on the
basis of a competition, select 5 of them as "TA institutions" These will have the responsibility of



14
PID
training local NGOs and associations, assist them with project preparation, and supervise and control
the quality of their activities This two-tiers system should ensuL-e close supervision. Finally, a pilot
project to provide support to sero-positive persons and their families is being carried out during
project preparation. At the end of this project, mechianisms to better work with NGOs and local
associations and means to avoid some of the past constraints will be identified. This pilot project
will also assist in defining the social package to be provided to infected and affected persons
MAP projects tended to lose momentum after Board approvd PPF has been requested by
Government to sensitize representatives of public sector and civil society organizationis, to establish
program coordinationi and implemenitation mechianisms, to start pilot operations as soon as possible
and to carry KABP studies. Funds available under a PHRD grant were used to provide techilical
assistance to assist in the development of a strategic plan and the carrying out of a sero-prevalence
survey, disseminationi workshops, and establish a monitoring and evaluation system.
Importance of monitoring and evalutation The design of the monitoring and evaluation system
should focus on who will use the indicators and how they will influence the decision-miiakinig process
Baseline data are essential for proper monitoring and have been collected during the preparation
phase (see the above point). The Monitoring and Evaluationi Manual was prepared and this task will
be subcontracted out to ensure that it is carried out by qualified experts  Capacity buildling and
transfer of competences will be a big part of the contractor's TIOR.
Overall implementation experience in the education sector has showil that by havinig the project
implemented by a unit within the Ministry of Education, there is better coordination among the different
partners (government, civil society, stakeholders) withiin the framework of a sectoral committee
established at that level, as well as better coordinationi between the donors. The Implemilentationi Unit has
a better grasp of the reform process, and hiow the different interventions fit in. There are now regular
meetings between the donors and the Ministry of Educationi, which has led to better synergy in impact
interventions
9. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues  : The program is not expected to have major environmenital impact. The handling and
disposal of clinical and in particular of HlV/AIDS-infected materials is the most significant issue.
Although an environmenltal plan was prepared for the Health Sector Development Project, a more
substantive assessment on medical solid waste was prepared and submitted to the Infosihop on February
27, 2003. The plan Includes jilprovemenits to the legal text oni sanitary waste management, training oii
how to safely dispose of contamilinated blood and other materials, wider dissemination of information to
the general population, health supplies suchi as gloves, waste disposal canisters, incinierators, etc., and
monitoring aiid evaluation. Health facilities benefiting from proceeds to the credit will be required to
demonstrate that they have safe methods of waste disposal and that the training provided to their staff
includes precautions ii handling sensitive materials
10. List of factual technical documents:
CREDES Report.
Tome 1: Analyse de la situationi et de la reponse nationale
Tome 2 Cadre strategique 2003-2007
T'ome 3: Plan operationnel 2003-2005
Tome 4 . Manuel de suivi et evaluatioln
Environmenital Managemilenit Plan on Waste Managemelit



15
PID
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Michele L. Lioy
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone 202-473-4810
Fax: 202-473-8216
12 For information on other project related documents contact
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D C 20433
Telephone (202) 458-5454
Fax     (202) 522-1500
Web http /1 www worldbank org/linfoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may not be necessarily
included in the final project.
Tables, Charts, Graphs:
Processed by the InfoShop week ending  03/31/2003
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
SEARC   -    -  FEc2flAC  - SEU ACAp F       StI-LAt     E 



