ISDS
THE WORLD BANK GROUP                                                 AWorld Vrto ol Povtrty
-  u          -  - - _ _  
Inohop
Report No AC19
Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Updated)
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 04/07/2003
Section I - Basic Information
A. Basic Project Data
Country: DJIBOUTI                                Project ID. P073603
Project. HIV/AIDS, Malaria and TuberculosIs Control  Task Team Leader Michele L. Lioy
Project
Authorized to Appraise Date: Marclh 25, 2003     IBRD Amount ($m)
Bank Approval: May 29, 2003                      IDA Amount ($m).
IDA GRANT FOR HIV/AIDS 12
Managing Unit: MNSH-D                            Sector Other social services (60%), Health (30%);
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Central government administration (10%)
Status: Lending                                  Th eme: Civic engagement, participation and
community driven development (P); Gender (P);
Fighting communicable diseases (P); Social analysis
and monitoring (S)
I.A.2 Project Objectives:
In accordance with the main goal of MAP2, the overall objectives of the project are to assist the
Government of Djibouti in settmig up and implemiienitinig the response against HIV/AIDS, sexually
transmitted infections (STIs), malaria and tuberculosis (TB), which are important risk cofactors. Djiboutl
meets the criteria for MAP2 eligibility and only key features are highliglhted below wlviclh are relevant to
the HIlV/ADS epidemic in Djibouti and the DjiboutLi HIV/AIDS, Malaria and Tuberculosis Control
Project The proposed project will be to support the National Strategic Plans to respectively fight against
IHV/AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis (plan s1rat6gique national de prevention du VII-I/SIDA, plan
stral6gique de lutte contre Ic Paludisine et plan strategique national de litle contre la Tuberculose)for
the period 2003-2008. The objective of the Project is to contribute to the chanige in behavior of the
Djiboutian population in order to containi or reduce the spread of the HIV/AIDS epidemic and to mitigate
its impact on ilfected and affected persons aiid to contribute to the contr-ol of malaria and tuberculosis. It
will do so throughi a multi-sector approach by: (i) prevenltinig the spread of HIV/AIDS by reducing
transmission, in particular among higlh risk groups; (ii) expanding access to treatment of opportunistic
illnesses and malaria, and to provide care, support and treatmenit to People Living wvith HIV/AIDS
(PLWHA) in Djibouti; and (mi) supportilg multi-sectoral, civil society and commllunity initiatives for
HIV/AIDS preventioni and care and malaria prevention. In the context of the above mentionied strategic
plans, the project will support and promote civil society and community initiatives, for prevention and
care of HIV/AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis put forward by beneficiary groups selected on1 the basis of
the techllical quality, cost-effectiveness and likely impact of their proposals.



2
ISDS
L.A 3. Project Description
The project will support the implementation of Djibouti's HIV/AIDS National Strategic Plan, the Malaria
Strategic Plan, and the National Tuberculosis Strategic Plan throughi a wide variety of public sector
agencies, private and noni-governmeintal organizations, and communiity-based organizationls. The project
will ilclude four major components as follows. I) capacity building and policy development; 2) public
health-sector responses to HIV/AIDS, the managemenit of TB and STIs, including preventioni, treatment
and care and malaria prevention; 3) multi-sector responses to HIV/AIDS prevention and care, and 4)
support to communiity-based initiatives for the three diseases. These activities will take into account the
existing conditions and Djibouti's capacity level both at the central and the district levels, recognizing
that at present capacity is weak at both levels. Presented below are the main sub-comilponlenits of each
component. For more details, see Annex 2.
Component 1. Capacity Building and Policy Development (US$ 4.5 million)
This component would aim at strengthening Djibouti's capacity to cope with the spread of HIV/AIDS, of
malaria and tuberculosis by supporting. (i) the work of the Interrinisterial Committee, the Technical
Interministerial Committee and the Executive Secretariat (ES), including project coordination and
facilitation; (ii) the up-dating of the National Strategic Plans (for each of the three diseases) and aniual
Action Plans; and (m) strengthiening of public, private and nongovermilenital institutions in preparing and
implementing preventioni, care and treatment intervenitiols.
Human resources are very limited both in number and in quality The acute shortage of humani resources
remains the most important constraint to the success of the project For instance in the MOH the number
of qualified persons is limited and most of these persons are already engaged in the launching of the
HSDP and/or in implementing the ministry's programs. In order to address this problem, it has been
agreed with the Government that. (a) some tasks would be contracted out (monitorinig and evaluation);
(b) some Djiboutian experts will be recruited on the basis of a competitive process and hired with
one-year contracts renewable on the basis of performance; (c) training will be organized, in particular for
specialized tasks and for NGOs and ABC before they are awarded financing to implemenit a project; and
(d) two long term international techinical assistants (a procuremenlt/implemenitationi specialist and a social
communication expert) and some short term experts for specialized tasks (for example, training in
counseling or development of a condom distribution strategy) will be recruited. All the termis of
reference of the technilcal assistants specify that one of their task is to transfer competences. Each TA
will have an official counterpart named or recruited by the DjiboIitianl authorities
This coi-nponent will also include training activities, under contract with local institutions, for the NGOs
and governmental institutiolns wilicil will have the responsibility to supervise and train other entities and
for the ministries' units and local NGOs and associations which will be implemiientinig activities. Some
study tours may be included as part of this training as well as for selected members of the IC, the TIC and
ES
Finally, the building of a laboratory and the rehabilitation of the building next to the offices of the Aids
Control Program of the MOH and the Center YouLIis Toussaint, will be included In this component. The
laboratory equipment is being finaniced Linder the I-SDP, but the laboratory building itself is presently
located in unsafe or temporary buildings whichi need to be replaced as soon as possible.  The
rehabilitation work being envisaged will provide space for expanding the role of Younlis Toussaint
Center to counselilg, voluntary testing and care and treatment of sero-positive persons. It will also
provide space where information will be available and where NGO and associations can meet. This will
be one of the centers included in the AIDS treatmenit pilot project included in the Public health



3
ISDS
component (see next section and Annex 2 for more details)
Component 2. Public Health Sector Response to HIV/AIDS, TB and STI Management
(US$2.3 million)
The Ministry of Healthi (MOH) and more broadly the healtil community, have special responsibilities for
malaria, STIs, HIV/AIDS, and opportunistic infections (includinig tuberculosis) prevention and
managemiient. This sector therefore warrants a separate component, makinlg provision for prevention, care
and treatmenit from a health sector perspective  This component will aim at expanding access to
preventive measures such as condomils, to treatment of  STIs, opportunistic illnesses (including
tuberculosis and malaria, and to care, support and treat People Living with HIV/AIDS (PLWHA) in
DjiboLitI. In addition, a subcomponient would have as an objective to increase cinical safety and
ameliorate the treatment of solid medical waste
Under this component, the project will include a) development of Voluntary Counselling and Testing
(VCT) protocols as well as a significant role in traininig counselors and in carrying out VCT activities
and follow-up; b) implemiienitation of syndromic algorithms for diagnostic and case maniagement of
sexually transmitted infections, c) the strengthening of the health system for the treatment of malaria,
HIV/AIDS, STIs, and opportunistic infections in particular TB; d) the setting up of measures to prevent
the transmission of the HIV in clinical settings; e) the procurement of condoms, and a significant role in
the distribution of condoms; f) the scaling up of activities geared to vulnerable/potentially high
transmitter groups in collaboration with other sector partners (in particular, the project could finalice
technical assistance for the IEC Unit of the MOH), g) the support to the decentralization program for TB
screeninig and treatment, h) the strengthening of the detection, preventioni and response to malaria, and 1)
the financinig of drugs, test kits, and medical consumliables, which will be bougIlt from the Central Drug
Procurement Agency once it is set up. The possibility of a partnership with WHO for the supervision of
some of the above activities is being explored, but needs to be discussed in detail with the MOH, the ES
and the Government.
The Bank has also been working closely withi its IUNAIDS partners, drug companies, and
developing-country govermilenits on access to ARV therapy This is an evolving situation which
progressively allows for low cost choices and alternative options The project intends to support the
development of guidelines and the strengtheninig of health infrastructure to allow ARV therapy drugs to
be used in a safe, effective, and sustainable maniner It will assist the MOH, in collaboration with other
partners (e g., the French Cooperation, WHO and UNICEF) in puttilng in place a one-year pilot project
including the treatment with ARV of sero-positive persons in the three public health systems of the
country (Ministry of Health, Ministry of Defense and Ministry of Employmenit  Organisation de la
Protection Sociale [OPS]). This pilot project will be used to assess the feasibility and cost of extending
the treatment program to the whole couLitry The drugs for the pilot project are being included In the first
purchase being procured linder the HISDP The Govermenlt of Djibouti is now eligible to apply to the
Global Fund and is preparing a proposal for the next rouid. It is hoped that in future, at least part of the
drugs for the program can be bought with Global Fund financinig
The prevention of mother to child transmission of the HIV (PMTCT) is not included in the project
because UNICEF is presently setting up a PMTCT program in two centers in Djibouti (one in a public
maternity center and the other in the MCH Center of SPO). The project, however, may contribute to the
training of counselors, as the pilot program may be scaled up, and to providing artificial milk for mothers
who decide not to breastfeed.



4
ISDS
Finally, with regard to condoms, a consultant may be recruited either under the PPF or early durinlg
project launcih, to develop a condomil distribution strategy. Condomiis will be provided on a no-cost basis
to STI patients, but condoms must also be made available outside of the health system as needed (based
on the strategy developed)
Component 3. Multi-sector Responses for HIV/AIDS Prevention and Care (US$ 3.1 million)
As has been demonstrated in other couLntries, and in order for the fight against HIV/AIDS to be efficient,
it is necessary to have a multi-sectoral approach in order to better target Priority Vulnerable Groups.
Although the multi-sectoral response is presently very weak, the ministries of Social Affairs and Women
Promotion, and Defense, already carry out some IEC and condom distributioni activities The project will
reinforce on-going activities and provide support to the following key miniistries outside of the MOH the
ministries of (a) Economiiy, Finances and Planninig, (b) Youthi and Sport, (c) National Educationi, Women
Promotion, (d) Social Affairs and Family Welfare, (e) Defense (army), (f) Employment and National
Solidarity, (g) Communicationi, TelecommIinicationi and Culture, (h) Justice, Penitentiary and Religious
Affairs, (i) Ministry of Wakfs and Islamic Affairs, (j) Interior and Decentralizationi (police), and (k)
Equipment and Transport. This componienit will provide these ministries with resources and traiilig to
improve their capacity to respond to the HIV/AIDS epidemic, emphasizing prevention and care. Most of
the above mentioned ministries are finalizinig their action plans which include performance indicators and
define monitoring systems and budgets Thle action plans are targeted to staff of line ministries and focus
on training peer educators on issues of HIV/AIDS and STIs, the importance of condoms in the fight
against these diseases, includinig other support mechanisms to encourage a change in behavior These
plans will be integrated into the ministries' ongoing operations. At this point it is not planied that the
project assists the Ministry of Transportbecause Save the Childre?7financed by USAID/Ethiopia, is
providing support to that Ministry, which could in addition, receive additional support through the
Regional Project for the Horn of Africa being developed by ActAfrica in the context of the NMAP2. The
Ministry of Communication will have a special role to play: at the beginninig of the project, it will assist
the international specialist in communication and its Djiboutian counterpart, in developing a nationial
commuliication strategy for the fight against HIV/AIDS, Malaria and Tuberculosis. During this process,
its role in the strategy will be defined. At a later stage, it is expected that it will disseminate audio-visual
and written materials prepared in the context of the communication strategy  The preparation of these
materials will be contracted out
Activities in the Ministries will be financed on the basis of an annual workplan and budget The Ministry
will receive a first tranche whicih it will have to Justify il order to receive the second tranche. The
Administrative and Fiianicial Manager of each Ministry who will imianage these funds will receive
training if necessary
Component 4. Support to community-based initiatives (US$ 2.1 million)
In order to enlist communities in the fight against HIV/AIDS and to provide them withi the means to
mitigate the impact of the epidemic, it is necessary to provide them the resources at the local level. The
objectives of this component are to. (a) strengthen communities and Djiboutian associations and NGOs,
so that can implement some essential activities for the reductioll of the vulierability to HITV/AlDS,
malaria and tuberculosis; and (b) strengthieni institutional capacities of Djiboutiani NGOs and associations
so that they can deliver essential services needed to the most vulnierable groups. Project suppor-t will be
provided in such a way as to ensure that community interventions are complementary and in synergy with
interventions carried out by governmenital services and other potential partners. In order to ensure that
this componienit takes into accoulit Djiboutian realities, a pilot project will be developed, wvith the
assistance of an NGO, to provide uItritionial support to PLWHA in Djibouti-Ville and the Hospital Paul



5
ISDS
Faure (TB Hospital). This will done during the preparation phase of the project so as to fine tune the
mechiaiiisnis of intervention and define an acceptable and reasonably priced social package (which could
also include assistance for disabled HIV/AIDS persons)
Essential activities identified for communlity interventions can be classified in three categories. (i)
prevention of HIV, TB and malaria transmissioni; (ii) reduction of the impact of l-V/AIDS (including
psycho-medico-social support and care to PLWHA and their families; social/economic support, includinig
food, to PLWHA and their families; and income generatilng activities for the families of PLWHA), and
(iii) legal support (see Annex 2 for more details on activities).
In order to implement the above activities, it will be necessary for the project to finance support activities
to'strengtheni the institutionial capacities of the Djiboutian NGOs. In order to do so, NGO personiel will
be trained in the following areas (a) management and development of social projects; (b) basic
information on HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis and malaria, (c) analysis of vulnerability and identification of
appropriate solutionis; (d) quality control for activities being financed at community level;  (e)
mobilization and promotion of community participation; and (f) supervision and evaluation of services.
This training could either be contracted out to local institutions, or if the Government agreed, by the
UNDP in the context of their 2003-2006 program, (through cost-sharinig or other arrangements).
The need for training and supervisioni of local NGOs and associations was assessed during the
development of the HIV/AIDS National Strategic Plan. Support to local NGOs and associations will be
provided by governmental and non-goverinimienital institutions whiich will be responsible for training and
supervision (called "Techniical Assistance (TA) Institutions" or "TA NGOs"). The preparation team is
conlscious of the fact that even the capacities of these TA institutionis will need to be strengthenied. At the
end of the training, an exam will identify the best 5 to 9 institutions to serve as TA institutionis, takiig
into account the criteria defined during a consenisus workshop on training and supervision.
The ES is responsible for preparing the Procedure Manual for Community Interventions (underway)
This Manual should be finalized prior to effectiveness, througih a consensus workshop organized in
collaboration with the UN Agencies and which would be attended by all the miniistries concernied with
the fight against HIV/AIDS, civil society and other partners The consultanit being recruited under the
HSDP to prepare the project Procedure Manual will be requested to prepare the Procedure Manual for
Commullity Intervenitions as well as the Project Operations Manual (POM) on the basis of the model
elaborated by the ActAfrica team.
With regard to the identificationi of local projects for communLity intervenitionis for the first year of the
project, it will be done in a realistic manner which will prioritize learning and the development of
capacities of the personnel involved as well as quality contiol Coverage will be gradually increased. On
the basis of the response analysis carried out in 2002, it has been agreed upon that about 30 communilty
projects will be developed for 2004. These projects will be implemented by 25 to 30 local NGOs and
associations assisted by 5-9 T A institutions, and the ministry dealing withi the same vulnerable group and
the Comm11ullity Intervention Support Unit (CISU) of the ES.
The preparation and selection process of community projects to be fiiaiced by the project will be an
annual process which will be carried out in each district (or neigilborhiood) tinder the responsibility of the
regional HIV/AIDS Counlcils. The project will be identified and selected taking into accouint the
essential activities necessary to reduce the vulnerability of priority grouips in each district of the country
and neighborhood of Djibouti-Ville and governmental interventionis identified in the sectoral plans.
The implementation of these projects will be monitored and supervised, at the central level, by the



6
ISDS
CommUnity Interventioni Support Unit (CISU) in close collaboration with the person responsible for
sectoral response in the ES and at the regional level, with the TA institutiolIs, the HIV/AIDS regional
committees and the consultanit to which monitoring and evaluation will be contracted out.  The
modalities of these arrangements will be defined in the Monitoring and Evaluation Plan. The financing
of community projects and of contracts withi TA institution1s will be carried out by the CISU in agreemenit
withi the Communi'ty Intervention Procedure Mauial wvhicih will need to be finalized before the project
becomes effective The mechaniisms to chanilel funds from the CISU to communities was agreed uponi
during the February 2003 mission. The selection process of the projects will be carried out by an
independenit Committee Govermiient, civil society and donor representatives. The selection modalities
will be stipulated in the Procedure Manial for CommuLi1ty Interventions
Components.
Capacity Building and Policy Development
Public Health Sector Response to HIV/AIDS, TB and STI Management
Multi-sector Responses for HIV/AIDS Prevention and Care
Support to community-based initiatives
I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key environimental and social
characteristics of the area and population likely to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites
or critical natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
Republic of Djibouti. The consultanit has prepared the Environimlenital Management Plan on medical solid
waste, and the report was submitted to the InfoShop on February 28, 2003.
B. Clheck Environmental Classification: B (Partial Assessment)
Comments A Solid Waste Management Plan was developed and received by IDA on February 27, 2003
C. Safeguard Policies Triggered
Policy                                Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)                     * Yes Cr No
Natural Habitats (OP/BP/GP 4.04)                             Qt Yes * No
Forestry (OP/GP 4.36)                                       O Yes * No
Pest Management (OP 4 09)                                    0 Yes * No
Cultural Property (OPN I1 03)                               E Yes * No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                 C Yes * No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                        C} Yes 0 No
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4 37)                                  C Yes * No
Projects in Inteinational Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7 50)          C Yes * No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*                  C Yes 0 No
*By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejzudice thefinal determination of the parties' claims
on the dispuited areas
Section IT - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summnary of Key Sofeguard Issues Pleasefill in all relevant questions. If informnation is not available,
describe steps to be taken to obtain necessary data.



7
ISDS
II D.la. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. Identify and
describe any potential large scale, significanit and/or irreversible impacts
The operation of incinerators proposed within the framework of the action plan can generate
certain harmful effects in the environmental and medical plan. It should however be noted that
taking into account the very reduced quantities that hospitals will incinerate on a daily basis, the
environmental and medical impacts of this system will be relatively minor and the harmful
effects won't be major. From the source, the sorting will have to be systematic to reduce waste to
the minimum that has to be incinerated, and uncontaminated plastic objects should be carefully
selected.
II.D. I b. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of more than one safeguard policy or
due to multiple project component
NA
Il.D.lc Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future activities in the project area.
NA
II.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if required)
1l.D 3 Describe arrangemiient for the borrower to address safeguard issues
The main features of the EMP are to develop a nationial policy regarding waste managemenit, and the
appropriate guides and legal texts; train key personnlel in all health facilities, disseminate to the wider
population through different means of imnedia coverage, improve waste collection methods and purclhase
of needed supplies towards that end, and monitor and evaluate activities undertaken
11 D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and disclosure on
safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people.
Health facilities were consulted, as well as the larger reference hospitals In addition, iiterviews were
held with local communities who suffer the effects of having waste disposal sites located in their viciniity,
and NGOs involved in the health sector.
E. SafeguardIs ClIssification. Category is determined by the highest impact in any policy. Or on basis of
cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards Wheniever an individual safeguard policy is triggered the
provisions of that policy apply.
[ ] SI . - Signiificanit, cumiulative and/or irreversible impacts, or sign ificanit techniical and institutional risks
in managemlienit of one or more safeguard areas
[X] S2. - One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are limited in their imipact and are
technically and institutionially manageable
S3. -No safeguard issues
[ ] SF - Financial intermediary projects, social development fuLnds, community driven development or
simiilar projects which require a safeguard fiamework or programmatic approach to address
safeguard issues.
F. Disclosure Requirements
Envionnmental Assessmnen7t/A nalyssIMs/Iv7fcge,nient Plani  Expected      Actiual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                  1/31/2003      2/27/2003
Date of "'in-counltry" disclosure                            2/28/2003      2/27/2003



8
ISDS
Date of submission to InfoShop                               3/31/2003      2/28/2003
Date of distributing the Exec Summary of the EA to the ED
(For category A projects)
Resettlemenlt Action Plan/Framework                           Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Indigenoius Peoples Development Plan/Framevork                Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Pest Mqanagenment Plan.                                       Expected      Acteal
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-coulitry" disclosure
Date of submissioni to InfoShop
Dam Safety Management Plan:                                   Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to I nfoSliop
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documelIts is not expected, please explain why
Si2ned and submitted by        Name                                         Date
Task Team Leader.             Michele L. Lioy                               3/25/03
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:  John Bryant Collier/Person/World Bank    3/25/03
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:  Mohamed Arbi Ben-Achour/Person/World Bank  3/25/03
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:
Approved by:                  Name                                          Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: Sherif Kamel F. Arif                       3/25/03
Sector Manager/Director:      Jacques Baudouy                              3/25/03
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
_____.H   u FE.EDbACK  SITE MAP    1 W(AOWCiE



