Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
GRANT NUMBER H042 - DJI  
 
Development Grant Agreement 
 
(HIV/AIDS, Malaria and Tuberculosis Control Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF DJIBOUTI 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated June 25, 2003 
 
Page  2
GRANT NUMBER H042 - DJI 
 
DEVELOPMENT GRANT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated June 25, 2003, between REPUBLIC OF DJIBOUTI (the 
Recipient) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the 
Association). 
 
WHEREAS (A) the Recipient, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has 
requested the Association to assist in the financing of the Project;  
 
(B) 
the Association was authorized under Resolution No. 549, adopted on 
September 29, 2002, by the Board of Governors of the International Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development (the “Bank”) to use the funds transferred to the 
Association out of the Bank’s fiscal year 2002 net income to provide financing in the 
form of grants as well as loans; and 
 
(C) 
the Executive Directors of the Association have determined that the 
development grant set out in Section 2.01 of this Agreement (the Grant) is consistent with 
such policies; and 
 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Grant to the Recipient upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. The following provisions of the “General Conditions Applicable to 
Development Credit Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended 
through October 6, 1999), with the modifications set forth in paragraph (b) below (the 
General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement: 
 
(a) (i) Article 
I; 
 
(ii) 
Sections 2.01 (1), (2), (3), (4), (5), (6), (7), (8), (9), (10), (12), 
 
(13) and (14), 2.02 and 2.03; 
 
(iii) Section 
3.01; 
 
(iv) 
Sections 4.01 and 4.05; 
Page  3
-
2
-
2
(v) Article 
V; 
 
(vi) 
Sections 6.01, 6.02, 6.03, 6.04 and 6.06; 
 
(vii) 
Section 8.01 (b); 
 
(viii) Article 
IX; 
 
(ix) 
Article X;  
 
(x) 
Article XI; and 
 
(xi) Article 
XII. 
 
(b) 
The General Conditions shall be modified as follows: 
 
The terms “Borrower”, “Credit”, “Credit Account”, “Development Credit” and 
“Development Credit Agreement”, wherever they appear in the General Conditions, are 
replaced by “the Recipient”, “the Grant”, “the Grant Account”, “the Development Grant” 
and “the Development Grant Agreement”, respectively. 
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
 
(a) 
“Advance Account” means a sub-account of the Special Account (as 
hereinafter defined) referred to in Section 2.02(c) of this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
“CAU” means Credit Administration Unit established by the Recipient to 
carry out the implementation of Projects financed by donor agencies, and which shall be 
responsible for the day-to-day implementation of this Project, until the Executive 
Secretariat (as hereinafter defined) becomes functional;  
 
(c) 
“Community-Based Organization” or “CBO” means a community-based 
organization, including, inter alia, local community groups, youth clubs, women 
organizations, associations of people living with HIV/AIDS, non-governmental 
organizations (NGOs), or religious groups, which has met the eligibility criteria set forth 
in the Community Intervention Procedures Manual (as hereinafter defined) and, as a 
result, has received or is entitled to receive a Community Sub-Grant (as hereinafter 
defined) for the carrying out of a Community Sub-Project (as hereinafter defined); 
 
Page  4
-
3
-
3
(d) 
“Community Intervention Procedures Manual” means the manual
 
to be
 
adopted by the Recipient pursuant to Section 5.01(b) of this Agreement, containing, inter 
alia, details regarding the categories of Community Sub-Projects (as hereinafter defined), 
the Community Sub-Project cycle, criteria for selecting Community-Based Organizations 
for Project activities, model agreement, terms and conditions for Community Sub-Grants 
(as hereinafter defined), and criteria for monitoring and evaluation activities; 
 
(e) 
“Community Sub-Grant” means a sub-grant made, or proposed to be 
made, by the Recipient to a Community-Based Organization to finance a Community 
Sub-Project; 
 
(f) 
“Community Sub-Grant Agreement” means an agreement to be entered 
into between the Executive Secretariat and a Community-Based Organization with terms 
and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including those set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 
and 3 of Part C of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
 
(g) 
“Community Sub-Project” means a specific activity or set of activities 
financed, or proposed to be financed, through a Community Sub-Grant made under  
Part D.2 of the Project; 
 
(h) 
“CISU” means the Community Intervention Support Unit referred to in  
Part C.2 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;  
 
(i) 
“Executive Secretariat” means the secretariat, referred to in Part A.2 of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement, which shall take over, from CAU, the responsibility for the 
day-to-day implementation of this Project; 
 
(j) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” or “FMR” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(k) 
“Fiscal Year” or “FY” means the fiscal year of the Recipient 
commencing on January 1 and ending on December 31 of each year; 
 
(l) 
“Health Sector Development Project” means the Recipients’ Project 
financed through the Association’s Credit No. 3650-DJ dated August 12, 2002; 
 
(m) 
“Health Care Waste Management Plan” means the Recipient’s plan for 
Health Care Waste Management, satisfactory to the Association, dated 
 
February 28, 2003, which, inter alia: (i) enables the Recipient to assess the Project’s 
environmental and social impacts; and (ii) where applicable, governs the preparation of 
environmental management plans and other appropriate mechanisms, satisfactory to the 
Association, required to prevent, mitigate and monitor any adverse impacts from carrying 
out the Project. 
 
Page  5
-
4
-
4
(n) 
“HIV/AIDS” means Human Immunodeficiency Virus/Acquired 
Immunodeficiency Syndrome; 
 
(o) 
“Interministerial Committee” means the Interministerial Committee to 
combat HIV/AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis, established by the Recipient on 
 
March 22, 2003, pursuant to its Decree No. 2003-0049/PR/MEF/MS, for the purpose of 
providing coordination and oversight to the implementation of the National Strategic 
Plans (as hereinafter defined); 
 
(p) 
“Inter-sectoral Technical Committee” means the technical level inter-
sectoral coordination group, including technical representatives from the Recipient’s 
sectoral ministries, civil society and the private sector, established by the Recipient on 
March 22, 2003, pursuant to its Decree No. 2003-0049/PR/MEF/MS to assist the 
Recipient in the carrying out of the Project; 
 
(q) 
“MOH” means the Recipient’s Ministry of Health; 
 
(r) 
“Multi-sectoral Sub-Project” means a specific activity or set of activities 
financed, or proposed to be financed, through a Multi-sectoral Sub-Grant made under 
Part C.1 of the Project; 
 
(s) 
“Multi-sectoral Sub-Project Grant” means a sub-grant made, or proposed 
to be made, by the Recipient through the Executive Secretariat, for the purpose of 
carrying out a Multi-sectoral Sub-Project;  
 
(t) 
“Multi-sectoral Sub-Project Grant Agreement” means an agreement to be 
entered into between the Executive Secretariat and a Sectoral Ministry carrying out a 
Multi-sectoral Sub-Project (the Sectoral Ministry) with terms and conditions satisfactory 
to the Association, including those set forth in B.1 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
 
(u) 
“National Strategic Plans” means the Recipient’s three different plans 
including the National Strategic Plan to combat HIV/AIDS/STI, the National Strategic 
Plan to combat malaria and the National Strategic Plan to combat tuberculosis; 
 
(v) “OPS” 
means 
Organisme
de
la
protection sociale
,
a
parastatal institution 
providing basic health services to private sector employees and the public sector 
contractual employees in the territory of the Recipient; 
 
(w) 
“Performance Indicators” means the indicators described in Schedule 6 
to this Agreement; 
 
(x) 
“Project Operations Manual” means the Recipient’s Project Operations 
Manual to be adopted pursuant to Section 3.04(b) of this Agreement, as amended from 
time to time with the Association’s agreement, containing, inter alia, details regarding the 
processes and responsibilities for general management, procurement activities, and 
Page  6
-
5
-
5
financial management and control, including the terms of reference for internal and 
external audits and the terms of reference of key personnel;   
 
(y) 
“Project Preparation Advance” means the project preparation advances 
granted by the Association to the Recipient pursuant to the letter of agreement signed on 
behalf of the Association on March 14, 2002, and on behalf of the Recipient on  
March 26, 2002; and the letter of agreement signed on behalf of the Association on 
December 24, 2002, and on behalf of the Recipient on January 3, 2003; 
 
(z) 
“Special Accounts” means the accounts referred to in Section 2.02(b) of 
this Agreement;  
 
(aa) 
“STI” means sexually transmitted infections; and 
 
(bb) 
“Supporting Organizations” means the organizations selected in 
accordance with the Community Intervention Procedures Manual, to assist, train and 
supervise community interventions under Part D of the Project. 
 
ARTICLE II 
 
The Grant 
 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to make available to the Recipient, on the 
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Development Grant Agreement, an 
amount in various currencies equivalent to eight million eight hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 8,800,000). 
 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Grant may be withdrawn from the Grant 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for: 
(i) amounts paid (or if the Association shall so agree, amounts to be paid) on account of 
withdrawals made under a Community Sub-Project or Multi-sectoral Sub-Project to meet 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for such sub-Project in respect of 
which the withdrawal for the Grant Account is requested; and (ii) expenditures made (or, 
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods  
and services required for carrying out the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Grant. 
 
(b) 
The Recipient may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars two separate special deposit accounts (Special Account A and Special Account B) 
in a commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including 
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments 
out of, the Special Accounts shall be made in accordance with the provisions of  
Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
 
Page  7
-
6
-
6
(c) The 
Recipient 
shall: 
 
(i) 
open and maintain in dollars, in the order of each Sectoral 
Ministry, an Advance Account out of the Special Account A, in 
one or more commercial banks acceptable to the Association, on 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, (including 
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment), to 
be used exclusively for the purposes of financing goods and 
services under Parts A, B and C of the Project; and   
 
(ii) 
withdraw from the Special Account A and deposit into each 
Advance Account an amount not exceeding US$50,000 for each 
of the Sectoral Ministries, with the exception of the Advance 
Account opened by MOH, wherein the deposit may amount to 
US$150,000, and thereafter replenish said Advance Accounts in 
accordance with paragraph 7 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
 
(d) 
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of the 
Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and pay to itself the amount required to 
repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
canceled. 
 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 2008, or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Recipient of 
such later date. 
 
Section 2.04. (a) The Recipient shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Grant not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set 
by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of 
one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
 
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Recipient from the Grant Account or canceled; and (ii) at the 
rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates 
as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as 
of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in 
Section 2.05 of this Agreement. 
 
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or 
in the territory of, the Recipient; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for 
Page  8
-
7
-
7
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency 
or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the 
provisions of that Section. 
 
Section 2.05. (a) Commitment charges shall be payable semiannually on  
March 15 and September 15 in each year. 
 
(b) 
The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE III 
 
Execution of the Project
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the 
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate health 
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for the Project. 
 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement. 
 
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Recipient shall: 
 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such 
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Recipient and the Association, a 
plan for the future operation of the Project; and 
 
(b) 
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Recipient on said plan. 
 
Section 3.04. The Recipient shall, no later than December 31, 2003: (a) establish 
a
financial management system for the Project, acceptable to the Association; and  
(b) adopt the Project Operations Manual, in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Association. 
Page  9
-
8
-
8
ARTICLE IV 
 
Financial Covenants 
 
Section 4.01. (a) The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Recipient responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof. 
 
(b) The 
Recipient 
shall: 
 
(i) 
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section including those for the Special Accounts for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association; 
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
said records and accounts and the audit thereof as the 
Association shall from time to time reasonably request. 
 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditures, the Recipient shall: 
 
(i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting 
such expenditures; 
 
(ii) 
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Grant Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; 
 
(iii) 
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such 
records; and 
 
Page  10
-
9
-
9
(iv) 
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during 
such fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related withdrawals. 
 
Section 4.02. (a) The Recipient shall prepare and furnish to the Association a 
financial monitoring report (FMR), in form and substance satisfactory to the Association, 
which: 
 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Grant, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned use of such funds; 
 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual
 
and planned Project 
implementation; and 
 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
 
(b) 
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Association not later than 45 
days after the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the 
period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of 
such first calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Association not 
later than 45 days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar 
quarter. 
 
ARTICLE V 
 
Effective Date; Termination 
 
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of this Development Grant Agreement within the meaning of Section  
12.01(b) of the General Conditions: 
 
(a) 
the Recipient has adopted the Community Intervention Procedures 
Manual, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association; 
 
(b) 
the Recipient has appointed an accountant for CISU, with terms of 
reference acceptable to the Association; and 
Page  11
-
10
-
10
(c) 
the Recipient has finalized the format and the content of the FMR. 
 
Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
 
Representative of the Recipient; Addresses
 
Section 6.01. The Recipient
’s Minister of Economy, Finance and Planning in 
charge of Privatization is designated as representative of the Recipient for the purposes of 
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions. 
 
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of  
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Recipient: 
 
Ministry of Economy, Finance and  
 
Planning in charge of Privatization 
 
BP 13 
 
Djibouti 
 
Facsimile: 
 
253 35 65 01 
 
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
Page  12
-
11
-
11
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF DJIBOUTI 
 
By /s/ Robleh Olhaye 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ Jean-Louis Sarbib 
Regional Vice President 
Middle East and North Africa 
Page  13
-
12
-
12
SCHEDULE 1
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Grant 
 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the Grant to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Grant Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
SDR Equivalent
)
to be Financed
(1) Works 
 
600,000 
 
 
100% 
 
 
(2) Goods 
 
 
 
100% 
 
(a) Goods, other than 
1,050,000 
those in (b), including  
vehicles 
 
(b) Pharmaceuticals 
200,000 
 
(3) 
Consultants’ services 
2,950,000 
 
 
100% 
 
including training and audit 
 
(4)  
Multi-sectoral Sub-grants  
1,100,000 
 
 
100% 
 
(5)  
Incremental Operating Costs 
1,300,000 
 
 
100% 
 
(6) 
Community Sub-grants  
750,000 
 
 
100%  
 
(7) 
Refunding of 
 
 
Amount due pursuant 
 
Project Preparation 
550,000 
 
to Section 2.02(d) of 
 Advance 
 
 
this 
Agreement 
 
(8) Unallocated 
300,000 
 
___________ 
 
TOTAL 8,800,000 
 
 
 
Page  14
-
13
-
13
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule, 
“Incremental Operating Costs” means the 
costs incurred by the Executive Secretariat, including incremental staff salaries, office 
supplies, office rental, printing, and utilities for rented offices, and communications costs, 
costs for the maintenance of vehicles and equipment, and costs incurred on account of the 
supervision of the Project, including fuel for supervision and per diem while away on 
mission.  
 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement; (b) Community Sub-grants, unless the Community Sub-grant has been made 
in accordance with the terms and conditions and eligibility criteria set forth in the 
Community Intervention Procedures Manual, and in Part C.1 and C.2 of Schedule 4 to 
this Agreement; and (c) Multi-sectoral Sub-grants, unless the Multi-sectoral Sub-grant 
has been made in accordance with the terms and conditions and eligibility criteria set 
forth in Part B.1 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
 
4. 
The Association may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (i) goods, under contracts 
costing less than US$100,000 equivalent each; (ii) works, under contracts costing less 
than US$100,000 equivalent each; (iii) services of consulting firms, under contracts 
costing less than US$100,000 equivalent each; (iv) services of individual consultants, 
under contracts costing less than US$50,000 equivalent each; (v) training, under contracts 
costing less than US$50,000 equivalent each; and (vi) Multi-sectoral Sub-Grants, 
Community Sub-grants and Incremental Operating Costs; all under such terms and 
conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient. 
Page  15
-
14
-
14
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Description of the Project 
 
The objectives of the Project are: (i) to contribute to bring change in behavior of 
the population in the Recipient’s territory to contain and reduce the spread of the 
HIV/AIDS epidemic, and to mitigate the impact of the epidemic on infected and affected 
persons; and (ii) to assist the Recipient to strengthen its programs for the control of 
malaria and tuberculosis.  
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Recipient and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
 
Part A
:
Capacity Building and Policy Development
1. 
Strengthening the Recipient’s capacity to cope with the spread of HIV/AIDS, 
malaria and tuberculosis through the provision of technical advisory services and 
equipment, and carrying out of works: (a) for the finalization, updating and 
implementation of the National Strategic Plans; (b) for the preparation and 
implementation, by public, private and non-governmental institutions, of HIV/AIDS/STI, 
malaria and tuberculosis prevention and care interventions; (c) for capacity building and 
training, including on-the-job training for health personnel, advocacy and communication 
training; (d) for the development and implementation of a national social communication 
strategy; and (e) for monitoring and evaluation, including behavioral and epidemiological 
surveillance, operational research, and other monitoring and evaluation activities. 
 
2. 
Enhancing counseling, voluntary testing, and care and treatment of sero-positive 
persons, through the rehabilitation and extension of the “Centre Yonis
Toussaint
”, and 
construction of a reference laboratory at the “Hôpital
General
Peltier
”.   
 
Part B
:
Health Sector Responses to HIV/AIDS/STI, Malaria and Tuberculosis
1.  
Provision of technical advisory services, equipment and drugs to build on and 
complement the work to be carried out by MOH under the Health Sector Development 
Project, and activities related to other reproductive health and communicable diseases 
currently performed or to be financed by MOH and its sector partners.  
 
2.  
Provision of technical advisory services, training, drugs, medical consumables 
and equipment including: (a) the strengthening of the national sentinel epidemiological 
surveillance system and sero-prevalence surveys; (b) the development of Voluntary 
Counseling and Testing (VCT) protocols and implementation and monitoring thereof;  
(c) the implementation of syndromic algorithms for diagnosis and case management of 
sexually transmitted infections (STI); (d) development and adoption of a protocol for 
Page  16
-
15
-
15
anti-retro-viral therapy and care; (e) the strengthening of the health system for the 
diagnostic and  treatment of HIV/AIDS/STIs (including opportunistic infections) and, in 
particular, malaria and tuberculosis; (f) the procurement and distribution of condoms;  
(g) the strengthening of social communication activities for vulnerable groups in 
collaboration with other sector partners in the context of the national communication 
strategy; and (h) acquisition of drugs, test kits, medical consumables, medical equipment 
and other supplies utilized in the control of malaria and tuberculosis.  
 
Part C
:
Multi-sector Response for HIV/AIDS/STI Prevention and Care
1.  
Provision of technical advisory services and equipment to facilitate the 
implementation of the annual action plans and Multi-sectoral Sub-projects deriving 
therefrom, prepared by the Recipient’s ministries and public agencies (Sectoral 
Ministries) for, inter alia, the training of peer educators on issues of HIV/AIDS/STIs, 
promoting the importance of condoms in the fight against HIV/AIDS/STI and their 
distribution, promotion of counseling and voluntary testing, and different support 
mechanisms to encourage change in behavior practices, including provision of grants for 
such Multi-sectoral Sub-projects.  
 
2.  
Provision of training to staff of the Sectoral Ministries to transfer knowledge to 
their partners and audiences, including, inter alia, parents-students associations, dockers’ 
associations, truckers, women’s groups, youth groups, persons in uniform, health 
committees, commercial sex workers, so as to promote effective HIV/AIDS/STIs 
prevention, and ensure access to health care facilities, treatment and care. 
 
Part D
:
Support to Community-based Interventions
1.  
Provision of technical advisory services and equipment for: (a) the promotion 
and the distribution of condoms; (b) targeted Information, Education and 
Communication/Communication for Behavior Change campaigns aiming at changing 
behaviors related to HIV transmission; (c) interventions aiming at improving the status 
and autonomy of women; (d) psycho-medico-social and economic support and care to 
people infected and affected with HIV/AIDS; (e) promotion of voluntary counseling and 
testing (VCT); (f) promotion of prevention of mother-to-child transmission; 
 
(g) prevention of malaria; and (h) continued support to tuberculosis patients.  
 
2.  
Carrying out of Community Sub-projects prepared by CBOs, including provision 
of grants for the financing of such Community Sub-projects.  
 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 2008. 
Page  17
-
16
-
16
SCHEDULE 3
 
Procurement 
 
Section I
.
Procurement of Good and Works
Part A
:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of  
Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits”, 
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, 
September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of 
Section I of this Schedule. 
 
Part B
:
International Competitive Bidding
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines 
and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
 
2. 
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
 
(a) Grouping 
of 
contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods and pharmaceuticals, shall be 
grouped in bid packages estimated to cost $55,000 equivalent or more each. 
 
(b) 
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Recipient.  
 
Part C
:
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding
(a) 
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to 
an aggregate amount not to exceed $800,000 equivalent, and all works, may be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of 
the Guidelines. 
 
Page  18
-
17
-
17
(b) 
In the carrying out of procurement under the National Competitive 
Bidding method referred to in (a) above, the Recipient shall ensure that: (i) all bidders are 
given sufficient time to submit bids (four weeks); (ii) bid evaluation and bidder 
qualification are clearly specified in bidding documents; (iii) no margin of preference is 
granted to domestic contractors and manufacturers; (iv) no bid is rejected during bid 
opening; (v) eligible firms are not precluded from participation; (vi) award is made to the 
lowest evaluated bidder that meets the appropriate standards of capability and resources 
in accordance with predetermined criteria specified in the bidding documents; 
 
(vii) enterprises owned by the Recipient shall be allowed to participate only if they can 
establish that they: (A) are legally and financially autonomous; and (B) operate under 
commercial law; provided that no dependent agency of the Recipient or Sub-Recipient of 
the Project or their employees shall be permitted to submit or participate in a proposal for 
the provision of consulting services
 
under the Project; (viii) bids are allowed to be 
submitted by mail or directly to the Client before bid submission deadline; (ix) bid 
envelopes are opened in public, opening time being the same as the bid submission 
deadline, or immediately thereafter, and time and place of bid opening being clearly 
announced in the bidding documents; and (x) in the case that a two-envelop system is 
applied,  the two envelopes shall be opened simultaneously. 
 
2. 
International or National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than US$40,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed US$400,000 equivalent, may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of international or national shopping procedures in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
 
3. 
Procurement from United Nations’ Agencies
Pharmaceutical products, condoms, medical equipment, impregnated bednets, 
World Health Organization (WHO) approved insecticides and sprayers, vehicles and food 
supplies, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed US$500,000, may be procured from 
the
 Inter-Agency Procurement Services Office (IAPSO), the United Nations International 
Children’s Emergency Fund (UNICEF), the United Nations World Food Program (WFP), 
and the WHO in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.9 of the Guidelines.
 
4. Community 
Participation
Goods required for Parts D.2 of the Project shall be procured in accordance with 
procedures acceptable to the Association, in accordance with the Community 
Intervention Procedures Manual. 
 
Page  19
-
18
-
18
Part D
:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1. Procurement 
Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken 
in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the 
Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent 
of US$80,000 or more, all contracts for works, the first three contracts for the first year of 
the Project and all subsequent contracts awarded on the basis of international competitive 
bidding method, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent 
of US$40,000 or more, the following procedures shall apply: 
 
(i) 
prior to the selection of any supplier under shopping procedures, 
the Recipient shall provide to the Association a report on the 
comparison and evaluation of quotations received; 
 
(ii) 
prior to the execution of any contract procured under shopping 
procedures, the Recipient shall provide to the Association a copy 
of the specifications and the draft contract; and 
 
(iii) 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Sections I and IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers”, published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in 
Page  20
-
19
-
19
September 1997, January 1999 and May 2002 (the Consultant Guidelines), paragraph 1 
of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto and the following provisions of Section II of 
this Section. 
 
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Consultant Guidelines, and the provisions of paragraphs 2.13 through 2.18 thereof 
applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
 
2. 
The following provision shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph: the short 
list of consultants for services for training and specialized tasks including monitoring and 
evaluation, social communication, design of condom distribution strategy, estimated to 
cost less than US$25,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 and footnote 8 of the 
Consultant Guidelines. 
 
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services estimated to cost less than US$50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed US$500,000, may be procured under contracts awarded 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
2. 
Single Source Selection
(a)  
Services for small assignments, which are estimated to cost less than 
$5,000 equivalent per contract, may, with the Association’s prior agreement, be procured 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
 
(b) 
Services for the production and diffusion of educational material, certain 
specialized training and the delegated contract for the management and supervision of 
civil works, which are estimated to cost less than US$150,000 equivalent per contract, 
may, with the Association’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
Page  21
-
20
-
20
3. 
Agreement between the Recipient and WHO
The Agreement between the Recipient and WHO
 
(the
 Protocole
 
d’Accord) 
for 
the provision of certain services relating to Parts A and B of the Project, estimated to cost 
less than US$400,000 may be procured in accordance with the provision of paragraph 
3.13 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
4. Individual 
Consultants
Services of individual consultants for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in 
paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.4 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.  
 
Part D
:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
A
plan for the selection of consultants, which shall include contract cost 
estimates, contract packaging, and applicable selection criteria and procedures, shall be 
furnished to the Association for its review and approval prior to the issuance to 
consultants of any requests for proposals. Such plan shall be updated every six months 
during the execution of the Project, and each such updating shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval. Selection of all consultants’ services shall be 
undertaken in accordance with such selection plan (as updated from time to time) as shall 
have been approved by the Association. 
 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of US$100,000 or more, the first three contracts for the 
employment of consulting firms regardless of size, and all contracts awarded on the basis 
of single source selection method, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2, 3 and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of US$50,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
US$100,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second sub-
paragraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply. 
 
(c) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants to be selected on a sole source basis, or estimated to cost the equivalent of 
US$50,000 or more, the report on the comparison of the qualifications and experience of 
candidates, the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of 
Page  22
-
21
-
21
the consultants shall be furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval. 
The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have been given. The 
provisions of paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall also apply to 
such contracts. 
 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply. 
 
Page  23
-
22
-
22
SCHEDULE 4
 
Implementation Program 
 
A.  
General
1. 
Without limitation upon the specific provisions of this Agreement, the Recipient 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Project Operations Manual and the 
Health Care Waste Management Plan, and except as the Association shall otherwise 
agree, the Recipient shall not amend or waive any provision thereof if, in the opinion of 
the Association, such amendment or waiver may materially and adversely affect the 
implementation of the Project. 
 
2. 
The Recipient shall cause an Executive Secretariat, as set forth by the Decree 
2003-0049/PR/MEF/MS, dated March 22, 2003, providing for an institutional framework 
to combat AIDS, Malaria and Tuberculosis (the Executive Secretariat), to be responsible: 
(i) for overall management, implementation, and coordination activities, and to support 
the ministries, public agencies and civil society organizations to implement the different 
Project activities on a daily basis; (ii) for ensuring that the action plans prepared by the 
sectoral ministries involved in the Project are in line with the HIV/AIDS/STI National 
Strategic Plan and are carried out within the allocated budget; and (iii) for appointing and 
supervising the community interventions and the supporting organizations.  
 
3. 
The Recipient shall cause the Executive Secretariat to carry out Part D.2 of the 
Project with assistance from the supporting organizations selected in accordance with the 
provision of the Community Intervention Procedures Manual. 
 
4. 
The Recipient shall: (i) maintain, until the completion of the Project, all key-staff 
of the Executive Secretariat, including, inter alia, its Executive Secretary, the Chief of the 
Financial and Administrative Unit and its Accountant, the Procurement Specialist, the 
Communications Specialist, and the Chief of the CISU and its Accountant; and (ii) ensure 
that all other staff in charge directly or indirectly of the implementation of any parts of 
the Project, shall be, at all times, satisfactory to the Association.  
 
5. 
The Recipient shall cause the Executive Secretariat to: (i) establish, in 
collaboration with the Sectoral Ministries an annual work program and budget, in 
conformity with the provisions of the Project Operations Manual, organize annual 
regional workshops to establish priorities and develop an annual work plan for 
communities in conformity with the provisions of the Community Intervention 
Procedures Manual; (ii) no later than November 30 of each year, furnish to the 
Association, such annual work program and budget including details on the activities and 
the funds required for the following year; and (iii) prepare and furnish to the Association, 
a
semiannual progress report, by no later than March 31, for the period covering the 
second semester of the preceding year, and, by no later than September 30, for the period 
covering the first semester of the current calendar year. 
Page  24
-
23
-
23
6. The 
Recipient 
shall: 
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with Performance Indicators set forth in 
Schedule 6 to this Agreement, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof; 
 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about September 30, 2006, a mid-term report integrating 
the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to 
 
paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project 
during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and 
 
(c) 
review with the Association, by November 30, 2006, or such later date as 
the Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and 
the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations 
of the said report and the Association’s views on the matter. 
 
B. 
Procedures, Terms and Conditions for Multi-sectoral Sub-Projects
1. 
A Multi-sectoral Sub-Grant for each Multi-sectoral Sub-Project to be made under 
Part C.2 of the Project shall be made by the Recipient, only: 
 
(a)  
for a Sectoral Ministry of the Recipient if such Sectoral Ministry has 
established, to the satisfaction of the Executive Secretariat, and on the basis of guidelines 
acceptable to the Association, that it has prepared an acceptable annual plan and budget 
for the carrying out of said Multi-sectoral Sub-Project;  
 
(b) 
if such Multi-sectoral Sub-Projects: (i) are technically feasible and cost 
effective, and designed in accordance with appropriate environmental and health 
standards; and (ii) have been reviewed and approved by the Association; and (iii) are 
consistent with the Recipient’s HIV/AIDS/STI National Strategic Plan; and 
 
(c) 
if a Multi-sectoral Sub-Project Grant Agreement between the Executive 
Secretariat and the Sectoral Ministry carrying out a Multi-sectoral Sub-Project has been 
entered into, in form and substance acceptable to the Association, and is consistent with 
the Project Operations Manual.  
Page  25
-
24
-
24
C. 
Procedures, Terms and Conditions for Community Sub-Projects 
1. 
Without limitation upon the specific provisions of this Agreement, the Recipient 
shall carry out Part D.2 of the Project in accordance with the Community Intervention 
Procedures Manual, and except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient 
shall not amend or waive any provision thereof if, in the opinion of the Association, such 
amendment or waiver may materially and adversely affect the implementation of Part D.2 
of the Project. 
 
2. 
The Recipient shall establish and maintain, until the completion of the Project, a 
CISU to be responsible for channeling Community Sub-grant funds for the purpose of 
carrying out Community Sub-projects. 
 
3. 
A Community Sub-Grant for each Community Sub-Project to be made under  
Part D.2 of the Project shall be made by the Recipient, through CISU, only: 
 
(a) 
to a CBO if that entity has established, to the satisfaction of the 
Executive Secretariat, and in accordance with the Community Intervention Procedures 
Manual, that it has the organization, management, staffing and other resources required 
for the efficient carrying out of the Community Sub-Project, and has prepared an 
acceptable plan for the carrying out of said Community Sub-Project; and 
 
(b) 
for Community Sub-Projects that are: (i) technically feasible and cost 
effective, and designed in accordance with appropriate environmental and health 
standards; and (ii) consistent with the Recipient’s annual work program and budget. 
 
4. 
All Community Sub-Grants shall be made only upon such terms and conditions 
under which the Recipient, shall obtain, through a Community Sub-Grant Agreement, 
rights adequate and appropriate to protect the interests of the Association and the 
Recipient.  These rights shall, among other things: 
 
(a) 
require the CBO, which receives a Community Sub-Grant, to carry out 
and operate the Community Sub-project with due diligence and efficiency, in accordance 
with sound educational, technical, financial and managerial standards, and pursuant to the 
environmental, social and other principles, measures, procedures and guidelines set out in 
the Community Intervention Procedures Manual; 
 
(b) 
require the CBO to maintain policies, procedures and records adequate 
for: (i) the carrying out of the Community Sub-Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof; and (ii) the monitoring and evaluation on an ongoing basis, in 
accordance with indicators set forth in the Community Sub-Grant Agreement, of the 
carrying out of the Community Sub-Project;  
 
(c) 
require that: (i) the goods and services to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Community Sub-Grant shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Page  26
-
25
-
25
Schedule 3 to this Agreement; and (ii) such goods and services shall be used exclusively 
in the carrying out of the Community Sub-Project; 
 
(d) 
obtain all such information, as the Association and/or the Recipient shall 
reasonably request relating to the foregoing and to the benefits to be derived from the 
Community Sub-Project; 
 
(e) 
inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the Association, if the 
Association shall so request, the goods financed under the Community Sub-Project, the 
operation thereof, and any relevant records and documents related thereto; and 
 
(f) 
suspend or terminate the right of the CBO to the use of the proceeds of 
the Community Sub-Grant upon failure by the CBO to perform its obligations under its 
agreement related to the Community Sub-Grant. 
 
5. 
The Recipient shall employ, in accordance with the provisions of the Community 
Intervention Procedures Manual, an adequate number of support organizations for 
assisting, training and supervising CBOs, under a lump-sum agreement between the 
Executive Secretariat and the Supporting Organization. 
Page  27
-
26
-
26
SCHEDULE 5 
 
Special Accounts 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (5) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement in respect of Special  
Account A; and Category (6) set forth in said table in respect of Special Account B; 
 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Financing allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to 
US$1,000,000 in respect of the Special Account A and an amount equivalent to $250,000 
in respect of the Special Account B, to be withdrawn from the Grant Account and 
deposited into the Special Accounts pursuant to paragraph 3(a) of this Schedule, 
provided, however, that unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized 
Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to US$700,000 in respect of the 
Special Account A and an amount equivalent to US$150,000 in respect of the Special 
Account B, until: (i) in respect of the Special Account A, the aggregate amount of 
withdrawals from the Grant Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 2,200,000; and (ii) in 
respect of the Special Account B, the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Grant 
Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the 
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or 
exceed the equivalent of SDR 450,000. 
 
2. 
Payments out of the respective Special Account shall be made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
 
3. 
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the respective 
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and 
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the respective Special Account shall be made as 
follows: 
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the respective Special Account of 
an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into the respective Special 
Account such amount or amounts as the Recipient shall have requested. 
Page  28
-
27
-
27
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the respective Special Account, the 
Recipient shall furnish to the Association requests for deposits 
into the respective Special Account at such intervals as the 
Association shall specify. 
 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the 
payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant 
Account and deposit into the respective Special Account such 
amount as the Recipient shall have requested and as shall have 
been shown by said documents and other evidence to have been 
paid out of the respective Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Association from the Grant Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
 
4. 
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the respective Special Account, 
the Recipient shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures. 
 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into any Special Account: 
 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the Grant Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01(b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit 
of the records and accounts for the Special Accounts; 
 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Recipient of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals 
from the Grant Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or 
 
Page  29
-
28
-
28
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Grant allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all 
such amounts remaining on deposit in the respective Special Account as of the date of 
such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
 
6. 
(a) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment 
out of any Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or  
(B) deposit into the respective Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, 
refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further 
deposit by the Association into any Special Account shall be made until the Recipient has 
provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in any Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Accounts. 
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6(a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Grant Account, as the case may be, for 
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of 
this Agreement, including the General Conditions. 
 
7. 
(a) 
The Recipient shall withdraw from the Special Account A and deposit 
into each Advance Account funds to assist the beneficiary of such account to pay for 
goods and services under the Project. Such withdrawals and deposits shall be in amounts 
sufficient to assist each beneficiary, to pay for such goods and services in due course, 
provided that at no time shall the Recipient cause the amount held in any Advance 
Account to exceed the equivalent of U$50,000 each, with the exception of the Advance 
Account opened by MOH, wherein the deposit may amount to U$150,000. 
 
Page  30
-
29
-
29
(b) 
Payments out of Advance Accounts shall only be made for eligible 
expenditures in respect of Categories (2) to (5) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
(c) 
Any withdrawal from any Advance Account must be justified to the 
Recipient by the same documentation and other evidence regarding eligible expenditures 
provided for under paragraph 3 of this Schedule. 
 
(d) 
If the Association or the Recipient shall have determined at any time that 
any amount outstanding in any Advance Accounts will not be required to cover further 
payments for eligible expenditures, the beneficiary of such Advance Account shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Association or the Recipient, refund to the Special 
Account such outstanding amount. 
Page  31
-
30
-
30
SCHEDULE 6 
 
Performance Indicators 
 
Unless otherwise agreed between the Recipient and the Association, the 
following performance indicators shall be used to measure the achievement of the 
Project: 
 
Outcome Indicators
1. 
By the completion of the Project, 50% of persons in high-risk groups (persons in 
uniform, commercial sex workers (CSW) and dockers) will have used a condom during 
their last non-union sexual encounter (present rate of use is 20%); 
 
2. 
By the completion of the Project, 90% of the population of Djibouti aged 15 to 
49 will be able to identify at least three methods of protection against HIV/AIDS (present 
percentage is 53%); 
 
3. 
By the completion of the Project, 50% of women attending prenatal consultations 
in centers offering VCT will accept voluntary testing for HIV (at present voluntary 
testing is not offered to pregnant women, it will start to be offered in mid- 2003); 
 
4. 
By the completion of the Project, HIV prevalence rate among 15-24 year-old 
pregnant women will be decreased from 2.7% to 2.0%. 
 
5. 
By the completion of the Project, STI prevalence rate among pregnant women 
decreased by 25%. (The baseline survey will be carried out in September 2003, in the 
sentinel sites). 
 
6. 
By the completion of the Project, the rate of “lost cases” of TB will be reduced 
from 24% to 15% nationally. 
 
7. 
By the completion of the Project, hospital mortality due to malaria will be 
reduced by 50%. (Baseline data will be based on the National Malaria Program Report 
for 2002). 
 
8. 
By the completion of the Project, at least 15,000 households will be using 
impregnated bednets. 
Page  32
-
31
-
31
Process Indicators 
1. 
By December 31, 2004, five of the eleven ministries represented in the 
Interministerial Committee, by December 31, 2006, eight of the ministries, and by the 
completion of the Project, all 11 ministries, will be implementing the agreed HIV/AIDS 
action plans. 
2. 
By the completion of the Project, 12 of the 14 centers which currently provide 
prenatal consultations will be providing VCT services for HIV. 
 
3. 
By the completion of the Project, at least 2000 persons living with HIV/AIDS 
(PLWHAs) will be using counseling, testing care and treatment services (in hospital 
and/or on ambulatory basis,) delivered in accordance with established national protocols. 
 
4. 
By December 31, 2005, and by December 31, 2007, disbursement for community 
interventions will reach at least 50% and 85% of budgeted levels for these interventions 
respectively. 
 
5. 
By the completion of the Project, 85% of the population of the vulnerable groups 
(commercial sex workers, dockers, youth, persons in uniform) will have been reached 
through Information, Education and Communication (IEC)/Communication for Behavior 
Change (CBC) programs on HIV/AIDS. 
 
6. 
By the completion of the Project, 60% of the households including declared 
infected persons who are under treatment, will be receiving socio-economic aid (social 
package). 
 
7. 
By December 31, 2004, at least five sentinel sites for the epidemiological 
surveillance of HIV/AIDS will be functional, and will remain so until the completion of 
the Project. 
 
8. 
By December 31, 2005, the services of TB screening treatment and follow-up of 
cases will be established in five centers at the periphery and these services will remain 
functional until the completion of the Project. 
 
9. 
By the completion of the Project, at least 20 community sub-projects will include 
malaria control aspects (i.e., biological larva control and promotion and use of 
impregnated bednets, etc). 
 
