                    Document of
                  The World Bank




                                         Report No: ICR00001048



  IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                   (IDA-H0420)



                       ON A

                      GRANT

         IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 8.8 MILLION

            (US$12 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                      TO THE

               REPUBLIC OF DJIBOUTI

                      FOR AN

HIV/AIDS, MALARIA AND TUBERCULOSIS CONTROL PROJECT



                    May 29, 2009
                      CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                 (Exchange Rate Effective May 18, 2009)

                  Currency Unit = Djibouti Franc (DJF)

                           US$1.00 = DJF 177.5
                            DJF 1 = US$ 0.0056
                            SDR 1 = US$ 0.64

                             FISCAL YEAR
                         January 1 ­ December 31



                 ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AFD      Agence Française de Développement (French Development Agency)
AIDS     Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome
ARV      Antiretroviral
CBA      Community-Based Association
CCMI     Comité de Coordination Multisectorielle et Inter-partenariale
CPF      Centre Paul Faure
CREDES   Centre de Recherche, d'Etude et de Documentation en Economie de la Santé
         (Center for Research and Studies in Health)
CRIPEN   Centre de Recherche, d'Information et de Production de l'Education Nationale
         (National Education Research and Information Production Center
CSW      Commercial Sex Worker
DASAP    Dispositif d'Appui Social Accéléré aux PVVS (Accelerated Mechanism of
         Support to Infected and Affected People)
DOTS     Directly Observed Treatment, Short Course
ES       Executive Secretariat
FGM      Female Genital Mutilation
FNP      Forces Nationales de Police (National Police)
GDP      Gross Domestic Product
GF       Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria
HIV      Human Immunodeficiency Virus
HSDP     Health Sector Development Project
ICR      Implementation Completion Report
IDA      International Development Association
IIBN     Insecticide-impregnated Bed Net
ISR      Implementation Status and Results Report
M&E      Monitoring and Evaluation
MAP      Multisectoral AIDS Project
MDG      Millennium Development Goal
MOH      Ministry Of Health
MTR      Mid-Term Review
NGO      Non-Governmental Organization
PAD      Project Appraisal Document

                                                                                    ii
PDO      Project Development Objectives
PIJ      Point Information Jeunes
PLS      Programme de Lutte Sectoriel
PLWHA    People Living With HIV/AIDS
PMTCT    Prevention of Mother-to-Child Transmission
PNLS     Programme National de Lutte contre le SIDA (National Program to Control
         HIV/AIDS)
QAE      Quality At Entry
QAG      Quality Assurance Group
STI      Sexually Transmitted Infection
TB       Tuberculosis
UN       United Nations
UNAIDS   Joint United Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS
UNFPA    United Nations Population Fund
UNICEF   United Nations Children's Fund
VCT      Voluntary Counseling and Testing
WB       World Bank
WHO      World Health Organization




             Vice President:          Daniela Gressani
             Country Director:        Emmanuel E. Mbi
             Sector Manager:          Akiko Maeda
             Project Team Leader:     Sameh El-Saharty
             ICR Team Leader:         Sameh El-Saharty




                                                                                   iii
                                                  REPUBLIC OF DJIBOUTI

             Multi-Sectoral HIV/AIDS, Malaria and Tuberculosis Control Project

                                                                   CONTENTS




A. BASIC INFORMATION ....................................................................................................................... V
B. KEY DATES ........................................................................................................................................ V
C. RATINGS SUMMARY ......................................................................................................................... V
D. SECTOR AND THEME CODES ............................................................................................................ VI
E. BANK STAFF ..................................................................................................................................... VI
F. RESULTS FRAMEWORK ANALYSIS ..................................................................................................... VI
G. RATINGS OF PROJECT PERFORMANCE IN ISRS .................................................................................VIII
H. RESTRUCTURING (IF ANY) ...............................................................................................................VIII
                        .
I.  DISBURSEMENT PROFILE  .................................................................................................................. IX
1. PROJECT CONTEXT, DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVES, AND DESIGN ........................................................... 1
2. KEY FACTORS AFFECTING IMPLEMENTATION AND OUTCOMES .......................................................... 2
3. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOMES ........................................................................................................... 11
4. ASSESSMENT OF RISK TO DEVELOPMENT OUTCOME ........................................................................ 15
                                              .
5. ASSESSMENT OF BANK AND BORROWER PERFORMANCE  ................................................................ 15
6. LESSONS LEARNED ........................................................................................................................... 18
7. COMMENTS ON ISSUES RAISED BY BORROWER/IMPLEMENTING AGENCIES/PARTNERS ................... 19
ANNEX 1. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING ......................................................................................... 20
                             .
ANNEX 2. OUTPUTS BY COMPONENT  .................................................................................................. 21
ANNEX 3. ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL ANALYSIS ................................................................................. 26
ANNEX 4. BANK LENDING AND IMPLEMENTATION SUPPORT/SUPERVISION PROCESSES ...................... 31
                                   .
ANNEX 5. BENEFICIARY SURVEY RESULTS  ............................................................................................ 33
ANNEX 6. STAKEHOLDER WORKSHOP REPORT AND RESULTS ............................................................... 34
ANNEX 7. SUMMARY OF THE EXECUTIVE SECRETARIAT'S COMMENTS ON DRAFT ICR ........................... 35
ANNEX 8. COMMENTS RECEIVED FROM THE GLOBAL FUND ................................................................. 37
ANNEX 9. DETAILED PROJECT RISKS, KEY INDICATORS, AND COMPONENTS (AS APPROVED) ................ 38
ANNEX 10. LIST OF SUPPORTING DOCUMENTS AND PROJECT MANUALS.............................................. 41




                                                                                                                                                   iv
A. Basic Information
                                                                          HIV/AIDS, Malaria and
Country:                Djibouti                Project Name:             Tuberculosis Control
                                                                          Project
Project ID:             P073603                 L/C/TF Number(s):         IDA-H0420
ICR Date:               05/27/2009              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                          REPUBLIC OF
Lending Instrument:     SIL                     Borrower:
                                                                          DJIBOUTI
Original Total
                        XDR 8.8M                Disbursed Amount:         XDR 8.8M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
Executive Secretariat
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
     Process              Date            Process              Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:       04/10/2002     Effectiveness:                              12/02/2003
Appraisal:            03/25/2003     Restructuring(s):
Approval:             05/29/2003     Mid-term Review:           11/30/2006       04/14/2007
                                     Closing:                   09/30/2008       09/30/2008

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Low
Bank Performance:                               Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Highly Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings          Borrower              Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory       Government:         Satisfactory
                                           Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                           Highly Satisfactory
                                           Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                               Overall Borrower
                        Satisfactory                           Highly Satisfactory
Performance:                               Performance:




                                                                                              v
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                               Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           Yes                                              Satisfactory
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           No                                               Satisfactory
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original                  Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                      10                     20
Health                                                                 30                     30
Other social services                                                  60                     50


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Gender                                                                Primary               Primary
HIV/AIDS                                                              Primary               Primary
Malaria                                                               Primary               Primary
Participation and civic engagement                                    Primary               Primary
Social analysis and monitoring                                   Secondary                 Secondary

E. Bank Staff
          Positions                       At ICR                                At Approval
Vice President:            Daniela Gressani                     Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director:          Emmanuel Mbi                         Mahmood Ayub
Sector Manager:            Akiko Maeda                          George Schieber
Project Team Leader:       Sameh El-Saharty                     Michele Lioy
ICR Team Leader:           Sameh El-Saharty
ICR Primary Author:        Wendy Ravano/Ilmi Awaleh

F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
 To contribute to the change in behavior of the Djiboutian population in order to contain or reduce
the spread of the HIV/AIDS epidemic and to mitigate its impact on infected and affected persons,
and to contribute to the control of malaria and tuberculosis.



                                                                                                       vi
Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target     Formally       Actual Value
                                             Values (from       Revised        Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value
                                               approval         Target       Completion or
                                              documents)        Values        Target Years
Indicator 1:      Reduced HIV prevalence rate among 15 to 24-year-old pregnant women.
Value
quantitative or   2.7%                      2.0%               2.2%            2.1%
qualitative)
Date achieved     05/01/2002                09/30/2008         09/30/2008    2007
Comments          According to the sentinel surveillance system, HIV seroprevalence among 15 to
(incl. %          24-year-old pregnant women decreased from 2.7% in 2002 to 2.4% in 2005 to
achievement)      2.1% in 2007.
Indicator 2:      Reduced HIV prevalence among sexually transmitted infection (STI) patients
Value
quantitative or   22%                       10%                                9.7%
qualitative)
Date achieved     05/01/2002                09/30/2008                        2006
Comments
                  HIV prevalence among STI patients was reduced to its end-of-project target at
(incl. %
                  the end of 2006.
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target                 Actual Value
                                                                Formally
                                               Values (from                   Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value                            Revised
                                                 approval                    Completion or
                                                              Target Values
                                                documents)                   Target Years
Indicator 1:      Percentage of population that have heard HIV/AIDS messages
Value
(quantitative   5%                         90%                  85%          95%
or qualitative)
Date achieved 05/01/2002                   09/30/2008           09/30/2008  2007
Comments
(incl. %        The project has exceeded the target of increasing HIV/AIDS awareness.
achievement)
                Percentage of youth that have used a condom during their last extra-marital
Indicator 2:
                sexual encounter
Value
(quantitative   5%                         50%                               38.3%
or qualitative)
Date achieved 05/01/2002                   09/30/2008                       2007
Comments
                UNICEF conducted a survey in 2005 that showed 46% of condom use among 15
(incl. %
                to 24-year-olds during the last casual sexual intercourse.
achievement)

                                                                                                  vii
                Cumulative number of condoms distributed and cumulative number of condom
Indicator 3 :
                distribution sites.
                                            450 distribution                   388 distribution
Value                                       sites                              sites, 80 of which in
(quantitative   0                           3,500,000                          districts
or qualitative)                             condoms                            2,385,979 condoms
                                            distributed                        distributed
Date achieved 05/01/2002                    09/30/2008                         2007
Comments        The cumulative number represents about 86 percent of the target for distribution
(incl. %        sites, and 68 percent of the target for distributed condoms in 2007. More recent
achievement) data on the distribution figures was not available at the time of the ICR.

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                    Actual
         Date ISR
 No.                              DO                          IP                Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                                (USD million)
  1     06/11/2003           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                       0.00
  2     12/11/2003           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                       0.52
  3     04/14/2004           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                       1.65
  4     08/02/2004           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                       2.08
  5     12/03/2004           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                       3.33
  6     04/22/2005           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                       5.38
  7     11/30/2005           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                       6.84
  8     04/07/2006           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                       7.94
  9     07/28/2006           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                       9.02
 10     02/18/2007           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                       9.88
 11     09/27/2007        Highly Satisfactory        Highly Satisfactory                 12.16
 12     04/01/2008           Satisfactory            Highly Satisfactory                 13.01
 13     10/18/2008           Satisfactory            Highly Satisfactory                 13.13


H. Restructuring (if any)
Not applicable




                                                                                                viii
I. Disbursement Profile




                          ix
1. Project Context, Development Objectives, and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

Djibouti is a small desert country with an estimated population of 750,000 at the time of appraisal in
2003. Illiteracy and unemployment are high. Including the rural nomadic population, 60% of Djiboutians
live below the poverty line.

Accurate health statistics were lacking. Overall, life expectancy was under 50 years, general mortality
was estimated at 17.7 per 1,000 inhabitants and the infant and child mortality rates were estimated at 114
and 165 deaths per 1,000 live births, respectively. The main causes of death and visits to health facilities
were communicable diseases that could be prevented by improved hygiene and behavior change.
Specifically, malaria, tuberculosis (TB), and HIV/AIDS had health and economic impacts on households,
population and health system (Center for Research and Studies in Health, CREDES, 2003).

The first AIDS cases were reported in Djibouti in 1986. The situation has worsened steadily since, and at
the end of 2000, there were 2,179 AIDS cases. Between 1994 and 2000, several surveys showed that
prevalence was particularly high in groups such as sex workers, dockers, the police, and the army ("men
in uniform"), but data on the general population were unreliable. As the HIV/AIDS prevention strategy
would depend on whether the rate was above or below 5 percent (the critical threshold at which the
infection reaches its exponential growth rate), a seroprevalence survey was conducted, which estimated
HIV seroprevalence at 2.9 percent in the general population. The rate among persons aged 20 to 35 was
above 5 percent, confirming that infection is affecting younger age groups, and that the critical threshold
affected the most sexually active and economically productive age groups. The survey further revealed
that: (i) transmission was mostly heterosexual (95.6 percent of declared cases among women and 91.6
percent among men); (ii) persons aged 15 to 29 represented 47.4 percent of registered AIDS cases, which
showed that people were infected at an early age; and (iii) women were infected at a younger age than
men: women aged 15 to 29 represented 54.3 percent of declared cases, while men of the same age group
represented only 42.7 percent. The AIDS cases were roughly evenly split between men and women,
strongly suggesting heterosexual transmission. Risk factors specific to Djibouti include trade, migration,
gender inequality, and a high prevalence of TB. With 588 cases of TB per 100,000 inhabitants, Djibouti
has the second highest prevalence rate of TB in the world. In addition, the spread of malaria has
increased steadily, reaching areas such as the northern districts of Tadjourah and Obock where it was
previously nonexistent. Please refer to Annex 9 for more details.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

The development objectives of the project were to contribute to the change in behavior of the Djiboutian
population in order to contain or reduce the spread of the HIV/AIDS epidemic and to mitigate its impact
on infected and affected persons, and to contribute to the control of malaria and tuberculosis. Please refer
to Annex 9 for more details.




                                                                                                          1
1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification: Not applicable.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

The original main beneficiaries include: youth aged 15 to 19 years, truck drivers and dockers, sex workers
and women working in bars, men and women in uniform, TB patients, pregnant women and children
under 5 years old, and people living with HIV/AIDS (PLWHA). The project had tailored interventions to
each of the main target groups.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)

The project was designed to support the implementation of three national strategic plans for the fight
against HIV/AIDS, Tuberculosis, and Malaria in Djibouti.

Component 1: Capacity Building and Policy Development (US$4.0 million). This included: (i)
Strengthening the Government's capacity to cope with the spread of HIV/AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis,
and (ii) Enhancing counseling, voluntary testing, and care and treatment of seropositive persons.

Component 2: Health Sector Responses to HIV/AIDS/sexually transmitted infections (STI),
Malaria and Tuberculosis (US$3.8 million). This component aimed to increase access to preventive
measures to treatment of STI, opportunistic diseases and Malaria, and to case management, support and
treatment of PLWHA.

Component 3: Multisectoral Response (US$3.7 million). The objectives of this component were to: (i)
strengthen the management and coordination capacity of the ministries participating in the control of
HIV/AIDS; and (ii) support these ministries in implementing essential activities aimed at preventing HIV
infection and reducing the impact of AIDS on their own personnel and on the vulnerable groups for which
they are responsible.

Component 4: Support to community interventions (US$2.6 million). This component supported the
implementation of community subprojects prepared by community-based associations (CBAs) and aimed
at: (i) the promotion and distribution of condoms; (ii) targeted information, education, and
communication campaigns aiming at changing behaviors related to HIV transmission; (iii) interventions
aiming at improving the status and autonomy of women; (iv) psycho-medico-social and economic support
and care to people infected with and affected by HIV/AIDS; (v) promotion of voluntary counseling and
testing (VCT); (vi) promotion of prevention of mother-to-child transmission; (vii) prevention of malaria;
and (viii) continued support to tuberculosis patients. Please see Annex 9 for more details.

1.6 Revised Components: There was no revision of components.

1.7 Other significant changes: None.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

Political leadership and commitment led to the creation (and subsequent strengthening) of the Executive
Secretariat (ES). The Government's high-level commitment to fight the three major communicable



                                                                                                        2
diseases was manifested by a matching institution having the mandate and capacity to coordinate the
multisectoral programs. The project established the ES under the Prime Minister with a mandate to
coordinate all prevention and mitigation programs to be implemented by multisectoral and civil society
organizations.

This project funded by the International Development Association (IDA) was the first of its kind in
Djibouti to receive substantial funding on activities focused on influencing public opinion on "AIDS" as
well as to increase the fight against the three major communicable diseases. The project supported the
Government in incrementally implementing preventive interventions, and was instrumental in carrying
out communication interventions that helped break taboos on AIDS, making it possible for people to talk
openly about HIV/AIDS. In 2002, the word "AIDS" elicited strong negative reactions, but by 2008, it had
become a household term, while school and university radio stations regularly broadcast programs on
HIV/AIDS.

The project design was guided by a strategic plan and several background studies. During project
preparation, the Government developed a five-year National Strategy and Plan to fight AIDS, TB, and
Malaria, which guided project design and preparation. Several surveys were also conducted to establish
the baseline data for the monitoring and evaluation (M&E) system. The institutional arrangements were
complex, given Djibouti's lack of human resources and weak institutional capacity. However, capacity
building and technical assistance during implementation were key factors in strengthening program
management, including the fiduciary functions. Risk assessment and the mitigating measures were only
moderately addressed at the design stage, particularly risks related to procurement and environment, but
were adequately managed during implementation. Project implementation was guided by several
procedures manuals, detailed guidelines, and protocols that covered all project components and activities.
Please see Annex 10 for details on project manuals and guidelines.

A committee and a permanent technical committee ensured strong technical oversight of the various
activities. Under the aegis of the ES and the vice chairmanship of the Ministry of Health (MOH), the
technical committee coordinated prevention and case management activities to fight the three diseases.
The committee reviewed action plans and annual budgets and ensured that the implementation was in
conformity with the three national strategic plans. To mitigate the insufficiency of human resources for
the program to fight AIDS in the health sector, the MOH in 2006 established a permanent technical
committee to reassign staff in order to support the VCT as well as medical case management of
HIV/AIDS/STI and related surveillance.

The project had a robust and harmonized M&E system that monitored the program effectively.
Championed by IDA and the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria (GF), the common
list of harmonized indicators within one M&E system was adopted by all involved in the fight against the
three diseases. Since then, all partners have been expected to use it as a systematic management tool. For
example, the good monitoring of the VCT services enabled the other participating programs to plan their
services accordingly, i.e., procurement of antiretroviral (ARV) treatment and planning for psycho-social
services since most of the enrolled patients were from the lower socio-economic strata.




                                                                                                        3
2.1 Project Preparation, Design, and Quality at Entry

The quality of project preparation and design is rated "Satisfactory."

2.1.1. Preparation

Careful use of evidence in extensive national planning and preparation ensured quality at entry. Data were
collected, analyzed, discussed, and used as the basis for national plans, to include situation analysis and
national response, five-year strategic framework, three-year operational plan, and preparation of a manual
of indicators and M&E. Through the planning focal point within the National Program to Control
HIV/AIDS (PNLS), several workshops took place in the five districts and in Djibouti-Ville to contribute
to the finalization of the HIV/AIDS National Strategic Plan and to discuss the findings of studies on
knowledge, attitudes, beliefs, and practices. The HIV/AIDS National Strategic Plan was approved during
a second consensus seminar in December 2002 that included all partners. Three national strategic plans to
control HIV/AIDS, malaria, and tuberculosis (Plan stratégique national de prévention du VIH/SIDA, Plan
stratégique national de lutte contre le Paludisme, et Plan stratégique national de lutte contre la
Tuberculose) were prepared for the period 2003­2008.

With technical assistance from CREDES during the preparation phase, the main axes for HIV/AIDS, TB,
and malaria were identified and reflected in the project: (i) strengthen the coordination of all actors in the
fight against HIV/AIDS to achieve a broadened national, regional, and international response to the
epidemic; (ii) strengthen the M&E systems; (iii) strengthen the measures to prevent the transmission of
HIV and STI; (iv) improve the quality of case management of people living with HIV/AIDS; and (v)
reduce the socioeconomic impact of HIV/AIDS on individuals, families, and communities.

The need for community participation was recognized and carefully planned to ensure appropriate use and
oversight of community funding. Local communities have a key role to play in the prevention of
HIV/AIDS, the care of infected people, and support to affected groups. They also have a role to play in
sanitation and in controlling malaria. In addition, the spread of infectious diseases and HIV/AIDS in
particular impose a heavy burden on local communities. Appropriate mechanisms had to be put in place
to facilitate the provision of support and resources to communities. Therefore, it was decided to have
capacity-building activities up front before launching community interventions. In addition, the project
intended to select five to ten non-governmental organizations (NGOs) or other institutions with
recognized capacities to train, and, on the basis of a competition, to select five of them as supporting
organizations. These would have the responsibility of training local NGOs and associations, assisting
them with subproject preparation, and supervising and controlling the quality of their activities. This two-
tier system was expected to ensure close supervision.

Priority vulnerable groups were mapped. Prevention was seen in 2002 as a national priority and the
prevalence surveys made it possible to identify the priority vulnerable groups for HIV/AIDS as well as for
tuberculosis and malaria, which included youth (aged 15 to 19 years) both in school and out of school,
truck drivers and dockers (Ethiopia-Djibouti corridor personnel), commercial sex workers (CSWs) and
high HIV-prevalence women who worked in bars and their clients, persons in uniform, PLWHA, people
living under the poverty line (vulnerable to TB), TB patients, pregnant women, and children under 5
(vulnerable to malaria).




                                                                                                            4
2.1.2 Design

Specific lessons that were learned from international experience and considered in the project design are
as follows:

The importance of political leadership and commitment. Strong commitment from top political and
religious leadership in a country is important for the success of HIV/AIDS efforts. The President of the
Republic of Djibouti and several other ministers have demonstrated strong support for the program.

The need for a selective and well-coordinated multisectoral approach. Experience in many countries in
Africa has shown that HIV/AIDS control activities begin in the health sector but need to be expanded to
other sectors. However, experience has also demonstrated difficulties in implementing projects across
multiple ministries. The risks inherent in this arrangement would be mitigated by the fact that the project
was to be "coordinated" by the ES and the Interministerial Committee placed under the Prime Minister's
Office.

The importance of stakeholder consultations. Key stakeholders, particularly those with an important role
in implementation, should be involved as early as possible. Project identification was carried out in
consultation with line ministries, including the Ministry for Religious Affairs, NGOs (including the NGO
"Oui à la vie," which includes PLWHA), UNAIDS and UN agencies, other IDA-financed projects, Social
Protection Organization, and donor agencies.

The need to tailor interventions to social needs. Experience has shown the importance of conducting
social assessments. A qualitative social assessment of the impact of AIDS on people infected and affected
by the disease was therefore conducted. The study found nutrition, poor medical and counseling services,
and financial constraints to be primary problems. PLWHA were actively involved in the study, and based
on the study's findings, a limited nutritional program was put in place to alleviate the problems and
monitor progress during implementation.

The balance between supply and demand interventions. The project design included activities to
strengthen the service provision, including voluntary counseling and testing, AIDS treatment, and
treatment of STIs and opportunistic infections as well as interventions to stimulate demand for those
services through multisectoral activities and community interventions.

The overall rating of the quality at entry for project preparation and design was "Satisfactory."

2.2 Implementation

The implementation of Component 1 is rated "Highly Satisfactory."

Capacity strengthening and policy formulation, the two main subcomponents, were successfully
implemented. At the institutional level, the ES was strengthened through training programs in
procurement, financial management, planning, communication, and M&E. Likewise, the majority of
personnel of vertical programs in the MOH, and AIDS program personnel in the other ministries,
benefited from training. At the community level, capacities were strengthened through the "supporting
agencies" (agences d'encadrement) that provided assistance to the CBAs. The ES effectively managed
and coordinated all program components funded by IDA in the amount of US$12 million. As a result of
its increased institutional capacity, the ES successfully prepared and managed three projects financed by



                                                                                                         5
the GF (US$19 million) in addition to a project by the Agence Française de Développement (AFD), of
about US$5 million. At the policy level, the Government developed its second five-year Strategic Plan
(2008­2012) to fight against the three diseases, mobilized additional donor funding, engaged several key
ministries in the fight, including passing the first law in the MENA region to protect the rights of
PLWHA, and allowed space for the NGO movement to grow and actively participate in the program.

A communication strategy that aimed to increase awareness and to change behavior after knowing one's
HIV status was successfully implemented. The HIV/AIDS epidemic, considered a national emergency,
adopted a communication strategy that was designed in 2004 in collaboration with the program to fight
HIV/AIDS at the Ministry of Communication. The strategy provided an approach that built on
understanding the "vicious circle of vulnerability," thus targeting the 14 priority vulnerable groups as
defined in the IDA Project Appraisal Document (PAD) and designing well-tailored interventions based on
a detailed knowledge of these groups' attitudes and behaviors.

An effective M&E system was designed and implemented. It was established in 2005 with support from
the World Health Organization, with a national guideline for M&E. Once the GF program was
implemented, the M&E indicators were harmonized for all donors, including IDA and the GF. The M&E
Unit prepared harmonized reports for each level of data collection by each executing and coordination
body. During the last two years, the M&E Unit developed a calendar of report due dates, which was
agreed by all concerned, and reports were submitted in a timely manner according to this calendar.

The implementation of Component 2 is rated "Satisfactory."

Management of the component had a difficult beginning, including some initial problems in the MOH
due to the delay in the recruitment of an accountant who could prepare and submit the financial reports in
a timely manner, thereby permitting authorization of subsequent disbursements. This led to delays in the
initial procurement of diagnostic and treatment supplies, which negatively affected implementation of the
program. The operation of the reference laboratory at Peltier Hospital was similarly affected by delays in
the provision of supplies and equipment due to procurement and transportation delays. These issues were
addressed through enhanced procurement capacity at the ES in 2005. With regard to the management of
medical waste, a good report was prepared by a consultant early in the project, but its recommendations
were only implemented in early 2008.

Despite the early delays, implementation was accelerated and most of the expected results were achieved.
The project provided inputs to strengthen the capacity of the health unit and investments, including
international technical assistance, production and dissemination of normative documents for prevention
and case management, training of medical staff on the use of treatment protocols, ARVs, medical
supplies, and office and laboratory equipment. Additional funding from the GF provided ARVs, blood
test support, cell count machinery, and viral load counters. Training was provided for counselors and
laboratory technicians to ensure the effectiveness of the VCT program. A program for the prevention of
Mother-to-Child AIDS Transmission was implemented in collaboration with UNICEF. To ensure
treatment effectiveness, a "Medical College for ARVs" was established to review the treatment protocols,
set the eligibility criteria, and monitor the clinical progress of the program. Implementation was divided
in two phases: in Djibouti-Ville and later in districts. Upon successful implementation of the first phase,
decentralization of the medical case management was rolled out to the district level. A key innovation
under this component was the introduction of "psychosocial supporter" staff (accompagnateurs
psychosociaux), who are trained aides assigned as part of the case management team to provide
psychological and social support to AIDS patients. The project thus successfully implemented an



                                                                                                         6
"integrated and comprehensive case management for HIV/AIDS patients" that included prevention,
counseling, testing, treatment, and psychosocial support.

In addition to the program to fight AIDS in the health sector, similar programs contributed to the case
management of PLWHA, such as the Social Protection Organization clinic that mostly counseled
pregnant women and the clinics for the Police and Armed Forces. Through this coordinated effort, the
project rapidly scaled up to achieve high coverage in the provision of VCT from one VCT center to 21
nationwide, in prevention of the transmission from mother to children: since 2005, 80% of pregnant
women have agreed to be tested for HIV, and treatment of AIDS cases reached more than the 2,000
treated cases expected by the end of the project.

The implementation of Component 3 is rated "Moderately Satisfactory."

The implementation of the multisectoral AIDS program varied significantly. Originally, it was planned to
phase in the ministries as follows: 5 ministries in 2004, 8 ministries in 2006, and 11 by the end of the
project. However, during the first year, the Interministerial Committee decided to start with all 11
ministries to create national multisectoral support and then phase them out gradually. At the beginning,
many of the focal points were insufficiently committed and were frequently replaced, as they perceived
their role as having additional duties without compensation. Their frequent replacement caused delays in
overall implementation, in the submission of action plans, and in the preparation of technical and
financial reports, which led to overall delays in implementing this component and subsequent
disbursements.

In 2005, the situation improved and activities related to training, increased awareness, and peer education
were implemented, but with some delays. As of 2006, support to several ministries started to be phased
out as planned. In addition to the increased awareness activities, the National Police, the Defense, and the
Organization for Social Protection provided clinical services, including VCT and treatment services (but
with modest numbers of users, who preferred to use MOH services to ensure anonymity). Until the end of
the project, two ministries were supported as they were having good results, as described below.

The most concerned and relevant Ministries of Education and Youth and Sports implemented all their
planned activities and achieved more than 75% of their expected outputs. At the end of the IDA-funded
project, many positive results were visible in terms of continuing HIV/AIDS awareness and prevention
activities in all secondary schools and at the University. The Ministry of National Education became the
champion of the fight against HIV/AIDS by introducing in the curriculum a mandatory training module
on HIV/AIDS. School health clubs opened in most establishments. Each year, through the National
Education Research and Information Production Center (CRIPEN), the Ministry edits more than 4,000
school agendas for students containing awareness and prevention messages on HIV/AIDS, malaria, and
tuberculosis. The CRIPEN school radio is at the vanguard of HIV/AIDS communication: it designs,
produces, and disseminates messages, spots, plays and sketches on AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis via
Djibouti radio and television.

Similarly, the Ministry of Youth and Sports revamped its community development centers (centres de
développement communautaire). They are located in each neighborhood of the capital city and in the
districts and disseminate information and basic products (e.g., condoms), booths (points information
jeunes or PIJs) on HIV/AIDS, malaria, and tuberculosis. Since the prevention activities in the community
development centers have been attended mainly by young boys, there is a need to design more culturally
appropriate venues for young girls.



                                                                                                          7
The implementation of Component 4 is rated "Highly Satisfactory."

For the first time in Djibouti, there has been considerable growth and capacity building within civil
society: the project supported unprecedented civil society engagement and capacity building to plan,
implement, and report on behavior change activities and provision of social support for needy groups with
the highest HIV prevalence. Prior to IDA project implementation, there were at most a dozen operating
NGOs, community groups, and associations, often in name only, without sufficient members, legal status,
or a constituted governing body. The project developed the capacity of large NGOs to become supporting
agencies that in turn helped build the capacities of CBAs. During the Mid-term Review (MTR, May
2006), it was reported that the CBAs worked on increasing awareness and prevention of AIDS among all
vulnerable groups, but were most active among youths 15­24 years of age. Another high risk group, sex
workers, was trained using peer education approach under the risk reduction project titled "Projet Soeur-
à-Soeur." Community prevention of malaria and tuberculosis was addressed under the project to a lesser
degree since other partners (GF and AFD) were already involved. By the end of the project, a total of 170
CBAs were supported by the project in terms of institutional, managerial, and technical capacity building,
triple the number originally planned. As a result, the movement within the Djiboutian civil society has
grown significantly in size as well as in professionalism. Specifically, the supported associations became
capable of designing subprojects, providing technical and financial reports, and improving accountability.

In addition to management capacity, civil society in Djibouti increased the scope of its support. During
the early stages of project implementation, the approaches favored by the CBAs focused on
communication: peer education, advocacy by influential leaders, and focus group discussions on various
themes. Later, the project introduced a program for the Accelerated Mechanism of Support to Infected
and Affected People (DASAP) in which the CBAs provided a social package for needy people living with
HIV and needy people affected by AIDS. DASAP was later expanded with funding from the GF to 15
communities, thus moving the community-based activities toward a more comprehensive social support
program.

IDA funding was instrumental in the institutionalization of social marketing in Djibouti. A Social
Marketing Unit was established within the ES to manage the promotion and distribution of condoms.
Condoms were purchased through UNFPA. With funding from the GF, the distribution was further
expanded through condom distributors such as Total, Coubèche, or parastatal organizations, e.g., the
Social Protection Organization placed in major business outlets. As of December 2007, condoms were
distributed in the capital and five districts, for a total of 388 distribution points, 80 of which are in
districts. The Social Marketing Unit works closely with the ES communication unit to train the people in
charge of distribution points, and assist them in organizing behavior change sessions.


2.3 M&E Design, Implementation, and Utilization

The overall rating of the M&E system is "Satisfactory." The project established a robust M&E system,
including the conduct of baseline surveys and setting baseline data for most indicators. During 2004, the
M&E was mostly measuring process indicators. When the GF support started its support in 2005, a
concerted effort was made to implement the "Three Ones" policy of "one framework, one coordination
entity, and one monitoring and evaluation system." As a result, a common list of harmonized indicators
with one M&E system was adopted by the ES and all donors.




                                                                                                        8
The M&E enabled the ES and donors to continuously monitor the progress of the different project
components and adjust interventions accordingly. For example, the quarterly utilization rate of VCT
services has allowed a better average forecast of the VCT kits needed; knowing the number of HIV
positive persons has allowed prediction of the need for psychosocial services and a better sense of the
need for ARV drugs. The M&E system of the Programme de Lutte Sectoriel (PLS) at the MOH that dealt
with the prevention and treatment of the three diseases was also supported by technical assistance from
the World Health Organization. During the first two years of the project, the M&E measured mainly
output indicators and the ES postponed the MTR to late 2006 to allow the project interventions to
demonstrate outcome results. The MTR and its related surveys were therefore conducted in late 2006 and
the results obtained in early 2007. The end-of-project surveys, which were intended to be conducted in
April­May 2008 (before the beginning of the summer months and the project end in September 2008),
were not conducted as not enough time had elapsed since the MTR surveys to demonstrate measurable
trends, and because project funds were almost fully disbursed. It was then agreed with the ES to carry out
these surveys in the fall of 2009 with financing from the GF.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Financial management is rated "Satisfactory". The project's financial management arrangements were
adequate. Accounting books and records were properly maintained using an accounting and reporting
system. Required financial monitoring reports were produced on time and were reviewed by an external
auditor. The project's accounts were regularly audited and the Bank has received the audit report covering
calendar year 2008, with an unqualified statement. The project disbursed 100% of the grant's total amount
of SDR8.8 million in less than four years, as shown in the Implementation Status and Results Report
(ISR). However, expenditures of US$114,404 still need to be justified by the ES. This amount had been
advanced to some ministries and regional health centers involved in project implementation.

Procurement management is rated "Satisfactory." Initial low capacity of the ES caused delays, but
technical assistance and training for ES staff strengthened procurement capacity considerably. In general,
the ES procurement functions were carried out effectively and, with the provision of technical assistance,
all procurement activities were carried out in accordance with the provisions of the Bank's Procurement
and Consultant Guidelines. This is a notable achievement, given the low capacity and poor track record in
procurement in other sectors of the country. The GF and the AFD have chosen to use the well-established
managerial and fiduciary (financial management and procurement) arrangements under the ES in
implementing their projects, which confirms the confidence shown by other donors in the capacity
developed under the ES.

Environmental management is rated "Moderately Unsatisfactory." The project environmental rating was
assessed as B. A detailed environmental management plan was developed under the project, including a
medical waste management plan, and an Environmental Committee was established under the ES for
waste management. However, the environmental management plan was not produced until the last year of
the project due to an early disagreement between the Bank and the ES on the implementation plan (later
resolved). However, implementation of the medical waste management plan was not initiated under the
project and it was agreed with the MOH to implement the plan under the Health Sector Development
Project, which received additional financing until 2012. The MOH worked closely with the Ministry of
Environment in the last year of the project to institutionalize the medical waste management plan.

The social aspects are rated "Highly Satisfactory." The project achieved its key social development
outcomes of: (i) ensuring access to HIV/AIDS-related information, prevention, treatment, and



                                                                                                        9
psychosocial support; (ii) reducing the taboos surrounding AIDS and the stigmatization of PLWHA so
that those individuals with AIDS may seek treatment and reduce cross-infection; (iii) ensuring that
communities are better able to protect themselves from HIV infection and to care for those among them
who are affected by AIDS; (iv) reducing the rate of increase of AIDS infection among the general
population; (v) improving life expectancy and productivity of PLWHA and ensuring better livelihood
prospects for AIDS orphans, widows, or other dependents; and (vi) improving the knowledge and
understanding of opinion leaders. The participatory approach ensured that community initiatives were
identified and selected in a transparent manner by establishing clear criteria for participation and the
establishment of a broad-based selection committee. The project provided tools and guidelines (such as
counseling and peer education guidelines) to harmonize all communication messages related to
HIV/AIDS. The project strengthened CBAs and expanded the engagement of stakeholders in community
subproject preparation and implementation.

Focus group discussions were conducted with vulnerable groups such as CSWs and dockers to identify
attitudes and practices exposing them to infection. Funds were provided to NGOs and CBAs using simple
contractual agreements to implement community subprojects, and included the following activities: (i)
providing care and support for PLWHA and their dependents (e.g., nutrition for AIDS patients, income-
generating activities); and (ii) information and communication for behavior change activities for
prevention and de-stigmatization of PLWHA. As a result of the CBAs' social work, 2,550 persons
received dry rations, 300 HIV-positive women benefited from psychosocial support, and 600 orphans and
other vulnerable persons received psychosocial support, nutrition, school supplies and school fees and
financing of income-generating activities for their guardians. (For more details on results, see section 3.2
and Annex 2).

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

The ES has developed adequate plans and mobilized resources to sustain the program. First, the ES
developed the second five-year strategic plan (2008­2012) to fight HIV/AIDS, TB, and Malaria to guide
its next phase of program implementation. The project attracted funding from other donors with effective
coordination and complementarity. As a result of the activities undertaken through the IDA-financed
project, the Government in 2005 was able to demonstrate its commitment to HIV/AIDS and fulfilled the
eligibility conditions for the Global Fund rounds 4 and 6 that financed the purchase of ARV, condoms,
and the continuation of DASAP. The GF will provide an additional US$11.9 million for AIDS, US$3.4
million for TB, and US$3.7 million for malaria. AFD is providing US$5 million for HIV/AIDS and
tuberculosis through technical support to the national reference Centre Paul Faure (CPF) and for related
decentralized activities.

In addition, IDA is providing about US$1.5 million in support of the three diseases under the additional
financing of the Health Sector Development Project. In sum, the program has mobilized adequate
financial and technical resources to support its activities for at least the next five years. Program
institutional capacity is increasingly being strengthened and is likely to be sustained, particularly the
program management capacity of the ES and its units. Similarly, the capacity of the NGO supporting
agencies and the many CBAs that developed under the program will continue to provide their community
interventions with the newly mobilized funds, not only for HIV/AIDS but also for TB and malaria. These
NGOs and CBAs should be able to survive beyond the planned support period by diversifying their scope
of work to include other social services. For example, under the planned IDA additional financing for the
Health Sector Development Project, these NGOs and CBAs would be used to promote health services
such as family planning and behavior change such as against Female Genital Mutilation (FGM). In



                                                                                                         10
addition, the Social Marketing Unit was in the process of transforming into an independent entity and
becoming the "Djiboutian Association of Social Marketing" (Association de Marketing Social
Djiboutienne, AMASOD) that will sell its own brand of condoms "Prudence" at a subsidized price.

Most of the program results are likely to be sustained. The gains achieved in the project are likely to be
sustained, particularly with regard to increased awareness and behavior change among the young
population and high-risk groups as these continue to be supported by the GF and IDA. The increased
knowledge about the modes of AIDS transmission among the general population is likely to be sustained
and expanded through the continued support of donors. Moreover, the knowledge of methods to protect
against AIDS transmission and the increased use of condoms, particularly among high-risk groups, will
likely observe a positive trend. On the other hand, the program will face a key challenge in financing the
ARVs beyond 2012 and transforming the social marketing unit responsible for condom promotion and
distribution into an independent non-profit organization.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design, and Implementation

The project objectives and design are more relevant today than when the project began in 2002. The three
diseases continue to pose a high burden on the health sector and the gains achieved in this project need to
be sustained. In January 2007, the Government launched the National Initiative for Social Development
(Initiative Nationale pour le Développement Social - INDS), a reference framework that provides a
comprehensive vision for economic growth and poverty reduction and replaces the former Poverty
Reduction Strategy Paper process. This new strategy is based on four main pillars, one of which seeks to
develop human resources and improve access to basic services, notably for women and youth. Also in
2007, the ES finalized the second five-year strategic plan to fight against HIV/AIDS, TB, and malaria.
Similarly, the country assistance strategy for the period 2009­2012 proposes to "support access to basic
social services and human development; improve health access and quality" (country assistance strategy
outcome 2.2). The Bank will help the Government improve access to and quality of health services in a
sustainable manner in order to contribute to the achievement of the health-related Millennium
Development Goals (MDGs) of reducing malnutrition, child and maternal mortality, and combating
communicable diseases through a US$7 million program, of which about US$1.5 million will be
allocated for the three communicable diseases. In addition, the program is supported by the GF and the
AFD. This support reflects the relevance of AIDS control to the current development challenges facing
Djibouti.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

3.2.1 HIV/AIDS

The project achieved its overall objectives in slowing the progress of HIV/AIDS, raising awareness
among the population, and establishing the basic institutional and technical capacities as well as
community-based programs. The GF project followed in late 2005 with an initial focus on treatment and
complementing the Bank's project until late 2007 when the GF expanded its interventions as IDA funds
were depleted, thereby ensuring a smooth transition.

The first part of the project development objectives is: "to contribute to the change in behavior of the
Djiboutian population". One goal was to increase the percent of the population that had heard HIV/AIDS


                                                                                                        11
messages from 5% in 2002 to 85% in 2008. By early 2007, HIV/AIDS awareness among the general
population reached 95%, thus exceeding the target almost 18 months before project closing. Moreover,
60% of the population had heard a message about STIs. Similarly, a 2005 survey showed that among 15­
24-year-old respondents, 45% of males and 50% of females were able to correctly cite three prevention
methods. A majority of respondents (60%) mentioned prayers, fasting, and good Muslim behavior as
methods to protect against HIV/AIDS. This is an elaborate reflection of the choice of "abstinence", as a
risk reduction strategy chosen among the three strategies known as "A-B-C" or "Abstinence ­ Being
Faithful ­ Condom use." Awareness about modes of transmission and methods of protection against
HIV/AIDS resulted in a significant change in behavior reflected by the increase in condom distribution
and reported use of condoms (detailed below).

By the end of 2007, the project had distributed about 2.4 million condoms, representing about 68% of the
end-of-project target of 3.5 million. At the time of ICR preparation, the cumulative figure for the end of
2008 was not available but the trend suggests that the end-of-project target (December 2008) is likely to
be achieved, based on the expansion of distribution sites.

The reported use of condoms, at 27% in the general population, represents a dramatic increase from the
extremely low level reported in 2002 surveys. It was due to the lifting of opposition, taboos, and rumors
against the use of condoms, following the endorsement of the fight against HIV/AIDS by religious
leaders, which was a key intermediate result. The most remarkable project outcome following two
international conferences and a series of in-country awareness workshops was the unanimous declaration
by the country's religious leaders that the use of condoms was one of the means to prevent HIV/AIDS.

The proliferation of community interventions and high-quality peer education activities were key
intermediate outcomes. Regarding the community interventions for behavior change, the project focused
on the quality capacity building from supporting agencies to CBA peer educators. It resulted in long-term
improvements in the organizations representing civil society. The emphasis on quality strengthening,
along with the increase in the sheer number of enrolled CBAs, resulted in increased demand for VCT
services and condom use among the priority vulnerable groups. A tracing system has recently been
introduced to further track the number of persons referred by the CBAs to receive VCT services.

The second part of the PDO contains: "to contain or reduce the spread of HIV/AIDS epidemic." The
major project impact is the reduction of HIV/AIDS prevalence among young people and the "marker"
group of STI patients--proxy measures for new infections, in the absence of actual data on incidence.
According to the sentinel surveillance system, HIV seroprevalence among 15­24-year-old pregnant
women decreased from 2.7% in 2002 to 2.1% in 2007. Similarly, HIV prevalence among STI patients was
reduced from 22 percent to 9.7 percent in 2006, a trend suggesting a reduction of HIV incidence, since
STI patients are at high risk for transmission.

The achievement of the project HIV/AIDS outcomes related to prevention was directly linked to the
increase in condom use and VCT services utilization, and the mitigation of the impact was related to the
increase in access to ARV treatment, and social services, nutrition support, and legal protection of persons
infected and those affected by the HIV/AIDS. See Annex 2 for a detailed account of the project output
indicators.




                                                                                                         12
3.2.2 Tuberculosis

The target of lost cases among TB patients under treatment, including trans-border patients, amounting to
15%, has been met. However, the existence of transborder patients increases the risk of multidrug-
resistant strains of TB bacillus. The HIV seroprevalence among screened TB patients was reduced from
13.8% in 2006 to 12% in 2007, which is consistent with the coinfection rate in countries with an epidemic
of medium magnitude. Project funds were used to strengthen the capacities of CPF with equipment and
drugs. As of 2008, more than 1,200 patients were treated with a success rate of 81%. According to a 2008
survey, the detection rate was at 76%. The project has also provided nutritional support to 210 TB
inpatients at CPF. The GF and AFD are funding other aspects of the TB program such as the
rehabilitation of CPF, the expansion of the decentralization of service delivery, and strengthening of the
community component.

3.2.3 Malaria

During project implementation (2003­2008), the anti-malaria program received insecticide-impregnated
bed nets (IIBNs) from various donors: 90,000 from the GF; 20,000 from UNICEF; and 8,000 from the
African Development Bank, of which 19,070 remain to be distributed. These IIBNs were distributed
either during anti-malaria campaigns, at antenatal care clinics, or during child health­Integrated
Management of Childhood Illness visits. The project funded the purchase and distribution of 42,000
IIBNs in high-prevalence areas of Tadjourah; Dikhil; Balbala; Ambouli; and Quartier Sept of Djibouti-
Ville. Additionally, 25 community projects were funded to conduct training on utilization, impregnation
and re-impregnation of bed nets.

Project funds were also used to procure three much-needed vector-control spraying machines. The IIBN
coverage survey of July 2007 showed that 25% of sampled households had IIBNs and 18.9%­29.1% of
vulnerable groups (pregnant women and children under the age of five) slept under IIBNs the night
preceding the survey. The utilization of bed nets might have been underestimated because the survey was
done after a dry spell, and in a month when rain was 20-50% below normal (implying relatively few
mosquitoes). The project strengthened the capacities of the Epidemiology and Hygiene Services with
equipment, drugs, bed nets, and household treatment products.

3.3 Efficiency

The initial economic and financial analysis (PAD) predicted that the present value (over the period of
2002 and 2028) of the accumulated total costs of the epidemic, including treatment costs (excluding
ARV), foregone income and funeral, and years of life lost to premature deaths, was estimated about 13%
of GDP of 2002.

The ICR analysis also finds a consistent estimate that the present value of total cost (over the period of
2002 and 2025) of not addressing this epidemic is about 11.8% of GDP in 2002. However, with the
intervention and use of three quantitative indicators, the current analysis finds that the present value of
total costs would be reduced to 3.8% of GDP in 2002. Given that GDP of Djibouti in 2002 is about
US$658 million, the costs saved through the intervention are about US$52 million. Since the ICR reports
US$13 million disbursed for the total costs of this intervention, the cost benefit ratio is almost 4.0 even
under a conservative scenario. (See Annex 3 for more details.)




                                                                                                        13
3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

The overall outcome rating is "Satisfactory." By the end of the project, outcomes were achieved and most
of the intermediate indicators were achieved and some even exceeded the end-of-project targets. The
continued high burden of the three diseases makes the project interventions relevant and they are featured
prominently in the Government plans and donor support programs.

Compared to similar MAP projects in other African countries, this project in Djibouti is clearly one of the
best performing, particularly when looking retrospectively and considering the complexity of the
multisectoral design. At the end of the project, the law protecting the PLWHA and affected persons was
voted through by the Parliament and enacted by decree, and the ES was created and made operational by
effectively coordinating funding from three major donors. The Ministry of Public Health, taking the lead
on technical aspects in the Interministerial Committee as well as the Inter-partner Technical Committee,
developed and issued strategies for VCT services, for prevention and protocols for comprehensive case
management and psychosocial support, for syndromic approach of STI, and a protocol for accidental
exposure to blood. The project enabled religious leaders to better understand the dynamics and
programming of HIV/AIDS so that they no longer opposed the HIV/AIDS program, and the religious
leaders have helped in advocacy for prevention. Further, the religious leaders no longer openly oppose the
use of condoms when circumstances dictate (e.g., discordant couples). Djibouti is leading the way in the
Arab world in the fight against HIV/AIDS, and its civil society involvement and grassroots behavior
change communication program is an adaptable model for the region.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

3.5.1 Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

Gender aspects: Prevention of Mother-to-Child Transmission (PMTCT). The project fully funded the
national expansion of the PMTCT program. Further, while recognizing the scientific and biological fact
of HIV transmission that occurs between mother and child, the project collaborated with the Djibouti
partners to address the gender aspects by contributing to the lessening of stigmatization of, and violence
against women, and endorsing the more inclusive national program name which is: "Prevention of
Parent-to-Child Transmission" (Prévention de la Transmission de Parent à Enfant).

Soeur-à-Soeur Project: Peer education for risk reduction among commercial sex workers. The project
provided the ES with the resources to assist the hard-to-reach and most vulnerable and priority group--
CSWs. CSWs are predominantly unskilled, low-income, destitute women, mostly from neighboring
countries and often single mothers with young children. With assistance from the Ministry of Social
Affairs and Women Promotion, some of the CSWs were trained to acquire various vocational skills and
generate income.

3.5.2 Institutional Change/Strengthening

The ES created under the impetus of the project is continuing and has attracted funding from the GF and
other multilateral and bilateral agencies, including the AFD. At the community level, qualified supporting
agencies and strengthened CBAs will likely continue their activities to fight the three diseases.




                                                                                                        14
3.5.3 Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative): Not applicable.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops: Not applicable.


4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

The risk to development outcome is rated "Low." The key development outcome of this operation is the
reduction of HIV/AIDS prevalence in young pregnant women aged 15 to 24 years from 2.7 percent in
2002 to 2.1 percent in 2007, which exceeded the end-of-project target of 2.2 percent adopted at the MTR.
The gains made in increasing the general population's awareness of the methods of transmission and
protection from HIV/AIDS; the behavior change among the young population and high-risk groups; the
increase in the distribution and use of condoms, particularly among high-risk groups; the steady increase
in VCT; the increased access to treatment; and the increased management capacity are all technical and
institutional factors that would sustain the achieved development outcomes beyond the project.

Moreover, the continued support from the GF to the program as well as the Additional Financing to the
Health Sector Development Project (P107395), which includes a component to support HIV/AIDS
prevention and treatment interventions; likely sustained program institutional capacity; and continued
NGO and CBA support are factors that would contribute financially and economically to sustaining the
development outcome. Also, the Minister of Health of Djibouti has been a very active member of the GF
board, which reflects government commitment to the HIV/AIDS program.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

5.1.1 Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Bank performance in ensuring quality at entry is rated "Satisfactory." The Bank successfully identified
the HIV/AIDS risk factors and their potential impact in Djibouti, taking into consideration the strategic
relevance of the epidemic and the cost of inaction on socioeconomic development. During preparation,
the Bank mobilized a team of experts in the field with an adequate skill mix to provide sound technical
guidance to the Government, including developing a strategic plan for HIV/AIDS, conducting baseline
surveys, suggesting sound institutional arrangements, ensuring adequacy of fiduciary and safeguard
requirements, and proposing a robust M&E framework.

Project preparation was led by a skilled task team leader from the Africa region with strong experience in
preparing and supervising AIDS projects. Bank management provided adequate financial resources and
support to the task team. During appraisal, the Bank team adequately assessed the institutional capacity of
the ES and a sound decision was made to delegate the procurement management to the health project until
ES capacity was further developed. Also, the team ensured that the project had a comprehensive set of
interventions that covered all aspects of the epidemic from prevention to treatment and social support, and
devised a multisectoral approach and strong community interventions with an adequate balance between
demand- and supply-side interventions.




                                                                                                        15
The Quality Assurance Group (QAG) conducted an assessment of this operation and QAE was rated
"Satisfactory."

5.1.2 Quality of Supervision (including of fiduciary and safeguards policies)

Bank performance in quality of supervision is rated "Satisfactory." The Bank team throughout
implementation conducted extensive supervision missions, particularly in the first two years of the
project. The Bank team insisted that the ES prepare all the procedures manuals, guidelines, and protocols
and spent considerable time reviewing them to facilitate the implementation of complex interventions
such as the community interventions, treatment protocols, and eligibility criteria for social support. The
Bank team also focused on the activities directly related to achieving the PDO and related indicators. The
mission aide-mémoires were very detailed and provided an assessment on the progress of each project
component, including technical annexes in addition to a detailed list of actions that were followed at each
supervision mission.

There was exemplary coordination with the GF and other development partners to ensure synergy and a
harmonized list of indicators or utilizing the same set of indicators whenever possible, even if this meant
sharing the results, because all the inputs to programs, regardless of funding sources, are provided to
achieve the same results set by the Government. Almost all supervision missions in 2006 and onward
were conducted jointly with the GF, including the MTR. This joint collaboration was a key factor in
ensuring effective implementation and achievement of the project results. Internally, the team reported to
management through the ISRs on the issues facing implementation, including the delays in implementing
the environmental management plan. Management comments in the ISRs provided guidance to the team
on actions to be taken. The team supervised adequately the fiduciary and safeguards aspects and took
necessary actions to mitigate any problems, including the delay in implementing the environmental
management plan and the lack of documentation supporting an amount expended under the multisectoral
component identified during the annual external audit. Actual disbursements exceeded the planned
disbursement schedule and total funds were fully expended without the need for a project extension. The
team also properly phased out Bank support in many components during the last year of the project in a
well-coordinated manner with the GF. The project's achievements were featured at the XIV International
AIDS Conference in Mexico City in August 2008.

The QAG assessed the overall quality of supervision of this project in September 2006 and rated it
"Satisfactory" and found several aspects "Highly Satisfactory." QAG noted that the team: (i) did an
excellent job in supporting the development of a national program with a strong M&E system that
allowed other donors to equally support the government; and (ii) made a major contribution in putting the
"Three Ones" concept into action.


5.1.3 Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Overall Bank performance is rated "Satisfactory." It was satisfactory during preparation and supervision
as judged by the successful implementation of the project, the achievement of the PDO and most outcome
and output indicators, as well as the disbursement of all project funds in a timely manner without the need
for project extension. In addition, the Bank demonstrated exemplary coordination with the GF and other
development partners to sustain the gains achieved in the project.




                                                                                                        16
5.2 Borrower Performance

5.2.1 Government Performance

Government performance is rated "Satisfactory." The Government was highly committed to the project
from inception. The creation of the project Intersectoral Committee chaired by the Prime Minister, which
was later transformed into the CCMI, chaired by an active Minister of Health, helped coordinate the
multisectoral activities and donor support. Despite the weak progress in implementing the awareness-
raising activities in some sectors, key ministries achieved their targets. There were regular meetings at the
beginning of the project, but these became less frequent, and this point was raised in the MTR.
Subsequently, the meetings of the CCMI were resumed on a regular basis.

Government commitment was also reflected in its initiative for the preparation of the second five-year
HIV/AIDS strategic plan (2008­2012) with technical assistance from donors, including the Bank.
Moreover, the Government issued many of the decrees required to implement the program, such as the
Presidential Decree establishing the Interministerial Committee and the ES to implement the program, the
decree establishing the Medical College for HIV/AIDS to manage the clinical aspect of the program, and
the issuance of the first law in the MENA region to protect the rights of PLWHA. In addition, the
Government provided adequate authority to the ES in implementing the program and recruiting the
necessary staff.

5.2.2 Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

The performance of the implementing agencies is rated "Highly Satisfactory." The ES and its units,
created and mainly strengthened under the IDA project, implemented all the project components in a
timely manner, disbursed all the project funds, and ensured sustained coordination of actors while keeping
the Interministerial Committee informed of progress. As a result of IDA's support, the GF and AFD used
the ES as well to implement their programs, which reflects the confidence in ES institutional and
management capacity. The sectoral programs to fight the three diseases (PLS) were generally effective
despite the frequent replacement of focal points and early difficulties. The surveys conducted by UNICEF
and during the MTR demonstrated that the PLS in the different ministries greatly contributed to the
achievement of project development objectives, particularly the PLS of the health sector.

The ES through its Community Interventions Support Unit and Communication Unit provided excellent
and outstanding support to community interventions, particularly the development of the procedures
manuals and guidelines that facilitated the implementation of this component. A key success factor was
the recruitment of the supporting agencies, which were instrumental in building capacity, training and
supervising the 170 CBAs that implemented community interventions and awareness campaigns to
specific vulnerable and high-risk groups in the regions, which was done based on a competitive selection
process under the IDA project. In addition to coordinating the above activities, the ES implemented the
social marketing component and the communications strategy, which was not in its original mandate. As
a result, the distribution of condoms and awareness of the general public significantly increased. The ES
successfully completed all planned activities, disbursed all project funds, and achieved the PDO and most
of the outcome and output indicators with some exceeding the end-of-project targets.




                                                                                                          17
5.2.3 Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Overall borrower performance is rated "Highly Satisfactory." The project components and interventions
were completely new to the Borrower and had never been implemented before. During identification, the
Borrower did not have the capacity to implement the program and no institutional framework was in
place. During preparation and almost one year into project implementation, the Borrower developed
institutional and management capacity. The Borrower successfully implemented a complex program
across 11 ministries and 170 community projects, coordinating and managing funds from different
donors, and managing the control of three communicable diseases. The achievement of the PDO and
disbursement of all the project funds in a timely manner attest to the outstanding overall performance of
the Borrower.

6. Lessons Learned

Political and social/religious leadership and commitment matter. Getting the support at the highest
political level made a huge difference in implementation. The creation of the Interministerial Committee,
later transformed into the CCMI, succeeded in mobilizing the multisectoral and community-based
activities and donor support. Moreover, it was important to engage religious leaders. Trained religious
leaders and imams were often called on to conduct advocacy and question and answer sessions.

Institutional and management capacity building takes time but it pays off. The early delays in
implementation were caused by the focus on strengthening the management capacity and qualified
staffing of the newly established ES and on the development of detailed guidelines and procedures (14
manuals). However, later on, this investment accelerated the implementation guided by the protocols and
procedures manuals.

Harmonization of donors' inputs and focus on results facilitated implementation. The fight against
HIV/AIDS is a long-haul emergency that requires the effective coordination of all stakeholders,
particularly donors. The key donors--the Bank and GF--worked together with the ES to implement the
"Three Ones" policy. Developing a rigorous list of indicators that was periodically revised and
harmonized was a critical lesson. Activities were adjusted depending on results.

In combating HIV/AIDS, access to ARV treatment is equally important as prevention. Although
prevention of HIV/AIDS, including VCT, remains the most cost-effective weapon in the fight against the
epidemic compared to ARV treatment, insight and closer consideration of epidemiologic and cultural
aspects led to the conclusion that prevention (particularly VCT services) would fail unless ARV treatment
was simultaneously offered. As a result, the project introduced and scaled up ARV treatment until the GF
took over. It was later shown in service statistics that VCT utilization increased, particularly among the
young and educated, when they were assured of access to affordable treatment.

The provision of an integrated package of medical and social services proved to be very effective. It
was found that lack of treatment compliance of many PLWHA, despite free provision, was due to
psychological, social, and financial factors. The innovative DASAP was therefore introduced and
implemented using NGOs to link the treatment with nutritional, social, and psychological care.




                                                                                                       18
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

This completion report reflects the reality of its implementation during the period 2003-2008 in a
complete and satisfactory manner, which is in line with our view as the project implementing agency.

At the outset, we commend the Bank's team on the notes and conclusions reached as the rating of the ES
and its collaborating partners were rightly justified. We would also like to attest that the World Bank was
a partner in the successful implementation of the project would deserve the same performance rating of
the Government, i.e. "Highly Satisfactory".

Despite being a young institution, the ES was able to meet at least two major challenges: to strengthen its
organizational and management capacity and to propel various aspects of the national response. After
five years of operations, considerable progress was noted particularly with regard to the community
response. HIV/AIDS awareness has increased among the public in general and the young people in
particular through various information channels. An equally successful combat against TB and Malaria
was also carried out and it was adequately noted in the report.

These extremely encouraging results could not be obtained without the political leadership at the highest
level. On the ground, it is necessary to commend the dynamism, the engagement and the determination of
all the teams from the sectoral ministries that worked in "new" and "complex" areas. This work
increasingly required greater coordination of the stakeholders, which resulted in the adherence to the
"Three Ones" principle since 2003.

The relevance of this project to the development challenges and the poverty reduction strategy in Djibouti
is real and it deserves to be continued by an additional financing from the World Bank in order to support
the national strategic plan and to scale up the interventions.

The challenges however remain enormous and several recommendations need to be considered in order to
enrich the report. First, particular attention should be given to reorganizing the Communication Unit at
the ES. Second, the "gender" dimension was incorporated in the implementation of all the programs and
interventions but was not adequately noted in the report. Lastly, we should in the future recruit persons
living with HIV/AIDS in decision-making jobs in order to reverse their marginalization and
stigmatization and promote their social acceptability.

Finally, we would like to end this note by asking the decision makers at the World Bank to promote the
"best practice" of Djibouti in combating HIV/AIDS and allowing the program managers to share their
experience in the Arab and Islamic countries.

(b) Co-financiers

Please see comments received from the Global Fund in Annex 8.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders

Not applicable.


                                                                                                        19
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                            Actual/Latest
                                      Appraisal Estimate                            Percentage of
          Components                                        Estimate (USD
                                        (USD million)                                Appraisal
                                                               million)
CAPACITY BUILDING AND
                                              4.6                  4.90                 33%
POLICY DEVELOPMENT
PUBLIC HEALTH SECTOR
RESPONSE TO HIV/AIDS/STI,                     2.3                  3.80                 25%
MALARIA AND TUBERCULOSIS
MULTI-SECTOR RESPONSES
FOR HIV/AIDS PREVENTION                       2.6                  3.70                 25%
AND CARE
SUPPORT TO COMMUNITY-
                                              2.5                  2.60                 17%
BASED INITIATIVES

                Total Project Costs          12.0                 15.00                 100%




(b) Financing
                                                           Appraisal     Actual/Latest
                                            Type of                                     Percentage of
          Source of Funds                                  Estimate        Estimate
                                          Cofinancing                                     Appraisal
                                                        (USD million)   (USD million)
Borrower                                                0.72            0.00           0.00
IDA GRANT FOR HIV/AIDS                                  12.00           15.00          125%




                                                                                                    20
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

The achievement of the project HIV/AIDS outcomes related to prevention was directly linked to the
increase in condom use and VCT services utilization and the mitigation of the impact was related to the
increase in access to ARV treatment, and social services, nutrition support, and legal protection of persons
infected and those affected by the HIV/AIDS. The following related output indicators were achieved:

      The share of 15­24-year-olds reporting the use of condom during last casual sexual intercourse
    increased from 5% in 2002 to 38.3% by the end of 2006. Given continued increase in condom
    marketing and distribution and indication of growing acceptability of condom use, it is possible that
    the project target of 50% use will have been achieved by the end of 2008, although it will need to be
    confirmed by a survey planned by the ES with the GF in late 2009. Condom use among CSWs
    reached 94% in 2007. Of the 300 CSWs in the "Soeur à Soeur" project, just 80 accepted to be tested
    for HIV of whom 42 (52.5%) were found to be HIV-positive. This shows where continuing work is
    needed.
      Condom use remained low among other high-risk groups: 13% among men in uniform and dockers,
    revealing where additional work is needed.
      The number of persons tested for HIV in VCT services increased from 1,574 in 2004 to 5,321 in
    2006, to 2,156 for the first quarter of 2008 and 1,765 for the second quarter of 2008.
      More than 80% of pregnant women attending antenatal care services have accepted VCT for HIV,
    well above the 50% project target.
      The STI prevalence rate among pregnant women was not systematically recorded or notified at the
    antenatal clinics. Despite this, the national service statistics recorded total STIs of 5,047 in 2007 and
    2,804 in the first six months of 2008, males and females. The dominant pathology among females in
    2007 was vaginal discharge.
    More than 2,000 PLWHA were registered for HIV/AIDS case management. Among them, 1,541 were
    under ARV treatment (in ARV active file).
    Treatment of HIV-infected children started with nine children in 2005 and increased to 24 in early
    2007.
    2,550 persons benefited from dry rations provided by the World Food Program and distributed to
    home-bound patients by CBAs.
    610 hospitalized HIV patients received three hot meals per day.
    300 HIV-positive women benefited from psychosocial support from CBAs.
    600 orphans and other vulnerable persons received psychosocial support, nutrition, school supplies
    and school fees, and financing of income-generating activities for their guardians.
    The survival rate of PLWHA under ARV treatment increased from 75% in 2005 to 88% in 2007.
    Djibouti is the first country in the region to adopt a law protecting the rights of PLWHA and their
    families against any form of discrimination, and gave them assistance to lawyers in case of litigation.




                                                                                                          21
Component 1: Strengthening capacities and policy formulation
Type of               Indicator               Values at end of         Comments
achievement                                   project
(a) Implementation    Timely submission       Over 75%                 Target was reached by end of March
of three national     and timely              achievement of three     2008.
strategic plans       implementation of       national strategic
                      action plans            plans
(b) Coordination and - Committees are         Coordination and         Inter ministerial committee was less
administration of the established and         administrative tasks     active than the inter partners country
project Inter-        operate satisfactorily  for the IMC took         coordination mechanism (CCMI) that
ministerial                                   place                    includes multilateral and bilateral
Committee                                                              partners, NGO and civil society
Coordination                                                           representatives, was more active and
Mechanisms                                                             met regularly.
                                                                       80% of the five-year ES action plan
                                                                       was achieved

(c) Strengthening of   - 150 peer educators     - 750 peer educators   - Targets are greatly exceeded for peer
capacities and         trained every year       trained                educators. Types of trained peer
in-service training                                                    educators include youth peers in
for health personnel   - 50% of health          - 75% of health        schools and in community development
and training in        personnel adequately     personnel trained to   centers; peers within each of the
advocacy and social    trained to treat STI     diagnose and treat     11ministries; peers within each of the
communication          and opportunistic        STI and                170 community based associations
                       infections               opportunistic          (CBA) including CSWs.
                                                infections             - Target is exceeded for the training of
                                                                       health personnel.
(d) Communication      - Djiboutians of                                Results of early 2007 survey showed
                       targeted groups have     95%                    that 95 % of respondents have heard
                       heard at least 14                               about HIV/AIDS.
                       messages on
                       HIV/AIDS, malaria
                       and TB that are
                       broadcasted on the
                       radio every week

                       - Djiboutians know at    50%                    Results of program survey.
                       least three methods to
                       protect against HIV

(e) Monitoring and     Annual reports of the Five annual reports   The M&E Unit of the ES was fully
Evaluation: data to    National Program to   submitted by the ES functioning. The matrix of harmonized
monitor impact and     fight HIV/AIDS,                             indicators was regularly updated.
results indicators are Malaria and TB
regularly gathered     (PLSPT) timely
and submitted          submitted
Component 2: Public Health Sector Response to manage HIV/AIDS, STI, Malaria and Tuberculosis
(a) Strengthening      5 sentinel sites      Target is exceeded;   By end of the project, there are 15
national surveillance established by the end 15 sentinel sites are sentinel sites: five sentinel sites were
system and             of 2004               established and       operational in the five district CMH by
seroprevalence                               operational           end of 2004
surveys                                                            By 2006, sentinel sites were operational




                                                                                                                  22
                                                                       in 10 antenatal clinics of Djibouti City
(b) Development of      12­14 centers with      17 VCT service         VCT protocols were completed in 2005
VCT protocols and       antenatal care are      centers were           and first utilized at CYT, the national
intensification of      offering VCT services   established            reference center. The extension of VCT
VCT activities and                                                     services in Djibouti City and CMH
follow up                                                              started in 2006 and completed during
                                                                       the third quarter of 2007. By the end of
                                                                       the project, there are 17 VCT service
                                                                       points. Following the initial training
                                                                       and supervision, refresher courses for
                                                                       VCT counselors and laboratory
                                                                       technicians were carried out.
(c) Strengthening the   - Health centers are                           - STI case management started in 2003
health system for the   treating STI            - 100% of health       in 10 health centers of Djibouti City
treatment of                                    centers are treating   with revisions of guides in 2006 and in
HIV/AIDS, STI and                               STI                    2008.
other opportunistic
infections,                                      17 VCT services       - All VCT services were operational in
particularly                                    (5CMH and 12           mid-2007. Case management of
Tuberculosis (TB)       - PLWHA use the         centers) are           PLWHA benefited from project
                        VCT and case            operational            investments made at Peltier laboratory
                        management services                            (Civil work and cell count machines)
                        according to the        - More than 2000       Periodic supply of reagents was
                        established protocols   PLWHA are              contributed from other donors.
                                                registered for         Following the institutional and
                                                HIV/AIDS case          technical strengthening - - training of
                                                management.            ARV prescribing physicians and their
                                                Among them, 1541       supervisor, establishment of ARV
                                                are under ARV          College, the first ARV prescription was
                                                treatment (in ARV      made in February 2004. As of the end
                                                active file)           of 2007, 40% of the country is covered
                                                                       with facilities provided with resources
                                                                       to treat PLWHAs. Five of the 21
                                                                       facilities that offer ARV therapy are in
                                                                       districts. However, only 4 of the 21
                                                                       facilities are treating 80% of the
                                                                       patients: 32% treated at Younis
                                                                       Toussaint; 23% at Peltier Hospital; 17%
                                                                       at Paul Faure and; 8% at Bouffard
                                                                       (Army Hospital). This pattern of
                                                                       utilization of facilities equipped for
                                                                       ARV therapy is driven by both fear of
                                                                       stigma from neighbors and by former
                                                                       care seeking preferences.

                        - Case management of                           Extension of case management of TB
                        TB outside of the                              (DOTS and DOTCS) outside Paul
                        reference center Paul                          Faure was completed in 2007
                        Faure


(d) Purchase of                                 Since project start-   Social Marketing strategy was
condoms and                                     up in 2003, more       completed in 2006, including the



                                                                                                                  23
intensification of                             than 2.4 million       creation of a social marketing NGO. As
their distribution, as                         condoms were           of December 2007, condoms are
per the designed                               distributed. The       distributed in the capital and five (5)
strategy                                       distribution was       districts from a total of 388 distribution
                                               intensified in 2006    points, 80 of which are in districts.
                                               and beyond
Component 3: Multisectoral response for the prevention and care of HIV/AIDS
Sectors have          End of 2004: 5 plans     11 actions plans       - At project start-up, the 11 sectors
formulated their                               were started at        were fully mobilized and since then
action plans in       End of 2006: 8 plans     project start-up       have submitted and implemented their
response to the                                Two sectoral           action plans with mixed results.
HIV/AIDS                                       ministries
                                               (Education and         - Ministry of Justice formulated laws to
                                               Youth) were most       protect PLWHA.
                                               active
Component 4: Support to community interventions
(a) Strengthening the 150 peer educators                              Targets are largely exceeded for peer
behavior change       trained per year                                educators
communication
                      Djiboutians of                                  Behavior change communication used
                      targeted groups have     95%                    multimedia as well as interpersonal
                      heard at least 14                               approaches. Key messages were tested
                      messages on                                     and communication channels were
                      HIV/AIDS, malaria                               radio, TV, newspapers but also national
                      and TB that are                                 artists and mostly peer educators for
                      broadcasted on the                              community activities. Selection of peer
                      radio ever week                                 educators was conducted by recruited
                                                                      supporting agencies and as per the
                                                                      processes in the component manual. A
                                                                      generic guide for peer educator was
                                                                      adapted for every targeted group. There
                                                                      were 200 trained peer educators per
                                                                      association. Supporting agencies
                                                                      ensured quality of activities by using
                                                                      observation checklists during their
                                                                      monthly or quarterly supervisions.
                                                                      Numerous activities were carried out
                                                                      around the World AIDS Day to a point
                                                                      that it became "National Week for the
                                                                      Fight against AIDS.
(b) Mechanisms to     Disbursements end of End of 2007: 85% of For the sake of convenience and to be
convey funds to       2005: 50%                disbursement           able to manage 30 -50 associations per
communities                                                           year and up to 110 at the end of the
                      60% of households                               project, the project recruited on a
                      living with registered                          competitive basis the supporting
                      PLWHA that are                                  agencies. Six supporting agencies were
                      treated receive                                 selected to be in charge of
                      psychosocial support                            strengthening the technical and
                                                                      financial capabilities of community-
                                                                      based associations, including
                                                                      responsibility to convey the funds
                                                                      according to pre-established transparent
                                                                      processes. Supporting agencies were



                                                                                                                   24
                                                                     operating as per their geographical
                                                                     location, areas of action and priority
                                                                     vulnerable groups: UNFD covers
                                                                     Quartier 6, Q7 and Q7bis and Arta
                                                                     Region; ADPEF covers Ambouli,
                                                                     Hayable and Dikhil ; CCFIS covers part
                                                                     of Hayable and Ali Sabieh region;
                                                                     CCAF covers Q1 and Q2, Einguela and
                                                                     Tadjourah region; UDC covers Q3 et
                                                                     Q4, Arhiba and the Obock region;
                                                                     CCAB covers solely Balbala, 4th
                                                                     quarter and PK12.
                                                                     About 100 psychosocial support and
                                                                     therapeutic extension workers were
                                                                     trained and supervised by prescribing
                                                                     physicians to assist PLWHA and their
                                                                     families. The DASAP was established
                                                                     by the project to provide an economic
                                                                     and social support after review by an
                                                                     independent committee. About 500
                                                                     persons benefited from this support that
                                                                     was later continued under Global Fund.
(c) Communities       End 2004: 30            Target was             Associations representing communities
master the means to   communities             exceeded: 30­50        benefited of institutional, technical and
fight HIV/AIDS        implement action        associations or        financial strengthening that made them
                      plans to prevent        communities per        able to design and implement sub-
                      HIV/AIDS and case       year, a total of 170   projects for prevention using peer
                      management              CBAs were active       education approach to include
                                              by the end of the      awareness sessions, advocacy and to a
                      Ten resting stops for   project                lesser degree individual one-to-one
                      truckers benefit from                          sessions
                      HIV prevention          The 10 resting stops
                                              were taken care        Activities at resting stops were carried
                                              under other funding    out in cafes and restaurants around
                                              by another donor       PK12. Sporadic awareness sessions and
                                                                     condoms distribution took place amidst
                                                                     the urban taxi drivers.

(d) Communities       Fight against Malaria   20 community sub-      Sub-projects were made to distribute
master the means to   is integrated in        projects carried out   IIBNs in the framework of social
fight Malaria         community sub-          under the national     mobilization in hyper endemic malaria
                      projects                program fighting       areas at the height of seasonal
                                              malaria (PNLP)         transmission




                                                                                                                 25
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

Summary of the Initial Economic and Financial Analysis at Appraisal:

The benefits of the intervention to reduce the transmission and prevalence of the HIV/AIDS mainly come
from (i) saving the costs of treatment, (ii) reducing the foregone revenue and funeral costs, and (iii)
reducing the number of deaths due to the HIV/AIDS. The direct costs of intervention include (i)
distribution of condoms and (ii) awareness raising campaigns.

         The initial analysis assumes two channels through which diffusion of the epidemic in Djibouti: (i)
sexual intercourse and (ii) mother-to-infant transmission. The probability and speed of the transmission
would then be highly dependent on the assumptions on this transmission process and probability. Despite
the limited availability of data, in order to make a reasonably realistic model, the following assumptions
are made. The population of interest consists of four groups including 0-14 year old children, 15-49 year
old male and female, and sex workers. The average number of sex partners and sexual intercourse per
year per partner among the adult male, female and sex workers are assumed based on Rehle et al. (1998).
The transmission probability depending on the prevalence of condom use, the prevalence and presence of
STI, and the direction of transmission are also assumed. Given the population age structure, fertility and
mortality rates, and initial prevalence rates by age and gender, the HIV/AIDS prevalence rates and the
costs of the epidemic are projected.

        The findings illustrates that the costs of the epidemic can be substantial without intervention. For
example, the costs of treatment and foregone revenue could be up to six percent of GDP by year 2010
without intervention. If the costs of the years of life lost due to premature deaths due to the HIV/AIDS,
the present value of accumulated costs would be about 13% of today's GDP even at a conservative
scenario. In addition, if the undermining effects of the HIV/AIDS on human capital accumulation are
added, the costs of not addressing the epidemic would become even greater than projected.

        The analysis identified three major areas of intervention by this program, and showed the
effectiveness of the interventions. Given that a slight changes in sexual behavior and prevalence of STI
has a substantial impact on the transmission probability and prevalence rates, the analysis focus on
changing the rates of condom use, the number of visits to sex workers, and the prevalence rates of STI
through intervention. The findings suggest that the increase in condom use when it is combined with
reduction in commercial sex and STI prevalence rates, the internal rate of return would be above 30% by
the year 2025.

End of Project Economic and Financial Prospects:

Assumptions and simulation

The model of HIV/AIDS transmission and assumptions regarding major parameters remain the same from
the original analysis. In order to quantify the expected benefits of the intervention using the model, post
intervention data on three major areas of intervention are needed: (i) prevalence of condom use, (ii) STI
prevalence rate, and (iii) behavioral change in sexual activity. Among these, prevalence of condom use
and STI are obtained from PDO indicators. Parameters regarding the behavioral change in sexual activity,
however, should be inferred due to lack of data. Thus, the strategy to quantify the effect of the
intervention is to use the observable indicators (e.g., condom use) and adjust unobserved outcomes (e.g.,



                                                                                                         26
average number of visits to sex workers) so that the predicted outcomes from the model to capture the
actual outcomes (e.g., prevalence rates).

         For this purpose, three quantitative PDO indicators are chosen: (i) prevalence rate among
pregnant women; (ii) prevalence rate among STI patients; and (iii) prevalence of condom use among
general public and sex workers. According to the completion report, the prevalence rate among 15-24
year old pregnant women is reduced from 2.7% in 2002 to 2.1% in 2007. Assuming that the prevalence
rate among pregnant women linearly declines and continues declining between 2007 and 2008, and the
rate of reduction is the same for adult female, the overall prevalence rate among adult female is assumed
to decline from 3.4% (CREDES data) in 2002 to 2.4% in 2008. The prevalence rate among STI patients
should have important implication given that the probability of transmission is assumed to be more than
20 times higher among STI patients than non-STI population. Given that STI population and sex workers
are similar in the sense that they are high risk groups vulnerable to HIV/AIDS, the reduction in
prevalence among STI's may imply the reduction in prevalence among sex workers. It is assumed that
prevalence rate among sex workers is reduced from 10.0% in 2002 to 4.5% in 2008. Then the overall
prevalence rate among adults is 3.3% in 2002 and 2.5% in 2008.

         Finally, according to 2006 data, the condom use among general public and sex workers have
greatly improved, and the rate of condom use in 2008 is assumed to be 45% and 97% for non-sex workers
and sex workers respectively. Given these numbers, it is assumed that average number of partners per sex
worker is assumed to be reduced from 8 to 6, and STI prevalence is reduced from 10 to 6% for the model
to match the overall prevalence rate, sex workers' prevalence rate, and adult females' prevalence rate in
2008 to be at 2.5%, 4.5%, and 2.4%, respectively.

Table 4.1. Summary of Indicators Used for Simulation
 PDO Indicators/Additional Assumption        2002 (PAD data)                    2007 (ICR data)   2008 (assumed)
 1. Prevalence among pregnant women          2.7%                               2.1%              2.0%
    Overall prevalence rate (adult female)   3.4%                               -                 2.4%
 2. Prevalence among STI's                   22.0%                              9.7%              9.7%
    Prevalence rate among sex workers        10.0%                              -                 4.5%
    Overall prevalence rate (adult)          3.3%                               -                 2.5%
 3. Condom use
    Among 15-24 public                       5%                                 38.3% (2006)      45%
    Among sex workers                        7.5%                               94%               97%
 4. Average number partners per sex worker 8                                                      6
 5. STI Prevalence rate                      10%                                                  6%
 Source: Author's calculation based on PAD and ICR data


Results and Discussion

Without intervention, the prevalence rate of HIV/AIDS rapidly increases mainly due to the limited usage
of condom. Especially after 2010 when the rate is over 5%, the infection rates exponentially rise. Total
number of the infected at time t ( Tot t ) is the previous period's total ( Tot t 1 ) added by the number of the
newly      infected      ( Newt )       less    of        the   number   of   deaths   due   to   AIDS   ( Deatht ):
Tot t  Tot t 1  Newt  Deatht . Then the total number of the infected among each group (children, adult
male and female, and sex workers) determines prevalence rates for each group. The prevalence rate
affects, in turn, the transmission probability of HIV. Since the data on the number of deaths due to AIDS



                                                                                                                 27
is limited, it is assumed that about 5% of the infected from the previous period die due to AIDS. Given
this law of motion and the parameters from Table 4.1, the prevalence rates without and with intervention
are calculated (Table 4.2). Without intervention, the adult prevalence could have been up to 5.3% in 2008.
However, due to the intervention, the prevalence is as low as 2.5 in 2008. If the impacts of this
intervention persist, the prevalence rates would decline further to remain low.

Table. 4.2. Impact of Interventions on Prevalence rates and Deaths due to AIDS
    Year                             2002           2005           2008           2010           2015       2020        2025
    Without Intervention
    Overall Prevalence rate               2.0            2.7           3.4            4.2            6.6      10.5         16.8
    Adult Prevalence rate                 3.3            4.4           5.3            6.5             10      15.8         24.9
    Deaths due to AIDS*                   620            975         1,196          1,470          2,478     4,231        7,221
    With Intervention
    Overall Prevalence rate               2.0            1.9           1.7            1.6            1.3       1.0          0.8
    Adult Prevalence rate                 3.3            3.1           2.5            2.3            1.8       1.4          1.1
    Deaths due to AIDS*                   620            703           663            633            556       483          415
    *UNAIDS-WHO estimates the number of deaths due to AIDS is 550 and 690 in 2001 and 2003, respectively.


         Without the intervention, the initial analysis (PAD) predicts that the present value (over the
period of 2002 and 2028) of the accumulated total costs of the epidemic including treatment costs
(excluding ARV), foregone income, and years of life lost to premature deaths was estimated about 12% of
GDP of 2002.1 Current analysis also finds a consistent estimate that the present value of total cost (over
the period of 2002 and 2025) of not addressing this epidemic is about 11.8% of GDP in 2002.2 With the
intervention, however, if the prevalence rates declines as suggested in Table 4.2, the present value of total
costs would be reduced to 3.8% of GDP in 2002. Given that GDP of Djibouti in 2002 is about USD 658
million, the costs saved through the intervention are about USD 52 million. Since the ICR reports USD 13
million disbursements for the total costs of this intervention, the cost benefit ratio is almost 4.0.

         If the costs of treatment and foregone revenue per year and person were larger, the benefits from
the intervention would be greater (Table 4.3). Depending on the assumptions of STI prevalence rate,
condom use among general public (non sex workers), and the average number of sex partners for sex
workers, the net benefits of the intervention slightly vary. In particular, if the condom use rate had
achieved the original target (50%) set at PAD, it would have made difference by 0.1% of GDP. However,
it is clear that the intervention has saved huge costs that might have occurred with rising HIV/AIDS
prevalence.




1
  The baseline line scenario assumes treatment costs, foregone revenue and funeral, and value of life at USD 100, 50, and 860
(GDP per capita) per year and person, respectively, as in PAD. However, the funeral costs of households could be someone else's
revenue in the society, it is not appropriate to include them as social costs. Given that funeral costs are negligible compared to
treatment costs and foregone revenue, they are not considered in the analysis here.

2
  The major difference between the analysis in PAD and ICR includes (i) the assumptions on the number of deaths due to AIDS
and (ii) population age structure, which leads to the different level of prevalence rate in each group and the number of newly
infected in each year.




                                                                                                                               28
Table. 4.3. Present Value of Costs of HIV/AIDS by Cost Scenarios and Intervention Outcomes
 Costs     (treatment+foregone
 revenue)                           $150        $250      $350       $450       $550                          $650     $750
  per year/person
                          Present Value of (Costs+YOL) as a percentage of GDP in 2002
 Without Intervention
 (STI prevalence, condom use, number of partners for sex workers)
 10%, 2.5%, 8                      11.8%       18.0%     24.1%       30.2%     36.4%                          42.5%    48.7%
 With Intervention
 (STI prevalence, condom use, number of partners for sex workers)
 6%, 45%, 6                         3.8%        5.8%      7.8%        9.8%     11.8%                          13.8%    15.8%
 3%, 45%, 8                         3.5%        5.3%      7.1%        8.9%     10.7%                          12.6%    14.4%
 6%, 50%, 6                         3.7%        5.6%      7.5%        9.4%     11.3%                          13.2%    15.1%
 *Assumptions on costs of treatment, foregone revenue and funeral are discussed in the PAD .
 Note: Grey column indicates the baseline (most conservative) estimates of the impacts of the intervention.


The stabilization and potential reversal of the HIV/ADIS epidemic would reduce the future fiscal burden
due to HIV/AIDS as described above. However, this projection is based on the assumption that the impact
of the intervention persists, namely the use of condom remains high and the prevalence of STI is kept
low. In addition, the distribution of ARV is not discussed here due to the high costs of ARV. Thus, it is
recommended that the new Health Sector Improvement Project make effort to (i) regularly monitor the
prevalence rates of HIV/AIDS and STI and the practice of condom use, and (ii) ensure condom
distribution, and (iii) identify areas of further improvement.

Technical Notes for the Analysis:

Transmission through sexual intercourse
The probability that an individual i gets infected from j ( pij ) through sexual intercourses is the
conditional probability of transmission depending on condom use (c) and STI presence (s) given j is
infected multiplied by the probability that j is infected ,
   pij ,s  prijc ,s (tr | j  infected )  pr ( j  infected ) .
    c




The probability that j is infected, pr ( j  infected ) , is a prevalence rate of HIV/AIDS among the group
that j belongs to. The conditional probability of transmission from j to i is specified as
  prijc ,s (tr | j  infected )  1  [1  P (i, j , c, s )]# of sex
where P(i, j , c, s ) is a transmission probability by one sexual intercourse that depends on gender of i and
j, whether j is a sexual worker and STI infection and type, and whether they use condom.




                                                                                                                               29
P(i, j , c, s ) is assumed as in PAD as follows:

                                                                       Non-STIs      STIs ­GUD STIs non-GUD
                     Prevalence STIs
                                                                                   (% among STIs) (% among STIs)
                (percent population 15-49)
                                                                [85%,90%,95%,100%]      50%            50%
     Transmission probabilities without condom
       Male-to-Female                                     0.2%                 4%              2%
       Female-to-Male                                     0.1%                 2%              1%
     Transmission probabilities with condom are reduced by 98% (effectiveness rate of condom).

Then the probability that an individual i gets infected within a specific year, P c ,s (i  infected) , is one
less the probability of getting infection from none of his/her partners,

                               # sex partners
 P c ,s (i  infected)  1            (1  p
                                      j 1
                                                c ,s
                                                ij     ).

Finally, for a representative agent in an economy, the expected probability of transmission depends on the
probability of condom use and STI prevalence. This expected probability should be calculated separately
for male and female.
                       1       1
EPg (infected)          pr (s  STI )  pr (c  condom)  P
                     STI 0 condom 0
                                                                                  c ,s
                                                                                         (i  infected) , where g= f,m.


For this calculation, the number of sexual intercourse and partners per year is assumed again as in PAD as
follows:
                        Partners                              Males             Females                     Sex workers
       Males                                                    0                    2                          [8,10]
       Females                                              endogenous               0                             0
       Sex workers                                          endogenous               0                             0
                       Contacts                               Males             Females                     Sex workers
       Males                                                    0                   30                           [2,3]
       Females                                                 30                   0                              0
       Sex workers                                            [2,3]                 0                              0
        Parameters labeled endogenous are calculated to ensure internal consistency so that the total number of sexual acts by
        males is equal to the total number of sexual acts by females.
        Source: Based on Rehle et al. (1998).




                                                                                                                                 30
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                                     Responsibility/
            Names                                   Title                  Unit
                                                                                       Specialty
Lending

Supervision/ICR
Anas Abou El Mikias               Sr Financial Management Specia         MNAFM
Justine Etiennette Essie Agness
                                  Consultant                             MNSHD
Soumahoro
Abduljabbar Hasan Al Qathab       Senior Procurement Specialist          MNAPR
Sami Ali                          Operations Officer                     MNSHD
Karim Kamil Fahim                 Auditor                                IADDR
Abdessalem Mohsen Farza           Consultant                             AFTH3
Brigitte S. Franklin              Program Assistant                      MNSHD
Sahar Mohamed Hegazy              Program Assistant                      MNC03
Michele L. Lioy                   Consultant                             MNSHD
Mohamed Mehdi                     Consultant                             MNAFM
Eileen Murray                     Lead Operations Officer                MNSHD
Wendy Voahangy Ravano             Consultant                             MNSHD


(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                           Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                                 USD Thousands (including
                                           No. of staff weeks
                                                                       travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY01                                                  1                           11.71
  FY02                                                 19                          129.92
  FY03                                                 42                          238.80
  FY04                                                  4                            3.32
  FY05                                                  5                           11.03
  FY06                                                                              -0.27
  FY07                                                                               0.74
  FY08                                                                               0.00
                                  Total:               71                          395.25
Supervision/ICR
  FY01                                                                               0.00
  FY02                                                                               0.00




                                                                                                       31
FY03                    0.00
FY04             30   177.75
FY05             28   161.25
FY06             38   156.92
FY07             30   120.58
FY08             22    98.00
FY09              3     0.00
       Total:   151   714.50




                               32
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
(if any)

Not applicable.




                                      33
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
(if any)

Not applicable.




                                                   34
Annex 7. Summary of the Executive Secretariat's Comments on Draft ICR

Commentaires du Secrétariat Exécutif sur le rapport final de clôture du projet PLSPT de la
Banque mondiale (reçus le 3 mars 2009).

Ce rapport de clôture qui nous a été présenté reflète de façon complète et satisfaisante, les réalités et les
données de la mise en oeuvre pendant cinq années du projet MAP de Djibouti financé par l'IDA sur la
période 2003-2008. Au terme de cet exercice, un certain nombre de remarques peuvent être dégagées de
notre part à la lecture et reflète le point de vue de notre institution en tant que Agence d'exécution du
projet. En premier lieu, nous saluons l'ensemble des remarques et conclusions de l'équipe de la banque et
des consultants et nous sommes conscients que le Secrétariat Exécutif et l'ensemble des ses partenaires
aussi bien publics que communautaires en tant qu'entités de mise en oeuvre ont été félicité et noté à leur
juste valeur. Nous témoignons que la Banque mondiale nous a beaucoup soutenue et faisait partie de cette
équipe commune face aux trois maladies que sont le VIH/SIDA, le Paludisme et la Tuberculose du point
de vue financier et technique, et à cet égard, mérite la même note que celle du Gouvernement, c'est-à-dire
« Hautement Satisfaisant ». Par ailleurs, toutes les pièces justificatifs et rapports liés à la clôture ont d'or
et déjà été transmis en bonne et due forme par le Secrétariat.

Le Secrétariat Exécutif est une institution jeune. Malgré sa jeunesse, elle a su faire face jusqu'ici à au
moins deux défis majeurs de manière concomitante : se structurer et renforcer ses capacités
organisationnelles et en même temps `'booster`' les différentes facettes de la réponse nationale. Après
cinq années de fonctionnement, des progrès notables ont été enregistrés : la professionnalisation de la
réponse communautaire est visible et progresse. De nombreuses associations communautaires
s'approprient les différentes modalités de la réponse, même si le terrain de la prévention reste celui qui est
souvent le plus investi. D'autres associations se structurent, ce qui permet de porter à l'échelle, les
interventions à l'ensemble du territoire national, en témoigne la mise en place réussi du DASAP.

De nombreuses organisations aussi bien du secteur public que de la société civile ont pris conscience de la
menace que représente l'épidémie de VIH/SIDA pour la santé publique, et pour l'avenir de la nation
Djiboutienne. En 2008, Le VIH/SIDA n'est plus cet inconnu pour la majorité des Djiboutiens et des
Djiboutiennes; il s'agit d'une réalité familière, dont ils entendent parler à travers les médias (TV, Radio) ;
et les interventions de proximité. Les jeunes sont de plus en plus sensibilisés, via des structures scolaires
principalement, mais aussi via des structures communautaires comme les CDC (centres de développement
communautaire) et les Point Info Jeunesse (PIJ) ainsi que les mosquées. Un combat louable a également
été mené contre la tuberculose et le paludisme, ses deus corollaires ce sur quoi revient également le
rapport de clôture.

Ces résultats fort encourageants ne sauraient être obtenus sans le leadership politique, notamment
l'engagement des plus hautes instances politiques du pays, à commencer par l'implication personnelle du
Président de la République de Djibouti, son Excellence Monsieur ISMAIL OMAR GUELLEH, le
Premier Ministre et l'ensemble du Gouvernement.

Sur le terrain, il faut saluer le dynamisme, l'engagement et la détermination de l'ensemble des Equipes
des programmes de lutte contre le sida des ministères sectoriels, pour leur remarquable travail de
coordination mené jusqu'à présent, en des terrains comme dit dans le rapport « nouveaux » et
« complexes » à plus d'un titre . Ce travail tel que mentionné dans le rapport de clôture a permis une


                                                                                                             35
implication de plus en plus grande des partenaires au niveau ministériel, associatif et des partenaires au
développement, dans la promotion et le respect absolu depuis 2003 du principe « Three Ones ».

La pertinence de ce projet par rapport aux impératifs de développement et aux stratégies de réduction de
la pauvreté à Djibouti est réelle. Les progrès accomplis en termes de couverture sont visibles et
encourageants. Ce projet mérite d'être poursuivi par un financement additionnel de la banque mondiale
pour la mise en oeuvre du plan national stratégique 2008-2012, pour consolider les acquis et porter les
interventions à l'échelle.

Les défis demeurent cependant énormes et les recommandations de plusieurs ordres afin d'enrichir le
contenu du rapport de clôture. En premier lieu l'on devrait mettre un accent particulier au niveau du pays
à la poursuite de l'assainissement du dispositif institutionnel, notamment dans la restructuration de
l'Unité de Communication au niveau du Secrétariat Exécutif, afin d'améliorer la qualité des outils
programmatiques dans le domaine de la communication et intégrer l'approche « Life skill ».

La dimension genre est un aspect de la mise en oeuvre que nous avons encouragée et cela n'apparaît pas
clairement dans le rapport, ces aspects liés au genre ont été pris en compte dans la programmation et la
mise en oeuvre des interventions à tous les niveaux. Enfin, nous devrions dans les années à venir recruter à
des postes de décisions les personne(s) vivant avec le VIH, notamment au Secrétariat Exécutif et au PLS
santé ; pareille démarche doit être encouragée et soutenue au niveau de toutes les instances ministérielles
afin d'atténuer la stigmatisation et la marginalisation des PVVS encore très présente dans la population
Djiboutienne et de promouvoir leur acceptabilité sociale.

Enfin, nous terminerons cette note de commentaires, en demandant instamment aux décideurs de la
Banque mondiale de promouvoir le « best practice » de Djibouti dans le cadre de la lutte contre le
VIH/SIDA en permettant aux acteurs nationaux de cette réussite phénoménale de faire partager dans le
monde arabo-musulmans leurs méthodes et expériences en matière de prévention, de prise en charge et de
réduction d'impact aux travers des colloques, des reportages et d'appui techniques apportés à ces pays
amis.




                                                                                                         36
Annex 8. Comments received from the Global Fund

The Global Fund started to fund HIV-AIDS activities in Djibouti in 2004, through the Round 4 grant;
which has been followed by the three other grants (HIV, Tuberculosis and Malaria). The total
contribution of The Global Fund on the three diseases is USD 30,472,390 since the Round 4 (HIV grant)
which started in 2004 and closed in 2008. All the grants are managed by the Executive Secretariat (ES) as
Principal recipient.

The overall programmatic performance is satisfactory. After 18 months of implementation, the HIV grant
reaches 86% of achievement of its targets for indicators related to Prevention, treatment and care,
including those related to co-infection. The indicators related to PMTCT remain low. The TB grant is
reaching 90% of the intended results. The good performance includes the treatment, the co-infection and
the extension of the services in the country making them available at local level. The Malaria grant
registers a satisfactory performance on prevention and control, with 109% of achievement on these
related indicators. However, the treatment related indicators remain drastically low with 9% of
achievement. The Global fund co-funded with UNICEF and WHO a prevalence survey. This survey
confirms the low prevalence of Malaria in Djibouti, with low prevalence (0.6%).

Among the main strengths noticed, The Global Fund notes i) the capacity of the Sub Recipients (National
Programs under the Ministry of Health mainly) in implementing the activities on a timely manner, ii) the
coordination role of the ES by mobilizing additional resources; iii) the cooperation with the TB grant
(Centre Paul Faure which is the National center of reference for TB) and the National TB program for co-
infection activities.

On the other hand, when the ES was created in 2003, it was only receiving funds from the World Bank
and then from the Round 4 grant. Since then, the ES has seen an increased number of grants to manage,
from various donors. As a result, the workload has increased and the systems in place would need to be
reviewed to face this organizational development. At last, The Global Fund also shares the rating given in
this report regarding "Financial management", with overspending of human resources and 0.2 million
disbursed to sub-recipients remained unjustified at the end of December 2008 as per the latest audit report
on the HIV grant.




                                                                                                        37
Annex 9. Detailed Project Risks, Key Indicators, and Components (as approved)

The risk factors specific to Djibouti included the following:

(i)   Trade: Djibouti is a highly urbanized state with economic activity centered on the port. About 1,000
      transport trucks move daily between the port and Ethiopia, where the HIV/AIDS prevalence rate is
      higher, estimated by UNAIDS at more than 10% in 2002. Djibouti is therefore highly susceptible to
      the spread of HIV/AIDS through the transport sector.
(ii) Migration: Djibouti has a large influx of refugees and displaced persons from neighboring Ethiopia,
      Somalia, and Eritrea.
(iii) Gender inequality: Women, the most vulnerable segment of Djiboutian society, have low economic
      participation rates and low levels of education. Maternal mortality was 740 per 100,000 births,
      which is caused by low rates of delivery by skilled staff, high fertility rates, and anemia from
      malnutrition. The project approach, which emphasizes gender as a key issue, is consistent with one
      of the key levers of the regional strategy of the International Development Agency (IDA).
(iv) Tuberculosis: With 588 cases of TB per 100,000 inhabitants, Djibouti had the second highest rate of
      TB in the world. However, about 40 percent of cases are among people from neighboring countries,
      particularly Ethiopia, since they know that they can obtain free and higher quality treatment in
      Djibouti. Although the seroprevalence rate in the general population was less than 3 percent, it was
      23 percent among TB patients.
(v) Malaria: Since 1988, the spread of malaria has increased steadily, reaching areas such as the
      northern districts of Tadjourah and Obock where it was previously nonexistent. Uncontrolled
      urbanization with inappropriate water supply, nonexistent wastewater evacuation systems,
      settlement of nomad population in rural areas, increased irrigated areas, and frequent floods
      contributed to the endemic pattern of malaria.

The outcome indicators by the end-of-project were expected to be:

 Fifty percent of persons in high-risk groups will have used a condom during their last non-union
 sexual encounter;
 Ninety percent of the population of Djibouti aged 15 to 49 will be aware of HIV/AIDS;
 Fifty percent of women attending prenatal consultations in centers offering Voluntary Counseling and
 Testing (VCT) will accept voluntary testing for HIV;
 HIV prevalence among pregnant women aged 15 to 24 will have decreased from 2.7 percent to 2.0
 percent;3
 Sexually transmitted infection (STI) prevalence rate among pregnant women will have decreased by
 25 percent;
 Rate of dropouts ("lost cases") of tuberculosis will be reduced from 24 percent to 15 percent
 nationally;
 Hospital mortality due to malaria will be reduced by 50 percent; and
 At least 15,000 households will be using insecticide-impregnated bednets (IIBNs).


3
  After the Mid-Term Review, the end-of-project target for HIV prevalence among pregnant women aged 15­24 was
revised to 2.2 percent.




                                                                                                          38
The following is a summary of the description of the project components as approved in the PAD.

     Component 1: Capacity Building and Policy Development (US$ 4.0 million). This included: (1)
   Strengthening the Government's capacity to cope with the spread of HIV/AIDS, malaria and
   tuberculosis through the provision of technical advisory services and equipment, and carrying out of
   civil works. (2) Enhancing counseling, voluntary testing, and care and treatment of seropositive
   persons, through the rehabilitation and extension of the "Centre Younis Toussaint", and construction
   of a reference laboratory at the "Hôpital Général Peltier" and of the national headquarters for the
   three programs.

      Component 2: Health Sector Responses to HIV/AIDS/STI, Malaria and Tuberculosis (US$
   3.8 million). This component aimed to increase access to preventive measures such as condoms, to
   treatment of STI, opportunistic diseases and Malaria, and to case management, support and treatment
   of PLWHA. The component's activities include: (1) provision of technical advisory services,
   equipment and drugs to build on and complement the work to be carried out by MOH under the
   Health Sector Development Project. (2) provision of technical advisory services, training, drugs,
   medical consumables and equipment including: (a) strengthening of the national sentinel
   epidemiological surveillance system and seroprevalence surveys; (b) development and
   implementation of Voluntary Counseling and Testing (VCT) protocols; (c) the implementation of
   syndromic algorithms for diagnosis and case management of Sexually Transmitted Infections (STI);
   (d) development and adoption of a protocol for Tuberculosis and Malaria; and (e) development and
   implementation of a Condom Distribution Strategy.

      Component 3: Multisectoral Response (US$ 3.7 million). The objectives of this component are to:
   (i) strengthen the management and coordination capacity of the ministries participating in the control
   of HIV/AIDS; (ii) support these ministries in implementing essential activities aimed at preventing
   HIV infection and reducing the impact of AIDS on their own personnel and on the vulnerable groups
   for which they are responsible. As mentioned in the PAD, it was originally planned to roll out the
   implementation in 5 ministries in 2004, 8 ministries b 2006 and in all 11 ministries by 2008. The
   project was to provide technical advisory services and equipment to facilitate the implementation of
   the action plans and derived multisectoral sub-projects for the training of peer educators, promoting
   the use of condoms and their distribution, and promoting counseling and voluntary testing, and
   different support mechanisms to encourage change in behavior practices.,

      Component 4: Support to community interventions (US$ 2.6 million). This component supported
   the implementation of Community Sub-projects prepared by Community-based Associations (CBAs),
   including provision of grants for the financing of such Community Sub-projects. The component
   would provide technical advisory services and equipment for: (a) the promotion and the distribution
   of condoms; (b) targeted information, education, and communication campaigns aiming at changing
   behaviors related to HIV transmission; (c) interventions aiming at improving the status and autonomy
   of women; (d) psycho-medico-social and economic support and care to people infected with and
   affected by HIV/AIDS; (e) promotion of voluntary counseling and testing (VCT); (f) promotion of
   prevention of mother-to-child transmission; (g) prevention of malaria; and (h) continued support to
   tuberculosis patients. The implementation of essential activities will require the development of the
   institutional capacities of Djiboutian NGOs and associations. A very important step for this
   component would be to identify 9-10 institutions/NGOs that have the potential to train and supervise
   local NGOs and associations that will be responsible for carrying out community interventions. The
   financing of community sub-projects and contracts with supporting organizations will be carried out


                                                                                                      39
by the responsible Community Interventions Support Unit in accordance with the Procedures Manual
for Community Interventions developed by the ES.




                                                                                             40
Annex 10. List of Supporting Documents and Project Manuals

World Bank

   Rapport de l'évaluation à mi-parcours du PLSPT, Conseil Santé SA, Djibouti, mai 2007.
   Rapport sur les enquêtes (séro-surveillance du VIH et surveillance comportementale dans la
   population générale) d'évaluation à mi-parcours du PLSPT, Conseil Santé SA, Djibouti, mai 2007.
   Aide-mémoire pour le PLCSPT, Mission de revue à mi-parcours du 14 au 22 avril 2007,
   Djibouti ­ Getting results : an effective, well coordinated response to HIV in Djibouti, Sameh El-
   Saharty and Omar Ali, WB Global HIV/AIDS Program publication, 2006.
   Aide-mémoire pour le PLCSPT, Mission de supervision du 10 au 17 décembre 2006,
   Aide-mémoire pour le PLCSPT, Mission de supervision du 5 au 15 décembre 2005,
   HIV /AIDS, MALARIA AND TUBERCULOSIS CONTROL PROJECT - Project Appraisal
   Document (PAD) Report No 25264-DJI, The World Bank April 30, 2003

Government and Project

   Rapport de progrès annuel d'exécution du PLSPT, Unité M&I du Secrétariat Exécutif, Djibouti, 2007
   Evaluation à mi-parcours du Projet de Lutte contre le VIH/SIDA, le Paludisme et la Tuberculose,
   Republique de Djibouti, Secrétariat Executif, Comité Inter-Sectoriel de Lutte contre le SIDA Rapport
   Final par Conseil Santé Paris May 2007
   Le point sur l'Epidémie du SIDA en 2007 UNAIDS WHO Genève Décembre 2007
   Plan Général d'Exécution 2007 ­ 2008 du PLSPT [under the « three ones » execution framework,
   consolidated action for World Bank and Global Funds R4 R6 and all other partners] Republique de
   Djibouti, Secrétariat Executif, Comité Inter-Sectoriel de Lutte contre le SIDA Djibouti Juin 2007
   Projet « Soeurs-à-Soeurs » pour une meilleure gestion des situations génératrices de risque parmi les
   femmes en situation de précarité et/ou travailleuses du sexe à Djibouti, Republique de Djibouti,
   Secrétariat Executif, Unité d'Appui aux Interventions Communautaires (UAIC) Djibouti 2006 - 2008
   Atelier de Consensus et d'Adoption par les Imams et leaders religieux Djiboutiens des déclarations
   suivantes (textes originaux en Arabe) : i) Cairo Egypt Declaration for Religious Leaders facing AIDS
   in Arab lands, ii) Cairo December 11 ­ 13, 2004, iii) Tarabous Lybia Declaration on Fighting
   HIV/AIDS with UN Agencies, Tarabous May 28 ­ 31, 2006 ; République de Djibouti, Ministère
   Delegué Chargé des Biens WAQFS et des Affaires Musulmanes Haut Conseil Islamique Secrétariat
   Général - Secrétariat Executif, CTLSPT, Unité de Communication (UC), Novembre, 2007
   Atelier multimedia d'élaboration et de production des messages et supports éducatifs sur leVIH/SIDA
   et IST à Djibouti République de Djibouti, Secrétariat Executif, CTLSPT, Unité de Communication
   (UC), Novembre 2007
   Evaluation de l'impact de l'Agenda Scolaire dans le cadre de la lutte contre le VIH/SIDA en milieu
   scolaire République de Djibouti, Ministère de l'Education Nationale et de l'Enseignement Supérieur
   Rapport Final Avril ­ Juin 2007.
   Marketing Social des Préservatifs à Djibouti ­ Strategie de Communication 2003 ­ 2007 Republique
   de Djibouti, Secrétariat Executif, Comité Technique de lutte contre le Sida, le Paludisme et la
   Tuberculose (CTLSPT), Unité de Marketing Social, Novembre 2007.
   Plan Stratégique de Communication pour le Programme de Lutte contre le SIDA 2008 ­ 2012
   République de Djibouti, Ministère de la Santé, PLS Santé, Novembre 2007.




                                                                                                     41
   Plan Stratégique pour la Lutte contre le Paludisme 2006 ­ 2010, République de Djibouti, Ministère de
   la Santé, Direction du Programme de Lutte contre le Paludisme.
   Questionnaire individuel ­ Enquête de Surveillance Comportementale du VIH, Population Générale,
   République de Djibouti, Direction des Informations Statistiques et Etudes Démographiques (DISED),
   Djibouti 2006
   Report of the UNAIDS Technical Consultation on Social Change Communication applied to the
   drivers of HIV/AIDS Epidemic (gender inequality, violation of human rights and HIV-related stigma)
   UNAIDS Geneva 2-3 August 2007 Draft, September 2007.
   Annuaires Statistiques 2006, République de Djibouti, Ministère de la Santé, Direction de l'Hygiène et
   de l'Epidémiologie, Service National d'Information Sanitaire (SNIS) Mars 2007
   Appui au programme d'extension et de renforcement de la lutte contre le Sida, le paludisme et la
   Tuberculose Application to Round 6 of the Global Fund, Republique de Djibouti, Secrétariat
   Executif, 2006
   Etude sur les Connaissances, Attitudes et Pratiques des Jeunes Djiboutiens (Enquête CAP menée en
   Décembre 2005 et en Janvier 2006 République de Djibouti, Ministere de la Jeunesse, du Sport, des
   Loisirs et du Tourisme, Rapport Provisoire Mars 2006
   Etude qualitative sur la vulnérabilité au VIH/SIDA des femmes en situation de précarité Republique
   de Djibouti, Secrétariat Executif, Unité d'Appui aux Interventions Communautaires (UAIC) Djibouti
   2006
   Rapport de progrès annuel d'exécution du PLSPT, Unité M&I du Secrétariat Exécutif, Djibouti, 2006
   Résultats partiels de l'enquête de sero prevalence par Immunocomb et Determine chez les forces
   armées de Djibouti République de Djibouti, Ministère de la Défense, Service Médical des Forces
   Armées, 2006.
   Stratégie du Dispositif d'Appui Social Acceleré aux Personnes vivant avec le VIH SIDA (DASAP)
   République de Djibouti, Secrétariat Executif, CTLSPT, Unité d'Appui aux Interventions
   Communautaires (UAIC), Novembre 2005.
   Indicateurs harmonisés du PLSPT, Republique de Djibouti, Secrétariat Executif, Comité Inter-
   Sectoriel de Lutte contre le SIDA, 2005
   Rapport de l'enquête CAP chez les jeunes, DISED et UNICEF Djibouti, Djibouti, 2005.
   Rapport de progrès annuel d'exécution du PLSPT, Unité M&I du Secrétariat Exécutif, Djibouti, 2005
   Rapport de progrès annuel d'exécution du PLSPT, Unité M&I du Secrétariat Exécutif, Djibouti, 2004
   Epidémie à VIH/SIDA/IST en République de Djibouti ­ Tome 1 CREDES Paris Janvier 2003

Project Manuals and Guidelines that guided project preparation and implementation
(complementing section 2)

       Procurement Manual
       Administrative Manual
       Peer education guides for priority vulnerable groups (in French and two local languages)
       A social communication guide
       A manual for the management and quality control of community based projects
       M&E manual
       Flipcharts for priority vulnerable groups
       A social marketing manual
       Original and revised guides to the syndromic approach of STI
       A protocol for voluntary counseling and testing



                                                                                                     42
   PROTOCOLS for antiretroviral treatment and follow-up
   Procedures Manual for community interventions
   A manual for psychosocial support (DASAP)
   A guide for impregnation of bed nets and social mobilization to fight malaria
   A national program guide for directly observed treatment, short course (DOTS)
   A manual for management of accidental exposure to blood in clinical settings




                                                                                   43
