CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 639-JO
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
(Tourism Project)
between
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated August 12, 1976


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 12, 1976, between THE HASHEMITE KING-
DOM OF JORDAN (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General Con-
ditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the Gen-
eral Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "MTA" means the Borrower's Ministry of Tourism and
Antiquities;
(b) "Project Coordinating Committee" means the committee re-
ferred to in Section 3.06 of this Agreement, and "Project Unit"
means the organizational unit in MTA referred to in Section 3.06
of this Agreement;
(c) "Petra Basin" means the ancient city of Petra, starting
at the eastern entrance to the Siq, extending to the north one
kilometer up the Wadi Mataha and the Wadi Turkamanya, to the high
point of El Deir Qasr to the west and the general ridge line to
the south;


﻿- 3 -
(d) "Petra Entrance" means the area of approximately one
square kilometer between the developed limits of the municipality
of Wadi Musa and the entrance to the Siq;
(e) "Jerash" means the provincial Roman City of Jerash
bounded by the ancient walls of the city to the north including
the north gate, the west and south, and to the east by the main
water course and including the general area of the East Baths;
(f) "Project Areas" means Petra Basin, Petra Entrance and
Jerash; and
(h) "Nazzal Camp" means the two-story structure containing
a restaurant and guest rooms and the surrounding campgrounds,
adjacent to Qasr El Bint in Petra Basin.


﻿ARTTCLE IT
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent
to six million dollars ($6,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Association, for
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services re-
quired for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
the goods and works for the Project shall be procured in accor-
dance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1980 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one ner cent (3/4
of 11) per annum on thp princIpal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstandinF from tiri to time.


﻿-5-
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually
on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each May 15
and November 15 commencing May 15, 1986, and ending November 15,
2025, each installment to and including the installment payable
on November 15, 1995 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%)
of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be
one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the Gen-
eral Conditions.


﻿ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project
through the Project Unit with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering
and archaeological practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed,
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for
the purpose.
(b) In order to carry out the Project, the Borrower shall
cause:
(i) its Telecommunications Corporation to implement
the installation and operation of the new telephone
exchange facility included under the Project;
(ii) its Water Supply Corporation and the municipality
of Wadi Musa to assist MTA in the installation
and operation of the water supply components
included under the Project; and
(iii) its Ministry of Municipalities and Rural Affairs
to implement the installation and operation of the
electric power distribution system included under
the Project.


﻿I
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall ensure that the following
consultants and experts acceptable to the Association shall be
employed by the Project Unit, upon terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Association, to assist in the carrying out of the Project:
(a) consultants to complete the final designs related to
Parts A, B (1), B (2), C (1) and C (2) of the Project and supervise
in the execution of said Parts of the Project; and
(b) experts in archeology, museology and park management
service.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the
place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity
shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Bor-
rower shall cause all goods and services financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules
for the Project, and any material modifications thereof or addi-
tions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request.


﻿- 8 -
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to
record the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof)
and to identify the goods, works and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose the use thereof in the
Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's accredited represen-
tatives to visit the facilities and construction sites included
in the Project and to examine the goods financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Credit and any relevant records and documents; and
(iii) shall furnish to the Association all such information as the
Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the
expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods, works and
services financed out of such proceeds.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when needed
all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be required
for carrying out the Project and shall furnish to the Association,
promptly after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the Asso-
ciation that such land and rights in respect of land are available
for purposes related to the Project.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall establish and maintain the
Project Coordinating Committee and the Project Unit with such
powers, staff and resources as set forth in Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.
Section 3.07. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall cause the Project Unit to prepare not later
than January 1, 1977, a critical path chart acceptable to the
Association for the implementation and control of the execution


﻿-9-
of the Project, to review such chart periodically, and furnish
quarterly to the Association the results of such reviews.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall not later than July 1, 1977
issue regulations acceptable to the Association designed to protect
the antiquities and environment in and around the Project Areas.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall: (i) cause the establishment
not later than December 31, 1976 of a timetable satisfactory to
the Association for the resettlement of Bedouin families described
in Part B (4) of the Project; (ii) cause the Project Unit to imple-
ment Part B (4) of the Project in accordance with such timetable;
(iii) grant priority to the Bedouins for employment generated by
the Project; and (iv) provide occupational assistance to said
Bedouins.
Section 3.10. The Borrower shall ensure that: (i) the Nazzal
Camp lease shall not be renewed upon its expiration, and (ii) the
Nazzal Camp visitor facilities in the Petra Basin shall be removed
not later than December 31, 1979.
Section 3.11. The Borrower shall take all such action as shall
be necessary to complete not later than June 30, 1978, the expan-
sion plan for the Wadi Musa municipal water supply system to ensure
the provision of adequate and timely supplies of water for the fac-
ilities included under Parts A and B of the Project.


﻿- 10 -
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause records to be
established and maintained adequate to reflect in accordance with
a system of commercial accounts acceptable to the Association the
operations and financial condition of the Project Unit and units
operating other facilities provided under the Project.
(b) The Borrower shall cause the Project Unit and the units
referred to in sub-Section (a) hereinabove, to: (i) have their
accounts and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of
income and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with sound auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any
case not later than four months after the end of each such year,
(A) certified copies of their financial statements for such year
as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors,
of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have
reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Association such
other information concerning the accounts and financial statements
of the Project Unit and the units referred to in sub-Section (a)
hereinabove, and the audit thereof as the Association shall from
time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.02. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall:


﻿- 11 -
(i) establish and cause to be collected by the completion
of the Project, entry fees for guests and visitors
to the Project Areas and the sound-and-light pro-
gram referred to in Part C (1) of the Project,
initially at levels agreed to with the Association;
and
(ii) review the level of such fees with the Association
from time to time, and based on the results of
such reviews, periodically adjast the level of fees
in the light of relevant changes in price levels
in Jordan, so as to maximize returns on the invest-
ment costs under the Project.
(b) For the purposes of this Section, the term "investment
costs" means the aggregate of foreign and local expenditures used
for the development of infrastructure and other facilities in the
Project Areas, excluding the tourist accommodation and catering
facilities.
Section 4.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall ensure that:
(a) MTA shall enter into agreements with companies for the
management and operation of tourist accommodation and catering
facilities in the Project Areas, at least six months before the
scheduled start of the operation of said facilities;
(b) such agreements shall contain terms and conditions, in-
cluding provisions on the administration of the agreements and the


﻿- 12 -
establishment of a system of commercial accounts, acceptable to
the Association;
(c) companies referred to in sub-Section (a) hereinabove shall
be consulted on the design of the tourist accommodation and catering
facilities;
(d) MTA shall review room rates and menu prices established
by the companies referred to in sub-Section (a) hereinabove, to
maximize the returns on the investment costs under the Project;
such review shall be submitted to the Association; and
(e) for the purposes of this Section, the term "investment
costs" means the aggregate of foreign and local expenditures used
for the development of tourist accommodation and catering facilities
in the Project Areas and related infrastructure facilities.


﻿13
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified pursuant to
paragraph (h) thereof, namely, that, the legislation and regulations
of the Borrower pertaining to its tourism and antiquities sector or
any provision thereof shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated,
repealed or waived in such a way as to materially and adversely af-
fect, in the opinion of the Association, the execution of the Proj-
ect or the benefits expected to be derived therefrom.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified pursuant
to paragraph (d) thereof, namely, that the event specified in Sec-
tion 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.


﻿ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) a Project Unit acceptable to the Association, shall
have beein established;
(b) the Project Unit staff referred to in Part A.3 of Sched-
ule 4 to this Agreement, acceptable to the Association, under terms
and conditions of employment satisfactory to the Association, shall
have been appointed; and
(c) the consultants referred to in Section 3.02 (a) shall
have been appointed.
Section 6.02. The date December 13, 1976 is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Article III
of this Agreement and the provisions of Section 5.02 of this Agree-
ment shall cease and determine on the date on which the Development
Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date 20 years after the
date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.


﻿- 15 -
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The President of the National Planning Council
of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower
for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
National Planning Council
P.O. Box 555
Amman
Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan
Cable address:                    Telex:
NPC                                NPC
Amman                              JO-1319
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                    Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA)
64145 (wUI)


﻿- 16 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
By Is/ Abdullah Salah
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By Is! Willi A. Wapenhans
Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa


﻿17
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be fi-
nanced out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of ex-
penditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Civil Works               1,500,000          35%
(2) Equipment and             2,200,000          100% of foreign
furniture                                   expenditures or
100% of local ex-
penditures (ex-
factory) for lo-
cally manufac-
tured items pro-
cured in accor-
dance with inter-
national com-
petitive bidding,
or 40% of expen-
ditures for other
locally procured
goods
(3) Consultants'                 400,000         100% of foreign
and Experts'                                expenditures
Services,
and Overseas
Training


﻿- 18-
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(4) Unallocated                1,900,000
TOTAL      6,ooo,ooo


﻿-19 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit de-
creases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the Bor-
rower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals may
be made in respect of Category (3) on account of expenditures in-
curred after March 1, 1976 in an aggregate amount not exceeding
the equivalent of $150,000.


﻿- 20 -
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit or
the disbursement perc..entages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that the
amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be insuffi-
cient to finance -the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that
Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) real-
locate to such Category, to the extent required to meet the esti-
mated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then allocated
to another Category and which in the opinion of the Association are
not needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii) if such reallocation
cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement
percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that fur-
ther withdrawals under such Category may continue until all expend-
itures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expendi-
tures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit and the Association may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association under
the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel
such amount of the Credit as, in the Association's reasonable
opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would
otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of
the Credit.


﻿- 21 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is part of the Borrower's program to develop
tourism and preserve archeological sites, and consists of the
following Parts:
A.   Petra Entrance
(1) Construction, improvement and equipping of guest and
visitors' facilities.
(2) Construction, improvement and equipping of infrastruc-
ture designed to serve the Project facilities and sur-
rounding area.
B.   Petra Basin
(1) Construction, improvement and equipping of visitors'
facilities.
(2) Improvement and equipping of infrastructure.
(3) Preservation and protection of antiquities.
(4) Resettlement of Bedouin families living in the Petra
Basin to an area determined by the Borrower and the
Association, including provision of housing and other
community and infrastructure facilities on land made
available by the Borrower for the purpose.


﻿- 22 -
C.   Jerash
(1) Construction, improvement and equipping of visitors' fa-
cilities, including a sound-and-light program.
(2) Construction, improvement and equipping of infrastruc-
ture.
(3) Preservation and protection of antiquities.
D.   Overseas Fellowships
About 54 man-months of overseas fellowships for em-
ployees of MTA's Department of Antiquities to im-
prove effectiveness at technical and archeological
skills.
*         * P                 e
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1979.


﻿- 23 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Parts B and D hereof, goods and works
shall be procured under contracts to be awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in Part A of the "Guide-
lines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in August 1975 (hereinafter called the Guide-
lines), on the basis of international competitive bidding.
2.   For bidding purposes, equipment and furniture shall be grouped
to the extent practicab>;, in such a manner as shall be agreed be-
tween the Borrower and the Association, so as to permit bulk pro-
curement.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for civil work, equipmernt and furniture with values
not exceeding the equivalent of $65,000 for each contract, shall
be awarded in accordance with the Borrower's competitive bidding
procedures acceptable to the Association, provided that the aggre-
gate expenditure for items so purchased shall not exceed the equiv-
alent of $400,000.
2.   Switching and other telecomunication equipment may be pur-
chased on a negotiated basis from the original suppliers to achieve


﻿- 2)4-
standardization of equipment, provided that the aggregate expendi-
ture for items so purchased shall not exceed the equivalent of
$200,000.
C.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for
Domestic Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured pursuant to paragraph A above: (i)
bidders shall be required to state in their bid the c.i.f. (port
of entry) price for imported goods, or the ex-factory price for
domestically-manufactured goods; (ii) customs duties and other im-
port taxes on imported goods, and sales and similar taxes on
domestically-supplied goods, shall be excluded; and (iii) the cost
to the Borrower of inland freight and other expenditures incidental
to the delivery of goods to the place of their use or installation
shall be included.
2.   Goods manufactured in Jordan may be granted a margin of pref-
erence in accordance with, and subJect to, the following provisions:
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the infor-
mation required to establish the eligibility of a bid for such
preference and the following methods and stages that will be fol-
lowed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:


﻿-25 -
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Jordan if the bidder shall have established to
the satisfaction of the Borrower and the Asso-
ciation that the manufacturing cost of such
goods includes a value added in Jordan equal
to at least 20% of the ex-factory bid price of
such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufac-
tured in Jordan.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c) All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes on
goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest eval-
uated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall then be
compared with each other, and if, as a result of this comparison,
a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected
for the award.
(d) If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c)
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from group
A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported goods offered
in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further comparison only,
an amount equal to (i) the amount of customs duties and other import
taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay for the import-
ation of the goods offered in such group C bid, or (ii) 15% of the


﻿- 26 -
c.i.f. bid price of such goods if said customs duties and taxes
exceed 15% of such price. If the group A bid in such further com-
parison is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award; if not,
the bidfrom group C which as a result of the comparison under
paragraph (c) is the lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
D.   Procurement Without Contracting
Certain works included in Parts B (3) and C (3) of the Project
may be carried out by force account by MTA, provided that the ag-
gregate expenditure for such works shall not exceed the equivalent
of $900,000.
E.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
Review of invitation to bid end of proposed awards and final
contracts.
With respect to all contracts:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrover shall furnish to
the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably re-
quest. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.


﻿-27
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower
shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform the
Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in sufficient
time for its review, a detailed report, by the consultants refer-
red to in Section 3.02 (a) of this Agreement, on the evaluation
and comparison of the bids received, together with the recommenda-
tions for award of the said consultants and such other information
as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall,
if it determines that the intended award would be inconsistent with
the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, with-
out the Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on
which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Association of the first application for with-
drawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such con-
tract.


﻿- 28 -
SCHEDULE 4
Project Unit and
Project Coordinating Committee
A.   Project Unit
1.   The Project Unit will report to the Borrower's Minister
of Tourism and Antiquities.
2.   The Project Unit will be responsible for the proper
implementation of the Project, including, inter alia:
(a) employment, briefing, coordination and supervision
of consultants referred to in Section 3.02 (a) of
this Agreement, including review and approval of
said consultants' designs and other work;
(b) employment, briefing, coordination and supervision
of experts referred to in Section 3.02 (b) of this
Agreement;
(c) preparation of master lists of equipment and
furniture;
(d) taking all necessary steps to assure bidding
according to procedures acceptable to the Associa-
tion, including the preparation of bidding and
contract documents, the evaluation of bids and the
making of recommendations regarding the award of
contracts;


﻿- 29 -
(e) preparation of design for construction of minor
works to be carried out by force account;
(f) preparation of progress reports for the Association;
(g) supervision of construction, procurement and
installation of equipment and furniture;
(h) preparation of applications for withdrawals from
the Credit Account;
(i) coordination among the Borrower's departments,
agencies and political subdivisions concerned with
the Project; and
(j) negotiations with companies on the management and
operation of tourist accommodation and catering
facilities in the Project Areas.
3.   Project Unit shall retain at least the following
full-time staff: a Project Director, an engineer, an
architect, an accountant and a procurement officer.
B.   Project Coordinating Committee
1.   The Project Coordinating Committee will ensure the
coordination among the Borrower's departments and
agencies for the proper and timely execution of the
Project.


﻿- 30 -
2.   The Project Coordinating Committee will consist
of the Borrower's Minister of Tourism and Antiquities,
Director of Tourism, Director of Antiquities and
Project Director, and representatives of the National
Planning Council, other departments and agencies
related to the Project as required from time to
time.


