Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 14035-AR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ARGENTINA
SECOND PROVINCIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
APRIL 5, 1995
Public Sector Modernization and Private Sector Development Division
Country Department I
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office



CURRENCY UNIT - Peso (Arg$)
Since April 1, 1991, the exchange rate has been, by law, Peso 1.00 = US$1.00
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS          -     Country Assistance Study
CEU          -     Central Executing Unit
FAIP         -     Financial Action and Investment Plan
GPP          -     Gross Provincial Product
ICB          -     International Competitive Bidding
IDB          -     Inter-American Development Bank
IERR         -     Internal Economic Rate of Return
LCB          -     Local Competitive Bidding
MCBA         -     Municipality of Buenos Aires
MDP          -     Municipal Development Project
PDP          -     Provincial Development Project
PEU          -     Provincial Executing Unit
PFMIS        -     Provincial Finance Management Information System
POM          -     Project Operations Manual
PRL          -     Provincial Reform Loan
SAREP        -     Secretariat for Assistance to the Provincial Economic Reform
SOE          -     Statements of Expenditure
TOR          -     Terms of Reference



ARGENTINA
SECOND PROVINCIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
I.  THE  SECTOR                  ...................1..................... 
A.  Background    .......................................    1
B.  Government Structure for the Provision of Public Services  ...........    2
C.  Public Sector Financing and Intergovernmental Fiscal Relations  ...                                     .....    3
D.  Lessons Learned  from  Previous Bank Involvement   ...............    4
E.  Rationale for Bank Involvement  ...........................    4
II. THE PROJECT                                .........................                                                    7
A.  Project Origins   .....................................    7
B.  Project Objectives    ...................................    7
C.  Project Description  ...................................    8
D.  Eligibility  Criteria    ...................................    8
E.  Project Costs    ......................................   10
F    Allocation of Loan Proceeds by Province   .....................   11
G.  Financing Plan    .....................................   14
H.  Implementation  Arrangements   ............................   16
I.   Procurement  .......................................  20
J. Disbursements ...................................... 23
K.  Accounts and Audits  ..................................  24
L.  Project Benefits  .....................................  25
M. Financial Impact   ....................................   25
N.  Economic Impact  ....................................   25
0.  Poverty  Impact   .....................................  25
P.   Environmental Impact  .................................   26
Q.  Program   Risks and Safeguards                                ............................   26
This report is based on the findings of the project evaluation process initiated in a mission by representatives
of the Argentine Republic to the Bank from August 22-26, 1994. This report was prepared by Messrs/Mmes.
David Vetter (Task Manager, LAIPS); Miguel Mercado-Diaz (LAIPS); William Mayville (LA1DR); Rita Hilton
(T1WURD); Ben Darsche, Beth Hoffman, Craig Leisher, and Cecilia Zanetta (Consultants). Messrs/Mmes.
Constance Bernard, Orville Grimes, and Gobind T. Nankani are, respectively, the managing Division Chief,
Projects Adviser, and Department Director. The peer reviewer is Vincent Gouarne (EMTIN).



III. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ....                       ........ 27
List of Annexes  ......................................... 30
Annex A:   Lessons Learned and Previous Bank Experience in
the   Sector  . .. .. ... .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. . . .. . .. .. .. .    31
Annex B:   Spatial Distribution of Population, Poverty, and Product .39
Annex C:   Provincial Financial Indicators .45
Annex D:   Initial Allocation and Commitment Fees by Province .56
Annex E: Economic Analysis .59
Annex F:   Brief Description of the Main Elements of
the Project Operations Manual .62
Annex G: Supervision Plan .67
Annex H:   Organization and Responsibilities of the Central
and Provincial Executing Units .76
Annex I:   Institutional Development Subprojects to be Carried Out
by the Central Executing Unit (CEU) .83
Annex J:   Estimated Schedule of Disbursements .84
Annex K:   Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File .85
List of Tables
Table  2.1  Estimated  Project Cost   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   11
Table 2.2   Initial Allocation of the Bank Loan Among the Provinces .13
Table 2.3 Financing Plan .14
Table 2.4  Procurement Method by Category .21
Table 2.5   Summary of Procurement Review Procedures .22
Map No:    IBRD No. 25587



ARGENTINA
SECOND PROVINCIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. THE SECTOR
A. Background
1.1   Argentine provinces spent US$27.1 billion in 1993 (10.6% of Gross
Domestic Product and 40% of total public expenditure), and are fast becoming
the main providers of core public infrastructure and services.  Thus, the
efficiency, equity, and fiscal discipline of the provincial public sector are urgent
and important issues.
1.2   The First Provincial Development Project (PDP-I, Ln. 3280-AR,
US$200 million, FY91, with cofinancing by the Inter-American Development
Bank (IDB) for the same amount), is playing a key role in the Government's
provincial reform effort. Subprojects that contribute to institutional development
were funded as the essential step to raise income and reduce public expenditure.
For example, the provincial tax improvement subprojects of PDP-I provided the
foundation for the Federal Agreement (Pacto Fiscal) of 1993, an agreement of
the provinces with the national government to reform the provincial tax systems.
About 45 % of total subproject cost in PDP-I is for institutional development
subprojects (e.g., cadastres, revenue administration, management control, and
subproject evaluation systems) which contribute directly to the project's main
objective of improving provincial fiscal performance. Bank resources for PDP-I
are fully committed and US$56 million has been disbursed as of January 31,
1995. Projections show that disbursements are expected to reach US$120
million by the end of FY95, with full disbursement by December 31, 1996.
The Government has requested that a Second Provincial Development Project
(PDP-II) be prepared to maintain the momentum of PDP-I. PDP-II would
continue to assist in the transfer of fiscal and administrative reforms from the
national level to the provinces. This would involve deepening reforms in some
provinces and initiating them in others that have lagged behind in the process.
Population Growth and Distribution
1.3   Although Argentina's population and product are highly concentrated in
five jurisdictions (Buenos Aires, C6rdoba, Mendoza, Santa Fe, and the
Municipality of Buenos Aires), the rates of growth of population and Gross
Provincial Product (GPP) of some of the other provinces (especially those with
gas and oil resources) began to exceed those of the "big five" during the 1970s
and 1980s (see Tables 1 and 3 in Annex B). Thus, even though the general
economic malaise of the 1980s retarded both growth and spatial decentralization
of economic activities, the total concentration of GPP in these "big five"
jurisdictions declined from 82.5 % to 73.1 % between 1970 and 1989. Although



less dramatic, the same trend was observed for the population concentrated in
these jurisdictions, which declined from 72.4%  to 69.1 % between 1970 and
1991.
1.4   The provinces of Argentina are quite diverse in size and population
concentrations, as illustrated by Buenos Aires, the most populated province, and
Santa Cruz, one of the least populated ones. The population of Buenos Aires
Province (12.6 million in 1991) is about equal to that of Chile, and inhabits an
area about the size of Italy with a density of 41 people per square kilometer.
On the other hand, Santa Cruz Province has 160,000 inhabitants who live in an
area the size of the United Kingdom, with a density of less than one person per
square kilometer. Almost half of the total number of poor households (i.e.,
households with unsatisfied basic needs) live in the three provinces of Buenos
Aires, C6rdoba and Santa Fe, with 42% of the total population living in their
capital cities. On the other hand, the percentage of households with unsatisfied
basic needs as a proportion of the total population is higher in provinces with
smaller populations.
B. Government Structure for the Provision of Public Services
1.5   Argentina has a federal system  of government with three levels:
national, provincial, and municipal.  Until the adoption of the Federal
Constitution of 1853, provinces were sovereign in their own right. Under this
Constitution, provinces surrendered wide-ranging powers to the national
government; however, all powers not explicitly relinquished to the center
remained with the provinces. The recent revision of the Constitution in August
1994 did not introduce fundamental changes in Argentina's federal system.
Argentina's 23 provinces are autonomous entities governed by their own
constitutions (the Municipality of Buenos Aires is a separate entity).
1.6   In 1978, the national government began decentralization by assigning
responsibility for the provision of some additional services to provincial
governments (e.g., primary and secondary education, health care, water,
electricity, provincial roads). However, many of these services continued to be
provided centrally until 1991, when a major effort to complete the
decentralization process was initiated by the national government. In some
cases, the provinces have turned over these and other responsibilities to
municipalities.    Although  some  assignments  between  provinces  and
municipalities are still not definite, responsibilities for service provision are
basically as follows:  exclusively national government--defense, foreign
affairs, interprovincial transportation and trade regulation, mail, and
telecommunications; national and provincial governments--higher education,
preventive health, justice, security, economic development, major passenger and
cargo terminals, housing, electric and gas energy; provincial and municipal



- 3 -
governments--elementary and secondary education, health care, water and
sewerage, regional and local roads, fire control; and predominantly municipal
governments--solid waste collection and disposal, local streets and drainage,
parks, water, markets, cemeteries, and land use planning and control. The
division of responsibilities between the national and the provincial governments
is relatively clearly delineated in Argentina, but the provincial/municipal
assignments are evolving rapidly as the provinces themselves decentralize.
C. Public Sector Financing and Intergovernmental Fiscal Relations
1.7   As provided in the National Constitution, the national government has
the following sources of revenues: (a) resources allocated to it exclusively and
on a permanent basis (taxes on foreign trade and profits from the postal
service); (b) resources allocated permanently in conjunction with the provinces
(domestic taxes); and (c) resources allocated temporarily and on a shared basis
with the provinces (direct taxes in cases of national emergency). Categories (b)
and (c) have contributed approximately 80% of total national government tax
revenues, and have been the basis for the national/provincial governments'
revenue-sharing system. Before the Pacto Fiscal, the most important provincial
revenues were the turnover tax (gross sales tax), real estate tax, vehicle tax and
transfer tax (sellos), as well as the revenue transfers received from the national
government, as described below. The Pacto Fiscal established the real estate
tax and a final sales tax as the foundation for a modern provincial tax system.
1.8   Provincial governments in Argentina are highly dependent on transfers
from  higher governmental levels.  In 1992, national/provincial automatic
revenue sharing under the national law (hereafter, coparticipaci6n) reached
US$10 billion (US$12 billion including all automatic transfers), while provincial
own-source current revenues were US$8.4 billion. While of diminishing
importance, discretionary transfers from the national government to finance
provincial deficits and investments have been notorious in rewarding poor fiscal
performers among the provinces and distorting resource allocation. Although
the national government has explicitly sought to diminish the size of
discretionary transfers, in 1992 they still represented about 8 % of total
provincial revenues (compared with 19% in 1987) and remained vital revenue
sources for many smaller provinces. National transfers financed on average
59% of total provincial spending in 1992, ranging from a high of 92% of total
expenditures in the Province of La Rioja to a low of 50% in the Province of
Buenos Aires.
1.9   The prevailing national coparticipaci6n law allocates 57% of the most
important taxes collected to the provinces, such as the value-added tax, income
and asset taxes, and excise and fuel taxes. In August 1993, a floor of US$745
million per month was established for these transfers.  Distribution of



- 4 -
coparticipaci6n revenues among provinces, codified by the coparticipacion law,
favors sparsely populated, underdeveloped provinces at the expense of the more
developed and densely populated provinces, the latter of which have a higher
concentration of households with unsatisfied basic needs.
1.10 With regard to the impact of national/provincial transfers, a recent Bank
study concluded that the regional redistribution of income probably has been
excessive in Argentina.'  Although data are not sufficient to evaluate the
efficiency of provincial expenditure programs (e.g., education, health, and
transport), there is enough evidence to suggest that serious inefficiencies exist
regarding expenditure types, especially regarding salaries. Thus, the issue is not
the level of provincial revenues but rather how efficiently these resources are
allocated.
D. Lessons Learned from Previous Bank Involvement
1.11 The principal lessons learned from PDP-I, the First Municipal
Development Project (MDP-I, Ln. 2920-AR, US$120, FY88) and other Bank
experience in lending for municipal development, include the importance of:
(a) making the review of technical proposals and procurement documents more
cost-effective; (b) contracting implementation specialists to assist the PEUs in
subproject implementation; (c) continuing to improve the implementation
capacity of the CEU and PEUs; and (d) developing a reasonable stock of fully
prepared subprojects to facilitate project launch and overall execution. Overall,
the process of subproject review by the CEU and PEUs in PDP-I has been quite
satisfactory for those provinces participating actively in the project.  The
improvement of the provinces' capacity to identify, evaluate, procure, and
supervise the completion of subprojects is an important accomplishment of PDP-
I, although there is still much room for improvement, especially in those
provinces that did not participate very actively in PDP-I. All of these lessons
have been incorporated into the design of the implementation arrangements for
PDP-II. (para. 2.21 to 2.35)
E. Rationale for Bank Involvement
1.12 As stated in the current Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) report
presently under discussion and the previous CAS (presented to the Board on
March 1, 1994, Report P6161-AR), the Bank has been, and will remain, a
strong supporter of the ambitious Argentine reform program. Extending fiscal
and economic reforms to the provinces is now a vital element of this program,
since the recent upsurge in the provinces' fiscal imbalances could endanger the
Argentina: Reforms for Price Stability and Growth. Annex Chapter 11: Provincial Government
Finance. 1990.



- 5 -
country's macroeconomic stability. Furthermore, due to decentralization, the
provinces now play an increasingly important role in the provision of key public
goods and services. The Bank strategy for provincial government reform seeks
to: (a) stabilize public finances and begin reforming provincial administrations,
while providing for urgently needed investments which improve fiscal balance
and are linked to sectoral reforms, and (b) improve the efficiency of delivering
public goods and services through a series of proposed sector operations (e.g.,
education, public health, roads, water supply, and agriculture). PDP-I and
PDP-II are umbrella operations covering all provinces and provide support for
institutional strengthening and small investments aimed at improving their fiscal
situations. In order to deepen the reform process, the Provincial Reform Loan
(PRL, Ln. 3836, US$300 million, FY95) and most future sector operations will
be targeted to support those provinces willing and able to implement major
structural reforms. This selectivity would be fundamental for leveraging Bank
resources to promote fiscal adjustment, while ensuring the success of these
operations with adequate provincial counterpart financing. Under this strategy,
the Bank would expect to be fully engaged in assisting five to seven of the
provinces, while the remaining provinces would have access to PDP-I and PDP-
II resources as a means to improve their overall fiscal performance, enabling
them to become eligible for future Bank support. Thus, PDP-I and PDP-II are
vital elements in the Bank's overall strategy as defined in the CAS.
1.13 PDP-II would also continue to complement other existing and proposed
Bank operations in the provinces as in PDP-I by: (a) improving the overall
institutional capacity of provincial governments, especially the ability to plan
and execute institutional development and investment subprojects;  (b)
maintaining and further strengthening the Provincial Executing Units (PEUs);
and (c) providing financial assistance for the preparation of other Bank
operations, as well as for the evaluation of pilot subprojects in one or more
provinces. PDP-II would complement PRL by providing additional incentives
for improved fiscal performance and financing essential institutional
development subprojects. However, PRL is an adjustment loan, and thus would
not be an alternative window for PDP-I or PDP-II, both of which finance
institutional development and discrete infrastructure investments. PDP-II would
also complement MDP-I and MDP-II (Ln. 3860-AR, US$210 million, FY95)
which seek to make municipalities more fiscally autonomous, thereby reducing
pressures for provincial transfers. Transfers to municipal governments represent
the second highest expenditure of provincial governments after personnel, and
have more than doubled from US$1.4 billion in 1991 to US$2.9 billion in 1993.
Thus, these municipal projects complement the main goal of the provincial
operations (PRL and PDP-I and II), making provincial and municipal operations
in Argentina parts of an integrated effort at strengthening subnational
governments.



- 6 -
1.14 To maintain and continue the program of incentives for provincial fiscal
reform initiated under PDP-I, the Argentine Republic wants to accelerate the
implementation of PDP-II. This includes the financing of: (a) institutional
development subprojects vital to the implementation of the Pacto Fiscal reforms
and overall adjustment in the provinces; and (b) urgently needed infrastructure.
PDP-I resources (both Bank and IDB) are not sufficient to finance institutional
development and physical infrastructure subprojects (US$226 million) which the
provinces already have included in their Financial Action and Investment Plans
(FAIPs). Given this lack of resources, many provinces have not been able to
implement subprojects already initiated in other provinces to improve fiscal
performance (e.g., revenue administration, cadastres, financial administration).



- 7 -
II. THE PROJECT
A. Project Origins
2.1   The proposed operation would be the second of its kind in Argentina.
It builds on the operational experience of PDP-I (Ln. 3280-AR) and would
complement at the provincial level the fiscal objectives of MDP-I (Ln. 2920-
AR) and MDP-II (Ln. 3860-AR).
2.2   The First Provincial Development Project has been widely accepted by
Argentine provinces. From a total of 24 jurisdictions, only one (Santa Cruz) did
not participate in PDP-I. In the Second Provincial Development Project all
provinces would participate, as Santa Cruz has already submitted an initial
agreement to be included in the program. The remaining 23 provinces not only
have agreed to participate in PDP-II but are already preparing the necessary
legal documents and have submitted subprojects costing US$85 million (26% of
total project cost), which would be funded under the new project. This gives
PDP-II a considerable advantage over PDP-I, since a stock of prepared
subprojects did not exist when PDP-1 was formulated.
B. Project Objectives
2.3   PDP-II's overall objective would be to continue to provide financial
support and incentives for provinces to undertake their own public sector
reform programs consistent with the national program. The specific
objectives are to:
(a)   assist the provinces in implementing appropriate financial
management reforms to:
(i)  generate current account surpluses (own-source revenue
enhancement and expenditure control) that together with
prudent borrowing may finance investment programs; and
(ii)  strengthen their capacity to plan, program, finance,
execute, and monitor investment programs that are
economically  efficient,  financially  sustainable,
institutionally manageable, and environmentally sound.
(b)   provide financing for institutional development and physical
investments that will promote provincial economic development.



- 8 -
C. Project Description
2.4   The proposed operation would continue to finance the preparation and
implementation of Provincial Financial Action and Investrnent Plans (FAIPs),
to be proposed by provinces and approved by the national government's
Ministry of Interior and the Bank.
2.5   The project would finance a  'time-slice" of eligible provincial
expenditures, including civil works, goods, and consultants. It would have the
following main components:
(a)   Institutional Development: (approximately 35 % of total project
cost) including technical assistance, training, and equipment to
attain the project's objectives at both the national and provincial
government levels (inter alia, improving systems for revenue
administration, cadastres, integrated project evaluation, and
overall financial management and control). At the national level,
subprojects will include improving the coverage of the stock of
provincial debt in the Provincial Financial Management
Information System (PFMIS), training of provincial professional
personnel in the identification, evaluation, preparation, and
implementation of subprojects; and conducting studies on the
desirability and feasibility of the privatization of provincial public
entities (see para. 2.34 and Annex I for details).
(b)   Physical Investments: (approximately 57% of total project cost)
with emphasis on maintenance programs, rehabilitation of
existing works, and completion of unfinished works (as in PDP-
I), but also encompassing public infrastructure and facilities
(e.g., roads, drainage, water supply and sanitation, schools,
health posts) not eligible for financing under other Bank sectoral
projects.
(c)    Project Administration: (approximately 8 % of total project cost)
for the recurrent costs of project implementation at the provincial
level. These costs would not be financed under the loan.
D. Eligibility Criteria
2.6   To implement the project's objectives in 23 provinces and the
Municipality of Buenos Aires (hereafter, the "provinces"), each with unique
demographic, economic, physical, and political characteristics, it is essential that
the basic criteria necessary for effective implementation of project objectives be



-9-
clear, easily determined, and fully accepted by all institutions involved in the
project's implementation.  Moreover, the eligibility criteria should ensure
adequate incentives for improved provincial fiscal performance and financial
management, especially modem budgeting and reporting systems. These basic
criteria would be defined at two levels: (a) provincial eligibility; and (b)
subproject eligibility.
Provincial Eligibility Criteria
2.7    While all provinces would be potential candidates for the project, each
participating province would have to meet the additional conditions of eligibility
specified in the Project Operations Manual (POM--see para. 3.1(a) and Annex
F). The POM would also provide detailed guidelines to the provinces for the
preparation of their FAIPs. Each province's FAIP would determine if, and for
what purposes, it would participate in the project. Approval by the CEU and
the Bank of a province's FAIP would be required for any project support to the
province. The FAIP would include the subproject's institutional arrangements
(including the organization of the PEU) and a specific action plan for: (a)
maintaining a current account surplus2; or (b) provincial revenue enhancement
and/or expenditure reduction that would result in a current account surplus
during the FAIP implementation period.
2.8    All provinces with an approved FAIP that have signed a subsidiary loan
agreement would be eligible for institutional development subprojects.
However, only those meeting the following additional financial performance
criteria would be eligible for new physical investments or completion of
unfinished works:
(a)    A current account surplus during the last executed budget period.
(b)    Total existing and proposed provincial debt must not result in a
total debt service obligation (amortization, interest, and other
financial charges) greater than 15% of total provincial current
revenues (excluding discretionary grants).
2     Current account surplus/deficit is defined as CR - CE, where CR is Total Current Revenues
excluding Discretionary Grants, and CE is Total Current Expenditures (See also Annex C).



- 10-
Subproject Eligibility Criteria
2.9   The Government is implementing a significant decentralization of the
public sector, with an increasing transfer of responsibilities from the national
government to provincial governments. In this regard, the Government has
requested Bank support in many sector-specific areas for which provinces would
be the primary executing agencies. PDP-II should continue to be an "incubator"
for sectoral projects by financing subprojects that would increase provincial
capacity to identify, evaluate, and implement institutional development and
physical investment subprojects. To serve as incubator and also provide overall
incentives for provincial reform, PDP-II would finance subprojects in many
sectors. Public investment subprojects would be potentially eligible provided
that they are: (a) listed in the Project Operations Manual (POM) as eligible; (b)
included in an approved FAIP; and (c) shown to be technically consistent,
economically efficient, financially sustainable, and environmentally sound
according to the criteria defined in the Manual.
2.10   To ensure proper coordination and policy consistency between the
proposed operation and other sector-specific projects at the provincial level, the
following definitions would apply and be agreed at negotiations for inclusion in
the POM (para. 3.1 (j)):
(a)    When there exists an effective, sector-specific project with Bank
financing (e.g., water, health, education, transport) with
uncommitted funds for potentially eligible provinces, those
provinces would not receive financing for that sector under the
proposed project.
(b)   Procedures would be established to ensure consistency of
investment subprojects with Bank sector strategies.
(c)    Financing would be provided only to provinces which have
included all of their externally financed projects in an FAIP
acceptable to the Secretariat for Assistance to the Provincial
Economic Reform (SAREP) of the Ministry of the Interior and
the Bank (para. 2.7).
E. Project Costs
2.11   The total estimated project cost is US$321 million, of which US$225
million (approximately 70%) would be financed by the Bank. A summary of
project costs is presented in Table 2.1.



- 11 -
Table 2.1: Estimated Project Costs
(US$ million, 1994)
Foreign
as % 
Component                      Local  Foreign   Total  of Total of Total
I. Institutional Development       76.8    36.5   113.3    32.2    35.3
Central Administration            8.8      4.2     13.0    32.3      4.1
Provinces                        68.0    32.3   100.3    32.2    31.2
II. Physical Investments           96.4    85.3   181.7    46.9    56.6
Maintenance and Rehabilitation   62.7    62.9   125.6    50.1    39.1
New Works and Completion of    33.7    22.4    56.1    40.0    17.5
Unfinished Works
m. Recurrent Administrative        26.0      0.0    26.0      0.0      8.1
Costs
Total Project Costs               199.2   121.8   321.0    37.9   100.0
2.12   Project costs are expressed in US dollars due to the parity between the
dollar and the peso. Since the proposed project would finance a "time-slice" of
provincial investments, these cost estimates are projections based on the current
subproject proposals for 26% of total project cost and PDP-I experience. As
price and other contingencies are not pertinent for such projections, they have
not been included. Project administration includes the recurrent costs of the
PEUs in 24 provinces for 6 years (although they will not be eligible for
financing).
2.13  For the total project, foreign exchange costs are estimated at US$121.8
million equivalent (37.9% of the total), of which approximately US$36.5 million
is for institutional strengthening and US$85.3 million for public works.
F. Allocation of Loan Proceeds by Province
2.14 PDP-II will continue to reward good performance with access to credit.
However, without some initial allocation of loan funds among the provinces, a
few very agile provinces might quickly commit the full amount of the loan. To
avoid this problem and also provide more equitable access of all provinces to
intemational assistance, loan funds will be allocated in two stages. In the first
stage (lasting one year from the date of signing), 56% of the available funds
would be assigned to each of the 24 provinces according to the quotas
established in the distribution of revenue sharing from the national government
to the provinces. The remaining 44% would go into a "pool". Provinces would
have access to this pool on a first-come-first-served basis after they have fully



- 12 -
committed the resources of their initial assignment, provided that they meet the
other eligibility criteria. In the second stage, those funds not committed during
stage one would revert to the fund pool, which, together with the initially
unallocated funds, would be allocated on the basis of demand. Based on the
above criteria, the initial allocation of loan proceeds would be as shown in Table
2.2 (See also Annex D).



- 13 -
Table 2.2: Initial Allocation of the Bank Loan Among Provinces
(US$, October 1994)
IBRD Loan                           US$225 million
Initial Assignment (56%)            US$125 million a]
Pool of Funds (44%)                 US$100 million
Copartcipacion       Irutial
Distribution '    Assigmnent
Provinces                         (Percent)       (US$ '000)
Total                                    100.00         125,000
Advanced                                  43.79         68,790
MCBA v                                     1.95         26.950
Buenos Aires                              19.50          19,500
C6rdoba                                    9.02          9,020
Mendoza                                   4.24           4,240
Santa Fe                                   9.08          9,080
Intermediate                              19.43         19,430
Entre Rfos                                 4.96          4,960
Salta                                      3.89          3.890
San Juan                                   3.43          3,430
San Luis                                   2.32          2,320
Tucumin                                    4.83          4,830
Low Density                                8.88          8,880
Chubut                                     1.35           1,350
La Pampa                                   1.91           1,910
Neuquen                                    1.51           1.510
Rio Negro                                  2.56          2,560
Santa Cruz                                 1.35           1.350
Tierra del Fuego                           0.20            200
Underdeveloped                            27.90          27,900
Chaco                                      5.07           5.070
Catamarca                                  2.80           2,800
Comentes                                   3.78           3,780
Formosa                                    3.70           3,700
Jujuy                                      2.89           2,890
La Rioja                                   2.10           2.100
Misiones                                   3.36           3.360
Santiago del Estero                        4.20           4,200
US$100,000 million are assigned based on coparticipation coefficients.
b/       Based on National Revenue Sharing Distribution (Law 23548).
C/       Initial assignment for the Municipality of Buenos Aires includes US$25 million for a flood
protection subproject.



- 14 -
2.15  Although this initial allocation of available resources would take place
irrespective of whether a province meets all of the eligibility criteria for new
physical investments (para. 2.8), only those provinces meeting these criteria
would be eligible for new physical investments or completion of unfinished
works.
G. Financing Plan
2.16 The total project cost of US$321 million equivalent would be financed
according to the plan shown in Table 2.3. The proposed Bank loan of US$225
million equivalent would finance approximately 70% of total costs.   The
provincial governments would provide counterpart funding for a total of US$96
million equivalent, and assume the full cost of debt servicing, including the
foreign exchange risk. Experience from PDP-I showed this plan to be fully
satisfactory. The IDB may also finance a parallel operation as soon as its part
of PDP-I is more fully disbursed.
Table 2.3: Financing Plan
Source                               Amount         Percent
(US$ million)
IBRD                                   225             70
Provinces                               96             30
Total                                  321            100
2.17 The aggregate level of external financing (70%) is justified because of:
(a) the need to provide strong incentives to improve financial management
performance to meet the project's objectives; (b) the strong long-term
institutional development impact the project is expected to promote; and (c) the
limited domestic financing alternatives.
2.18 The loan would be made at the Bank's standard variable rate, with
repayment in 15 years, including a grace period of 5 years of grace with level
repayments of principal.
2.19 All proceeds of the Bank loan would be onlent to provincial governments
eligible under this loan with the same terms and conditions as Bank lending to
the Argentine Republic (para. 2.18). Provinces would assume the cross-
currency risk and would guarantee repayment with their shared funds (para.
3.1(d)). In addition, each province would pay a charge of up to 2% of the
disbursed loan amount for recovery of the entire administrative cost of a



- 15 -
financial intermediary and the cost of CEU consultants to ensure that provincial
project components would not result in a fiscal burden for the national
government. As the provinces are paying for the CEU, and depend on it for the
review of their subprojects, they have a strong incentive to ensure that it is cost-
effective, and have actively pursued this goal in PDP-I. The execution of
Subsidiary Loan Agreements with one or more provinces, representing an initial
allocation of loan proceeds equivalent to not less than 4% of the amount of the
Bank's loan, would be a condition of effectiveness (para. 3.2(b)).  Other
conditions of effectiveness would be that the province(s) referred to in the
preceding sentence have taken all actions necessary to (i) exempt all contracts
for goods, works and services to be financed under the loan from all legal and
regulatory provisions limiting the international procurement of goods, works,
and services; and (ii) establish, provide funds and other resources for, and staff
the PEU of each province in terms satisfactory to the Bank (para. 3.2(c)). Each
participating province would pay loan commitment fees as defined in the POM.
2.20 The following would be conditions of disbursement for all participating
provinces (para. 3.3):
(a)   establishment and adequate staffing of the PEU (see also para.
2.25);
(b)   execution of a satisfactory Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(c)   exemption of all contracts for goods, works and services to be
financed under the loan from all legal and regulatory provisions
limiting the international procurement of goods, works, and
services;
(d)   approval of the subproject by the Borrower through the CEU, as
provided in the POM;
(e)   inclusion of the subproject in an FAIP that has been approved by
the Bank as provided for in the POM;
(f)   that no financing for a subproject is available to the province
under another signed Bank-financed sector-specific loan;
(g)   that the Bank has received a satisfactory plan of action to remedy
any irregularities or deficiencies noted by any audit report;
(h)   satisfactory legal opinion on the validity of the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement.



- 16 -
H. Implementation Arrangements
2.21  Implementation arrangements would remain essentially the same as PDP-
I, except for changes to incorporate lessons of experience and to better manage
risk (para. 2.33 to 2.35).
2.22 The borrower would be the Argentine Republic, and its Ministry of
Economy, through SAREP. The Central Executing Unit (CEU) would remain
located in SAREP, and would be the national executing agency. The CEU
would retain its responsibility for overall project management, including
orientation and technical assistance to the provinces (directly and through the
POM) in the preparation, approval, and monitoring of FAIPs, as well as for all
financial and reporting transactions with the Bank. The CEU would also retain
its responsibility for all aspects concerning subproject evaluation, approval, and
procurement (para. 2.35), as well as reporting and obtaining Bank approval of
acquisitions and disbursements. The CEU would also continue to provide
proper coordination and policy consistency between the proposed operation and
other sector-specific projects proposed by the provinces (see Annex H for a
detailed description of the CEU's organization, human resources, and
responsibilities).
2.23 The CEU would continue to be subordinated to SAREP, and its
Secretary would be the CEU's General Coordinator. The General Coordinator
would be assisted by an Executive Coordinator, who will be fully dedicated to
project implementation. The General Coordinator would discuss all relevant
project aspects with the Credit Committee, which would be comprised of three
provincial ministers of finance, as in PDP-I.
2.24 The CEU would implement the national government's component of the
project, and also review subprojects. As the organizational structure of the
CEU under PDP-I has proved to serve adequately the functions described above,
the same general structure would be maintained for PDP-I1--although there
would be some fine-tuning to increase cost-effectiveness.
2.25 The PEUs would be responsible for formulation, implementation, and
supervision of their FAIPs. Actual execution of physical investments would be
undertaken by provincial government agencies according to procedures
established in the POM  (para. 3.1(a) and Annex F). As the objectives and
implementation procedures of the provincial subprojects are the same as in PDP-
I, the overall structure of the PEUs would remain unchanged (see para. 2.20 (a)
and Annex H  for PEU's organization and staffing).  They would be
subordinated to the provincial Ministers of Finance who would also serve as the
PEU General Coordinators. They would be assisted by a full-time Executive
Committee in the formulation and implementation of FAIPs. The General



- 17 -
Coordinator would provide the necessary political, technical, and administrative
support for the implementation of the project.
2.26 The PEUs would perform the following key functions: (a) promotion of
provincial institutional development; (b) proposal, evaluation, and monitoring
of financial reforms and investment programs (including environmental
screening and analysis);  and (c) administrative control (including Bank
reporting requirements).
2.27  There are important distinctions between the CEU and PEUs regarding
their objectives and functions. The PEUs would have a permanent function
within provincial governments, providing improved planning, budgeting, and
supervision of financial management for the provinces as an overall institution.
Furthermore, the PEUs would continue to provide support for preparation and
implementation of projects for the Bank and other lenders. Therefore, the
project would seek to strengthen PEUs as part of the project's objectives to
implement provincial financial management reforms and to strengthen financial
management capacity.  Although the CEU  would have some permanent
functions (e.g., information system for monitoring provincial financial
management performance), most of the short-term functions of the CEU's
operation would be transitory, lasting only as long as the project. As in PDP-1,
the CEU would contract with other entities to review specific types of technical
proposals requiring specialized expertise.  For example, in PDP-I, the CEU
contracted with the national tax collection service to review the proposals for
provincial tax collection systems for the 2,000 largest taxpayers which was
adopted by 15 provinces, since it was this entity that had adapted the provincial
system from one implemented at the national level.
2.28  Under PDP-I, the provinces have preferred to keep the size of their
permanent staffs relatively small (usually less than 10) and to use other entities
of the provincial government or short-term consultants to perform some of the
more specialized tasks. For example, a well coordinated province could use the
technical support of existing ministries (e.g., environment or public works) to
carry out many of the functions, leaving only basic core functions with the
PEU. Each province would submit an organizational structure to the CEU for
its approval. In cases in which consultants would have to be contracted, Bank
review and approval would also be necessary (see para. 2.27, 2.31, 19, Annex
H).
2.29  Adequate Bank supervision of the proposed project would require review
of all provincial FAIPs. These FAIPs would include investment proposals in
many sectors, and their adequate review would entail evaluation of their
consistency with general and sectoral development policies in discussion with
or agreed to by the Bank. Efforts would be made to decentralize project



- 18 -
supervision as much as possible by using consultants in Argentina to review
technical proposals and procurement documents when feasible. The project's
supervision plan is summarized in Annex G.
2.30 Successful implementation of project objectives also will require intense
monitoring of actual performance by both the CEU and the Bank. To facilitate
this supervision, the CEU will prepare and furnish to the Bank a progress report
on project execution of such scope and detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request not later than March 31 and September 30 of each year (para. 3.1(c)).
The terms of reference for a revised format of these reports will be discussed
at negotiations. The Government already has made substantial progress in
implementing its Provincial Financial Management Information System
(PFMIS), and it would continue to monitor provincial financial performance and
to evaluate compliance with FAIP agreements on a quarterly basis, as in PDP-I.
The Information System would be expanded to permit adequate monitoring of
provincial indebtedness. The Bank would also monitor the implementation of
the FAIPs through its supervision missions. In addition, the Government and
the Bank have agreed to exchange views annually on the status of project
implementation, particularly regarding (a) the CEU and PEUs performance in
project implementation procedures agreed with the Bank, and (b) adjustments
in the POM that may be required to improve implementation of project
objectives (para. 3.1(e)).
2.31    The Central Executing Unit (CEU) recommended the following
strategy for ensuring adequate environrmental management and analysis by the
provinces, based on its preliminary survey of the provinces' capacities and "felt
needs." The environmental analysis of eligible subprojects would continue to
be done as specified in the POM in accordance with Bank procedures. As part
of their FAIPs, provinces would be required to indicate: (a) the nature and
extent of the environmental analysis that would be conducted; (b) the provincial
entity responsible for such analysis (e.g., ministry, secretariat, PEU, etc.); and
(c) the technical capacity of such a provincial entity. If this capacity is not fully
adequate, the province could be required to include as part of its FAIP a
subproject aimed at strengthening the enviromnental analysis capacity of the
designated provincial entity.  The CEU  would continue to evaluate the
environmental management and analytical capacity of the provincial entities
responsible for analyzing the environmental impact of eligible subprojects. The
CEU would also continue to be responsible for supervising the environmental
analysis of subprojects submitted by the provinces, either using in-house
expertise or contracting consultants as required.
2.32 The POM would provide specific criteria for determining the type of
environmental analyses required. Only, those subprojects with considerable
environmental impact, as specified in the POM, would undergo detailed



- 19 -
environmental impact analysis, for which Terms of Reference (TORs) would be
prepared by the PEU and approved by the CEU. The CEU would supervise the
execution of these studies and approve their conclusions. The CEU would also
ensure that all measures leading to mitigation of the environmental impact
recommended by these studies are adequately incorporated in the subprojects.
Individual consultants or consulting firms could be hired as needed to conduct
these environmental studies (para. 3.1(i)).
2.33 Several lessons of experience from PDP-I, MDP-I, and other Bank
experience in lending for municipal development (see para. 1.11 and Annex A
for details) would be incorporated to streamline project execution. To increase
the cost-effectiveness of review of technical proposals and procurement
documents, thresholds for prior review by the CEU and the Bank will be
carefully reviewed in the development of the POM so as to balance cost with
risk. In addition, procedures for review of procurement documents will be
streamlined, and all provinces will be required to use printed and bound
standard procurement documents approved by the Bank (para. 2.36), copies of
which will be included in the POM. To improve subproject management, the
POM will require that all subprojects present a timetable for all main stages of
subproject execution in a specified format. These timetables are expected to
provide the subproject tracking system developed in PDP-I with more reliable
information, thereby permitting more adequate projections needed to plan
subproject review by the CEU. A significant stock of subprojects (26% of the
total amount of the loan) has already been  identified.   Contracting
implementation specialists to assist the PEUs in subproject implementation will
be facilitated by expanding and updating the consultant roster developed in PDP-
I.
2.34 In addition, the CEU will design the following subprojects to improve
its implementation capacity and that of the PEUs (for short descriptions, see
Annex I). TORs have been prepared for each of these subprojects and were
discussed at negotiations. One such subproject will involve improving the
coverage on the stock of provincial debt in PFMIS, not only for macroeconomic
management but also for the calculation of creditworthiness (para. 2.8) and
project performance indicators (See Annex G). Another subproject will involve
training of both national government and provincial professional personnel in the
identification, evaluation, preparation, and implementation of subprojects with
special emphasis on areas shown to need improvement in PDP-I (e.g., tracking
performance in meeting implementation schedules and cost estimation). Bank
approval of the technical proposal for a subproject to provide project
management training to provincial professional personnel will be a condition of
effectiveness (para. 3.2(d)). This training will cover the following topics:
project  identification,  evaluation,  preparation   (including   costing),
implementation, and monitoring.



- 20 -
2.35  These centrally managed subprojects normally would be financed in the
same way as the CEU, i.e., by the provinces.  In addition, the CEU may
submit other subproject proposals for approval by the Bank for institutional
development subprojects benefitting all or the majority of the provinces. For
example, PDP-I financed the policy work for the reform of the provincial tax
and pension systems and the preparation of PDP-II. The POM will specify the
procedures for identifying, screening, approving, and executing these
subprojects, including cost-sharing among the provinces.
I. Procurement
2.36 Procurement would be undertaken by the CEU and up to 24 provinces.
International Competitive Bidding (ICB) would use the Bank issued Standard
Bidding Documents for the procurement of works and goods, and Local
Competitive Bidding (LCB) would be based on agreed standard bidding
documents for the procurement of works and goods. For complex, time-based
assignments, the standard form contract issued by the Bank would be used. All
of these documents would be included in the POM, and approval of the POM
by the Borrower in terms satisfactory to the Bank would be a condition of
effectiveness (para. 3.2(e)). In addition, for large or complex works above
US$10.0 million, such as cadastre works, prequalification of the bidders would
be a requirement.
2.37  Contracts for civil works expected to cost US$5 million or more (to
account for approximately US$91.2 million, or 28% of total project costs) and
for goods expected to cost US$350,000 or more (to account for approximately
US$25.8 million, or 8% of total project costs) would be awarded on the basis
of ICB procedures in accordance with Bank guidelines. Contracts for works
expected to cost US$350,000 or more, but less than US$5 million (to account
for approximately US$73.4 million, or 23 % of total project costs), and contracts
for goods expected to cost more than US$100,000, but less than US$350,000
(approximately US$30.6 million, or 10% of total project costs), would be
awarded on the basis of LCB procedures acceptable to the Bank. Procurement
for works costing less that US$350,000 (approximately US$5.2 million, or 2%
of total project costs) and goods costing less that US$100,000 (approximately
US$3.2 million, or 1% of total project costs) would be carried out through
international or local shopping involving at least three price quotations.
Consultant services, expected to cost approximately US$60.6 million, or 19%
of total project costs, would be procured in accordance with Bank's Guidelines
for the use of Consultants by the World Bank Borrowers. Training expenditures
would be approximately US$5 million or 2% of the total project costs. These
arrangements are summarized in Table 2.4.



- 21 -
Table 2.4: Procurement Method by Category
(US$ million, October 1994)
Category                    Procurement Method' N.B.F   Total Cost
ICB   LCB  Other bI
Civil Works                 91.2  73.4    5.2      ---       169.8
(62.2) (49.9)   (3.5)   ---      (115.6)
Goods                      25.8  30.6    3.2       ---       59.6
(20.8) (20.7)  (2.3)    ---      (43.8)
Consulting Services
Central Administration      ---   ---    10.0      ---      10.0
--- --   (10.0)    ---   (10.0)
Provinces                   ---   ---    50.6      ---      50.6
---   ---   (50.6)    ---      (50.6)
Training                    ---   ---      5.0      ---       5.0
(5.0)    ---      (5.0)
Recurrent Administrative Costs  ---   ---    ---   26.0      26.0
---    ---    (0.0)  (0.0)
Total Project Cost         117.0  104.0   74.0    26.0       321.0
Bank Total                 (83.0) (70.6)  (71.4)   (0.0)    (225.0)
&' Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the Bank.
b/International and local shopping, hiring of consultants in accordance with Bank guidelines.
CN Not Bank financed.
2.38 It is expected that rehabilitation, completion of works, and new
investments would be undertaken through contracts with private firms, in
accordance with Bank guidelines. To ensure that the agreed procurement
procedures are properly carried out, the CEU and the Bank would review ex-
ante all procurement procedures, documents, bid evaluations and contract
awards for ICB procurement of goods and works during the entire project
implementation period.  In addition, the CEU  would review  ex-ante the
procedures for all other procurement of goods, works and consulting services
in each province. The Bank would review ex-ante all terms of reference for
consulting assignments (regardless of their estimated cost), as well as all single-
source contracts and consultancies of a critical nature. However, the Bank
would review ex-ante only the TORs of those contracts: in which (i) individual
consultants are hired on a competitive basis for amounts less than US$50,000
or (ii) consulting firms are hired on a competitive basis for amounts less than
US$100,000. In all other cases (including all single-source contracts and
consultancies of a critical nature), the Bank would review ex-ante all documents
of each contract. Prior Bank and CEU review of procurement procedures of
work, goods and consulting services is summarized in Table 2.5. Following the



- 22 -
procedures defined in this table, the Bank would review e.x-ante about 64% of
the total cost of all procurement done under the project.
2.39  In all cases, however, the Bank would review contracts awarded under
LCB, international and local shopping procedures, and consultant selections on
an ex-post basis by sampling. If it were determined that procurement was not
carried out following agreed procedures, no expenditures for such items would
be financed from the proceeds of the loan, the Bank would cancel the
corresponding loan amount, and the Special Account would be reimbursed
accordingly by the Borrower. This effort should not only streamline project
execution but also reduce the Bank's supervision burden.  However, if a
particular province fails to comply with the agreed procedures, they could be
required to return to ex-ante review.
2.40 The capacity of the CEU and PEUs for effective implementation review
of procurement documents has improved greatly during the execution of PDP-I,
and there is now a strong core of professionals in the CEU. The experience of
PDP-I showed procurement procedures to be antiquated and cumbersome in
most provinces.  To help the provinces modernize and streamline their
procurement procedures and laws, PDP-II will finance studies to identify the
chief sources of delay in the procurement process and efforts to adopt measures
to reduce them.
Table 2.5: Summary of Procurement Review Procedures
Category                     Procedure      Prior CEU   Prior Bank
I                  I  Review      Review
Works
Less than US$350,000       Shopping          All        N.A
US$350,000-US$5 million      LCB             All    IS two/year
US$5 million or more         ICB             All        All
Goods
Less than US$100,000       Shopping          All        N.A.
US$100,000-US$350,000        LCB             All    1St two/year
US$350,000 or more           ICB             All        All
Consulting Services
a) Individual
Less than US$50,000      Contract         All      Only TORs
US$50,000 or more        Contract         All         All
b) Firms
Less than US$100,000     Contract         All      Only TORs
US$100,000 or more                        All         All
Training                                        All        N.A.



- 23 -
J. Disbursements
2.41  The POM will specify that the CEU would continue to monitor financing
over the life of the project to assure that overall 70:30 Bank-provincial financing
is maintained as in PDP-I.  As part of its annual project implementation
review, the Bank would evaluate its participation in total project financing.
2.42 To withdraw the proceeds of the proposed Bank loan, the following
categories and disbursement percentages are proposed:
(a)  100% of total expenditures for consultant services, training, and audits,
including travel expenses related to these services;
(b)  100% of foreign expenditures for works and goods under all categories;
and
(c)  75% of local expenditures for works and goods purchased locally.
2.43  A Special Account in US dollars, and with an authorized allocation of
US$7 million, would be established in the Banco de la Naci6n Argentina. An
initial deposit of up to US$3.5 million will be made and the full amount of the
authorized allocation will be released when disbursements reach a level of
US$25 million. The Special Account would be managed by the CEU. All
disbursements against contracts for less than US$5 million for works, for less
than US$350,000 for goods and services, for less than US$100,000 for
consultant firms, and for less than US$50,000 for individual consultants, and for
all training expenditures would be made on the basis of certified Statements of
Expenditure (SOEs). The documentation for SOEs would not be sent to the
Bank but would be retained by the CEU and made available for inspection by
Bank staff.  All other disbursements would be made against standard
documentation.
2.44 Retroactive financing for expenditures incurred after August 26, 1994
(but not earlier than 12 months before loan signing) in an amount not to exceed
US$20.0 million (9% of the Loan amount) is recommended.
2.45  Formal agreement by the national government and a participating
province for implementation of the province's FAIP would be made through a
Subsidiary Loan Agreement, satisfactory to the Bank. The FAIP would include
specific subprojects that would be potentially eligible for project financing.
However, at the time of FAIP approval and the signing of the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement, detailed appraisal of each subproject may not be completed and
approved. Therefore, each subproject would have specific Bank approval (based



- 24 -
on its full technical, economic, financial, and environmental appraisal) before
it would be eligible for disbursements from the Loan Account.
2.46  Based on experience from PDP-I, a disbursement period of six years is
proposed (see Annex J), the same as the regional disbursement profile. The
expected completion date would be December 31, 2001, and the closing date
would be June 30, 2002. The time required to commit and disburse the loan
will depend on the provinces' financial capacity to provide counterpart funding
and institutional capacity to propose, appraise, and execute subprojects that are
economically efficient, financially sustainable, and environmentally sound.
Counterpart funds should not pose a problem since the proposed project's
financing for real investments by the provinces would represent Bank financing
for only about 1 % of the total real investment program of the provinces for six
years (assuming 1993 investment levels--see also Annex C). Rather, the key to
implementation success and timely disbursements would depend on the
institutional capacity to design, implement, and supervise investments which are
consistent with Bank guidelines. Especially important in this regard is the
supervision of the CEU to assure that the provinces follow the procedures
established in the POM.
2.47  Regarding  provincial  institutional capacity  to  generate  timely
disbursements, approximately 36% (US$66.1 million) of total physical
investments (US$181.7 million) are expected to be allocated for provincial
maintenance programs and rehabilitation investments implemented under LCB
procedures. These would have less demanding appraisal requirements than
larger, new investments. It may be expected, therefore, that relatively small
maintenance and rehabilitation investments may be implemented quickly while
larger subprojects are still under preparation. Based on a six-year disbursement
profile, and assuming that the loan would become effective on June 15, 1995,
the project's completion date would be December 31, 2001, and the proposed
closing date June 30, 2002. If the project were executed more rapidly than the
six-year profile, the shorter execution period would increase the benefits of the
project, and indicate that the provinces have the potential to mobilize more
resources for investments efficiently.
K. Accounts and Audits
2.48  An audit of the financial status of the program would take place once a
year for the CEU components and for each participant province. The audit
would be carried out by an independent auditor acceptable to the Bank, under
TORs similiar to those used in PDP-I. The audit reports would be sent to the
Bank not more than four months after the end of the calendar year. The report
would include, inter alia, specific opinions on: (a) sources of proceeds and
their use; (b) SOEs; and (c) implementation of contracting clauses, including the



- 25 -
application of eligibility criteria, and compliance with procurement procedures
and other financing conditions included in the POM (para. 3. l(h)). The Special
Account would also be similiarly audited.
L. Project Benefits
2.49 There are four main benefits: (a) fiscal, by maintaining incentives for
provincial fiscal reform initiated under PDP-I and financing institutional
development subprojects that are vital for overall provincial adjustment; (b)
financial, by improving provincial creditworthiness;  (c) institutional, by
enhancing the capacity of provinces to plan, program, implement, and monitor
efficiently resource mobilization and allocation; and (d) socio-economic, by
improving infrastructure and service delivery. In summary, the project would
contribute to the Government's overall macroeconomic goals of efficiency,
equity, and stability, since it would improve the efficiency of the increasingly
important provincial public sector.
M. Financial Impact
2.50  Beneficial financial impacts are at the very core of the project's
objectives. By conditioning access to project financing on strict creditworthiness
criteria, the project would provide an incentive for improved provincial financial
performance. The institutional development subproject will provide an effective
means for the provinces to respond to this incentive.
N. Economic Impact
2.51 The internal economic rate of return (IERR) for the project's investment
components was estimated based on the estimated rates of return for five
approved PDP-I subprojects and on estimates for a preliminary sample of 18
subprojects proposed for PDP-II (Annex E). The results show an economic rate
of return of 20. 1 % for approximately 38% of the total project cost represented
in the PDP-II sample.
0. Poverty Impact
2.52  Successful implementation of the proposed project would have the
following social benefits: (a) employment generation in the construction sector
and (b) improved physical and social infrastructure. Using the estimate of 30%
as the cost of labor in the total cost of civil works (US$169.8 million) and the
average monthly wage of construction workers at roughly US$200 equivalent,
project implementation would generate about 21,000 person-years of
construction employment.  The physical rehabilitation of provincial hospitals



- 26 -
and schools, which was in great demand in PDP-I and is expected to continue
in PDP-II, would benefit mostly lower-income segments of the population.
P. Environmental Impact
2.53  The proposed project is classified as category B. For most subprojects,
the environmental impact is expected to be neutral or positive which is due to
the fact that a large proportion would either be maintenance and rehabilitation
or completion of existing or unfinished works. However, regardless of their
nature, all investments would need to comply fully and be consistent with Bank
environmental policies and conditions, including the preparation of
environmental impact statements when required. Explicit conditions would be
defined in the POM.
Q. Program Risks and Safeguards
2.54 The experience gained in risk management during the first project should
prove quite useful in the second operation. The risks identified in the previous
project were: lack of interest by the provinces in carrying out the required fiscal
reforms, discontinuity in political commitment to the project, unfavorable
macroeconomic conditions during its execution (including significant increases
in national/provincial transfers), and implementation delays. The safeguard
against these risks is a competitive system of access to loan resources based on
performance.  Those provinces that enter earlier and perform better (i.e.,
develop the institutions and generate current account surpluses) would receive
more resources.  This safeguard proved effective in the project under
implementation. In addition, steps taken to further strengthen the CEU and
PEUs to incorporate the lessons of experience of PDP-I in the design of
implementation arrangements of PDP-II should reduce the likelihood of
implementation delays. Also, subprojects representing 26% of the total loan
amount have been prepared. Although program risks are similar to the ones in
PDP-I, the institutional and macroeconomic environment for PDP-II is more
favorable.



- 27 -
III. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
3.1 - During negotiations, the following agreements were reached:
(a)   the project would be implemented accordance with the Project
Operations Manual (POM), satisfactory to the Bank, which would
not be amended without the Bank's prior consent (para.
2.7, 2.25);
(b)   the Central Execution Unit (CEU) would continue to be
adequately staffed and otherwise supported in the implementation
of its responsibility under the project (para. 2.22);
(c)   the CEU will prepare and furnish to the Bank a progress report
on project execution of such scope and detail as the Bank shall
reasonably request not later than March 31 and September 30 of
each year (para. 2.30).
(d)   all proceeds of the Bank loan would be onlent to eligible
provinces under the same terms and conditions as the Bank loan,
with each participating province's revenue sharing serving as a
guarantee for repayment of subloans (para. 2.19);
(e)   the national government and the Bank would exchange views
annually on the status of project implementation (para. 2.30);
(f)   procurement would be carried out in accordance with Bank
guidelines (para. 2.37-2.40);
(g)   the national government would open and maintain, in US dollars,
a Special Account (para. 2.43);
(h)   audit arrangements acceptable to the Bank (para. 2.48);
(i)   the CEU and PEUs would carry out environmental analysis
studies, as specified in the POM, in a manner consistent with the
Bank's environmental policies and procedures (para. 2.32); and
(j)   the national government would provide proper coordination and
policy consistency between the proposed operation and other
sector-specific projects proposed by the provinces, as defined in
the POM (para. 2.10).



- 28 -
3.2   The following would be Conditions of Effectiveness:
(a)   the establishment and adequate staffing (including civil servants
and consultants) of the PEUs in the provinces referred to in
3.2(b) below (para. 2.22, 2.25);
(b)   the execution of Subsidiary Loan Agreements with one or more
provinces, representing an initial allocation of loan proceeds
equivalent to not less than 4% of the amount of the Bank's loan
(para. 2.19);
(c)   that the province(s) referred to in para. 3.2(b) have taken all
actions necessary to (i) exempt all contracts for goods, works and
services to be financed under the loan from all legal and
regulatory provisions limiting the international procurement of
goods, works, and services; and (ii) establish, provide funds, and
other resources for, and staff, the PEU of each province on terms
satisfactory to the Bank (para. 2.19, 3.2(b)).
(d)   approval by the Bank of the technical proposal for the subproject
to provide subproject management training will be a condition of
effectiveness (para. 2.34).
(e)   approval of the POM by the Borrower in terms satisfactory to the
Bank (para. 2.36); and
3.3   Conditions of Disbursement with respect to each province would be
(para. 2.20):
(a)   establishment and adequate staffing of the PEU;
(b)   execution of a satisfactory Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(c)   exemption of all contracts for goods, works and services to be
financed under the loan from all legal and regulatory provisions
limiting the international procurement of goods, works, and
services;
(d)   approval of the subproject by the Borrower through the CEU, as
provided in the POM;
(e)   inclusion of the subproject in an FAIP that has been approved by
the Bank as provided in the POM;
(f)   that no financing for a subproject is available to the province
under another signed Bank-financed sector-specific loan;



- 29 -
(g)   the Bank has received a satisfactory plan of action to remedy any
irregularities or deficiencies noted by any audit report; and
(h)   satisfactory legal opinion on the validity of the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement.
3.4   Reconunendation.  With the above assurances and conditions, the
proposed project would be suitable for a Bank loan of US$225 million
equivalent, to be repaid over a period of 15 years, including a grace period of
5 years of grace with level repayments of principal, at the Bank's standard
variable interest rate and fees. Retroactive financing for expenditures incurred
after August 26, 1994 (but not earlier than 12 months before loan signing) in an
amount not to exceed US$20.0 million (9% of the Loan amount) is
recommended.



ANNEXES



- 31 -                      Annex A
LESSONS LEARNED AND PREVIOUS BANK EXPERIENCE IN THE
SECTOR
1.    This annex draws on the lessons of the First Provincial Development
Project (PDP-I, Ln. 3280-AR) and the First Municipal Development Project
(MDP-I, Ln. 2920-AR), as well as the Bank-wide municipal development and
technical assistance projects.
Brief Description of the Subprojects Financed by PDP-I
2.    Including subprojects financed by both the IDB and the Bank, the total
cost of Institutional Development subprojects under PDP-I is US$257 million
(44.7%), compared with US$318 million (55.3%) for physical investments. Of
the total amount of the Institutional Development component, slightly over half
(54.1%) went to the cadastre subprojects in 18 of the 23 provinces to improve
returns from the real estate tax (Table 1). The estimated internal financial rate
of return for cadastre subprojects is 72.3% (Table 3). In addition, the PDP-I
is financing other revenue administration subprojects in 16 provinces, including
the provinces' adaptation of the national tax administration's successful system
for the 2,000 largest taxpayers (Table 2). These tax administration subprojects,
together with provincial tax policy papers, also financed by PDP-I, provided the
basis for the modernization of the provincial tax system under the Pacto Fiscal
of August 1993, which is now being implemented in all but one of the
provinces.  In addition, PDP-1 financed the development of guidelines for
provincial financial management reform reflecting recent national legislative
initiatives. Subprojects to implement these reforms are currently being
formulated or executed in eight provinces (four under execution). No new
major physical works have been financed by PDP-I, since the main emphasis
has been on rehabilitation and the maintenance of roads, schools, health
facilities, drainage, and irrigation.
Lessons from PDP-I and MDP-I
3.    The implementation of PDP-I and MDP-I in Argentina has yielded many
valuable lessons of experience.
4.    The Country Department's Infrastructure Strategy Note (1994) analyzes
managerial and technical weaknesses of executing agencies for all Bank projects
with the provinces in developing its portfolio management strategy. These
weaknesses are reflected in: (a) loan covenant noncompliance, especially those
related to audit reporting; (b) procurement delays; and consequently, (c)
disbursement delays.
5.    With respect to audits, PDP-I has been in full compliance from the
beginning, principally because one private auditing firm was contracted to audit
all accounts of the CEU and the PEUs. Procurement delays have recurred more



- 32 -                      Annex A
often in PDP-I than in other projects because of the large number of sub-
borrowers, as well as the administrative problems encountered by the CEU in
ensuring acceptable quality of bidding documents and adherence to Bank
procedures. Lastly, disbursement delays can be attributed generally to the fact
that under PDP-I insufficient preparatory work was done by the time of
effectiveness to ensure a sufficient number of subprojects for financing. The
Bank has also underestimated both the difficulties that the subborrowers
(provinces in PDP-I) would have in meeting eligibility criteria and the time
required to take actions that would enable them to be eligible for Bank loans.
Lessons from Other Bank Municipal Development and Technical Assistance
Projects
6.    The proposed project will benefit from the many lessons learned over
more than a decade of Bank experience with municipal development, both in the
LAC region and worldwide.  From  the earliest Bank-financed municipal
development projects,' the Operations Evaluation Department (OED) found that
strong national government commitment to the principles of financially sound
municipal development and to ongoing reforms is essential for project success.
Intensive supervision during project start-up and throughout project
implementation was also found to increase the likelihood of success.
7.    From the Parana Market Towns Project (Brazil) (Ln. 2343-BR), the
OED identified several key factors contributing to project success, including:
(a)   local government support for the operation;
(b)   small subprojects of relatively simple design, for which local
communities themselves had expressed a desire;
(c)   a competent, motivated team in charge of project management at
the local level; and
(d)   risk management by simultaneous initiation of subprojects in a
number of towns, thus reducing the overall average risk of
delayed project execution, plus providing additional political
support.
8.    The ongoing Municipal Development Projects in Parari and Rio Grande
do Sul States (Brazil) (Ln. 3100-BR and Ln. 3129-BR, respectively) have shown
I     Jordan: Cities and Villages Development Bank Project (Ln. 1826-JO), approved in
1981, and Jordan: Second Cities and Villages Development Bank Project (Ln. 2614-
JO), approved in 1985.
2     Operations Evaluation Department, Annual Review of EvaluaIion Results. World Bank:
Washington, DC. 1991.



- 33 -                        Annex A
that eligibility criteria (such as the preparation of detailed financial anid
institutional action plans) for participation in municipal development projects
should be clear and not excessively rigid. Clear and flexible eligibility criteria
foster increased participation and, at the same time, prevent delays in project
start-up and disbursements.
9.    With regard to Technical Assistance projects, experience indicates that:
(a) projects should be limited in scope to permit adequate preparation, focused
implementation, and effective supervision; (b) borrower commitment is essential
to develop a sense of ownership of project activities in affected institutions to
foster effective implementation; (c) provision for greater continuity in project
management is necessary; and (d) terms of reference for consultants and studies
should be spelled out prior to negotiation.
The Strategy
10.   The following are the elements of a strategy that was derived from the
lessons of experience from PDP-I and MDP-I in Argentina, as well as other
Bank municipal development and technical assistance projects. This strategy
would improve the agility of project execution, reduce the Bank's burden of
supervision, and better manage risks by:
(a)    Making  the review  of subproject technical proposals and
procurement documents more cost-effective by:
(i)    Restricting the range of eligible subprojects to sectors
with fully defined processing procedures (especially
eligibility criteria).   Nevertheless, the CEU would be
able to request the Bank's approval for inclusion of
subprojects that it considers of high priority for attainment
of the project's objectives, but for which processing
procedures have not been fully defined.
(ii)   Standardizing as much as possible procurement documents
and procedures, as well as all other procedures.
(iii)   Raising the thresholds for ex-ante review  as high as
feasible. Use a systematic review of carefully selected
samples as a way to monitor the quality of subprojects
below the thresholds.
(iv)   Contracting out as much as feasible CEU review functions
to private finns and other entities, as was successfully



- 34 -                          Annex A
carried out with auditing under PDP-I.3  For example,
review of the FAIPs, technical proposals for subprojects,
and procurement documents could be contracted out.
While it is feasible to delegate the supervision of works
to consultants paid under Bank loans, it would be crucial
that Bank staff focus closely on Technical Assistance
components in support of the project's development
objectives.
(v)    increasing  the  efficiency  and  transparency  of  the
procurement process in the provinces is particularly
important, since slow and cumbersome procurement
procedures have many times been major impediments to
project implementation in the provinces.
(b)    Contracting by a retainer of unspecified length (e.g., indefinite
quantity contracts) implementation specialists (charged back to
the provinces using their services) to assist the PEUs in
subproject implementation. This would speed the contracting of
these specialists and would also reduce the Bank's burden of
reviewing hundreds of individual consultant contracts.
(c)    Continuing to improve the capacity of the CEU  and PEUs to
comply with Bank procedures by:
(i)    Establishing   a   training   program    on   subproject
identification, evaluation, preparation, and implementation
for national government and provincial staff.
(ii)    Reinforcing  subproject  management  "culture"  and
capacity in the CEU and PEUs. In this type of project,
project management at the national level consists of
managing subproject portfolios that are, in turn, being
managed by the PEUs. Subproject management software
that shows where subprojects are in the project execution
cycle compared with where they "should be" is essential.
3      For several decades, this has been an established practice with Chile's Ministry of
Public Works where the cost of supervising road works has been financed under the
Bank's successive road projects. These consultants report to the Ministry and supervise
all works under the Ministry's jurisdiction. As far as Bank loans are concerned,
consultants prepare quarterly reports, participate actively in discussions during
supervision missions, and also draft aide-memoires. The consultant firn is contracted
for a designated period, with the Ministry renewing contracts with the same firm to
ensure continuity. Supervision by the Ministry can be supplemented through annual on-
site inspections by Bank staff.  This practice has contributed significantly to the
reduction of Bank staff inputs in supervising Chile's highway projects.



- 35 -                        Annex A
(d)    Preparing a substantial stock of technical proposals and bidding
documents for subprojects before effectiveness to avoid delays in
project execution.



- 36-                                 Annex A
Table 1
Institutional Development Subprojects
Cadastre Subprojects Funded Under PDP-I
(US$'000, 1994)
Total Cost of Institutional Development Subprojects = 257,025.00
Total Cost of Cadastre Subprojects = 138,771.20
Cadastre Subprojects as % of Total Project Cost = 53.99%
Avg. IRR  for Cadastre Subprojects  =  72.29%'
Provinces                 Execution State   |    Project Area                Project Scope          Subproject
Executed      In       Total      Partial    Urban         rban    Rural       Cost
Total                                                                                                  138771.2
Buenos Aires                         X          X                      X                                  21576
Catamarca                            X                      X          X          X                      1,114.6
Chaco                                X          X                                            X          1,172.8
Chubut                               X          X                      X          X          X          5,048.2
Cordoba                              X          X                      X          X          X         25,726.9
Corrientes                           X          X                      X          X          X          5,849.4
Entre Rios                           X          X                      X          X                     12,539.7
Formosa                               X         X                      X          X                     3,574.0
Jujuy
La Pampa
La Rioja                             X          X                      X          X          X          3,387.5
MCBA
Mendoza
Misiones                              X                     X          X                     X           3,891.0
Neuquen                               X          X                     X          X          X           3,122.4
Rio Negro                            X          X                      X          X          X          9,000.0
Salta
San Juan                              X                     X          X                     X           3,542.0
San Luis                              X                     X          X                                 1,519.0
Santa F                               X          X                     X          X          X          23,791.0
Santiago del Estero                   X          X                     X          X                      3,437.1
Tierra del Fuego                      X          X                     X                                  724.5
Tucuman                               X          X                     X          X          X           9,755.1
Average IRR is estimated based on a sample of projects as shown in Annex E.



- 37 -                                     Annex A
Table 2
Institutional Development Subprojects
Revenue Administration Subprojects
(US$'000, 1994)
Total Cost of Institutional Development Subprojects = 257,025.00
Total Cost of Revenue Administration Subprojects = 37,297.90
Cadastre Subprojects as % of Total Project Cost = 14.51 %
Provinces                  DGI 2000             Execution State       Integral           Execution State                 AU
Largest Taxpayers                              Revenue                                      Revenue Adm.
Subprojects      Executed I In Execution    Admn.       Executed   I  In Execution        Subprojects -
Total                            4,986.2                                314.0                                           37,297.9
Buenos Aires                                                                                                                 0.0
Catamarca                         477.0                    X            314.0                   Under Approval             791.0
Chaco                             406.2                    X          2,192.6                         X                  2,598.8
Chubut                                                                                                                       0.0
C6rdoba                                                              12,630.8                         X                 12,630.8
Corrientes                         571.4                   X                                                               571.4
Entre Rios                                                            3,000.0                 In Evaluation (BID)        3,000.0
Formosa                           434.5                    X            962.7                         X                  1,397.2
Jujuy                              700.0                   X                                                               700.0
La Pampa                                                                 82.1        X                                      82.1
La Rioja                                                                                                                     0.0
MCBA"                                                                                                                        0.0
Mendoza                                                               1,649.2                         X                  1,649.2
Misiones                                                              3,412.4                    In Evaluation           3,412.4
(CEU)
Neuquen                            388.5               Approved                                                            388.5
Rio Negro                                                                                                                    0.0
Salta                                                                 1,114.7                          X                 1,114.7
San Juan                           698.0      X        2nd Stage                                                           698.0
San Luis                                                                                                                     0.0
Santa Fe                                                                                                                     0.0
Santiago del Estero                441.6                   X                                                               441.6
Tierra del Fuego                    392.0              Approved       1,511.9                          X                  1,903.9
Tucuman                            477.0               Approved       5,441.3                          X                 5,918.3



Table 3
Financial Rates of Return
for Sample of Institutional Strengthening Subprojects
Average Rate of Return Weighted by Investment Cost = 72.29%
Estimated Demand as % of Sectors Covered = 28.02%
Ave. R. of R.    Sector as
Investment     Financial     Weighted by       % of
Type of Institutional                                                                               Cost          Rate of       nv. Cost of     Potential
Strengthening Subproject                         Description                        Province      (USS'000)       Return         Sample        Demand'
Total     62.057.60                        72.29%        28.02%
1. Cadastre                Updating of provincial cadastre                     C6rdoba             25,726.90        106.00%
2. Cadastre                Assessment of urban and suburban cadastres          Entre Rios           12,539.70        61.00%
3. Cadastre                Reformulation of cadastre systems                   Santa Fe             23,791.00        41.80%
wj
a/       Based on a preliminary sample of subprojects to be financed under PDP-II accounting for US$144 million.
Sourcc: SAREP



-39-                                 Annex B
SPATIAL DISTRIBUTION OF POPULATION, POVERTY, AND
PRODUCT
Demographic Profile
1.            The 23 provinces and the Municipality of Buenos Aires (MCBA)
(hereafter, the provinces) participating in the project can be stratified in four
groups as defined by the Federal Investment Council (CFI)':
Advanced:             Buenos Aires, C6rdoba, Mendoza, Santa Fe, and the
Municipality of Buenos Aires.
Intermediate:         Entre Rios, Salta, San Juan, San Luis, and Tucuman.
Low Density:          Chubut, La Pampa, Neuquen, Rio Negro, and Santa
Cruz.
Underdeveloped:    Catamarca, Chaco, Corrientes, Formosa, Jujuy, La Rioja,
Misiones, and Santiago del Estero.
2.     These groups are defined in terms of population size, economic product,
and poverty levels as follows:
Advanced:             High population and per capita Gross Provincial Product
(GPP).
Intermediate:         Intermediate population and per capita GPP.
Low Density:          Small Population and high per capita GPP.  These are
provinces on the "Resource Frontier," such as Chubut,
and Neuquen.
Underdeveloped:2   Low per capita GPP and high poverty.
3.     Argentina is also one of the Latin American countries where the
population is more heavily concentrated. The five provinces in the Advanced
group comprise over 69% of the total population. Alternatively, the six
provinces in the Low-Density group comprise less than 6% of the total
population. This uneven population distribution is reflected in the high density
1      CFI (Consejo Federal de Inversiones) is a rather unique public institution that is
financed by a percentage of total provincial revenue sharing. Its Board of Governors
is comprised of all the Governors of all the provinces. Thus, it is national in scope,
but provincial in focus.
2      Note that the last category uses slightly different criteria than the others, in that it
includes all provinces with low per capita product and high relative poverty levels, even
those with populations of small and intermediate size. One manner of describing this
process of classification, then, is that the poorest provinces are first grouped into one
group, and the rest are, in turn, classified by population and per capita product. The
provinces of the Intermediate Group had populations ranging from 500,000 to 1.1
million in 1985 and per capita GPP in the middle third of the distribution.



- 40 -                         Annex B
disparities among provinces, ranging from 41 inhabitants per km2 in Buenos
Aires to 0.7 inhabitants per km2 in Santa Cruz (see Table 1).
Unsatisfied Basic Needs
4.    Although the percentage of households with unsatisfied basic needs tends
to be relatively higher in provinces with smaller populations and lower per
capita products, such as Formosa (31.8%) and Santiago del Estero (30.6%), the
concentration in absoiute terms is highest within jurisdictions in the Advanced
group. For example, of the 1.2 million households with unsatisfied basic needs
living in Argentina in 1991, nearly 57% lived in provinces in the Advanced
group, with over 35 % concentrated in Buenos Aires alone. Alternatively, less
than 23 % of all households with unsatisfied needs lived in provinces within the
Underdeveloped group.  Thus, efforts to redistribute resources among the
provinces through revenue sharing can run counter to the objectives of relative
equity and need distribution, since they tend to distribute away from areas where
the absolute concentrations of poor households are the highest (see Table 2).
Gross Provincial Product
5.    Gross Provincial Product (GPP) is highly concentrated in provinces in
the Advanced Group, which accounted for over 73% of total GPP in 1989.
Alternatively, all eight provinces of the Underdeveloped group accounted for
less than 9% of the total GPP. On the other hand, provinces in the Advanced
group have experienced the lowest growth rates in GPP over the 1970-89
period, while those with the fastest growth rates have been on the "resource
frontier," such as Neuquen, mostly due to the increase in gas and oil
production. Overall, stagnation set in for most provinces during the 1980s, with
Buenos Aires being the biggest loser, with the rate of growth in GPP dropping
to about 0.6% per year between 1970 and 1989 (see Table 3).
6.    In terms of per capita GPP, the Province of Buenos Aires ranks twelfth,
with a per capita GPP of US$1,607 in 1991, about half that of the Provinces of
Santa Cruz, Chubut or Neuquen. The two poorest provinces (Formosa and
Santiago del Estero) had a per capita GPP of less than US$800 (see Table 4).



- 41 -                                        Annex B
Table 1
Population, Density & Growth by Province
(1970-1991)
Population ('000)          Annual    j   % Total           Area         Density per
Provinces                  1970     I    1991         Growth Rate    Pop. (1991)       (sq. km.)    sq. km. (1991)
Total                         23,288         32,607           1.62%        100.00%       2,780,400             11.73
Advanced                      16,856         22,518           1.39%         69.06%         758,371            29.69
Buenos Aires                   8,775         12,582           1.73 %        38.59%         307,571            40.91
C6rdoba                        2,000          2,764           1.55 %         8.48%         168,768             16.38
MCBA                           2,972          2,961          -0.02%          9.08%             200         14,805.00
Mendoza                          973          1,414           1.80%          4.34%         148,827             9.50
Santa Fe                       2,136          2,797           1.29%          8.58%         133,007            21.03
Intermediate                   2,655          3,846           1.78%         11.80%         422,479             9.10
EntreRios                        812          1,023           1.11%          3.14%          78,781             12.99
Salta                            510            865           2.55%          2.65%         154,775             5.59
San Juan                         384            530           1.55%          1.63%          89,651             5.91
San Luis                         183            286           2.15%          0.88%          76,748             3.73
Tucuman                          766          1,142           1.92%          3.50%          22,524            50.70
Low Density                      864          1,742           3.40%          5.34%         930,731              1.87
Chubut                           190            357           3.05%           1.09%        224,686              1.59
La Pampa                         172            260           1.99%          0.80%         143,440              1.81
Neuquen                          155            389           4.48%           1.19%         94,078              4.13
Rio Negro                        263            507           3.17%           1.55%        203,013              2.50
Santa Cruz                        84            160           3.12%          0.49%         243,943              0.66
Tierra del Fuego                 S/D             69              S/D         0.21%          21,571              3.20
Underdeveloped                 2,913          4,501           2.09%          13.80%        668,819              6.73
Chaco                            172            838           7.83%          2.57%          99,633              8.41
Catamarca                        567            266           -3.54%         0.82%          100,967             2.63
Corrientes                       564            795            1.65%         2.44%          88,199              9.01
Formosa                          234            404           2.63%           1.24%         72,066              5.61
lujuy                            302            514           2.56%           1.58%          53,219             9.66
La Rioja                         136            221           2.34%          0.68%           89,680             2.46
Misiones                         443            790           2.79%           2.42%          29,801            26.51
Santiago del Estero              495            673            1.47%          2.06%         135,254             4.98
Source:           INDEC Census of Population 1970 and 1991.



- 42 -                                         Annex B
Table 2
Households with Unsatisfied Basic Needs (191)
I                  Households With Unsatisfied Basic Needs
Provinces                          Count          |       Relative % a/      I    Absolute % b/
Total                                    1,245,424                                          100.00%
Advanced                                   709,390                     11.34%                56.96%
Buenos Aires                               440,736                     12.93%                35.39%
C6rdoba                                     77,406                     10.50%                 6.22%
MCBA                                        56,034                      5.64%                 4.50%
Mendoza                                     45,655                     13.49%                 3.67%
Santa Ft                                    89,559                     11.52%                 7.19%
Intermediate                               177,445                     20.51%                14.25%
Entre Rios                                  35,977                     13.85%                 2.89%
Salta                                       57,987                     32.56%                 4.66%
San Juan                                    17,901                     15.56%                 1.44%
San Luis                                    12,144                     17.39%                 0.98%
Tucuman                                     53,436                     22.05%                 4.29%
Low Density                                 75,691                     16.87%                 6.08%
Chubut                                      16,606                     18.05%                  1.33%
La Pampa                                     6,989                      9.43%                 0.56%
Neuqutn                                     17,227                     18.48%                 1.38%
Rio Negro                                   24,325                     18.70%                  1.95%
Santa Cruz                                   5,827                     14.34%                 0.47%
Tierra del Fuego                             4,717                     25.26%                 0.38%
Underdeveloped                             282,898                     28.45%                22.71%
Chaco                                       58,219                     30.71%                 4.67%
Catamarca                                   13,258                     23.19%                  1.06%
Comentes                                    43,417                     24.25%                  3.49%
Formosa                                     28,225                     31.83%                 2.27%
Jujuy                                       33,978                     31.81%                  2.73%
La Rioja                                    10,757                     22.51%                 0.86%
Misiones                                    50,968                     28.07%                  4.09%
Santiago del Estero                         44,076                     30.69%                  3.54%
As % of total households in each province.
b/       As % of total households with unsatisfied basic needs in the country.
Source: INDEC Census of Population 1991.



- 43 -                                         Annex B
Table 3
Gross Provincial Product, 1970-1989
(US$ million, 1988)
I          Gross Provincial Product         I   % Distribution         Annual Growth
Provinces                        1970         I        19X9                  (1989)            Rate (1970-89)
Total                                   46,521                61,156               100.00%                 1.45%
Advanced                               38,390                 44,706                73.10%                 0.80%
Buenos Aires                            15,750                19,646                32.12%                 1.17%
C6rdoba                                  3,025                 4,546                 7.43%                 2.17%
MCBA                                    13,222                 14,693               24.03%                 0.56%
Mendoza                                  2,279                  N.A.                   N.A.                 N.A.
Santa Fe                                4,114                  5,821                 9.52%                 1.84%
Intermnediate                           3,404                  6,325                10.34%                 3.31%
Entre Rios                               1,183                 1,836                 3.00%                 2.34%
Salta                                     627                  1,046                  1.71 %               2.73 %
San Juan                                  389                    596                 0.97%                 2.27%
San Luis                                  238                  1,274                 2.08%                 9.23%
Tucuman                                   967                  1,573                 2.57%                 2.59%
Low Density                              2,098                 4,792                 7.84%                 4.44%
Chubut                                    560                  1,119                  1.83%                3.71%
La Pampa                                  370                    573                 0.94%                 2.33%
Neuquen                                   331                  1,449                 2.37%                 8.08%
Rio Negro                                 562                  1,088                  1.78%                3.54%
Santa Cruz                                275                    563                 0.92%                 3.84%
Tierra del Fuego                          N.A.                  N.A.                   N.A.                  N.A.
Underdeveloped                           2,629                 5,333                  8.72%                3.79%
Chaco                                      130                   260                  0.43%                 3.72%
Catamarca                                 466                  1,173                  1.92%                4.98%
Corrientes                                 638                  1,234                 2.02%                 3.53%
Formosa                                    196                   299                  0.49%                2.25%
Jujuy                                      355                   715                  1.17%                 3.75%
La Rioja                                   104                   352                  0.58%                 6.63%
Misiones                                   336                   803                  1.31%                 4.69%
Santiago del Estero                       404                    497                  0.81%                 1.10%
Source: SAREP.



- 44 -                                         Annex B
Table 4
Gross Provincial Product Per Capita
(US$, 1988)
GPP Per Capita           I   Annual Growth Rate
Provinces                      1970       I      1991       |        1970-1991
Total                                1,992             1,966                    -0.06%
Advanced                             2,270             2,235                    -0.07%
Buenos Aires                         1,795             1,607                    -0.53%
C6rdoba                              1,468             1,685                    -0.66%
MCBA                                 4,448             4,973                    0.53%
Mendoza                              2,343             N.A.                       N.A.
Santa Fe                             1,927             2,130                    0.48%
Intermediate                         1,282             1,706                    1.37%
Entre Rios                           1.458             1,833                     1.10%
Salta                                1.230             1,264                    0.13%
SanJuan                              1,011             1,148                    0.61%
San Luis                             1,298             4,670                    6.29%
Tucuman                              1,263             1,420                    0.56%
Low Density                          2,429             1,514                    -2.28%
Chubut                               2,948             3,314                     0.56%
La Pampa                             2,151             2,302                     0.32%
Neuquen                              2,139              N.A.                      N.A.
Rio Negro                            2,139              N.A.                      N.A.
Santa Cruz                           3,258             3,756                     0.68%
Tierra del Fuego
Underdeveloped                         902             1,005                    0.52%
Catamarca                              752              N.A.                      N.A.
Chaco                                  823              1,401                    2.56%
Corrientes                           1,130              1,605                    1.69%
Formosa                                839               778                    -0.36%
Jujuy                                1,175              1,453                    1.02%
La Rioja                               760              1,664                    3.80%
Misiones                               759              1,074                    1.67%
Santiago del Estero                    815               757                    -0.35%



- 45 -                      Annex C
PROVINCIAL FINANCIAL INDICATORS
1.    Table 1 shows Total Current Revenue, Total Current Expenditures, and
Current Account Surplus for all provinces for 1991, 1992 and 1993. While 11
provinces held a Current Account Surplus in 1991, only eight did in 1993. All
but one province in the Advanced Group had a current account surplus in 1993,
while none of the provinces in the Underdeveloped group did.
2.    Based on 1993 provincial executed budgets of all the provinces, the
following indicators were estimated for each province:
(a)   Current Account Equilibrium: Estimated as Current Revenues
(excluding discretionary transfers)/Current Expenditures. Table
2 shows the percentage of provinces that fall within each range.
Overall, current revenues exceed current expenditures in over
one-third of all 24 provinces. However, current expenditures
exceed current revenues in the remaining 67% of the provinces
by up to 47%. By this criteria, only 33 % of provinces would be
eligible for investments in new physical works under the project.
(b)   Debt Service  (Interest +  Amortization)/Current Revenues
(excluding discretionary transfers): This indicator shows that
current debt service does not represent a significant burden for
the majority of provinces. Only 25% of all provinces pay more
than 15% of their current revenues to service current debts.
Thus, 75% of provinces would have sufficient debt capacity to
participate in the project using this indicator.
3.    Based on the same provincial financial data described above, the
following indicators were estimated for each province:
(a)   Automatic Revenue-Sharing Transfers (coparticipaci6n)lCurrent
Revenues (excluding discretionary transfers):  This indicator
reflects the proportion of provincial revenues that are relatively
predictable for being automatically transferred to the provinces
based on percentages established by the national coparticipaci6n
law.  Overall, Table 3 shows the that provinces are heavily
dependent on their coparticipaci6n transfers, with over 83% of
provinces receiving over 40% from these sources.
(b)   Discretionary Transfers (both grants and loans)/Total Revenues
(excluding discretionary transfers): Alternatively, this indicator
reflects the dependency of individual provinces on discretionary



- 46 -                      Annex C
funds, which are unpredictable in amount and timing. These
transfers represent less than 10% of current revenues for 25 % of
all provinces; other provinces, such as La Rioja, have a
pervasive dependence on this type of source--up to 58% of
current resources are discretionary transfers.
Financial Capacity of the Provinces
4.    Data on the financial capacity of the provinces suggest that provincial
counterpart funding does not present a large risk for project implementation.
In 1993, one-third of all provinces reported current account surpluses, excluding
discretionary grants, for a total of US$578.2 million (see Table 1). Although,
of course, not all of this amount should be considered as available for meeting
the provincial counterpart requirement (US$96 million), it provides an indicator
of the provinces' capacity to invest and to service debt. The sum of the real
investments (works and goods) in the provinces with current account surpluses
was US$1,215 million in 1993, up from US$485 million in the provinces with
current account surplus  in  1989.   Considering  a  six-year program
implementation period, the proposed project's financing for real investments
(US$229.5 million would represent the project's financing for about 3% of the
total real investment program, assuming that only a third of all provinces were
eligible for investment financing, and no improvement in current account
surpluses. Table 5 shows the capital expenditures of the provinces from 1983
to 1993.



Table 1
Provincial Public Accounts (1991-1993)
(in '000, Nominal Pesos)
1991                              1992                              1993
Total      Total     Current      Total      Total      Current     Total       Total     Current
Current    Current    Account     Current    Current     Account    Current     Current    Account
Provinces            Revenue   Expenditures  Surplus '    Revenue   Expenditures  Surplusi| Revenue   Expenditures  Surplus '
total               13Y,476-,81   14,058,416  -5819,605 -20,396,899  19,973,58;2    423,372,697  23,654,393 -8,9
Advanced             7,712,503   8,097,826    -385,323  12,185,992  11,627,806    558,185  13,956,052  13,792,336    163,716
Buenos Aires         3,405,343   3,815,785    -410,442   5,841,074   5,248,233  592,841   6,521,369   6,270,946    250,423
C6rdoba              1,063,482   1,153,550    -90,068   1,645,953   1,643,667     2,286   1,849,451   2,108,514   -259,063
MCBA                 1,459,974   1,448,607     11,367   2,104,189   2,357,942    -253,754   2,692,136   2,581,534    110,602
Mendoza                574,721    512,834      61,887    840,481     784,985     55,496     964,337    953,365     10,972
Santa F6             1,208,983   1,167,049     41,934   1,754,295   1,592,979   161,317   1,928,759   1.877,977    50,782
Intermediate         1,895,323   1,921,438    -26,115   2,693,967   2,689,467     4,500   2,961,132   3,028,969    -67,837
Entre Rios             496,630    515,062     -18,432    733,910    762,233      -28,322    821,509    839,433    -17,924
Salta                  420,817    486,331     -65,514    581,227     634,378     -53,150    634,910    703,542    -68,632
San Juan               298,525    317,288     -18,764    424,327     426,892     -2,565     460,527    543,199    -82,672
San Luis               209,827     151,688     58,139    300,027     234,620     65,407     333,861    259,877     73,984
TucumAn                469,524    451,068      18,456    654,476     631,345     23,130     710,325    682,918     27,407
Low Density          1,491,800   1,519,360    -27,560   2,191,953   2,147,357    44,595   2,369,175   2,731,132   -361,957
Chubut                 225,778    249,442     -23,664    324,305     360,122     -35,817    349,403    448,022    -98,619
La Pampa               231,553    186,449      45,104    322,399     282,506     39,893     367,283    344,615     22,668
Neuqu6n                409,690    384,455      25,235    590,374     554,806     35,568     604,246    707,671   -103,425
Rio Negro              307,844    316,255      -8,411    448,231     459,485     -11,254    499,237    668,429   -169,192
Santa Cruz             220,772    244,451     -23,679    321,802     283,438     38,364     357,901    326,602     31,299
Tierra del Fuego        96,163     138,307    -42,145     184,841    207,001     -22,160    191,105    235,793    -44,688
Underveloped         2,377,185   2,519,791    -142,606   3,324,988   3,508,951    -183,964   3,579,638   4,101,956   -522,318
Chaco                  417,315    402,553      14,762    566,647     591,942     -25,296    590,972    648,742    -57,770
Catamarca              231,373    245,866     -14,493    308,821     322,406     -13,585    333,207    405,693    -72,486
Corrientes             326,457    321,395       5,063    455,773     493,035     -37,262    491.197    533,611    -42,414
Formosa                295,793    371,414    -75,622    400,070    422,586    -22,516    423,356    492.717    -69,361
Jujuy                  291.651    309,230     -17,580    415,802    369,376      46,426    452,471     464,947    -12,476
La Rioja               186,368    280,269    -93,901     252,520     379,876    -127,356    293,294    432,182   -138,888
Misiones               295,304    272,402      22.902    443,180    443,181          -2    478,041     544,064    -66.023
Santiago del Estero    332,924    316,662      16,262    482,175     486,549      -4,374    517,100    580,000    -62,900
Current Account Surplus is calculated as Total Current Revenues (excluding Discretionary Grants) Minus Total Current Expenditures



- 48 -                           Annex C
Table 2: Financial Indicators for Provinces (1993)
Financial Indicators                             |Percentage of
|                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Provinces ^
Current Account Equilibrium                                    100.0
(Current Revenues b`/Current Expenditures)
-80%                                                   12.5
80%-90%                                                33.3
90%-95%                                                12.5
95%-100%                                                8.3
100%-110%                                              25.0
+110%                                                   8.3
Debt Service c" / Current Revenues b/                         100.0
0-5%                                                   45.8
5%-10%                                                 25.0
10%-15%                                                4.2
15%-20%                                                12.5
+20%                                                   12.5
a/     Based on financial data from 1993 executed provincial budgets for all 24 provinces.
b/     Excludes discretionarv transfers.
c      Includes amortization.



- 49 -                           Annex C
Table 3: Percentage of Provinces By National Automatic Revenue
Sharing and Discretionary Transfers as a Proportion of Current
Revenues (1993)
Financial Indicators                                       Percentage of
Provinces a
Automatic Revenue Sharing/Current Revenues b!                  100.0
0-20%                                                   4.2
20%-40%                                                 12.5
40%-60%                                                 33.3
60%-80%                                                 45.8
+80%                                                    4.2
Discretionary Transfers/Current Revenues"b                     100.0
0-5%                                                    12.5
5%-10%                                                  12.5
10%-20%                                                 70.8
20%-40%                                                 0.0
40%-60%                                                 4.2
Based on financial data from 1993 executed provincial budgets for all 24 provinces.
b'     Excludes discretionary transfers.



- 50 -                                      Annex C
Table 4
Revenues, Expenditures, and Financing
(US$ '000, 1993)
Total                  Buenos
Total      (excluding    MCBA         Aires    Catamarca
MCBA)
i - Total Current Revenues                            22.6Y         20,173,     2     3     6-5             3
From Provincial Jurisdiction                    10,100,606     7,579,266  2,521,340   3.451,000      25,342
Tributaries                                     8.734,389     6,393,859  2.340,530   3,149,000      23,027
Non-Tributaries                                 1.366,218     1,185,408    180,810    302.000       2,315
From National Jurisdiction                      12,765,389    12,594,594    170,796   3,070,369     307,865
Federal Co-participation                       10,235,506    10,090.506    145,000   2,381,215    260.545
Net Co-participation                          8,293,731     8,148,731    145,000   1,781,037    223,387
Services Transfer Affectation                 1,281.099     1.281,099         0     453,900       20,500
Security Clause (Ley 24310)                    660,676       660,676          0      146,278      16,658
Royalties                                        571,457       571,457          0           0           0
Others                                          1,958,425     1.932,630    25,796     689,154      47,320
i - Total Current Expenditures                        23,654,39     21,072,862   2,581,53   6,270,946     405,693
Personnel                                       14,132,960     12.523,390  1,609,57    3,351.800    244.628
Non-Personnel Goods and Services                 2,702,584     2,191.314    511,270    665,000       16.170
Debt Services                                     409,971        390.591     19,380     190,000       1,739
Transfers:                                       6,408,881     5,967.567    441.314   2,064.146     143,156
to Municipalities                               2,914,836     2,914,836         0     924,500      57.110
to Provincial Public Enterprises                 132,687        122,176     10,511      9,500       34,021
Social Security Entities                        1.132,141       966,316    165.825    380.146      41,635
Private Education                                570,607       404,647    165,960     158,000           0
Others                                          1,658,611     1,559,593    99.018     592,000       10,390
iii - Capital Revenues                                 2.454,533     2,452,603      1,930       8,400          88
iv - Remaining from Previous Fiscal Years                316,749       316,749         0      100,000          0
* - Grants                                             1,576,921     1,566,780     10,141     119,009      33,112
Non-ReimbursableGrants                             727,642       727,642         0       11,689      13,106
A.T.N.                                           289,283        289,283         0       4,199       2.558
F.E.D.E.1.                                       100,967        100,967         0       3,521       5,826
F.D. R.                                           90,890        90,890          0       3.969       2,320
Others                                           246,502        246,502         0           0        2,402
Reimbursable Grants                                849,279       839,138     10,141     107,320      20.006
FO.NA. Vl.                                        817,035       806,894     10,141     107,320      20,000
Tax Advance                                          347           347          0           0           6
Others                                            31,897         31.897         0           0           0
vi - Capital Expenditures                              3,537,155     3,307,125    230,031     650,000      39,609
Real Investment                                  2.654,623     2,425,272    229,351     443.000      39.579
Capital Goods                                     156,629       128,429     28,200      38,000       6,006
Public Works                                    2.497,994     2,296,843    201,151    405,000       33,573
Pre-existent Goods                                  25,567        25,567          0       3,000           5
Financing Investment                               856.965       856.285        680     204,000          25
vii - Total Revenues and Grants (i +II+iv+v)          27,214,197     24,509,991  2,704,207    6,748,77    366,407
viii - Total Expenditures (ii + vi)                   27,191,551     24,379,987  2,811,564   6,920,946    445,302
ix - Need for Financing(viii - vii)                     (22,646)      (130.004)    107,358    172,169      78,895
x- Net Financing (xi - xii)                              (19,063)     (110.353)    91,290           0      28,043
xi - Financing                                           997,850       873,910    123,940           0      28,077
Loan Allocation                                    997,850       873,910    123,940          0       28,077
xii - Debt Payment                                     1,016,913       984,263     32,650           0          34
xiii - Net Variation in Short Term Assets                  3,583        19,651    (16,068)   (172,169)     (50,852)
and Liabilities (x-ix)
xiv - Current Accounting Surplus Excl. Grants (i-ii)   (788,401)      (899,003)    110,602    250,422      (72,486)
xv - Current Accounting Surplus Incl. Grants (i+v-ii)  1,105,268       984,526    120,743     469,431      (39,374)



- 51 -                                 Annex C
Table 4 (con't.)
Revenues, Expenditures, and Financing
(US$ '000, 1993)
Entre
C6rdoba  Corrientes  Chaco   Chubut    Rios
li  Total Current Revenues                        1,8494I -47rM 1 97    0         349,403 821,5W
From Provincial Junsdiction                   871,204     79,574   79,646    67,660 255.075
Tributaries                                  750,702     70.055   70.636    49.283 204,663
Non-Tributaries                              120,502     9,519    9.010    18,377  50,412
From National Jurisdiction                    978,247    411,623  511,326   281,743 566,434
Federal Co-participation                     889,350    364,855  469.125   162,030 494,727
Net Co-participation                       720,148    301,493  404,595   128,265 396,003
Services Transfer Affectation              115,500     38,600   31,300    24.200  66,200
Security Clause (Ley 24310)                 53,701    24,762   33.230     9,565  32,524
Royalties                                         0      4,300        0    66,863   5,619
Others                                        88,898    42,468   42,201    52,851  66,089
ii - Total Current Expenditures                   2,108,514    533,611  648,742   448,022 839,433
Personnel                                    1,192,691    399.140  460,483   284,515 534,472
Non-Personnel Goods and Services              267,773     43,949   56.937    33,228  69,103
Debt Services                                  86,091     15,744      751    20,355   3,702
Transfers                                     561,959     74,778  130,572   109,924 232,156
to Municipalities                            295,920     37,688   86,177    59.391 100,561
to Provincial Public Enterpnses                2,666      3,935       0     6,139   6,858
Social Security EnEities                      81,341     13,280   15,253    15,365  45,834
Private Education                            134.505         0        0     4,597  21,142
Others                                        47,527     19,875   29,143    24,432  57,760
iii - Capital Revenues                              250,357      5,287  101,110   103,597  20.699
iv - Remaining from Previous Fiscal Years            25,259      1,060        0        0       0
v  -Grants                                           66,104     92,418   79,156    49,900  49,309
Non-Reimbursable Grants                        17,199     51,416   30,077    19,968  16,290
A.T.N.                                         8,489     44,526   10,793     1,601   9,508
F.E.D.E.I.                                     3,314      3,876    4,217     6,182   3.543
F. D. R.                                       1,030      1,030    4,951        0       0
Others                                         4,367      1,985   10,116    12,186   3,240
Reimbursable Grants                            48,905     41,002   49,080    29,932  33.019
FO.NA.V1.                                     42,905     41,002   43,117    29,932  31,336
Tax Advance                                       0          0      228         0      102
Others                                         6.000         0    5,735         0   1,581
vi - Capital Expenditures                           258,709     63,780   82,666    99,315  72,652
Real Investrnent                              205,853     63,712   80,965    99.315  68,850
Capital Goods                                 15,692      1,016       33     1,804   2,380
Public Works                                 190,161     62,696   80,932    97,512  66,470
Preexisting Goods                               4,777          0      205        0      107
Financing Investment                           48.079         68    1,496        0   3,694
vii - Total Revenues and Grants (i+ui+iv+v)       2,191,171    589,962  771,239   502,900 891,518
viii - Total Expenditures (u + vi)                 2,367,223    597,391  731,409   547,337 912,085
ix - Need for Financing (viu - vii)                 176,052      7,429  (39,830)   44,437  20,567
x  - Net Financing (xi - xii)                       235,581     16,492   28,382  (13,740) (16,064)
xi - Financing                                      319,423     55,655   52,400    22,963  28,670
Loan Allocation                               319,423     55,655   52,400    22,963  28,670
xii - Debt Amortization                              83,842     39,163   24,018    36,703  44,734
xiii - Net Variation in Short Term Assets            59,529      9,063   68,212  (58,178) (36,631)
and Liabilities (x-ix)
xiv - Current Account Surplus Excd. Grants (i-ii)  (259,063)   (42,414)  (57,770)  (98,619) (17,924)
xv - Current Account Surplus Incl. Grants (i+v-i)  (167,700)    51,064   21,387   (48,719)  3



- 52 -                                Annex C
Table 4 (cont.)
Revenues, Expenditures, and Financing
(US$ '000, 1993)
La       La
Formosa  Jujuy    Pampa    Rioja  Mendoza
i- otal Current Revenues                                 21    7,         79,24  964,33
From Provincial Jurisdiction             32,612  122,094   133,069   46,786  384,996
Tributaries                             26,970   50,375    87.918   24,052  350,363
Non-Tributaries                          5.642   71,719   45.151   22,734   34,634
From National Jurisdiction              390,744  330,377  234,214  246,508  579,341
Federal Co-participation               338,194  280.141   183,518  201,522  427.680
Net Co-participation                 295,246  230,416   152,309  167,930  338.203
Services Transfer Affectation         18,700   30,800    18,700   19,800   61,700
Security Clause (Ley 24310)           24,249   18,925    12,509   13,792   27,777
Royalties                                3,658     445    5,097         0   81,019
Others                                  48,892   49,791    45,598   44,986   70,641
ii - Total Current Expenditures               492,717  464,947   344,615  432,182  953,365
Personnel                               308,517  278,680   189,826  258,575  548,559
Non-Personnel Goods and Services         44,814   77,560   66,661   34,493  121.840
Interest                                 30,236       0       317      928    1,558
Transfers                               109,J49  108,707   87,811  138,186  281,409
to Municipalities                       70,319   56,465    53,415  104,842  168.054
to Provincial Public Enterprises            0        0         0   10,644       0
Social Security Entities                 2,086   11,287    7,762   12,040   63.972
Private Education                           0    3,009    9,313    2,740        0
Others                                  36,745   37,946    17,321    7,920   49,384
iii - Capital Revenues                        137,483   47,930   89,000    2,294   63,182
iv - Remaining from Previous Fiscal Years          0    3,259         0        0        0
v - Grants                                     56,670   71,346   36,282  171,242   49,229
Non-Reimbursable Grants                  19,023   43,711    19,622  157,395   14.440
A. T.N.                                  3,874    5,991    8,279   98,188    4,314
F.E.D. E.1.                              5,034    4,968    3,406    4,679    3,897
F.D.R.                                   8,570   26,725    7,937    1,511        0
Others                                   1,546    6,028        0   53,017    6,230
Reimbursable Grants                      37,647   27,634    16,660   13,847   34,788
FONAVI.                                35.843   25,409    16,660   13.835   30,510
Tax Advance                                 0        0         0       12        0
Others                                   1,804    2,226        0        0    4,278
vi - Capital Expenditures                     148,602  121,643   30,030   43,521  157,087
Real Investment                          87,067  101,203   30,030   41,341  109,210
Capital Goods                            2,671    1,051        0    1,053    4,530
Public Works                            84,396  100,152   30,030   40,288  104,681
Preexisting Goods                           572       10        0      806    9,432
Financing Investment                     60,963   20,430        0    1,373   38,445
vii - Total Revenues and Grants (i+iii+iv+v)  617,509  575,006  492,564  466,830 1,076,74
viii - Total Expenditures (ii + vi)           641,319  586,590   374,645  475,703 1,110,45
ix - Need for Financing (viii - vii)           23,810   11,584 (117,919)    8,873   33,704
x - Net Financing(xi - xii)                   (61,429)  (67,853)      0  (22,990)   31,265
xi - Financing                                 26,299        0        0        0   50,000
Loan Allocation                          26,299        0        0        0   50,000
xii - Debt Amortization                        87,728   67,853        0   22,990   18,735
xiii - Net Variation in Short Term Assets     (85,239  (79,437)  117,919  (31,863)  (2,439)
and Liabilities (x-ix)
xiv - Current Account Surplus Excl. Grants (i-u)    (69,361)  (12,476)   22,667 (138,889)   10,972
xv - Current Account Surplus Incl. Grants (i+v-ii)  (12,691)   62,129   58,949   32,354   60,20



- 53 -                                 Annex C
Table 4 (cont.)
Revenues, Expenditures, and Financing
(US$ '000, 1993)
Rio                San
Misiones Neuquen   Negro       Salta    Juan
i- 'lotal Current Revenues                     475,041  6 O427    49Y9,237  634,910 460,527
From Provincial Junsdiction               92,976   177,519   167,449   177,245   80,944
Tributaries                              78,093    94,362   121,708    87,878   64.543
Non-Tributanes                           14.883    83,157    45,741    89,367   16,401
From National Jurisdiction               385,065    426,72   331.788   457.665  379,583
Federal Co-participation                321,611   168,659   234,501   376,008  326,773
Net Co-participation                  267,908   140,762   204,641   310,866  274,156
Services Transfer Affectation          31,700    17,400    14,600    39,610   30.100
Security Clause (Ley 24310)            22,004    10,497    15,260    25,532   22,517
Royalties                                 6,816   210,24     44,401    15,817    1,600
Others                                   56,638    47,828    52.886    65,840   51,211
ii - Total Current Expenditures                544,065   707,671   668,429   703,542  543,199
Personnel                                355,751   460,049   392,185   460,113  345,541
Non-Personnel Goods and Services          82,857    88,421    117,673    80,080   52,617
Interest                                   4,121     8,769     7,497     6,886    5,906
Transfers                                101,336   150,432   151.074   156.463  139,135
to Municipalities                        45,141    95,668    97,053    58,381   61,917
to Provincial Public Enterprises             0         0       693         0   11,631
Social Security Entities                  2,456     1,130     2,999    67,518   35,890
Pnvate Education                          5.230    12,652     4,286    9,484   15,233
Others                                   48,509    40,983    46.043    21.079   14,464
iii - Capital Revenues                          87,965   805,251   513,655   119,927    3,856
iv - Remaining from Previous Fiscal Years        4,450     8,905    15,652     2,668    8,913
v  - Grants                                     80,290    60,880    74,554    80,402   46,996
Non-Reimbursable Grants                   40,366    23.808    37.838    41,292   17,133
A.T.N.                                    7.318    5,126      5,186    12,811    3,773
F.E.D.E.I.                                4,508    4,296      3,794     3,805    4,148
F. D. R.                                  6,064        0      3,969    22.815       0
Others                                   22,477    14,387    24,889     1,860    9,212
Reimbursable Grants                       39,924    37,072    36,717    39,111   29,863
FO.NA.VI.                                38,370    34,448     36,71    37,266   27,753
Tax Advance                                  0         0                   0        0
Others                                    1,554    2.624          0     1,845    2,111
vi - Capital Expenditures                      123,077   457,686   203,499    75,647   74,461
Real Investment                          111,999   143,604   110,112    75,608   55,936
Capital Goods                             4,866    13,465     4,784     1,543    3,190
Public Works                            107,133   130,13    105,328    74,065   52,746
Pre-existing Goods                         3,332        0          1        39    1,426
Financing Investment                       7,746   314,082    93,386         0   17,099
vii - Total Revenues and Grants (i+iii+iv+v)   650,746 1,479,281  1,103,098   837,907  520,293
viii - Total Expenditures (ii + vi)            667,142  1,165,35   871,928   779,189  617,660
ix - Need for Financing(viii - vii)             16,396 (313,923)  (231,170)  (58,718)  97,367
x  - Net Financing (xi - xii)                  (18,847)   30,183  (229,862)  (65,072)  15,996
xi - Financing                                   1,912    75,583     7,652    83,230   18,219
Loan Allocation                            1,912    75,583     7,652    83,230   18,219
xii - Debt Amortization                         20,759    45,400   237,514   148,301    2,223
xiii - Net Variation in Short Term Assets      (35,243)  344,106      1,308   (6,353) (81,371)
and Liabilities (x-ix)
xiv - Current Account Surplus Excl. Grants (i-ii)    (66,025) (103,426)  (169,192)  (68,632) (82,672)
xv - Current Account Surplus Incl. Grants (i+v-ii)    18,716  (33,642)  (78,986)   14,431 (26,762)



- 54 -                                Annex C
Table 4 (con't.)
Revenues, Expenditures, and Financing
(US$ '000, 1993)
*San    anta  Santa  Santiago del             Tierra del
Luis    Cruz       Fe       Estero   Tucuman   Fuego
i- Total Current Revenues                       ,S61  357,901 1     7        17,100  710,325   191,10!
From Provincial Jurisdiction             67,550   72,248   922,891     60,270   168,077    43.039
Tributaries                             65,700   43,749   749,824     47,370   140,548    43,039
Non-Tributaries                          1,850   28.499   173,067     12,900    27,529        0
From National Jurisdiction              266,311  285,653 1,005,868    456,830   542,248   148,066
Federal Co-participation               219,217  146,330   908,654    394,200   470,041    71,612
Net Co-participation                 185,114  128,265   724,834    335,080   385,851    52,224
Services Transfer Affectation         18,900    8,500   124,289     31,600    52,500    12,000
Security Clause (Ley 24310)           15,204    9,565    59,532     27.521    31,690     7,387
Royalties                                   0   89,527         0         900      900    34,256
Others                                  47,093   49,797    97,214     61,730    71,307    42,198
ii - Total Current Expenditures               259,877  326,602 1,877,977    580,000   682,918   235,793
Personnel                                193,260  207,258 1,091,315    389.900   439,888   136,246
Non-Personnel Goods and Services          17,750   21,084   153,270    23,200    45,149    11,685
Interest                                      0      125     1,119        100    4,645          1
Transfers                                48,867   98,135   632,273     166.800   193,236    87,862
to Municipalities                       24,550   47,567   228,503     78,000   107,625    55,989
to Provincial Public Enterprises            0   14,332         0           0     5.067    16,689
Social Security Entities                 2,827   15,868   20,587      75,600    51,319      122
Private Education                        6,400    9,019        0           0     9,036        0
Others                                  15,090   11,350   383,183     13,200   20,189    15,062
iii - Capital Revenues                         18,670   33,668    18,530      3,000     4,283    14,371
iv - Remaining from Previous Fiscal Years           0   94,804    51,645          0       133        0
v - Grants                                     38,543   55,579   95,027      54,361    75,937    30,434
Non-Reimbursable Grants                   7,358   29,752    51,272      18,101    37,937    8,848
A.T.N.                                   3,659    3,810    14,902      9,627    15,902     4,854
F.E.D.E.I.                               3,699    7,291     3,655      4,874     4,441     3.994
F.D.R.                                       0        0        0           0        0         0
Others                                       0   18,651    32,715      3,600    17,594        0
Reimbursable Grants                       31,185   25,827    43,755     36,260    38,000    21,585
FO.NA.VI.                               30,815   24,174    43,639     36,260    38,000    21,585
Tax Advance                                  0        0        0           0         0        0
Others                                     370    1,653       116          0        0         0
vi - Capital Expenditures                     119,665  102,616  134,052      76,130    92,738    79,941
Real Investment                          119,665   82,897   110,542     74,700    90,312    79,774
Capital Goods                            5,780    6,658     7,720        100    2,577      3,512
Public Works                           113,885   76,239   102.822     74,600    87,735    76,262
Pre-existing Goods                            0        0     1,092          0       763         0
Financing Investment                          0   19,719   22,418        1,430     1,663      167
vii - Total Revenues and Grants (i+iii+iv+v)  391,073  541,952 2,093,961     574,461   790,678   235,910
viii - Total Expenditures (ii + vi)           379,542  429,218 2,012,029     656,130   775,655   315,734
ix - Need for Financing(viui - vii)           (11,531) (112,734)  (81,932)    81,669  (15,023)   79,824
x - Net Financing(xi - xii)                         0  (57,503)    4,269      81,100  (28,161)    (142)
xi - Financing                                      0        0     8,192      94,700      936        0
Loan Allocation                               0        0     8,192      94,700      936         0
xii - Debt Amortization                             0   57,503     3,923      13,600    29,097      142
xiii - Net Variation in Short Term Assets       11,531   55,231    86,201      (569)  (13,138)  (79,967)
and Liabilities (x-ix)
xiv - Current Account Surplus Excl. Grants (i-ii)  73,983   31,299    50,782  (62,900)   27,408   (44,688)
xv - Current Account Surplus nl. Grants (i+v-ii)  112,526  181,682   197,454  8,539)  103,477    14,254



Table 5
Capital Expenditures
(US$ million, 1993)
Province             |  1983  |  1984  |  1985   |  1986  |  1987            1988      1989      1990       1991      1992  |  1993
Buenos Aires              556.3     553.9      393.2     534.9     663.7      549.7     306.7     249.9      285.0     425.9    650.0
Catamarca                  44.1      37.3       36.4      43.2      54.6       30.7      22.0      38.0       20.6      58.9     39.6
C6rdoba                   148.8     182.8      198.2     250.1     254.7      238.5     118.3      87.6      108.6     210.1    258.7
Corrientes                135.9     183.5      95.5      126.2     132.1       79.7     115.1      91.6      110.4      55.8     63.8
Chaco                     107.6     107.2      114.0     136.5     180.0      111.7      89.7      88.7      101.1      86.5     82.7
Chubut                    110.2      73.9      84.1      118.3     120.1      101.7      90.2      68.8       48.3      53.7     99.3
Entre Rios                113.9     159.0      100.9     165.1     226.0      182.8      57.9      54.3       55.5      80.0     72.7
Formosa                   164.8     149.2      73.7      120.4     144.7      103.8      79.4      75.8       55.0      92.9    148.6
Jujuy                      63.4      97.0      91.9       85.7     101.2       81.0      52.4      42.4      143.4      72.8    121.6
La Pampa                  104.4      73.7      110.4     116.3      90.2      79.9       50.8      51.7       62.6      66.1     30.0
La Rioja                   58.7      43.7      74.5      116.4      80.5      54.1       78.1      35.9       64.8      46.6     43.5
MCBA                      245.0     263.5      80.8      158.6     180.3      184.9     181.9     132.4      N A.      306.4    230 0
Mendoza                   103.9      80.8      115.0     146.9     200.1      213.4      74.5      49.5       60.8      80.2    157.1
Misiones                  114.8     151.7      97.4      124.2     137.9       87.2      44.6      73.4       95 5     107.7    123 1
Neuquen                   185.1     217.2      181.7     320.0     284.4      221.4     176.4     190.1      128.7     1158     457.7
Rio Negro                 126.9     105.5     102.5      153.0     176.5      147.1      95.7     143.9       72.4      87 5    203.5
Salta                      87.5      88.3      122.3     198.5     216.4      104.6      64.5      39.9       66.2      58.4     75.6
San Juan                  120.8     150.1      96.6      131.0     147.9      109.0      56.2      57.9       63 4      44 6      74.5
San Luis                   37.2      68.2      53.3       59.5      75.3       65.8      56.6      76.6       76.6      40.9    119.7
Santa Cruz                146.0     115.5      106.6     121.5     145.8       96.8      50.8      58.8       79.6      68.6    102.6
SantaFe                   147.3     143.1      146.3     226.8     341.0      220.5     145.7      107.9     117.3      932      134.1
Santiago del Estero        86.8      77.8      87.0      104.2     163.2      114.8      79.2      60.1       90.7      75.6     76.1
Tierra del Fuego           81.6      86.7      79.6      111.0     130.3       66.4      27.0      32.3       21.0      302       79.9
Tucuman                    66.7      59.3      66.7       83.2      95.7       83.4      77.7      77.7       56.5     II) 7      92,
Total                   3,157.7   3,268.9   2,708.6   3,751.5   4,342.6   3,328.9   2,191.4   1,985.2   1,984.0   2,460.1   3,537.2



- 56 -                          Annex D
INITIAL ALLOCATION AND COMMITMENT FEES BY PROVINCE
Initial Allocations
1.    Fifty-six percent of the loan proceeds would be allocated initially to
participating provinces for one year and the remaining 44% would be placed in
a "pool" of resources. The resource pool would be available on a first-come,
first-served basis, to any province that had committed all of its initial allocation
to approved subprojects. The reason for having an initial allocation is to allow
all provinces a fair chance to use loan proceeds. If there were no initial
allocations, the more efficient provinces might use all of the resources before
the less efficient ones could act. Less efficient provinces might not even try to
compete.
2.    After the one-year period, all the initially allocated resources not
committed to approved subprojects would go to the pool and were allocated on
a first-come-first-served basis. The pool would then reward the provinces that
are more efficient in subproject execution, introducing an element of
competition into the allocation of resources among provinces. Provinces have
to use their initial allocations of loan proceeds by the end of the one-year period
or compete with other provinces for them once they become part of the pool.
3.    The initially assigned amount (US$125 million) is allocated among the
participating provinces based on the secondary distribution coefficients used in
national/provincial coparticipaci6n,' as shown in Table 1. These coefficients
are strongly redistributive, favoring the poorer and less populated provinces at
the expense of the more developed and heavily populated ones. Provinces in the
Advanced group receive a per capita initial allocation (US$3.05), which is only
half of that received by provinces in the Underdeveloped group (US$6.20).
Commitment Fees
4.    Provinces are expected to pay a 0.25% commitment fee for those funds
that are initially allocated and have not yet been disbursed (although the
contractual amount will be 0.75%). Table 1 shows what provinces would pay
in commitment fees based on the initial loan allocation and assuming that no
disbursements were made after one year. Initially allocated funds not used by
a province would be transferred to the general pool after one year. The
1     The coefficients are estimated based on National Revenue Sharing Distribution (Law
23548).



- 57 -                          Annex D
province that subsequently uses these funds will be respofisible for past
commitment fees. All provinces would pay commitment fees on the resources
in the "pool" in accord with the same criteria used in the initial allocation, with
compensation by those provinces which actually use the resources.



- 58 -                                       Annex D
Table 1
Initial Assignment and Commitment Fees
(US$, 1994)
IBRD Loan = $225,000,000
Initia] Assignment = $125,000,000 al
Commitment Fee = 0.25%
Copariicipacion      Initial      Commitment         Initial
Distribution bI   Assigmnent         Fees         Assignment
Provinces                                                                         Per Capita
Total                                  100.00%      125,000,000         312,500            3.83
Advanced                               43.79%        68,790,000         171,975            3.05
MCBA "                                   1.95%       26,950,000          67,375            9.10
Buenos Aires                            19.50%       19,500,000          48,750            1.55
C6rdoba                                 9.02 %        9,020,000          22.550            3.26
Mendoza                                 4.24%         4,240,000          10.600            3.00
Santa Fe                                9.08%         9,080.000          22,700            3.25
Intermediate                           19.43%        19,430,000          48,575            5.05
Entre Rios                              4.96%         4,960,000          12,400            4.85
Salta                                    3.89%        3,890,000           9,725            4.50
San Juan                                 3.43%        3,430,000           8,575            6.47
San Luis                                 2.32%        2,320,000           5,800            8.11
Tucuman                                  4.83%        4,830,000          12,075            4.23
Low Density                              8.88%        8,880,000          22,200            5.10
Chubut                                   1.35%        1,350,000           3,375            3.78
La Pampa                                 1.91%        1,910,000           4,775            7.35
Neuquen                                  1.51%        1,510,000           3,775            3.88
Rio Negro                                2.56%        2,560.000           6,400            5.05
Santa Cruz                               1.35%        1,350,000           3,375            8.44
Tierra dei Fuego                         0.20%          200,000             500            2.90
Underdeveloped                          27.90%       27,900,000          69,750            6.20
Chaco                                    5.07%        5,070,000          12.675            6.05
Catamarca                                2.80%        2,800,000           7,000           10.53
Corrientes                               3.78%        3,780,000           9,450            4.75
Forrnosa                                 3.70%        3.700.000           9,250            9.16
Jujuy                                    2.89%        2,890,000           7,225            5.62
La Rioja                                 2.10%        2,100,000           5,250            9.50
Misiones                                 3.36%        3,360,000           8,400            4.25
Santiago del Estero                      4.20%        4,200,000           10,500           6.24
a        US$100,000 million are assigned based on coparticipation coefficients.
b!       Based on National Revenue Sharing Distribution (Law 23548).
"l       Initial assignment for the Municipality of Buenos Aires includes US$25 million for flood
protection subproject.



- 59 -                         Annex E
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
1.    The economic evaluation of the program was carried out based on the
rate of return of five physical investment subprojects approved under PDP-I
which represents over 38% of the total potential demand.'
2.    The rates of return for these five subprojects are based on at least two
alternative methods for the evaluation of benefits. In the case of roads, the
benefits that were taken into account included savings in travel times, costs of
vehicle operation, and road maintenance. In the case of rehabilitation of health
care facilities, the benefits included savings in travel costs and waiting times for
potential patients, as well as other savings from overcrowding in other facilities
to be relieved by the subproject.
3.    The overall weighted internal economic rate of return (IERR) shown in
Table 1 (20.1%) was estimated in three stages as follows:
(a)    IERR by subproject: Estimated as described above.
(b)    Weighted EERR by subprojects in the subsector: For each of
the two subsectors represented in the sample (i.e., provincial
roads and rehabilitation of health care facilities), the average
IERR was estimated by weighting the average IERR of each
subproject by its cost relative to the total cost of all subprojects
in the subsector. In particular,
IERP,(,) = E ierr(i) * C(j) / C(s,
where IERRs,) is the weighted rate of return for each subsector in
the sample, ierr(i) is the subproject rate of return, c(;) is the cost
of the subproject, and C(S,) is the sum of the costs of all
subprojects in the subsector, namely, C(s) = s c(;).
(c)    Overall IERR weighted by subsectors in the project: Estimated
by weighing the average IERR of each subsector in the sample
by the cost of the subsector in the project relative to the total cost
of the project. In particular,
1     The potential demand in each sector was estimated based on a preliminary sample of
18 subprojects to be financed under PDP-11 which accounted for US$144 million.



- 60 -                          Annex E
IERR(p) = E ierr(,) * c(s) / C(p)
where IERR(p) is the weighted rate of return for the overall
project, ierr(S) is the subsector rate of return based on the sample
of subprojects, c(s) is the cost of the subsector in the project, and
C(p) is the total cost of the project.



- 61 -                                    Annex E
Table 1
Economic Rates of Return
for Sample of Physical Investment Subprojects
Average Rate of Return Weighted by Investrnent Cost =  20.10%
Estimated Demand as % of Sectors Covered = 38.06%
Ave. R. of R.  Sector as
Type of Physical                                                      Investment Economic  Weighted by        % of
Investment                                                               Cost      Rate of  Inv. Cost of    Potential
Subproject                      Description               Province    (USS'000)  Return         Sample      Demand a/
Total  50,159.20                  20.10%      38.06%
1. Roads             Repaving of provincial route       Chaco           19,884.60   16.00%
2. Roads             Maintenance of provincial roads    La Pampa         3,652.00   28.89%
3. Roads             Repaving provincial road           Santa Fe         9,635.10   20.00%
Subtotal  33,171.70                  18.58%      25.20%
4. Health            Hospital rehabilitation            Mendoza         14,672.00   24.81%
5. Health            Hospital rehabilitation and        Neuquen          2,315.50   12.00%
maintenance
Subtotal  16,987.50                 23.06%       12.86%
Based on a preliminary sample of subprojects to be financed under PDP-11 accounting for US$144
million.
Source:  SAREP.



- 62 -                      Annex F
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE MAIN ELEMENTS OF THE
PROJECT OPERATIONS MANUAL
1.    The CEU has prepared a Project Operations Manual (POM) for the
provinces that contains sufficient detail to provide guidelines to all provinces on:
(a) the program's objectives, eligibility criteria and operational procedures; and
(b) the operational commitments necessary to implement all of the agreements
to be reached with the national government and the Bank. The POM's coverage
of the project's objectives, components, eligibility criteria and implementation
responsibilities would be the same as those detailed in the SAR. With the
exception of the above, the following are the main elements covered in this
manual.
Financial Action and Investment Plan
2.    The main objective of the FAIP is to show how provincial revenues will
be raised and expenditures controlled to attain a current account surplus to be
used for new investments (including costs of operation, maintenance, and debt
service). The first two parts of the FAIP deal with generating a current account
surplus, while the third part establishes the criteria for the sound investment of
this surplus.
3.    The FAIP would cover both centralized and decentralized administrations
of provinces and municipalities, as well as their public enterprises. Although
the entire subnational public sector would eventually be incorporated, initial
efforts should focus on the General Administration (Central Administration and
Consolidated Decentralized Entities) of the provincial governments.
Increasing Provincial Own-Source Revenues
4.    This section would cover general measures aimed at increasing the
efficiency in the collection of tax and non-tax revenues, such as improved
accounting controls and information systems, and computer systems and
software. Ways of improving human resources for revenue collection should
also be addressed, mainly through training programs and recruitment from other
provincial government departments. In some cases, it may be more efficient to
contract services from the private sector, such as in the case of collection of
delinquent accounts or for billing.



- 63 -                      Annex F
Controlling Expenditures and Increasing Efficiency
5.    The FAIP would show how public resources and to be allocated with
greater efficiency. Expenditures on personnel, goods and services, and transfers
should receive special attention due to their importance in provincial budgets.
Prioritization and Justification of Investment
6.    This section would provide all the elements necessary for program
appraisal. It is expected that the quality of provincial investment planning will
improve over time. Initially, simple investments, primarily for maintenance
operations and rehabilitation, are expected to be predominant. As provincial
capacity to plan and program investments is strengthened through technical
assistance financed under the program, the quality of investment prioritization
and justification within and between sectors should be emphasized and enhanced.
Baseline Projections and Subproject Impacts
7.    Finally, each FAIP would show baseline projections for revenues and
expenditures (i.e., projections without the proposed project) as well as
projections of the impact of the subproject on revenues (e.g., increased tax
operations).  For example, an irrigation subproject would increase future
production and, hence tax returns, but also requires expenditures for operation
and maintenance.
Debt Capacity
8.    The FAIP would demonstrate that the province has sufficient debt
capacity as defined by the program financial performance indicators (i.e.,
Current Account Funds minus Stock of Debt).
Appraisal Guidelines
9.    Table 1 presents a general summary of the elements required for
appraisal of each type of component, as well as those items that would be
eligible for Bank financing, including beneficiary participation and poverty
focus/targeting.
Technical Quality
10.   When examining a proposed civil works subproject, the PEU would
verify that acceptable engineering practices were used in subproject design. The
general design criteria must be in full conformity with Argentine technical
norms (normas tecnicas argentinas).



- 64 -                       Annex F
Economic Efficiency
11.   For smaller subprojects costing less than the limits proposed in Table 1,
it would be acceptable to use the least-cost solution, rather than performing a
complete cost-benefit analysis. The least-cost solution is the alternative that
attains the program's objective at the lowest cost. For example, for rural feeder
roads, a service level--expressed as the minimum number of days that a
region's farmers would have access to markets using the roads--would be set.
The alternative that meets that service level at the lowest cost, including
maintenance and operation, would be selected. The least-cost analysis also
would include estimates of effective demand (benefits), so that expenditure
alternatives within sectors may be ranked by priority. In preparing cost-benefit
analyses, the general Bank guidelines would be used, with specific guidelines
provided for sectors in which there are Bank operations with specific
methodologies approved (e.g., water and roads).
Financial Sustainability
12.   The PEU would demonstrate in its FAIP that it will be able to fully
operate and maintain the component.  Cost recovery through user fees,
betterment levies, and the like should be as complete as possible.
Institutional Capacity
13.   The PEU would demonstrate that it has sufficient capacity to implement
the program proposed in the FAIP (see para. 17, 19, Annex H).
Environmental Impact
14.   This should be based on the guidelines established by the Bank (para.
2.31). See the environmental analysis requirements for the different categories
of expenditures (i.e., maintenance, rehabilitation, etc.) in Table 1.
Legal Analysis
15.   Where pertinent, each province's FAIP must provide the legal analysis
and documents necessary for program implementation. This would be especially
important in the case of proposed completion of unfinished works.
Procurement Procedures
16.   The POM would include procurement procedures and standard bidding
documents fully consistent with Bank guidelines (see Section II, p. 20).



- 65 -                     Annex F
17.   Disbursement procedures, and accounting and auditing proeedures would
be similar to those detailed in the SAR. Subproject monitoring and performance
indicators are described in Annex G.



- 66 -                            Annex F
Table 1: Requirements for Appraisal of Provincial Investment and
Technical Assistance Proposals
Components       Potential Bank         Elements Required for Appraisal
Financing for: a!
Maintenance       Consultants        *Technical Quality
Equipment         *Economic Efficiency
Service Level Specification Least-Cost
Solution, with priorities ranked by expected
benefits
*Financial Sustainability
*Institutional Capacity
Rehabilitation    Consultants        *Same as above plus:
Works             *Envirorunental Impact
Completion of     Consultants        *Technical Quality
Unfinished,       Works
Civil Works and                      *Economic Efficiency b/
New Investments                          If cost US$2 million or more, Cost-Benefit
Analysis.
If cost less than US$2 million, same as
rehabilitation
*Financing Plan
Investment
Maintenance
*Institutional Capacity
*Environmental Impact
*Beneficiary participation
*Poverty Focus/Targeting
*Legal Analysis
Technical         Consultants        *Objectives
Assistance
and Training      Equipment          *Terms; of Reference
21      Expenditures for salaries, land, taxes, and duties are not eligible for Bank financing.
b/      For paved provincial roads, the limit for least-cost solutions would be US$3 million.



- 67 -                     Annex G
SUPERVISION PLAN
1.    Because of the broad range of potentially eligible subprojects to be
implemented in many jurisdictions, proper supervision of the proposed
agreements and conditions to be incorporated in the program's legal documents
will require carefully planned and executed procedures. In addition to the
supervision of procurement and audit procedures, key elements of program
implementation and supervision include subproject appraisal and approval,
disbursement procedures, and field supervision by Bank missions. These are
summarized below.
Subproject Appraisal and Approval
2.    The specific institutional development and  investment activities
(subprojects) to be financed under the loan would follow the procedures outlined
below:
(a)   Only subprojects included in an approved FAIP would be eligible
for financing.
(b)   Once the PEU and CEU have received all information for a
satisfactory appraisal (including technical, economic, financial,
and environmental aspects, as described in the POM) for a
specific subproject, the CEU would propose its approval to the
Bank. The informnation provided by the CEU to the Bank would
be determined by the type of subproject and its estimated cost.
(c)   As a general rule, such information will consist of a summary
description of the objectives and content of the subproject, the
expected benefits (including rate of return when required by the
POM) to be derived from it, the kind and amount of inputs to be
financed out of the subloan and with counterpart funds, the
procurement procedures to be applied, as specified in the POM,
proposed direct or indirect recovery of the costs of the
subproject, and such other additional information as the Bank
may reasonably request.
(d)   All FAIPs would be reviewed in detail by the CEU and by the
Bank prior to their approval by each institution. In the cases of
eligible subprojects, these would be reviewed ex-ante by each
institution on a sample basis, as summarized in Table 1. When
supervision requires prior review by the Bank, a full set of
documents, including all information required by the POM,
would be furnished to the Bank.



- 68 -                                      Annex G
(e)    In all cases the CEU would assign a code and number to each
subproject, which would be used in all correspondence and
procedures relating to such subproject.
Table 1: Summary Procedures for Prior Review of FAIPs and Subproject Appraisal
Component                               CEU Review                           Bank Review
FAIPs                                       All                                  All
Maintenance                  All subprojects costing more than    Review of 20% of subprojects
US$I million                        reviewed by CEU
20% sample of other subprojects
Rehabilitation               All subprojects costing more than    Review of 20% of subprojects
US$3 million                        reviewed by CEU
20% sample of other subprojects
Completion of Unfinished                    All                   Review of 50% of subprojects
Works                                                             reviewed by CEU
New Investments              All subprojects costing more than    Review of 30% of subprojects
US$3 million                        reviewed by CEU
30% sample of other subprojects
Institutional Development    All subprojects costing more than    Review of 20% of subprojects
USS3 million and/or at least 2      reviewed by CEU
subprojects in each province



- 69 -                     Annex G
Sunmary Disbursement Procedures
3.    Once the Bank has approved financing for a subproject, it will give
notice to the CEU through a telex, facsimile, or aide-memoire, indicating the
subproject's code and number and the amount eligible for financing under the
subloan for such subproject.
4.    The CEU would keep accurate records of the procurement procedures
followed and the amounts disbursed under each subproject. The procurement
procedures and disbursement requests would conform to the requirements set
forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement and the POM.
5.    Disbursements from  the Loan Account would be made only for
subprojects approved by the CEU and the Bank. The evidence to be furnished
to the Bank regarding each disbursement would be determined by the type and
amount of the expenditures. Shortly after negotiations, the Bank would send to
the CEU a letter describing such procedures, including the limits to and
requirements for Statement of Expenditures (SOEs), letters of credit, and direct
payments to foreign suppliers and contractors.
Bank Supervision
6.    In addition to desk reviews to be undertaken at Bank Headquarters and/or
at the Bank's Resident Mission, the Bank would field at least two supervision
missions per year. The objectives of these missions would be to:
(a)   Monitor compliance of the CEU with all agreed procedures; and
(b)   Visit about two provinces per mission to monitor the PEUs
compliance with all agreed procedures, as well as to analyze and
evaluate the implementation of a number of subprojects financed
under the loan.
7.    The Summary Supervision Plan is presented in Table 2.



- 70 -                           Annex G
Table 2: Supervision Plan a/
Dates           Participants                Main Objectives/Tasks
April 1995      Task Manger (Urban    Launch workshop and review of eligible
Specialist)           provinces and subproject "pipeline"
Operations Specialist
Disbursement Officer
Procurement Specialist
Sep/Oct 1995     Visit by CEU staff    Detailed review of start-up issues
Nov/Dec 1995    Task Manager           Review status of subproject implementation
Operations Specialist   pipeline, as well as implementation of
Procurement Specialist  procurement procedures, accounting
procedures, and Progress Reports
Mar/Apr 1996    Task Manager           Detailed review of program in a few
Operations Specialist   provinces.
Jul/Aug 1996     Visit by CEU staff    Review progress and issues to date; define
required actions
Sep/Oct 1996    Task Manager           Mid-Term Review
Others as required
Mar/Apr 1997    Task Manager           Supervision tasks as required
Others as required
Jul/Aug 1997     Visit by CEU staff    Detailed review of implementation
Sept/Oct 1997 b/ Task Manager          Supervision tasks as required
Others as required
al     This plan is based on a tentative presentation to the Board of Directors in March 1995.
b/     Additional missions would follow the same pattern until six months before project
completion, at which time an Implementation Completion Report mission would be
undertaken.
Performance and Monitoring Indicators
8.     Throughout project implementation, indicators will be used: (a) to
monitor on-going project activities (for Bank reporting purposes), and (b) to
evaluate performance of all provinces, tracking progress towards project
objectives (incorporating cross-province comparisons). Both types of indicators
will be incorporated in the semestral progress report from the CEU to the Bank:
(a)    Monitoring.  Project monitoring indicators (see Table 3A) will
allow tracking of project progress in each province.



- 71 -                         Annex G
(b)    Performance indicators. Use of standard performance indicators,
in addition to facilitating assessment of the project impact, will
improve information accessibility and flow to policy-makers at
both  the  national and  provincial levels.    Collection  of
performance indicators is thus integral to the institutional
development aspects of the project. Based on experiences in the
first Provincial Development Project, the monitoring indicators
have been refined to differentiate between actively and nominally
participating projects.
9.    Table 3B reflects performance indicators that will be used for this
purpose.  Indicator definitions and reporting formats will be discussed at
negotiations. Information noted in Table 3B will be collected for each province.
Data will be ranked by an indicator of participation (e.g., project participation
indicators from Table 3A).



- 72 -                            Annex G
Table 3A: Project Monitoring Indicators
Indicators                                        Previous       Current        % Change
Value          Value
l __________________________________________________  (date)        (date)
I. Project Participation
1.   Provinces with signed loan agreements
2.   Provinces with contracted sub-projects
n1. Implementation Progress (by Province)
1.  Planning
Subprojects in FAIPs
a) Number
b) Total cost in US$
Subprojects contracted
c)  Number
d) Total cost in US$
2.  Disbursement
Subprojects disbursing
a)  Number
b) Total amount disbursed in US$
Subprojects disbursing/(contracted -
completed)
c) % for number of subprojects
d) % for amounts in US$
e) Cumulative Disbursements
f) Cumulative Disbursements
(total value of contracts awarded for non-
completed projects)
3. Execution
Subprojects completed
a) Number
b) Total cost in US$
Contracts behind schedule
c) Number
d) Total cost in US$
e) No of completed subprojects evaluated
4. Compliance with Covenants
a) Provinces in compliance with procurement
guidelines
b) Provinces in compliance with
environmental guidelines



- 73 -                            Annex G
Table 3A (Cont'd)
Indicators                                                           Previous     Current    % Change
Value        Value
(date)       (date)
11. Management:
Investment Program Management Capacity
1.    Subproiect Preparation
a) Total Number of Subprojects proposals approved
b) Institutional Development (ID) Subprojects
c)  Physical Investment (PI) Subprojects
2.    Planning
a)  Number of Subprojects behind schedule
Institutional Development Subprojects
Physical Investment Subprojects
d) Average Actual Elapsed Time for Stages of Subproject
Execution:
Proposal to Tender
Tender to Award
Award to Completion
Total from Proposal to Completion
e) Average Ratio for Sub-projects: Actual Elapsed Time/Estimated
Elapsed Time
Proposal to Tender
Tender to Award
Award to Completion
f) Average Ratio: Subproject Actual Cost/Subproject Estimated Cost
3.   Institutional Effectiveness
a) Number of PEU Staff/Population
b) PEU Personnel Costs/PEU staff
c) PEU Personnel Costs/Value of Subprojects Reviewed
d) Value of PEU Activities Contracted-Out/PEU Personnel Costs
e) Number of Proposed Subprojects Rejected
f) Number of Completed Subprojects Evaluated



- 74 -                               Annex G
Table 3B: Provincial Fiscal Perfornance Indicators
Indicators                                                              Previous       Current         % Change
Value          Value
(date)        (date)
I.  Fiscal:
Own Source Revenue Enhancement & Expenditure Control
1.  Revenue Administration
a) Own-Source Revenues/Total Current Revenues a/
b)  3-year average change in: Own-Source Revenue/Total Current
Revenues a/
c)  Provincial Tax Revenues/Own-Source Revenues
d)  Elastic Revenues/Total Current Revenues a/
e)  3-year average change in: Provincial Tax Revenue/Own Source
Revenue
f)  Principle Provincial Tax: Uncollected Taxes/Net Tax Levy
g)  Discretionary Transfers/Total Current Revenues
2.  Expenditure Control
a)  Provincial Government Employees/Population
b)  Personnel Expenditure/Population
c)  Personnel Expenditure/Total Current Expenditure
d) Pension Expenditures/Total Current Revenues a/
e) Pension Plan Assets/Annual Pension Benefits Paid
f) Intragovernmental Transfers (Out)/Total Current Expenditure
Municipalities
Public Enterprises
Social Security Entities
Private Education
Other
g) Major Capital Expenditure/Current Expenditure
h) Expenditures for Repair and Maintenance of General Fixed
Assets/Quantity of Assets
3.  Debt Factors
a) Current Account Surplus a/
b) Change in Debt Stock b/
c) Total Debt/Population
d) Total Debt/Coparticipation
e) Total Debt/Total Current Revenues
f) Variable Rate Debt/Total Debt b/
g) Debt Service/Total Current Revenues a/
h) Primary Surplus a/
i) Operational Primary Surplus a/
a/  Indicates value that would be calculated using current revenues without discretionary grants.
b/  Total debt includes that for consolidated decentralized entities, public enterprises, special accounts and
social security entities, as well as general obligation debt. Total debt data are not currently available,
but may be collected as part of expanded PFMIS (see para. 1, Annex 1).



- 75 -                          Annex G
Table 4: Projection of Key Performance Indicators
(In Numbers)
Fiscal Year
Implementation Indicators
1996   1997   1998   1999   2000   2001    2002
1. Participating Provinces      12      12
(i.e., with signed Subsidiary
Loan Agreements)
2. Subprojects in Financial     25      15       8       5
Action and Investment Plans
3. Subprojects Contracted        9      16      15       7      4       2
4. Subprojects Disbursing        9      19      20      25     20      10        4
5. Subprojects Completed                 5      12      16     10       6        4
(In US$ Millions)
Fiscal Year
Implementation Indicators
1996   1997   1998    1999    2000   2001    2002
1. Subprojects Contracted  46.0   77.0   57.0      11.0    6.0    3.0
(Bank financing)
2. Subprojects Contracted  65.0  110.0   82.5       16.0    8.5    4.0
(Total Cost)
3. Cumulative Amount       12.0   25.0   46.0    82.0  130.0  181.0   225.0
Disbursed to Date
4. Cumulative Amount        5.0    7.0   12.0    20.0   25.0   25.0    21.0
Disbursed Six Months
Previously
5. Cumulative Percentage      4      10     20       36      57      80      100
Disbursed to Date



- 76 -                      Annex H
ORGANIZATION AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE CENTRAL AND
PROVINCIAL EXECUTING UNITS
Descriptions of the Divisions of the CEU
and Their Staffing Requirements
1.    The following presents a detailed description of each of the Divisions of
the CEU and their staffing requirements.
2.    The tasks to be performed by the Executive Coordinator would be those
established by the Project Operations Manual (POM). In addition, the Executive
Coordinator would provide administrative and technical support to other Bank-
funded activities that fall under the jurisdiction of SAREP.  To facilitate
effective performance in the execution of the program, the Executive
Coordinator would continue to be advised by a staff of sectoral specialists, as
was done in PDP-I. These specialists would appraise the documents in their
areas of expertise and advise the different divisions of the CEU accordingly.
3.    The Institutional Development Program Division would continue to:
*     Prepare the POM, with the assistance of the Investment Program
Division; once agreed upon by the Bank, this manual could not
be amended without its prior consent.
*     Verify the annual current account surplus of the provinces.
Sk    Evaluate the PEUs annually, including their general performance,
staffing and working conditions.
*     Classify the provinces annually in accordance with the eligibility
criteria.
wReceive, appraise and monitor the implementation of the
Financial Action and Investment Plans (FAIP) of the provinces.
*     Implement the institutional development component of the
program by assessing the needs for technical assistance for itself
and for the provinces and by doing the necessary feasibility
studies.
*     Participate in the supervision of program implementation.
*     Assist the Administrative Division in the preparation of program
implementation reports.
4.    The Investment Program Division would continue to:
*     Assist the Institutional Program Division in the preparation of the
program implementation manuals.



- 77 -                      Annex H
*     Appraise annually a sample of civil works subprojects presented
by the provinces in accordance with criteria acceptable to the
Bank.
*     Supervise the procurement procedures of the provinces.
*     Assist the Institutional Development Program Division in the
assessment of the need for technical assistance and training in the
provinces for the implementation of civil works, improving the
design of budgeting procedures, and maintenance plans.
*     Participate in the supervision of program implementation.
*     Assist the Administrative Division in the preparation of program
implementation reports.
*     Support PEUs in carrying out environmental screening and
analysis.
5.    The Financial Management Information System  Division would
continue developing the information of the system so as to continue providing
reliable data at both the national and provincial levels. This system would
continue providing essential data for macroeconomic planning, as well as for
monitoring provincial progress towards achieving fiscal autonomy.
6.    The Contracting Division would be established to ensure that all
activities supporting contracting for the Project is carried out according to Bank
guidelines. More specifically, this Division would:
*     ()Oversee the Provinces' procurement, bidding, and contracting
activities.
*     Provide technical assistance to the Provinces.
*     Review  ex-ante all formal contracting documents (in the
corresponding cases) prior to Bank review.
*     Assist the  Executive  Coordinator  in  appraising  finance
subprojects.
*     Review  and provide recommendations of exemption to the
Executive Coordinator in cases authorized by the Bank.
7.    The Administrative Division, in addition to performing the general
administrative duties for the CEU, would continue to:
*     Carry out all Project-related legal agreements, including those
with the Bank and the provinces.
*     Receive and consolidate the audits of the provinces and CEU.
*     Prepare the program implementation reports.
*     Maintain the special and program accounts.
*     Provide administrative and technical support to other Bank-
financed activities that fall under the jurisdiction of SAREP.



- 78 -                      Annex H
8.    A structure for the CEU should be maintained but fine-tuned to increase
overall cost-effectiveness, as this CEU has demonstrated its efficiency and is
composed of a high technical level of human resources as well as equipment.
Contracting out for those tasks that require specialized consultant studies is
proposed. For these tasks, the CEU would contract individual consultants or
consulting firms (depending on the size of each contract) in accordance with
Bank guidelines.
9.    The experience of PDP-I indicates that its staff would be composed of
approximately 25-30 consultants.  The basic group would be assisted by
consultants based on need. The core CEU staff would tentatively be comprised
as follows:
*Executive Coordinator                                       1
10.
*Sectoral Advisors of the Executive Coordinator              5
11.
*Institutional Development Program Division
Economist                                              1
Public Finance Specialist                              2
Financial Analyst                                      I
Subtotal                                        4
*Investment Program Division
Engineer                                               1
Economist                                              I
Financial Analyst                                      1
Environmental Specialist                               1
Subtotal                                         4
*Financial Management Information System Division
Public Finance Analyst                                 1
Computer System Specialist                             1
Junior Analyst                                         1
Subtotal                                         3
*Contracting Division
(Comprised entirely of members of existing divisions)
*Administrative Division
Division Coordinator                                   1
Lawyer                                                 1
Accountants                                            4



- 79-                       Annex H
Computer System Specialist                             1
Procurement Specialists                                3
Subtotal                                       10
*General Services                                            2
TOTAL                                                       29
This includes the senior staff, but not support staff (e.g., Junior Systems
Analysts, Word Processors, etc.).
Description of the Divisions of the PEU and Their Staffing Requirements
12.   The structure of each PEU would vary across provinces. However, all
are expected to have the same general functions and staffing requirements, as
summarized below:
13.   The Institutional Development Program Division would:
*     Prepare statements of the annual current account situation to be
presented to the CEU.
*     Prepare the province's annual FAIP.
*     Monitor the implementation of the annual FAIP.
*     Assess the provincial needs for technical assistance and training
in order to receive CEU support.
*     Assist the Administrative Division in the preparation of program
implementation reports.
14.   The Investment Program Division would:
*     Discuss with the provincial executing agencies (ministries or
other entities responsible for the execution of civil works) all
procedures for procurement, disbursement, monitoring and
supervision that are included in the POM.
*     Appraise the subproject for civil works presented by the
executing agencies.
*     Review ex-ante all procurement procedures of the executing
agencies.
*     Support the Institutional Development Program  Division in
assessing technical assistance and training needs of the province
for the implementation of civil works (procurement and
supervision, improving subproject design and budgeting
procedures, and the development of maintenance plans.



- 80 -                      Annex H
*     Supervise civil works implementation.
*     Supervise implementation of the maintenance plans.
*     Verify  the certified  receipts of contractors to  authorize
disbursement by PEU, according to the procedures established in
the POM.
*     Assist the Administrative Division in the preparation of Program
Implementation Reports.
*     Screen investments for environmental impact and ensure that an
adequate environmental analysis is carried out when required.
15.   The Financial Management Information System Division would:
*     Develop an information system that is compatible with that of the
CEU for the province which will eventually include centralized
and decentralized entities of both the provinces and
municipalities. This system will provide essential data for
economic planning as well as for monitoring provincial progress
toward the goal of fiscal autonomy.
16.   Besides performing  the normal PEU  administrative duties, the
Administrative Division would:
*     Maintain the program account.
*     Maintain all documents necessary for the semi-annual audits.
*     Prepare an overall program  report to be sent to CEU
semiannually.
17.   There are two basic conditions necessary for the PEU adequately to
assume its implementation responsibilities under the program: (a) sufficient
authority, and (b) adequate staffing:
(a) Sufficient Authority: Given that the program represents a first step
in a strategy for the reform of the public sector, the PEU needs the authority to
coordinate the process. This authority ultimately flows from the governor and
from his commitment to support the needed reforms. Without this clear
commitrnent and support, the program will not be successfully implemented.
(b) Adequate Staffing:  The staff must have sufficient technical
expertise to carry out implementation and the competence to interact with
specialized agencies. The PEU should not be a large entity. Rather than
duplicating the functions and tasks of existing agencies, the PEU should seek to
coordinate their activities to attain the program  objectives.  In addition to
performing directly all planning and programming, the PEU would participate
in the implementation of specific program components, perform supervision and



-81 -                       Annex H
reporting duties, and assure the successful coordination of all provincial entities
involved. The PEU would have appropriate physical space and equipment to
permit its staff to work cooperatively. Mobility is also very important, so the
PEUs should not depend on other provincial entities for transportation.
18.   The experience of PDP-1 indicates that the PEU's staff varies in each
province. This explains in part why some provinces have been more successful
than others in the execution of their respective subprojects.
19.   In PDP-II, a typical PEU would be organized as follows:
*General Coordinator
*Executive Coordinator
*Institutional Development Program Division
Economist
Public Finance Specialist
Financial Analyst
Technical Assistance and Training Expert
Government Component of the Program
* Investment Program Division
Engineer
Economist
Financial Analyst
Environmental Specialist
*Financial Management Information Systems Division
Public Finance Analyst
Computer System Specialist
Junior Analysts
*Administration Division
Lawyer
Accountant
*General Services
*TOTAL



- 82 -                      Annex H
However, the exact number and distribution of the staff would depend on the
needs of the individual province (paras. 2.27, 2.31)



- 83 -                      Annex I
INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT SUBPROJECTS TO BE CARRIED
OUT BY THE CENTRAL EXECUTING UNIT (CEU)
Improvement of the Provincial Financial Management Information System
(PFMIS)
I.    Substantial progress was made under PDP-I in the implementation of the
PFMIS that provides data essential to macroeconomic planning, as well as
monitoring of progress on provincial fiscal reform. However, the recent rise
in potential borrowing capacity due to stabilization and the establishment of a
floor for the amount of the monthly national transfer to the provinces under
revenue sharing has dramatically increased the importance and urgency of
improved information on the stock of provincial debt. The data on the debt of
provincial governments must be improved to provide detailed information on all
of the sources of short- and longer-term financing, as well as guarantees. Both
the direct and indirect administrations must be covered. There should also be
up-to-date information on the extent to which resources from revenue sharing
have been used as guarantees for loans.
Training in Subproject Identification, Evaluation, Preparation, and
Implementation
2.    This training subcomponent will improve the technical capacity of
provincial professional personnel in the identification, evaluation, preparation,
and implementation of subprojects. Improving this technical capacity is critical
to ensuring that resources are efficiently allocated and investments successfully
implemented. The training course will be carried out at the regional level in
cooperation with regional universities that will act as centers of dissemination.
Training will use real subprojects currently under preparation. This approach
has the advantage of not only making the training more realistic and relevant,
but also contributing directly to subproject execution. Special emphasis will be
on areas shown to need improvement (e.g., developing of subproject execution
schedules and tracking performance in meeting deadlines, as well as cost
estimation).



- 84 -                            Annex J
ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(US$ million)
Fiscal Year       Semester       Disbursement       Cumulative Disbursement
Ending         in Semester         Amount              % of
Total
1996 a/        12131/95             7                7               2
06/30/96            5                12               4
1997           12/31/96            6                18               7
06/30/97             7               25              10
1998           12/31/97            9                34              14
06/30/98            12               46              20
1999           12/31/98            16               62              27
06/30/99            20               82              36
2000           12/31/99            23               105             46
06/30/00            25              130              57
2001           12/31/00            26               156             68
06/30/01            25              181              80
2002           12/31/01            23              204               90
06/30/02            21              225              100
Includes initial deposit of US$7.0 million into the Special Account.



- 85 -                     Annex K
SELECTED DOCUMENTS AND DATA AVAILABLE IN THE
PROJECT FILE
Gobierno de C6rdoba.  Ministerio de Obras y Servicios Publicos.
Proyectos de Inversi6n. C6rdoba. November 1993.
Ministerio de Economia y Obras y Servicios Publicos. Pacto federal
para el empleo, la producci6n y el crecimiento del 12/08/93. August
12, 1994.
Ministerio de Economia y Obras y Servicios Publicos. Secretaria de
Hacienda. Subsecretaria de Relaciones Fiscales y Econ6micos con Las
Provincias. Distribuci6n de Recursos de Origen Nacional a Provincias.
May 1994.
Ministerio del Interior de la Naci6n.  Programa de Saneamiento
Financiero y Desarrollo Econ6mico de las Provinicias Argentinas - 20
Etapa (PDP-II). Manual de Programa. March 1995.
Repuiblica Argentina. Direcci6n Nacional de Vialidad. Ministerio de
Economia y Servicios Pdiblicos.  Manual de Evaluaciffn y Gesti6n
Ambiental de Obras Viales. Final Draft. July 1993.
Reptiblica de Colombia. Ministerio de Obras Publicas y Transporte.
Politicas y Practicas Ambientales. First Edition. September 1993.






IBRD 25587
1700  \    BOLIVIA              /        C                                          5<
PARAGUAY
So San S umoC                ;J
Sollo -f    /otg              - esect                                A 
^~~~~a~ CooIUYlDEL                              fs5
011 Lr) R+jo                  -LI STR,!  v
S,LAL     iSTA      A N        -
~, L-Tu4qum6n
J ~ JUAN       OSantiago   FResistencQ                       BRAZIL
GO ciel Estero: _  orb, .as t
Z   5   Mendozo |   <                .       |~~~~~~~~~~osdo
a          SA N TIA G  
ColomCOG     DEL'I 
L oRioja0       ESTERO,             .
LA    r      !        S AN-- .  .srTA
30               SAN       IAEI FE
<              ZLuA MPA 
 J AN   f         CRDS
\~~~~~   Saomnt de                      'NRE
Vledm~~~~~~~~~~~o < rovncCoial
Me            owo0ndozceaonore
G     Son uis~             
r~~~SN                    ,/NT  ,                            , URUUA
WS~~~7BUENOS AIRES&
LaoPlato
Snta Rosa       BUENOS
(DE
LA         ~AIRES
I~~~~~~~~~ A                                   
W    Z  PAM PA
40                  NE~GRO
Carmen de
Palagones
Viedma          (E    Province Capitals
National Capital
RawsonG                            Province  Boundaries
CHUBUT                                        International Boundaries
MILES 0     1 00  '2 00   3 00   4 00   50 0
SANTA                                       ____________
CR UZ                         KILOMETERS 0        2 00    A00      6 00    a0 0
SO
Rio Gallegos                         ~~~~~The  boundiaries, colors, ~
0                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~denominations and  any
other information shown
on  thism    do   not
*                    ~~~~~~~~~imply, on  the1 prt of
The WorldJ Botnk Group,
any judgment on the legal
~~~shuaio ~~~~~~~~~status  of any  territory,
Ushud'io                  ~~~or any  endorsement
-TIERRA                             or cocceptance of such
boundiaries.
DEL
80                 ~~~~~~~~~70.  FUEG0    60                          50o
FEBRUARY 1994












