Page  1
November 7, 1997 
Mr. Roque Fernández 
Ministro de Economía y Obras
   y Servicios Públicos 
Buenos Aires, Argentina
Mr. Carlos Corach 
Ministro del Interior 
Buenos Aires, Argentina
Re:
Loan No. 3877-AR (Second Provincial Development Project) 
Amendment to the Loan Agreement
Dear Sirs:
Please refer to: (a) the Loan Agreement between International Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) and the Argentine Republic (the Borrower) 
dated December 5, 1995 (the Loan Agreement), entered into with respect to the 
above-captioned Project; and (b) the amendment letter, dated June 13, 1996, whereby 
the Loan Agreement was amended to convert Loan 3877-AR from currency pool terms to 
single currency fixed-rate U.S. Dollar terms.  Given the fact that the Bank has yet to 
convert the Loan 3877-AR terms as indicated in said June 13, 1996 amendment letter, 
and also given the fact that the Borrower may eventually wish to consider taking 
advantage of the loan term conversion options made available by the Bank pursuant to 
the September 1996 letter to the Borrower from the Bank re:  Currency Choice for 
Existing Currency Pool Loans, we are pleased to inform you that, pursuant to our 
recent discussions on the subject, the Bank agrees to further amend the Loan Agreement 
so as to render null and void said June 13, 1996 amendment letter. Therefore, the Loan 
Agreement is hereby amended to revert to its original, pre-June 13, 1996 text; 
consequently, Loan 3877-AR hereby reverts to its original currency pool terms.
Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing by signing and dating this letter 
in the spaces provided below.  This amendment letter may be executed in three 
counterparts, each of which shall be an original.  Upon your confirmation, please 
return one fully executed original to us.  The provisions of this amendment letter 
will become effective as of June 13, 1996 upon receipt by the Bank of one fully 
executed original of this amendment letter.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Myrna L. Alexander
Director
Country Management Unit for 
Argentina, Chile and Uruguay
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
By: Roque Benjamín Fernández
By: Carlos V. Corach
    Ministro de Economía y Obras
    Ministro del Interior
y Servicios Públicos
Date November 7, 1997
Date: November 7, 1997 
