The World Bank                                            1818 H Street N.W.
                                                                             
                                                                                 
                                                                                     (202) 477-1234
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT     Washington, D.C. 20433     Cable Address: INTBAFRAD
                                                                 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION                     U.S.A.                     Cable Address: INDEVAS


                                                                                            April 15, 2003



        Mr. Roberto Lavagna
        Minister of Economy
        Ministry of Economy
        Hipolito Yrigoyen 250
        1310 Buenos Aires, Argentina

                                   Re: Japanese Grant for the Development of Environmental
                                         Strategies to Assist the Recipient in the Implementation the
                                         Second Municipal Development Project - Grant No. TF026528

        Dear Minister Lavagna:

              I am writing on behalf of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the
        Bank) to indicate the Bank's agreement, as administrator of grant funds provided by Japan, to
        make a grant in an amount not exceeding three hundred eighty-four thousand four hundred U.S.
        Dollars (US$384,400) (the Grant) to the Argentine Republic (the Recipient).

              The Grant is made in response to the Recipient's request for financial assistance and for the
        purposes and on the terms and conditions set forth in the Annex to this Letter Agreement. The
        Recipient represents, by confirming its agreement below, that it is authorized to contract and
        withdraw the Grant for the said purposes and on the said terms and conditions.

               Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Recipient, by signing,
        dating, and returning to us the enclosed copy of this Letter Agreement. Upon receipt by the Bank
        of the copy of this Letter Agreement countersigned by you, this Letter Agreement will become
        effective as of the date of the countersignature.

                                                     Very truly yours,

                             INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                                        AND DEVELOPMENT


                                             By_
                                                 Axel van rosenburg
                                                        Director
                                              Country Management Unit
                                        Argentina, Chile, Paraguay and Uruguay


        1
Minister Lavagna                  -2-   April 15`x', 2003



AGREED:

ARG TINE PUBLIC

By:
       Authorized Repres tative
               ROBERTO LAVAGNA
Name:MINISTRO DE ECONOMIA

Date:
      
        2 3 MAY 2003
                                                                                       ANNEX

                         Purposes, Terms, and Conditions of the Grant

           Purposes and Activities

    1.1.    The purpose of the Grant is to develop environmental strategies that will assist the
    Recipient in the implementation of the Second Municipal Development Project (the
    Project). The Project is financed in part with the proceeds of Loan No. 3860--AR which
    terms and conditions are set forth in the Loan Agreement entered into between the
    Recipient and the Bank dated October 18, 1995, as amended. The activities (the
    Activities) for which the Grant is given are as follows:

           (a) design and implementation of an environmental assessment mechanism
    consistent with the Recipient's current needs and capacity to be applied by trained local
    authorities at the municipal level (these Activities are estimated to cost US$125,200
    equivalent);

            (b) design and implementation of an environmental statistical database aimed at
    assisting the Recipient establish basic environmental standards and benchmarks for local
    reference (these Activities are estimated to cost US$38,800 equivalent);

            (c) design and implementation of a capacity building program for the Recipient's
    sub-national environmental authorities including the strengthening their capacity regarding
    environmental strategies, and the use of assessment methodologies, strategic tools,
    participatory mechanisms and database (these Activities are estimated to cost US$22,800
    equivalent);

            (d) design and implementation of environmental action plans at the municipal level
    through the provision of technical assistance to the Recipient's sub-national environmental
    authorities (these Activities are estimated to cost US$91,600 equivalent);

           (e) design and implementation of participatory mechanisms at the municipal level
    which would include, stakeholders meetings with the Recipient's sub-national authorities
    regarding formulation and analysis of environmental data and prioritization of
    environmental investments (these Activities are estimated to cost US$68,000 equivalent);
    and

            (f) carrying out of an assessment of the Recipient's municipal solid waste
    management system, including, the assessment of financial management performance and
    its current cost structure, and provide recommendations to establish an efficient and viable
    cost recovery strategy (these Activities are estimated to cost US$38,000 equivalent).

    2.Implementation Generally


1
                                                  CE


     2.1.    The Recipient shall: (a) through the Secretaria de Obras Publicas de la Presidencia
     (the Recipient's Secretariat of Public Works of the Presidency) carry out the Activities with
     due diligence and efficiency; (b) promptly provide the funds, facilities, services and other
     resources required for that purpose; (c) furnish all information covering the Activities and
     the use of the proceeds of the Grant as the Bank shall reasonably request; (d) from time to
     time exchange views with the Bank's representatives on the progress and results of the
     Activities; and (e) take all necessary measures required to enable the Bank to visit the
     territory of the Recipient for purposes related to the Grant. Without limitation on the
     foregoing, the Recipient shall, if the Bank shall so request, prepare and furnish to the Bank
     promptly upon completion of the Activities a report, in form and substance satisfactory to
     the Bank, on the results and impact of the Activities.


     3.       Procurement

     3.1.   Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the consultants' services
     required for the carrying out of the Activities and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
     Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Attachment Ito this Annex.

     4.       Withdrawal of Grant Proceeds

     4.1.    The amount of the Grant shall be credited to an account opened by the Bank on its
     books in the name of the Recipient (the Grant Account), and may be withdrawn therefrom
     by the Recipient in accordance with the provisions of this Section 4, for expenditures in
     respect of the reasonable cost of services required for the Activities and to be financed out
     of the proceeds of the Grant.

     4.2.   The expenditures for the following items may be financed out of the proceeds of the
     Grant and shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Activities:

                                                                                % of
                                         Amount of the Grant                Expenditures to
                Category              Allocated (in U.S. Dollars )           be Financed

     (1) Consultants' services                  334,400                          95%

     (2) Training                                50,000                         100%

            TOTAL                               384,400

            For purposes of this paragraph, the term "Training" means expenditures (other than
     those for consultants' services) incurred by the Recipient to finance reasonable
     transportation costs and per-diem of trainees and trainers (if applicable) and rental of
     training facilities and equipment under the Project.

     4.3.     Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 4.2 above:


9K
                                             -5-



        (a) No withdrawals shall be made from the Grant Account: (i) for payments made
for expenditures prior to the date of signature of this Letter Agreement by the Bank; (ii) on
account of payments for any taxes levied by or in the territory of the Recipient; (iii) on
account of expenditures in the territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank
or for services supplied from such territories; or (iv) for the purpose of any payment to
persons or entities if such payment, to the Bank's knowledge, is prohibited by a decision of
the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United
Nations; and

        (b) No withdrawals shall be made from the Grant Account after June 30, 2004 or
such later date that the Bank shall establish by notice to the Recipient (the Closing Date).
However, withdrawals may be made after the Closing Date for expenditures incurred prior
to the Closing Date if the corresponding withdrawal application is received by the Bank
within four months after the Closing Date, after which time any amount of the Grant
remaining unwithdrawn from the Grant Account shall be canceled.

4.4. When the Recipient shall desire to withdraw any amount from the Grant Account, it
shall deliver to the Bank a written application for withdrawal of such amount in the form
specified by the Bank. Withdrawal applications shall be: (a) signed on behalf of the
Recipient by the Secretaria de Obras Publicas de la Presidencia or such other person as
he or she shall have authorized in writing; and (b) accompanied by such evidence in support
of the application as the Bank shall reasonably request. Authenticated specimen signatures
of the person authorized to sign withdrawal applications shall be provided with the first
application bearing his or her signature. Each withdrawal application for an amount of the
Grant and its supporting evidence must be sufficient in form and substance to satisfy the
Bank that the Recipient is entitled to withdraw such amount from the Grant Account and
that such amount is to be used in the carrying out of the Activities. The Bank shall pay the
amounts withdrawn by the Recipient from the Grant Account only to or on the order of the
Recipient.

4.5. The Bank may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on the basis
of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for: (a) services of consulting
firms costing less than US$100,000 equivalent; and (b) services of individual consultants
costing less than US$50,000 equivalent, all under such terms and conditions as the Bank
shall specify by notice to the Recipient.

4.6. Withdrawals of the proceeds of the Grant shall be made in the currency of the Grant.
The Bank, at the Recipient's request and acting as an agent of the Recipient, shall purchase
with the currency of the Grant withdrawn from the Grant Account such currencies as shall
be required to pay for expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant.
Whenever it shall be necessary, for the purposes of this Letter Agreement, to determine the
value of one currency in terms of another, such value shall be as reasonably determined by
the Bank.
                                                       -6-


     4.7.   To facilitate the carrying out of the Activities, the Recipient may open and maintain
     in U.S. Dollars a special deposit account (the Special Account) in Banco de la Nacion
     Argentina on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection
     against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special
     Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Attachment II to this Annex.'

     5.Accounts and Audits

     5.1.   (a) The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management
     system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format
     acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices
     the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Activities.

             (b) The Recipient shall: (i) have the records, accounts and financial statements
     referred to in subparagraph (a) above and the records and accounts for the Special Account
     for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with auditing standards acceptable to the Bank,
     consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the
     Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than six months after the end of each
     such year: (A) certified copies of the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this
     Section for such year as so audited; (B) an opinion on such statements, records and accounts
     and report of such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
     have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
     said records and accounts and the audit thereof, and concerning said auditors, as the Bank
     shall from time to time reasonably request.

             (c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant Account
     were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient shall: (i) maintain or
     cause to be maintained, in accordance with subparagraph (a) above, records and accounts
     reflecting such expenditures; (ii) retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received
     the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the Grant Account was
     made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
     evidencing such expenditures; (iii) enable the Bank's representatives to examine such
     records; and (iv) ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual audit
     referred to in subparagraph (b) above and that the report of such audit contains a separate
     opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such
     fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation,
     can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.

     6.Suspension and Cancellation

     6.1. The Bank may at any time, by notice to the Recipient, suspend the right of the
     Recipient to make further withdrawals from the Grant Account if any of the following
     events has occurred and is continuing: (a) the Recipient has failed to comply with any of its

       Please check with Morag. It is my understanding that Loan/Grant proceeds are deposited in Banco de la
           Nacion Argentina.

1,
                                             -7-


obligations herein specified; or (b) the right of the Recipient, or any other entity to which
the Bank has made a loan with the guarantee of the Recipient, to make withdrawals under
any loan agreement with the Bank or any development credit agreement with the
International Development Association shall have been suspended.

6.2. The Bank may, by written notice to the Recipient, terminate the right of the Recipient
to make further withdrawals from the Grant Account: (a) at any time after the right of the
Recipient to make withdrawals from the Grant Account shall have been suspended pursuant
to the provisions of paragraph 6.1 above; or (b) if the Recipient shall have failed to take
action, satisfactory to the Bank, within six months after the effective date hereof, to carry
out the Activities.
                                           -8-


                                                                            Attachment I

                                      Procurement

Section I . Consultants' Services

Part A :General

        Consultants' services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of
Sections I and IV of the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers", published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in September 1997,
January 1999 and May 2002 (the Consultant Guidelines), paragraph 1 of Appendix I
thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the following provisions of this Section.

Part B :Quality- and Cost-based Selection

      Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants' services shall
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of
the Consultant Guidelines, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof
applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.


Part C :Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants

            Individual Consultants

      Consultants' services of individual consultants for the Activities under paragraph
1.1 of the Annex which meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant
Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions
of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.

Part D :Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants

      Selection Planning

      A plan for the selection of consultants, which shall include contract cost estimates,
contract packaging, and applicable selection criteria and procedures, shall be furnished to
the Bank for its review and approval prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests
for proposals. Such plan shall be updated every two months during the execution of the
Activities, and, each such updating shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and
approval. Selection of all consultants' services shall be undertaken in accordance with
such selection plan (as updated from time to time) as shall have been approved by the
Bank.

2.Prior Review
                                           -9-


      (a) With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms
estimated to cost the equivalent of US$100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2, 3 and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.

      (b) With respect to each contract for the employment of individual consultants
estimated to cost the equivalent of US$50,000 or more, the report on the comparison of
the qualifications and experience of candidates, and terms of reference and terms of
employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior review and
approval. The contract shall be awarded only after said approval shall have been given.
The provisions of paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall also
apply to such contracts.

3.   Post Review

       With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall
apply.
                                             -10-



                                                                              Attachment II

                                      Special Account

      For the purposes of this Attachment:

       (a) the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) and (2) set forth in the
table in paragraph 4.2 of the Annex to this Letter Agreement;

       (b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the
reasonable cost of services required for the Activities and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Grant; and

      (c) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to US$200,000
to be withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to
paragraph 3 (a) of this Attachment.

2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Attachment.

3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account has
been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:

      (a)   The Recipient shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit into
the Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on
behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into the Special
Account such amount or amounts as the Recipient shall have requested.


      (b)       (i)     For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall furnish
                        to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account at such
                        intervals as the Bank shall specify.


                (ii)    Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall
                        furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required
                        pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Attachment for the payment or
                        payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the
                        basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Recipient,
                        withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into the Special
                        Account such amount as the Recipient shall have requested and as
                        shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence to have
                        been paid out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures. All
                        such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Grant
                                                         -11-


                                   Account under the eligible Categories, and in the respective
                                   equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents
                                   and other evidence.

           4.     For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the Recipient
           shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents
           and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
           expenditures.

            5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Attachment, the Bank shall not
            be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:

                  (a) if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further withdrawals
            should be made by the Recipient directly from the Grant Account;

                  (b) if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period of
            time specified in paragraph 5.1 (b) (ii) of the Annex to this Letter Agreement, any of the
            audit reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph in respect of
            the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;

           (c) if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Recipient of its intention to
` suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the Grant
      Account pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 6.1 of the Annex to this Letter Agreement;
      or

                  (d) once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant shall equal the equivalent of
            twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.

            Thereafter, withdrawals from the Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of
            the Grant shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Recipient.
            Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have
            been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the
            date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.

            6.     (a) If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the
            Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to
            paragraph 2 of this Attachment; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
            Bank, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such additional
            evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank
            shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the
            portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further
            deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the Recipient has provided
            such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.

                  (b) If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding in
            the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures,
                                            -12-


      the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
      outstanding amount.




1 '
?
"The original is a PDF file with no Text. We were not able to OCR and extract the Text. Error:PDF01"
