Page  1
June 13, 1996
Mr. Domingo F. Cavallo
Ministro de Economa y Obras
   y Servicios Pblicos
Hiplito Yrigoyen 250
1086 Buenos Aires, Argentina
         Re:  Loan No. 3877-AR (Second Provincial Development Project)
              Amendment to the Loan Agreement
Dear Sir:
     Please refer to the Loan Agreement between International Bank for Reconstruction 
and Development (the Bank) and the Argentine Republic (the Borrower) dated December 5, 
1995 (the Loan Agreement), entered into with respect to the above-captioned Project.  
We are pleased to inform you that, pursuant to your request and our recent discussions 
on the subject, the Bank agrees to amend the Loan Agreement as follows to convert Loan 
3877-AR from basket of currencies terms to fixed rate U.S. Dollar terms:
Section 1.01
1.   This Section is hereby amended to read as follows in its entirety: "The "General 
Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of 
the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of 
this Agreement.".
Section 2.01
2.   This Section is hereby amended to read as follows in its entirety: "The Bank 
agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to 
in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to two hundred twenty-five million Dollars 
($225,000,000).".
Section 2.05
3.   This Section is hereby amended to read as follows in its entirety: "The Borrower 
shall pay interest on the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from 
time to time in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.06
4.   This Section is hereby amended to read as follows in its entirety: "Interest and 
other charges shall be payable in arrears on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.07
5.   This Section is hereby amended to read as follows in its entirety: "The Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Schedule 3
6.   This Schedule is hereby amended to read in its entirety as set forth in the 
Attachment hereto.
     Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing amendments by signing and dating 
this letter in the spaces provided below. This amendment letter may be executed in two 
counterparts, each of which shall be an original. Upon your confirmation, please 
return one fully executed original to us. The provisions of this amendment letter will 
become effective upon: (a) receipt by the Bank of one fully executed original of this 
amendment letter; and (b) effectiveness of the Loan Agreement pursuant to the terms of 
Article VI thereof.
Very truly yours,
Page  2
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
   AND DEVELOPMENT
Paul Meo
Acting Director
Country Department I
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
By:  Carlos V. Corach                   By:  Domingo Felipe Cavallo
     Minister of the Interior                Minister of Economy, Works
     (Authorized Representative)             and Public Services
                                             (Authorized Representative)
Date:     June 28, 1996
Attachment
SCHEDULE 3
Interest and Principal Repayment Provisions
A.   General Definitions
For purposes of this Schedule, the following terms have the following meanings:
(a)  "Disbursed Amount" means, in respect of each Interest Period, the aggregate 
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account in such Interest Period.
(b)  "Interest Period" means the initial period from and including the date of 
this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest Payment Date occurring 
thereafter, and after the initial period, each period from and including an Interest 
Payment date to, but excluding, the next following Interest Payment Date.
(c)  "Interest Payment Date" means any date specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement.
(d)  "Rate Fixing Date" means, for each Disbursed Amount, the first day of the 
Interest Period next following the Interest Period in which such Disbursed Amount is 
withdrawn.
B.   Interest
1.   The principal amount of the Loan shall be divided into Disbursed Amounts.  
Interest shall accrue on each Disbursed Amount outstanding from time to time at a rate 
based on a floating rate index prior to its Rate Fixing Date and at a fixed rate from 
its Rate Fixing Date, as described in paragraph 2 of this Part B.
2.   (a)  From the date of withdrawal of each amount of each Disbursed Amount 
withdrawn and outstanding, to but not including the Rate Fixing Date for such 
Disbursed Amount, interest on each such amount shall accrue, at a rate equal to the 
applicable:
(i)
LIBOR Base Rate; plus
 
(ii)
LIBOR Total Spread.
 
(b)  From the Rate Fixing Date for each Disbursed Amount until final repayment 
thereof, interest on such Disbursed Amount shall accrue, at a rate equal to the 
applicable:
(i)
Fixed Base Rate; plus
 
(ii)
Fixed Total Spread.
 
3.   For purposes of paragraph 2 of this Part B, the following terms have the 
following meanings:
Page  3
(a)  "LIBOR Base Rate" means, for the Interest Period in which a Disbursed 
Amount is withdrawn, the London interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in 
Dollars for value the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the 
initial Interest Period, for value the day  occurring on the Interest Payment Date 
preceding the first day of such Interest Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank 
and expressed as a percentage per annum.
(b)  "LIBOR Total Spread" means, for the Interest Period in which each Disbursed 
Amount is withdrawn:
(i)
one half of one percent (1/2 of 1%);
 
(ii)
minus (or plus) the weighted average margin, for such Interest 
Period, below (or above) the London interbank offered rates, or 
other reference rates, for six-month deposits, in respect of the 
Bank's outstanding borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the 
Bank to fund single currency loans or portions thereof made by it 
that include such Disbursed Amount for such Interest Period;
as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.
(c)  "Fixed Base Rate" means, for each Disbursed Amount, the equivalent of the 
London interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars for value on the Rate 
Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount, expressed as a single fixed interest rate based 
on the fixed interest rates
corresponding to the repayment installments of such Disbursed Amount, as reasonably 
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.
(d)  "Fixed Total Spread" means, for each Disbursed Amount:
(i)
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%);
 
(ii)
minus (or plus) the cost margin, applicable on the Rate Fixing 
Date for such Disbursed Amount, below (or above) the London 
interbank offered rates, or other reference rates, for six-month 
deposits, in respect of the Bank's outstanding borrowings or 
portions thereof allocated to fund single currency loans or 
portions thereof made by it that include such Disbursed Amount; 
plus
(iii)
the Bank's risk spread applicable on the Rate Fixing Date for such 
Disbursed Amount;
as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.
4.   The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate, LIBOR Total Spread, Fixed 
Base Rate and Fixed Total Spread applicable to each Disbursed Amount, promptly upon 
the determination thereof.
5.   Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the determination of 
the interest rates referred to in this Schedule, the Bank determines that it is in the 
interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for determining 
the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as provided in this Schedule, the 
Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest rates applicable to amounts of 
the Loan not yet withdrawn upon not less than six (6) months' notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis.  The new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice 
period unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection 
thereto, in which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
C.   Repayment
1.   Subject to the provisions of paragraph 2 of this Part C, the Borrower shall repay 
each Disbursed Amount of the Loan in semiannual installments payable on each April 15 
and October 15, the first such installment to be payable on the seventh (7th) Interest 
Payment Date following the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount and the last 
such installment to be payable on the twenty-fourth (24th) Interest Payment Date 
following the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount.  Each installment shall be 
one-eighteenth (1/18) of such Disbursed Amount.
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part C, if any installment 
of principal of each Disbursed Amount would, pursuant to the provisions of said 
Page  4
paragraph 1, be payable after October 15, 2010, the Borrower shall also pay on said 
date the aggregate amount of all such installments.
3.   After each Disbursed Amount shall have been withdrawn, the Bank shall promptly 
notify the Borrower of the amortization schedule for such Disbursed Amount.
