                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 27953

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                         (IDA-31500 SCL-44170)

                                                  ON A

                                             LOAN/CREDIT

                       IN THE AMOUNT OF US$5.00 MILLION EQUIVALENT
                     (US$2.53 MILLION LOAN AND SDR1.80 MILLION CREDIT)

                                                 TO THE

                                  COMMONWEALTH OF DOMINICA

                                                 FOR AN

              EMERGENCY RECOVERY AND DISASTER MANAGEMENT PROJECT




                                              April 8, 2004




Finance, Private Sector and Infrastructure Department
Caribbean Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                            CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                      (Exchange Rate Effective December 1998)

                              Currency Unit = Easter Caribbean Dollars (EC$)
                                    EC$ 1.0 = US$ 0.37
                                    US$ 1.0 = EC$ 2.7

                                    FISCAL YEAR
                             January 1 -     December 31

                       ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

APL           Adaptable Program Lending
CAS           Country Assistance Strategy
CDB           Caribbean Development Bank
ERDMP         Emergency Recovery and Disaster Management Project
ERL           Emergency Recovery Loan
IBRD          International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB           International Competitive Bidding
ICR           Implementation Completion Report
IDA           International Development Association
LACI          Loan Administration Change Initiative
MCWH          Ministry of Communications, Works and Housing
NCB           National Competitive Bidding
NMS           National Meteorological Service
OAS           Organization of American States
ODP           Office of Disaster Preparedness
OECS          Organization of Eastern Caribbean States
OFDA          Office of US Foreign Disaster Assistance
PAD           Project Appraisal Document
PAHO          Pan American Health Organization
PCU           Project Coordination Unit
QAG           Quality Assurance Group
SCL           Single Currency Loan
TOR           Terms of Reference
USAID         United States Agency for International Development
VRF           Vulnerability Reduction Fund



                            Vice President:      David de Ferranti
                         Country Director:       Caroline D. Anstey
                 Sector Manager/Director:        John H. Stein/Danny M. Leipziger
         Task Team Leader/Task Manager:          Francis Ghesquiere

                            COMMONWEALTH OF DOMINICA
                    Emergency Recovery & Disaster Management Project


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              9
6. Sustainability                                                                10
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 11
8. Lessons Learned                                                               12
9. Partner Comments                                                              13
10. Additional Information                                                       13
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             14
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             15
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             17
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             18
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             20
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                21
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            22
Annex 8. Borrower's Project Completion Report                                    23

Project ID: P069633                                                  Project Name: Dominica Emergency Recovery &
                                                                     Disaster Management Project
Team Leader: Francis Ghesquiere                                      TL Unit: LCSFU
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: April 8, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: Dominica Emergency Recovery & Disaster                   L/C/TF Number: IDA-31500; SCL-44170
                            Management Project
   Country/Department: DOMINICA                                                           Region: Latin America and the
                                                                                                     Caribbean Region

        Sector/subsector: Flood protection (68%); Central government administration (27%);
                            Other social services (5%)
                  Theme: Natural disaster management (P); Participation and civic
                            engagement (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 08/11/1998                                     Effective: 03/11/1999                06/09/1999
     Appraisal: 10/27/1998                                         MTR: 01/09/2001                  06/22/2001
      Approval: 12/10/1998                                      Closing: 01/31/2002                 12/31/2002



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          COMMONWEALTH OF DOMINICA/MINISTRY FINANCE AND PLANNING;
                                           PCU; ODP; MINISTRY WORKS
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 David de Ferranti                              Shahid Javed Burki
Country Director:               Caroline D. Anstey                             Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
Sector Manager:                 John H. Stein                                  Jeffrey S. Gutman
Team Leader at ICR:             Francis Ghesquiere                             Eugene D. McCarthy
ICR Primary Author:             James O. Wright


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        U
                      Sustainability:      UN
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          U


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S                                U
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

This project was part of the first phase of an Adaptable Program Lending (APL) operation in St. Kitts and Nevis,
St. Lucia, Dominica, Grenada and St. Vincent and the Grenadines. The program aimed to support the physical
and institutional efforts of the five member countries of the Organization of Eastern Caribbean States (OECS) to
strengthen disaster recovery capacity and emergency preparedness management. The nations' low level of
preparedness, lack of mitigating measures and limited disaster response capability had been evidenced by the
devastating impact of Hurricane Georges on St. Kitts and Nevis in September 1998.

l    The first phase of the program (APL1) was to support the immediate reconstruction and rehabilitation of
     infrastructure in St. Kitts and Nevis and disaster mitigation works and institutional strengthening in St. Kitts
     and Nevis, St. Lucia and Dominica.

l    The second phase (APL2) was to support these same activities in Grenada and St. Vincent and the Grenadines.

l    APL3 was to focus on additional physical investments identified through hazard mapping analysis and was to
     provide further long term institutional strengthening. Funding for this phase was eventually allocated to
     APL2. As a result, APL3 did not materialize as originally planned.

l    APL4 was to provide contingency funding for any eligible OECS member in case of a severe natural disaster
     during the six year program period. Funding for this phase remains available until the completion of APL2
     expected for January 31, 2006.


It was considered at the time that setting up individual loans for all five countries involved in the program would
be inefficient. As a result, the Bank opted to set up a regional facility to address disaster risks rather than a series
of emergency operations with individual countries. The typical APL approach was modified to provide a
horizontal dimension that would allow countries to join in different phases based on their stages of preparation
(APL 1-3). At the same time, it was also considered more efficient and forward-looking to set up a contingent
facility with allowance for post-catastrophe mitigation work that could be called upon in the event of a natural
disaster during project implementation (APL4). The emergency funding would take advantage of the shared risk
characteristics of the group of countries.

The development objectives of the project in Dominica were:

l    To strengthen key economic and social infrastructure and facilities with the aim of minimizing damage caused
     by future natural disasters and reducing the disruption of economic activity in the event of disaster
     emergencies (pre-disaster works);

l    To reconstruct and rehabilitate key social and economic infrastructure following disasters to allow quick
     recovery and minimize disruption of economic activity (post-disaster works); and

l    To strengthen the country's institutional capacities to prepare for and respond to disaster emergencies in an
     efficient and effective manner.


The objectives were clearly stated and relevant to the situation of Dominica, which had long been vulnerable to
severe storms and hurricanes resulting in loss of life and infrastructure and property damage. The project financed
structural and nonstructural measures to protect people, infrastructure and property from future hurricane damage.
In addition, it sought to build institutional capacity at the national and local levels, including the public and private
sectors, in order to confront natural disasters more effectively in the future.

The project supported two principal goals of the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS): supporting infrastructure and
safeguarding the economy. However, the CAS contained no explicit reference to disaster management. This issue




                                                           - 2 -

was addressed in an updating economic memorandum which was circulated to the Board in conjunction with the
1998 Project Appraisal Document (PAD) for the project and had a clear reference to disaster management
reduction as an important objective of the CAS. The first and third objectives were most relevant to Dominica at
the time of entry, since there had been no recent hurricane for which reconstruction was necessary.

3.2 Revised Objective:

Although the project was restructured in January 2002, its objectives were not changed.

3.3 Original Components:

I. Physical Prevention and Mitigation: (mainly public infrastructure): (US$ 4.13 million)

l    Sea defense works: Soufriere to Scotts Head Road; Hatten Garden Wave Tidal Protection.

l    River Control and Flood Damage Reduction: Pichelin River Dredging; Colihaut River control; Engineering
     and Supervision (to be financed from local funds).

l    Elmshall Road Reinstatement. Stabilization works around the Elmshall Road. (The above components
     involved strengthening/rehabilitating infrastructure: bridges/culverts, roads, river bank protection; slope
     protection; improvement of sea defenses for land slides, sea swells and floods.)

l    Shelters: A regional hurricane community shelter was also to be constructed to be used throughout the year for
     training of community Disaster Preparedness Committees. Six other existing shelters were to be retrofitted to
     hurricane-resistant standards.

l    Environmental assessments/screening were to be carried out for all the civil works.

l    The capacity of the Ministry of Communications, Works and Housing (MCWH) was to be strengthened to
     prepare and supervise bridge strengthening and river training works.

II. Strengthening the National Office of Disaster Preparedness (ODP): (US$ 1.22 million.)

l    Capacity Building: Providing ODP with technical advisors (i) to assist with mobilizing support from
     businesses and industries; and (ii) to assist with local emergency planning and mitigation.

l    Providing specialized disaster equipment at the national and community levels. (Plastic sheeting, emergency
     supplies such as portable generators, water purification equipment/storage tanks and equipment for emergency
     responders.)

l    Providing an island-wide emergency communications system among national level agencies and district
     emergency management committees: 7 VHF Base Stations and mobile radios for the local Disaster
     Preparedness Committees.

III. Developing an Effective Early Warning System to alert appropriate government authorities and the public of
adverse weather conditions: (US$ 0.36 million).

l    Support for the National Meteorological Service (NMS): Replacement of meteorological equipment;
     specialized consultants for procurement and installation of equipment. Provision of computers and internet
     access. Improved phone connections with the airport and Barbados. Training on new equipment.

l    Development of a Ham Weather Radio Observation Network: Providing ham radio operators with equipment
     for measuring weather communicating information.

l    Development of a Local Flood Early Alert System: Installing an Alert warning system and providing
     consultant assistance for training.

l    Technical Assistance and Training. Training in operational meteorology and hydrology.



                                                          - 3 -

IV. Community Based Disaster Management: (US$ 0.43 million)

The purpose was to create a public/private partnership with community participation in planning, mitigation,
preparedness, and response and recovery activities:

l   Training in Community Disaster Preparedness: (i) Organization of District/Community Disaster Committees,
    (ii) training in "Surviving the Next Disaster" (available through the Red Cross) and (iii) other disaster-related
    skills.

l   Vulnerability Reduction Fund (VRF): The VRF component was specific to the Dominica Emergency Recovery
    and Disaster Management Project. It was designed to be a pilot project from which other OECS countries
    could eventually benefit. This was to support local disaster preparedness committees in twenty-one of the most
    vulnerable communities in Dominica. District teams would submit proposals to a project selection committee
    with members from the Local Government and Community Development Department, Disaster Preparedness
    Office, the Ministry of Finance, Industry and Planning, and the Project Coordination Unit. The projects would
    include: (i) hazard mapping and assessment of mitigation measures, (ii) individual, community, and disaster
    mitigation education and (iii) improved drainage and culvert projects.


V. Institutional Strengthening: (US$ 0.17 million)

l   Hazard Analysis/Vulnerability Mapping: Identification of hazards and vulnerability to protect present and
    future public and private sector investments.

l   Vulnerability Reduction of Public Buildings: Reduction of potential fiscal liabilities by the Government from
    catastrophic losses by insuring buildings and facilities and reducing their vulnerability.

l   Building Codes: strengthening the resilience of public and private buildings to disasters through the adoption
    of a national building code and enforcing it through building inspection.


VI. Project Management: (US$ 0.45 million)

l   Financial management, technical and financial audits, equipment and workshops.

3.4 Revised Components:

The project was restructured in January 2002 due to slow implementation of several components, particularly civil
works.    The Loan/Credit Agreements were amended at the time.           As a result, some sub-components were
abandoned, and a total of US$ 1.6 million was cancelled from the loan/credit amount.

The changed/deleted components were:


l   Sea defense works. Because this component became more costly after Hurricane Lenny the consultants' first
    cost estimate was far beyond the amount available in the project. New designs were prepared. They were less
    expensive, but still beyond the budget for this component. They were therefore not carried out.

l   Elmshall Road Reinstatement: The design prepared posed environmental risks. An alternative route involving
    the replacement of a bridge was considered, but the design was not finished on time. This component was
    cancelled when the project was restructured in 2002.

l   The development of a local flood warning system was canceled when the project was restructured due to slow
    procurement.




                                                        - 4 -

l    Part of the technical assistance and training to NMS was cancelled due to lack of action when the project was
     restructured.

l    The entire component for institutional strengthening was cancelled when the project was restructured.
     Technical assistance from the OAS did not materialize. The vulnerability sub-component was cancelled
     because another Bank-supported operation was involved in this activity. The Model Building Code was not
     pursued further due to lack of funds.


3.5 Quality at Entry:

Project preparation was rushed even though implementation capacity was weak at the time. A Project Concept
Document was prepared in June 1998, and the Commonwealth Ministerial Group met with the President of the
World Bank in July 1998. A preparation/pre-appraisal mission visited Dominica in September 1998.
Negotiations, Board Approval and Signing were all accomplished in December 1998.

A Quality at Entry Assessment was carried out in March 1999 by QAG for the whole APL program. QAG gave an
overall rating of 2 (satisfactory). Most of the detailed ratings were also graded satisfactory. The project was rated
Highly Satisfactory for strength of borrower ownership, for adequacy of sector knowledge and for the strategy
underpinning the project. QAG also gave a Highly Satisfactory rating to the use of lessons of previous experience.
On the other hand, QAG gave only a Marginal rating for the adequacy of arrangements for mitigation/managing
environmental impacts during implementation, indicating more attention should have been given to strengthening
environmental management capacity. The project was also ranked Marginal on the adequacy of information on
financial management because it was silent on the LACI process. The capacity and incentives of the executing
agency were judged Marginal, because the ministries' capacity was not assessed and the PCU was untested. QAG
felt that institutional risks were not adequately accounted for in project design and performance indicators were too
general. QAG gave an Unsatisfactory rating to social impact monitoring.

This ICR also notes that there was no immediate emergency situation in Dominica at the time of preparation. As a
result, the appropriateness of using the ERL instrument was not justified. Many components were poorly defined
during preparation and had to be reappraised during implementation. This was especially the case for the sea
defenses and road protection works earmarked for Soufriere-Scotts Head and Hatten Garden, as well as road
reinstatement works at Elmshall, the cost of which was grossly underestimated. In addition, the large number of
sub-components made this a rather complex operation, given the weak institutional capacity and the need to
coordinate among multiple agencies. Also, most of the project's components required a large amount of planning
and engineering design, so rapid implementation was never possible.

To advance preparation, a Disaster Coordinator was appointed at the beginning of the project, and a Project
Coordination Unit (PCU) was set up in the Ministry of Finance to implement the project. However, the PCU had
never managed World Bank loans. Although the loan/credit also provided for expert assistance in line ministries,
implementation capacity remained a problem during the first two years of the project period (see Section 5.3) and
led to long delays in implementation. Therefore this ICR rates quality at entry as unsatisfactory.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:


l    The objective of strengthening key economic and social infrastructure and facilities with the aim of
     minimizing damage caused by future natural disasters and reducing the disruption of economic activity in the
     event of disaster emergency was partly achieved. Five shelters were retrofitted, the VRF was successfully
     implemented and specialized disaster equipment was procured. However, some major works on infrastructure
     (sea defense, road protection) were not implemented. The cost estimates were too high so only studies were
     prepared.



                                                          - 5 -

l    The objective of reconstructing and rehabilitating key social and economic infrastructure following disasters to
     allow quick recovery and minimize disruption of economic activity was also partly achieved. Some of the
     works were adapted to the changing needs after Hurricane Lenny.

l    The objective of strengthening the country's capacities to prepare for and respond to disaster emergencies in
     an efficient and effective manner was only partly achieved. A consulting firm provided training for ODM and
     personnel from key agencies involved in disaster management.


Because many of the planned mitigation works were not implemented, only limited capacity was built in ODM and
the disaster equipment it procured is still in storage. Much of the early warning equipment was not procured and
the institutional capacity for disaster preparedness and response was only partly improved, the achievement of the
Project Development Objectives is rated unsatisfactory.

4.2 Outputs by components:

I. Physical Prevention and Mitigation

l    Sea defense works: This component originally included sea defense work along two roads: Soufriere-Scotts
     Head (US$ 1.4 million) and Hatten Garden (US$ 478,000). When Hurricane Lenny struck in November 1999
     it caused severe damage along these roads. A Bank mission in February 2000 assessed the damage done by
     Lenny and estimated the total amount of sea defense works along the west coast to be in the order of US$ 50
     million. About US$ 5 million of this would have been needed for Soufriere-Scotts Head, far exceeding the US$
     1.4 million estimated at appraisal. Further detailed designs for sea defense works in Soufriere-Scotts Head and
     Hatten Garden were completed at the end of 2001. However, the cost estimate for the most urgent works was
     still far beyond the original estimate, US$ 20.5 million for Soufriere-Scotts Head and US$ 4.1 for Hatten
     Garden. Although much of the increase could be attributed to damage caused by Hurricane Lenny, the works
     were considered over designed. When the project was restructured in January 2002, it was agreed that the
     design would be adjusted. However, even with the adjusted works the costs would have been far beyond the
     available budget. Therefore, the remaining funds were used to further the design of the sea defenses, and the
     physical works were cancelled. The new design is now completed, and an Environmental and Social Impact
     Assessment of the new design has been completed. These designs are available to be implemented at a later
     time if funds are available and if the seashore conditions remain unchanged. Although no sea defense works
     were financed under the loan/credit, about 2 km of sea wall costing about US$ 4 million were constructed after
     Lenny using Caribbean Development Bank (CDB) funds, thereby reducing to some extent the vulnerability of
     the west coast to hurricane damage.

l    River Control and Flood Damage Reduction Works: This sub-component was to be fully financed by the
     Government, as counterpart funding for the loan/credit. The design has been completed, as well as an
     Environmental Impact Assessment. However, actual construction is delayed due to fiscal constraints. The cost
     of the works (EC$ 1.1 million) was to have been provided in the 2002/2003 budget, but this did not happen.

l    Elmshall Road Reinstatement: The design for stabilization works was prepared, but the proposed design was
     considered too risky from an environmental point of view. The improvement of an alternative route (the
     replacement of an existing bridge at Elmshall-Bath Estate) was then considered. It was agreed that a new
     design would be prepared by the Technical Services Division (TSD) of the Ministry of Works, but it was not
     finished within the agreed schedule. Therefore, the component was cancelled when the project was
     restructured in January 2002.

l    Shelters. The design for the refurbishment of the six shelters was finished before project effectiveness, and
     work on five shelters has been completed. The sixth was considered to be in an inappropriate location and was
     eliminated during implementation. The shelters are used for other community purposes, such as community
     centers, preschools, and post offices when not required for emergencies. They are maintained by the respective
     ministries. The Office of Disaster Management (ODM), in collaboration with the Department of Local
     Government, was asked to identify a new building for retrofitting, but no proposal was made. ODM is
     planning to build six additional shelters when funding is available.



                                                          - 6 -

II. Strengthening the National Office of Disaster Management (ODM)

l    Capacity building: ODM has a director and an administrative assistant and is recruiting an expert on disaster
     mitigation. A technical adviser in disaster management was hired for 15 weeks to review the operations of the
     ODM and make recommendations for improvement. He was also asked to review and make recommendations
     on the National Disaster Plan and to prepare a National Shelter Policy for the country. The reports and Plan
     were submitted to the Government, there has been little follow-up. The recruitment of a technical advisor to
     strengthen partnerships with the private sector was first postponed and then cancelled due to slow preparation
     of the TORs. Some training was conducted under this component through a contract awarded to a local NGO,
     the Institute of Emergency Management. A total of 248 people participated in workshops such as retrofitting
     of small buildings, stress management, geographical information systems in disaster management, the role of
     the media in disasters, and damage assessment/needs analysis. ODM is also conducting training in
     collaboration with international agencies such as PAHO and OFDA/USAID (about 15 per year).

l    Specialized Disaster Equipment: Equipment was procured for the ODM and other agencies. It is currently
     being stored at the ODM awaiting distribution, but satellite warehouses must first be built. The equipment
     was divided into three packages: pumps and generators, general equipment and chainsaws, and water
     containers. A warehouse is being constructed with U.S Government assistance. Two water containers have
     been provided to communities because of water shortages in local health facilities.

l    Support for the island-wide emergency communication system: The equipment was procured and stored at the
     ODM but is still awaiting installation. The bidding documents were originally issued using ICB procedures,
     but only one firm responded (with a price about 40% above cost estimate). As agreed with the Bank, the
     package was re-tendered under LIB procedures. The bidding document included, as separate lots, the
     island-wide emergency communication system, the ham weather radio observation network and the equipment
     for the Meteorological Office (see below). The equipment has been procured but was not fully installed at the
     project completion date. Three of four repeaters are installed and some small items necessary for installation
     are now being procured (masts, cable ties, etc.).


III. Developing an Effective Early Warning System


l    Support for the National Meteorological Service (NMS): Replacement meteorological equipment for the NMS
     is installed and operational. This procurement process was also protracted. The first bid was under ICB
     procedures and no firms responded. The PCU retendered successfully using LIB procedures together with the
     island-wide emergency communication system and the ham weather radio observation network.

l    Development of a Ham Weather Radio Observation Network: This equipment has been procured (see above).
     There has been a lack of sufficient personnel to install it. One unit is now installed and is sending weather
     data to the Hurricane Center in Miami. Another eight stations are expected to be installed by the end of 2003.
     This effort is being coordinated with ODM.

l    Development of a Local Flood Warning System: Because the procurement of a flood alert warning system was
     postponed by the PCU in the middle of the year 2001 (no list of equipment with specifications had been
     prepared by the Forestry Division of the Ministry of Agriculture and Environment), this component was
     cancelled when the project was restructured.

l    Technical Assistance and Training: The NMS staff was trained in the use of the meteorological equipment it
     received, as well as in stress management, speech training and workshop presentation. Further technical
     assistance and training was postponed because of lack of action by NMS. NMS preferred longer-term training,
     but this was not possible within the budget. The remainder of the component was cancelled when the project
     was restructured.




                                                         - 7 -

IV. Community Based Disaster Management:


l    Training in Community Disaster Preparedness: About 300 participants were trained by the Dominica Red
     Cross from April 2002 to November 2002. Two-day sessions included Introduction to Disaster Management,
     Shelter Management, Evacuation Planning, Hurricane Tracking, Preparing Households for Disasters, and
     Management of Relief Supplies.

l    Vulnerability Reduction Fund (VRF): The VRF was the most satisfactory component of the project. It
     financed projects involving the construction of drains to control storm/flood water and retaining walls to avert
     the dangers posed by flash floods and landslides. Under a first phase, 21 micro-projects (three for each of the
     seven districts of Dominica) were completed, employing the local population in the works. As a result of the
     initial success, a second phase (14 micro-projects) was then implemented. Lessons learned from the first phase
     were incorporated into the second phase where more attention was paid to technical designs. Local Village
     Councils and/or Village Improvement Committees have accepted the responsibility for maintaining these
     structures. Small tools (e.g. shovels, wheelbarrows) were procured under the project to facilitate maintenance.
     There has been no organized follow-up with additional VRF projects, but some requests have been made by
     community leaders.

V. Institutional Strengthening

The three components, Hazard Analysis, Vulnerability Reduction of Public Buildings and Building Code were
initially considered important for disaster management in the country. Discussions with the Organization of
American States concerning possible OAS participation did not bear fruit.


l    Hazard Analysis/Vulnerability Mapping: There was an initial effort to implement this sub-component, but it
     was ultimately cancelled when the project was restructured due to a lack of progress.

l    Vulnerability Reduction of Public Buildings: This sub-component was cancelled when the project was
     restructured. It was then to be carried out by another Bank-supported project focusing on regulatory
     frameworks and instruments for the insurance, but this project was cancelled in the course of preparation.

l    Building code: A Model Building Code had been completed before the project and was sent to Cabinet for
     approval in early December 2001, but it has not yet been enacted into law. Follow-up on building code
     implementation was originally included as part of the project, but no funds were allocated. However, the
     OECS building code has now been incorporated into the Physical Planning Act, and detailed regulations for its
     implementation are being prepared. Enforcement of the code has begun.


4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

Given the small size of the physical components, no economic analysis was carried out.

4.4 Financial rate of return:

Financial rates of return were also not carried out for this project.

4.5 Institutional development impact:

Institutional Development was planned to occur under several components:

Office of Disaster Management (ODM): A technical advisor reviewed the operations of ODM and the National
Disaster Plan. The reports and the plan were submitted to the Government, but little action followed. A technical
advisor was to be hired to work on strengthening public/private partnerships but this work was cancelled. A
number of workshops were held on disaster preparedness. Specialized disaster equipment was procured for ODM,
but most of it is still being stored. Equipment for the island-wide emergency communication system was procured



                                                           - 8 -

but not fully installed at the project completion date (see Section 4.2 B). A pending Emergency Act will increase
ODM's authority to protect disaster prone areas.

Development of an Early Warning System: The meteorological equipment bought for the NMS is installed and
operational and has contributed to the development of the NMS. NMS staff has been trained in the use of the
equipment it received. The equipment for the amateur ham weather radio network has also been procured but most
is not yet installed. The flood warning system was not procured and was cancelled from the project.

Institutional Strengthening: The institutional strengthening component involving hazard analysis and
vulnerability reduction was cancelled, thus limiting the intended institutional development impact of the project.

Project Coordination Unit (PCU): A PCU was established under the project. Its expertise has gradually developed
and improved. It is now responsible for the implementation of the Emergency Recovery Project (for security in
port/airport) approved by the World Bank in March 2002. It could be used for coordinating the implementation of
future projects.


5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:


l    The project was appraised in 1998. Afterwards, in November 1999, Dominica was struck by Hurricane Lenny.
     This affected the sea defense component in Soufriere-Scotts Head as high seas from the hurricane caused
     severe devastation in the area. The original cost estimate for the works was US$ 1.4 million. After Lenny and
     by the time the design was prepared, the cost estimated for the sea defense works increased to approximately
     US$ 20.5 million.

l    The Government changed in 2000 after national elections. This lack of continuity constrained project
     implementation.


5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

At the beginning, the project suffered from very slow implementation and unsatisfactory management. The Project
Coordination Unit (PCU) was inadequately staffed. At first, the Project Coordinator, who was also the Acting
Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Communications and Works (since before September 1999), had little time
to manage the project. The government hesitated to hire an Assistant Project Coordinator/Procurement Officer, and
this impaired the procurement process. Bid evaluations were delayed. After one year, the Government reiterated its
commitment to the project, and staffing was changed. Although delays persisted, progress did improve.

The Government also did not fully consider the recommendation of the technical advisor to strengthen the ODM.
There was a lack of follow-up on some activities such as providing emergency shelters.

Because of delays the closing date had to be extended twice from January 31, 2002 to December 31, 2002 and then
to July 31, 2003.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

The implementation agencies were:

l    The Technical Services Division of the Ministry of Communications, Works & Housing responsible for the
     major civil works related to the Sea Defenses and Road Protection.




                                                          - 9 -

l   The Office of Disaster Management (ODM) is responsible for the Island-wide Emergency Communication
    Network Equipment, Training and Technical Assistance for the ODM and key agencies involved in disaster
    management locally. It was also responsible for the specialized emergency and loss reduction equipment and
    supplies.

l   The Local Government Division of the Ministry of Community Development and Gender Affairs responsible
    for the Community Disaster Management, including the Vulnerability Reduction Fund.

l   The National Meteorological Service responsible for the replacement of meteorological equipment, as well as
    the Ham Weather Radio Network and the associated Technical Assistance and Training.

l   The implementing agencies were generally weak and understaffed. Their roles were not clear, and they left
    an important part of the project implementation to the PCU which was only intended to be a coordination unit.

5.4 Costs and financing:

Dominica received a Bank loan/credit equivalent to US$ 5.00 million (US$ 2.53 million in loan and SDR 1.80
million in credit). The Government agreed to provide counterpart funding of US$ 500,000, and there was a
financial gap of US$ 500,000 which the Government committed to obtain from other donors, an estimated total
cost of US$ 6.00 million. During implementation, the Government was not able to find co-financiers.

Following the mid-term review in January 2002, the project was restructured and US$ 1.9 million was cancelled
from the loan and credit, reducing the project cost to US$ 4.1 million, 68% of the appraisal estimate. The
government was expected to provide US$ 500,000, but eventually provided only US$ 120,000, 24% of the
appraisal estimate. The US$ 500,000 of co-financing that was expected did not materialize. A further US$ 1.48
million was left unspent and had to be cancelled at project closing.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

For works implemented under the VRF component, maintenance is the responsibility of the respective local
governments (Village Councils and/or Village Improvement Committees). Some tools were procured and
distributed to insure the maintenance.

The shelters' maintenance is also under the responsibility of the local governments. It is not clear that they will
have the resources to do so. Equipment provided at the ODM and NMS also needs to be maintained. Given their
limited staffing and capacity and the limited resources of the Government, it is not clear how well the equipment
they have procured will be maintained. It is also not clear whether they will receive sufficient budgetary support to
administer their duties.

Given these factors, and considering the present difficult macroeconomic situation in Dominica, the sustainability
of the project is unlikely.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

The various executing agencies are responsible for the management and maintenance of the infrastructure and
equipment provided under the project. In most cases these have already been delivered to the respective agencies.
However, as noted above, (Section 4.2, II & III), some of the equipment is not yet in use.




                                                        - 10 -

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

Project preparation was quick. The identification mission took place in September, 1998 with appraisal in October
1998 and Board approved in December 10, 1998. However, it appears that not enough time was invested in project
preparation. Effectiveness was delayed for 90 days until June 1999. The large number of sub-components made
this a rather complex operation given the weak institutional capacity requiring coordination of multiple agencies.

It is questionable whether the use of an ERL was justified. There was no emergency situation in Dominica at the
time. Because preparation used an emergency approach, components were identified quickly as there was little
time for in-depth analysis. Moreover, while equipment procurement and some emergency works could reasonably
be expected to be accomplished within the original emergency time frame, other types of components such as
institution building, larger works (which required lengthy design, tender and execution periods) and training were
ambitious for a three-year implementation period.

It was also questionable whether the APL instrument was appropriate in this case. Although it seemed efficient at
the time to group projects for all five OECS countries in one adaptable program, these operations (nine
loans/credits in total) eventually had to be unbundled and treated as separate projects in the Bank's record because
different P0 numbers were required to monitor each project separately.

Therefore, although the Bank worked quickly to respond to the Borrower's request and an innovative approach was
used to develop a regional program, Bank performance is rated unsatisfactory.

7.2 Supervision:

The task team dedicated significant efforts to coaching of the PCU and project supervision. There were eleven
supervision missions during project implementation. Early supervision missions focused on orienting the PCU and
the implementing agencies to the requirements of the project and familiarizing them with procurement procedures
and other implementation requirements. Missions carried out field supervision, assisting with issues such as the
location of shelters and the feasibility of the Elmshall Road works. Given the frequency and the quality of the
Bank effort, supervision by the Bank is rated satisfactory.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

The Bank adapted to the problems faced by the project and helped in resolving them. A full assessment was
undertaken prior to the restructuring of the project in early 2002. Overall Bank performance is rated satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

The preparation period was short. Some key steps were overlooked such as the preparation of TORs for
consultants. The number of sub-components to be prepared and the short preparation time created difficulties for
the borrower that were not easily overcome. Hence borrower performance during preparation is rated
unsatisfactory.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

The Government did not support implementation strongly at the beginning of the project period. It did not take the
necessary steps to strengthen ODM, construct the shelters or install equipment. Counterpart funding was not made
available. Government performance is rated unsatisfactory.



                                                         - 11 -

7.6 Implementing Agency:

The PCU lacked sufficient familiarity with World Bank procurement procedures. At the beginning of the project
the Acting Permanent Secretary of Works was also Director of ODM and head of the PCU and did not focus fully
on the project. At the end of December 2000 there were major delays in implementation due to ineffective
management and reluctance to hire staff. A new Project Coordinator in the PCU, Accountant and Assistant Project
Coordinator/Procurement Officer were hired and performance improved somewhat. However, delays and slow
procurement persisted. The delays led to a restructuring of the project in late 2001. Implementing agency
performance is rated unsatisfactory.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

There were many problems with project management and delays at the beginning of the project, only some of
which were overcome later in the project period. Although some steps were taken near the end of the project to
cancel non-performing components and some progress was achieved on the remaining activities of the project, the
overall Borrower performance is rated unsatisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

Lessons Relevant to the Dominica ERDMP Project

    l   The project could have been planned more deliberately as a standard investment loan, especially since
        there was no emergency at the time in Dominica. This would have enabled better preparation of
        procurement and institutional arrangements before appraisal.

    l   The Vulnerability Reduction Fund (VRF) employing local population in small-scale prevention works was
        successful in Dominica. It employs local populations and is a cost effective way to reduce risks and raise
        community awareness and should be considered for expansion to other countries.

    l   The cost of works designed for Dominica was far out of line with neighboring countries which was the
        main reason they could not be implemented under the project. This situation should be studied in detail
        and taken into account in the future in order to enable Dominica to receive the full benefits from its
        borrowing.


Lessons Relevant to all the ERDMP Projects

    l   It would have been preferable to process the various loans/credits for the various OECS countries as
        separate projects part of a broader program, but not integrated into one horizontal APL. In the Bank
        system, APL phases each correspond to one project (i.e. with one P0 number) which does not allow for a
        segregation of reporting on individual sub-projects. The task team had important problems at the
        beginning of the program to obtain differentiated P0 number for each country.

    l   Reconstruction components often requires careful assessment and long term effort that generally extends
        beyond the normal three year implementation period for Bank-assisted emergency operations. Therefore,
        priority in this type of projects should be given to prevention, immediate measures to reactivate economic
        activity and careful assessment of longer-term reconstruction priorities and designs. If major works are
        included in an emergency project, as was the case in this project, there should be an explicit provision at
        the design stage for a review of project scope after designs have been prepared. In this particular case, it
        would have been more practical to separate the actual emergency operation, which would have included
        quick disbursing components and technical assistance, and have the actual reconstruction works financed
        by a standard investment loan in a later phase of the APL.

    l   The performance of the PCUs was slow to develop in most cases. Ad hoc implementation arrangements
        through Project Coordination Units (PCUs) need to be carefully considered. In projects lacking a critical



                                                        - 12 -

        mass of work it is difficult for governments to allocate enough of their scarce qualified manpower to these
        units.

    l   TORs for consulting engineers need to specify government budget constraints to avoid over-designed
        infrastructure that will be unaffordable to implement. The Bank needs to consider requiring performance
        guarantees of consultants and applying penalties for late submissions.




9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
See report on Annex 8

(b) Cofinanciers:
N/A

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
N/A


10. Additional Information




                                                       - 13 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                         1
               Indicator/Matrix                      Projected in last PSR               Actual/Latest Estimate
No available




No outcome indicators were included in the PAD nor developed during implementation.




Output Indicators:
                                                                         1
               Indicator/Matrix                      Projected in last PSR               Actual/Latest Estimate
Sea Defense
Hatten Garden                             400 m completed                     Design Only
Soufriere-Scotts Head Road                2000 m completed                    Design Only
River Control & Flood Damage
Pichelin River Dredging                   500 m completed                     Design Only; Govt. to pay implementation
Colihaut River Control                    400 m completed                     Design Only; Govt. to pay implementation
Road Protection
Elmshall Road                             100 m. Completed                    Design Only - Too risky
Shelters                                  6 Shelters retrofitted              5 shelters completed
Hazard Analysis and Mapping               Study completed                     Cancelled
Vulnerability Reduction of Public Bldgs.
Study                                     1 study completed                   1 study completed
Workshop                                  1 workshop completed                1 workshop completed
Emergency Communications System           Systems fully functional            All systems procured but not all installed
Early Warning Systems                     System fully functional             System fully functional
Disaster Management Committees            80% equipped & functional           Functional
Community Training                        80% of communities trained          Training completed
Vulnerability Fund                        21 projects financed                35 Micro-projects completed

1End of project




                                                              - 14 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal    Actual/Latest   Percentage of
                                                          Estimate      Estimate        Appraisal
                        Component                         US$ million   US$ million
Physical Prevention and Mitigation                           3.69            0.88            61.5
Strengthening Emergency Preparedness & Response              1.19            1.48           19.83
Institutional Strengthening                                  0.16            0.00            2.67
Project Management                                           0.43            0.35            7.17

Total Baseline Cost                                          5.47            2.71
 Physical Contingencies                                      0.40            0.00            6.67
 Price Contingencies                                         0.10            0.00            1.67
                          Total Project Costs                5.97            2.71
                                         Front-end fee       0.03            0.03            1.00
                   Total Financing Required                  6.00            2.74


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                                Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category            ICB             NCB               2       N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                            2.85            1.29         0.00         0.00          4.14
                                   (2.25)          (1.12)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (3.37)
2. Goods                            0.37            0.00         0.28         0.00          0.65
                                   (0.37)          (0.00)      (0.23)         (0.00)       (0.60)
3. Services                         0.00            0.00         0.75         0.00          0.75
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.60)         (0.00)       (0.60)
4. Miscellaneous                    0.00            0.00         0.37         0.00          0.37
(Vulnerability Reduction           (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.37)         (0.00)       (0.37)
Fund)
5. Operating Expenses               0.00            0.00         0.03         0.00          0.03
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.03)         (0.00)       (0.03)
6. Front-end-fee                    0.00            0.00         0.03         0.00          0.03
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.03)         (0.00)       (0.03)
   Total                            3.22            1.29         1.46         0.00          5.97
                                   (2.62)          (1.12)      (1.26)         (0.00)       (5.00)




                                                - 15 -

   Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                    1
                                                          Procurement Method
         Expenditure Category               ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                                Other
   1. Works                                 0.00               0.46              0.00             0.00              0.46
                                           (0.00)             (0.46)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.46)
   2. Goods                                 0.64               0.00              0.11             0.00              0.75
                                           (0.64)             (0.00)            (0.11)            (0.00)           (0.75)
   3. Services                              0.00               0.00              0.82             0.00              0.82
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.69)            (0.00)           (0.69)
   4. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              0.67             0.00              0.67
   (Vulnerability Reduction                (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.67)            (0.00)           (0.67)
   Fund)
   5. Operating Expenses                    0.00               0.00              0.02             0.00              0.02
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.02)            (0.00)           (0.02)
   6. Front-end-fee                         0.00               0.00              0.03             0.00              0.03
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.03)            (0.00)           (0.03)
       Total                                0.64               0.46              1.65             0.00              2.75
                                           (0.64)             (0.46)            (1.52)            (0.00)           (2.62)

     1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

     2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
       of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
       managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
Physical Prevention and         2.84         0.50         0.35        0.76         0.12       0.00       26.8      24.0      0.0
Mitigation
Strengthening Emergency         1.19         0.00         0.00        1.48         0.00       0.00       124.4     0.0       0.0
Preparedness & Response
Institutional                   0.01         0.00         0.15        0.00         0.00       0.00        0.0      0.0       0.0
Strengthening
Project Management              0.43         0.00         0.00        0.35         0.00       0.00       81.4      0.0       0.0
Front-end-fee                   0.03         0.00         0.00        0.03         0.00       0.00       100.0     0.0       0.0
Unallocated                     0.50         0.00         0.00        0.00         0.00       0.00        0.0      0.0       0.0




                                                           - 16 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Given the small size of the physical components, no economic analysis was carried out.




                                                      - 17 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty                Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)        Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                       Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              9/98                      1    Operation Officer



 Appraisal/Negotiation
              10/98                     4    Procurement Specialist,
                                             Early Warning Systems.
                                             Community Dev. & Loss
                                             Reduction


 Supervision
              02/99                     1    Project Coordinator                  S               S
              3/99                      4    Financial Management,                S               S
                                             Disbusement Officer
              6/99                      3    Financial Specialist,                S               S
                                             Disaster Management Specialist,
                                             Disbursement Officer
              9/99                      2    Urban Specialist, Financial          S               S
                                             Management
              3/00                      3    Operations Officer, Urban            U               S
                                             Specialist, Disaster Management
                                             Specialist
              7/00                      2    Urban Specialist, Engineer           U               S
              12/00                     5    Operations Officer, Financial        U               S
                                             Management
              3/01                      1    Operations Officer                   U               S
              6/01                      2    Operations Officer, Financial        S               S
                                             Management Specialist
              12/01                     2    Engineer, Urban Specialist           S               S
              4/02                      3    Urban Specialist, Engineers (2)      S               S
              10/02                     4    Urban Specialist, Program            S               U
                                             Officer, Engineers (2)
              5/03                      2    Urban Specialists (2), Engineer      S               U


 ICR
              9/03                      3     Urban Specialist, Economist         S               U
                                              Engineer, Disaster
                                              Management Specialist




                                              - 18 -

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation            17.2                           67.5
  Appraisal/Negotiation                   2.6                          13.0
  Supervision                           34.7                         128.3
  ICR                                     2.2                          24.0
  Total                                 56.7                         238.8




                                            - 19 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 20 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 21 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Project Appraisal Document - Report No. 18645 LAC, December 2, 1998
Development Credit Agreement No. 3150-DOM, December 11, 1998
Progress Report 2001- 2003
Financial and Audit Reports 2001-2003
Quality at Entry Assessment, March 1999
Project Files




                                               - 22 -

Additional Annex 8. Borrower's Project Completion Report

Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

Original Objective
The original objective of the program was to assist the Commonwealth of Dominica in preparing for, mitigation
against, and responding effectively to disasters such as hurricanes, tropical storms, floods, landslides and storm
surges, through physical strengthening of infrastructure, institutional development and training of human
resources.

Revised Objective

In January 2002, the project was restructured to adjust for components/activities on which little or no progress had
been made. However, it was agreed that despite the cancellation of certain key components, the original objectives
were still appropriate and was thus retained.

Quality at Entry

Disaster Management was identified as an area requiring urgent attention as the country was frequently affected by
natural disasters such as hurricanes, floods, tropical storms, landslides, earthquakes and storm surges. From as far
back as one can remember, every year the island, as well as other OECS countries, wait out the hurricane season
from June to November, when these islands are most likely to be hit by such natural disasters. Very often,
economic activity was interrupted as major destructions were caused to physical infrastructure, social activities
strained, as resident suffered severe losses of loved ones and personal property.

At the start of the project the Government of Dominica had already received a complete assessment of sea defence
structures on the island as a first step to addressing the country's vulnerability to disasters. The firm of Mouchel
from the United Kingdom conducted the study. Preliminary estimates were also provided for the sea defenses and
road protection works earmarked for Soufriere  Scotts Head and Hatten Garden, as well as road reinstatement
works at Elmshall. An assessment of the emergency shelter requirement was also undertaken and the areas
requiring urgent attention were identified.

Moreover, areas requiring technical assistance and physical strengthening of the Office of Disaster Management
(ODM), the National Meteorological Service, as well as hazard mapping and vulnerability assessment were also
brought to the foe for urgent attention.

Having regard to such preparatory work, the framework for determining the key project components were clearly
established and agreed with the World Bank. However, the institutional arrangement for project implementation
were not clearly understood and set. Thus the Project Coordination Unit, which should have been established prior
to effectiveness of the project, was not satisfactorily structured to effectively manage the program.

Achievement of Objective and Outputs

Outcome/Achievement of Objective

There is no doubt that much was achieved by the various entities, on completion of the program. However, on
close scrutiny much doubt may arise with regards to the achievement of the original objectives of the project as a
whole. Much equipment and supplies were acquired and delivered to the various agencies, as was the completion
of some aspects of civil works of varying degrees of complexity, as regards the emergency shelters and
vulnerability reduction fund projects (VRF). A number of training programs were also completed for key
personnel involved with disaster management and members of community disaster management committees.
However, the overall support and commitment from central government to establish the structure so that the
resources provided under the program may be used in an effective and efficient manner to guarantee the



                                                           - 23 -

maintenance and sustainability of the initiative, was not manifested. Consequently, the effort at ensuring that the
objectives of the program are fully achieved may have been frustrated.

Outputs by Components

Part A: Physical Mitigation Works

River control and flood damage reduction works at the Pichelin and Colihaut Rivers - Although the designs
were completed by program closure, actual construction was delayed due to unfavorable cash flow situation of the
government. The consultants were still owed some long overdue balances for the design work completed.
According to the loan and credit agreement both the consultancy and the actual construction were to be financed
from counterpart resources.

An independent Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) was also completed for the designed project, and paid
for by the Government of Dominica.

Retrofitting of Six Existing Shelters - By the close of the program, five (5) existing shelters were retrofitted, one in
each of the communities of Atkinson, Canefield, Cottage, Grand Bay and Gutter.

These community multi-purpose buildings were originally constructed many years ago, but were not suitable for
use as emergency shelters. Under the project each building was refurbished with a more robust roof to withstand
hurricane-force winds, as well as additional facilities for male and female washroom, kitchenette, offices and
storeroom spaces. The compounds of those buildings were also improved to make them more conducive to large
gatherings. Auxiliary water supply systems were provided through the installation of a water tank on each site.

The residents of all the communities where such projects were undertaken have all express satisfaction with the
projects, and their confidence in the positive contribution the project made and will continue to make to the
respective communities. This subcomponent of the program, in its restructured form was deemed satisfactorily
completed.

Part B: Strengthening of Office Disaster Management

Strengthening of the human resource capacity o f the ODM in disaster management and improvement of
disaster planning, policies and procedures - A Technical Advisor was engaged to review the operation of the
ODM and to make recommendations for improvements. The consultant was also requested to review the National
Disaster Plan and to prepare a National Shelter Policy for the island. He also provided some training for key
personnel engage in disaster management in Dominica. The reports of this Advisor were submitted to Government
for their ratification and/or adoption.

A local NGO, Institute of Emergency Management (IEM) was engaged to provide training to key personnel
involved in disaster management locally. The training was conducted over a five (5) months period and a total of
three hundred and forty-eight (348) persons were trained.

Establishment of stocks of specialized disaster equipment and loss reduction materials - A stock of equipment
and spares were procured and delivered to the Office of Disaster Management (ODM) for distribution to disaster
management committees across the island. The equipment are currently held in storage until logistical
arrangements for distribution are finalized.

Some essential emergency supplies were also procured for distribution to local disaster management committees. In
that regard, it must be emphasized that unless the supplies and equipment are delivered to the end-users, with the
necessary management mechanism, the project would not have accomplished its objective. Thus, this component
is deemed unsatisfactorily completed.




                                                         - 24 -

Island-wide Emergency Communication System - A stock of communication equipment was procured for the
establishment of an island-wide emergency communications network. However, the network had not been set up.
It is expected that the National Disaster Coordinator will arrange to have the network established soon.

Until such time that this network is set up, the procured equipment will serve not meaningful purpose, and hence
the objective of the project will not have been met. Thus, in view of the significant investment in that component,
and the failure to set up the network, this component is deemed unsatisfactorily completed.

Part C: Development of an Early Warning System

This component aimed to establish an effective early warning system to alert appropriate government authorities
and the general public of adverse weather conditions to provide for the protection of life and property. Under the
restructured project, the existing early warning capabilities of the National Meteorological Service was
strengthened to assist the country in mitigating the effects of extreme adverse natural weather events such as
hurricanes, tropical storms and floods.

Replacement and acquisition of meteorological equipment for National Meteorological Service - A stock of
Meteorological equipment was procured and installed at the Canefield and Melville Hall Airports for use by the
National Meteorological Service. Some of that equipment replaced older equipment which were already available
at the airport.

The equipment were installed and officers of the National Meteorological Service trained in their use and
maintenance. The equipment are operational and the staff of the National Meteorological Service have reported
improvement in their capacity to collect and report weather information. The acquisition was deemed by the staff
and the Ministry at large as a long awaited improvement that will benefit not only the Division, but also the public
at large, in the disaster management effort.

Establishment of an Amateur Ham Radio Weather Observation network - In an effort to assist in the
development of a network of weather ham radio operators, dispersed throughout the country, a list of appropriate
equipment were procured and delivered to the ODM. That office was expected to collaborate with the National
Meteorological Service to arrange installation and distribution of the equipment.

Some training was provided by the supplier in the installation and use of the equipment. However, installation and
distribution did not take place. Until such time that this network is set up, the full objective of that sub-component
will not be realized. It is hoped that the network will be established before the commencement of the 2003
hurricane season. This subcomponent was therefore rated as unsatisfactory.

Technical Assistant and Training for National Meteorological Service - The staff of the National Meteorological
Service benefited from training in the use of the meteorological equipment received. Workshops were also held in
Stress Management, Presentation and Speech Training for all staff members of the National Meteorological
Service. All attempts to identify appropriate training in hydrology and meteorology for the National
Meteorological Service were unsuccessful as all available training were for periods six month or longer. It was
understood that the project could not finance any courses of such duration. Despite the apparent setback, the staffs
of the National Meteorological Service were quite satisfied with the limited training received. It was generally felt
that satisfactory benefit was derived from the resources provided by the project. However, in view of the resources
that were available for use in training of the staff of the NMS this aspect of the project was deemed unsatisfactorily
utilized.

Part D: Community Based Disaster Management

Community based Training in Disaster Management - Some three hundred and ten (310) persons from across the
country were trained in Community Based Disaster Management. A total of eleven (11) workshops were held in
the seven community development districts. The workshops were held at central locations in each district with
participants drawn from the various communities in the respective district. Two (2) workshops were held in each


                                                          - 25 -

of the southwest, north, south and west districts. One (1) workshop was held in each of the other districts.

Judging from perusal of the evaluation forms completed by each participant of the training, the Community Based
training was considered successful and thus rated satisfactory.

Vulnerability Reduction Fund (VRF) - Forty (40) micro projects were completed in thirty-four (34) communities
across the    island. The first phase of the VRF saw the completion of twenty-one (21) projects in twenty-one
different communities  three (3) from each of the seven (7) community development district. A further nineteen
(19) were completed in thirteen (13) communities under a second phase. The project involved the construction of
drains to control storm/flood waters and retaining walls to avert the dangers posed by flash floods and land slides
to vulnerable communities in periods of heavy rainfall.

The method of identifying the project, and selection of the contractors were most welcome by the communities as
they encouraged community participation in the decision making process affecting each community. Cooperation
from the communities was commendable and the respective communities benefited, not only from the completed
physical structures but, also the economic activities generated there from.

A stock of small tools was also procured for distribution to the various communities to assist in the maintenance of
those structures.

Local Village Councils from the respective communities were involved in the identification and management of the
project. Where no village council existed, the Village Improvement Committees were involved. These Village
Councils and/or Improvement Committees have accepted responsibility for the maintenance of the completed
structures. The tools will be delivered to the Village Councils / Improvement Committees to assist them in
maintaining the drains. The tools procured included 55 Wheel Barrows, 50 Shovels, and 24 Bass Brooms. That
subcomponent was deemed successfully completed and thus received a satisfactory rating.

Institutional Development Impact

At the initial stages of project implementation it was agreed that certain public officers within the Ministry of
Communications, Works and Housing would perform key functions at the Project Coordination Unit, in addition to
the regular duties of their respective establish position.

Unfortunately, this arrangement proved unsatisfactory as it was difficult to attract the level of commitment required
for implementation and created much set back for implementation of the project, to the extent that after fifteen (15)
months of effectiveness very little progress had been made on the project. This situation resulted in the project
being rated unsatisfactory by the World Bank.

Fifteen (15) months after effectiveness the project was revamped with a new Project Account/Financial Manager,
and subsequently a new Project Coordinator and Procurement Officer.

Despite these unfortunate setbacks, the revamped Project Coordination Unit was able to generate and achieve some
progress on the project, continuously persuaded and assisted by the Bank's staff, where and when necessary. The
project was able to restore a satisfactory status, as a precondition to obtaining a much-needed extension to allow
completion of the component on which significant progress had been made.

At the end, the project was restructured to allow completion of component that had experience some progress and
cancellation of others on which little or no progress had been made. The Bank granted an extension of the project
closing date from January 31, 2002 to December 31, 2002.

By that time the staff at the Project Coordination Unit had gained much needed experience not only in World Bank
project management matters, but also general project management and Project Financial Management.




                                                          - 26 -

Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

Factors Outside the Control of Government or Implementing Agency - When the projects earmarked for funding
under the program were identified, assessed and appraised, prevailing conditions on some of the projects were far
different from that obtained by the time of implementation. For example, the sea defense for Soufriere-Scotts Head
was assessed and appraised in 1998. In November of 1999 the area was severely devastated by high seas during
the passage of Hurricane Lenny. The original estimated cost of construction for that structure was approximately
US$1,400,000. After the passage of hurricane Lenny and by the time the design was prepared for the required
works to address the problem, the estimate was increased to approximately US$24,600,000. This sum was far in
excess of fund available under the entire program. This was well outside the control of Government.

Factors Generally Subject to Government Control - The inherent delay in the project implementation caused by
the initial arrangement for the Project Coordination Unit would have been avoided if total commitment to the
project was ensured. Appropriately qualified individuals should have been recruited to fill key positions at the
Project Coordination Unit instead of the arrangement of having Project duties assigned to public officers who were
already performing duties of their substantive established positions.

Moreover, implementing agencies were not sufficiently made aware of their role in implementation of the project.
This created unnecessary pressure for the Project Coordination Unit, which in the end not only had to coordinate,
but also implement the various projects.

Finally, the slowness by implementing agencies in providing the necessary support also created major setback for
project implementation. Delays by the Technical Services Division (TSD) in completion of designs for the
emergency shelters made it difficult to complete some of the projects within the planned schedule. Additionally,
the slowness in follow-up provided by the Government on recommendation for strengthening of the ODM was of
major concern. Although the situation was a key-determining factor in the rating of that component, Government
remains committed to meeting some of the recommendation of the report with the ultimate aim of strengthening
the ODM and its capacity to function effectively.

Factors Generally Subject to Implementing Agency Control - Four implementing agencies were responsible for
various components/activities under the program. It was evident that much more needed to be done by the
different agencies if the program was to achieve its objectives to the fullest. The agencies were not as involved as
they should have been in the implementation. Too much was left to the PCU which only had a coordinating
responsibility.

Costs and Financing: Originally, the program was estimated to cost US$6,000,000 secured from the following
sources:

                   World Bank
                    IBRD                     US$ 2,530,000
                    IDA                      SDR 1,800,000
                   Counterpart               US$     500,000
                   Co financing              US$     550,000

  In January 2002, a request was made for cancellation of a portion of the loan following the decision to
  restructure the project, and cancel some components thereof. The revised costing for the project was as follows:

                   World Bank
                    IBRD                     US$ 1,487,650
                    IDA                      SDR 1,163,000
                   Counterpart               US$     572,000

  The Co financing covenant was also cancelled.




                                                        - 27 -

Sustainability

Rationale for Sustainability Rating - A number of facilities, infrastructure, equipment and resources were
provided to Government under the program. A major challenge for Government will be the provision of resources,
both human and financial to maintain and sustain the facilities well into the future especially in light of the
prevailing economic and fiscal circumstances. Only by so doing will the objective and benefits of the program be
fully achieved.

Consequently, the major challenge for Government is the determination of the importance of disaster management
for the country and how high it is placed on Government's priority list of development issues. This will determine
to a large extent, the amount of resources that will be made available for the sustenance of the resources provided
under the program. Not withstanding what has been said, it will obviously be very difficult for Government to
provide for such contingencies to guarantee any significant difference from that obtained prior to the
implementation of the project.

Transition Arrangement to Regular Operations - The various agencies are responsible for the management and
maintenance of resources provided under the program. In most cases such resources (physical) have already been
delivered to the respective agencies, where they have been put into regular operations.

Bank /Borrower Performance

Bank
Lending:
Having identified the program as one of an emergency nature, the process or providing the required funding was
expedited by the Bank to encourage early and urgent implementation. Thus, the bank performance may be noted
as satisfactorily in that regard.

Supervision:
Given the critical role of the Bank in the appraisal and supervision of the project it is necessary to comment
separately on the bank's performance in each of these functions.

Very early in the implementation of the project it was evident that certain key components of the project were
grossly under estimated. It is also understood that Bank staff who conduct appraisal and/or supervision mission
are not only appropriately qualified, but also have the benefit of the relevant technical experience. In particular,
although the appraisal team may have visited Dominica prior to November 1999 when the devastating effect of
Hurricane Lenny was experienced on the Island, it should have been obvious to Appraisal Mission that the
estimated cost for addressing the Sea Defense requirements at Soufriere-Scotts Head and Hatten Garden were
grossly understated. This, it was determined, was a major contributor to the very large disparity between the
original estimate and the final design estimate for that component. Thus the project appraisal by the bank was
deemed unsatisfactory.

Notwithstanding the poor appraisal of the Sea Defense component, once effectiveness was attained, much needed
support and assistance was provided by the task managers. Given the limited experience of the Project
Coordination Unit and borrower personnel, the Bank staffs were ever ready and available to provide assistance and
guidance on project related matters. The Bank performed satisfactorily in that regard.

Overall Bank Performance:
Overall, the Bank seem ever willing to accommodate Government on project implementation matters, to the extent
that Bank guidelines and procedures were not compromised. However, owing to the fact that the sea defense
component represented the most significant and a very critical part of the project, and the fact that the
inappropriateness of the Bank's appraisal contributed to the demise of that component, the Bank's performance
was rated marginally satisfactory in that regard.




                                                         - 28 -

Borrower
Preparation:
As implementation progressed, it was evident that much was left to be desired in the preparation of the project.
This led on the one hand, to a delay in meeting the conditions precedent to effectiveness, and on the other hand,
significant delays in the implementation. This could also be blamed for the cancellation of some of the original
components, which warranted the restructuring of the program. This may be rated as unsatisfactory.

Government Implementation Performance:
There was significant delay at every stage of implementation, from satisfying conditions precedent to
implementation after effectiveness. The project was rated unsatisfactory for several months post effectiveness.
Implementation progress was still slow after restructuring of the PCU, although most components were
implemented to varying degrees of completeness. Thus, this could be rated as marginally satisfactory.

Implementing Agency:
The implementation agencies may not have understood their role in implementing the projects, for which they
were responsible, thus placing unnecessary strain on the PCU. Their performance may be rated as marginally
satisfactory.

Overall Borrower Performance:
Given all the shortcomings in certain components and success in others Government overall performance may be
rated as marginally satisfactory.

Lessons Learned

1. Where funding for disaster management and emergency related projects are required, the World Bank has
     proven to be one of the best sources in light of the concessionary interest rates and repayment schedule as
     well as the quick disbursement mechanism.

2. In responding quickly to the immediate concerns of a disaster project, governments should not neglect the
     opportunity to build capacity for a longer-term disaster management capacity.

3. After an emergency has passed, reconstruction works, particularly those involving large capital investments
     and operation and maintenance requirements, should be carefully appraised. They should be subject to similar
     technical, economical, financial and institutional analysis as would be other similar investments.

4. When implementing similar projects, Government should avoid assigning responsibilities for project
     implementation to employees who cannot devote the required time to the project. Moreover, clear agreement
     on responsibilities of implementing agencies for project implementation at inception would facilitate both the
     likelihood for follow-up as well as sustainability after the project is completed.

5. Prevention measures can have a substantial positive impact on the reduction of social and economic losses.

6. Government should demonstrate commitment to projects to ensure that project objectives are achieved.

7. Project Management requires a team of fully committed staff with the relevant qualification and experience,
     and with opportunities for appropriate training.

8. Involvement of the community in the decisions of project identification and management assist significantly in
     ensuring the successful implementation of such project.




                                                         - 29 -

- 30 -

