Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3150-DOM
Development Credit Agreement
(Emergency Recovery and Disaster Management Project)
between
COMMONWEALTH OF DOMINICA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated December 11, 1998
CREDIT NUMBER 3150-DOM
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT dated December 11, 1998 between COMMONWEALTH OF DOMINICA (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association):
WHEREAS (A) the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) 
has received a letter dated December 1, 1998, from the Borrower to the Bank describing 
the Borrower’s emergency recovery and disaster management program which consists of a 
series of activities to strengthen the Borrower’s capacity to respond to and manage 
disasters;
(B) 
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the project (the Project) described in Schedule 2 to the loan agreement (the Loan 
Agreement) of even date herewith between the Borrower and the Bank, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
(C)
by the Loan Agreement, the Bank has agreed to provide additional 
assistance for the financing of the Project in an aggregate principal amount equal to 
two million five hundred thirty thousand Dollars ($2,530,000) (the Loan);
(D)
the Borrower and the Association intend, to the extent practicable, that 
the proceeds of the credit provided for in this Agreement be disbursed on account of 
expenditures in respect of the Project before disbursements of the proceeds of the 
Loan are made;
(E)
the Borrower intends to receive from one or more cofinanciers to be 
selected by the Borrower one or more grants or loans in an aggregate amount equivalent 
to $500,000 to assist in financing the Project on the terms and conditions to be set 
forth in an agreement or agreements to be entered into between the Borrower and such 
cofinanciers; and
Page  2
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, (as amended through December 2, 
1997) with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement.
(a)
A new paragraph 12 is added to Section 2.01 to read as set forth below 
and the existing paragraphs 12 through 14 of said Section are renumbered as paragraphs 
13 through 15:
"12.
"Participating Country" means any country that the Association 
determines to meet the requirements set forth in Section 10 of resolution No. 
183 of the Board of Governors of the Association, adopted on June 26, 1996; 
and "Participating Countries" means all such countries collectively."
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawal shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories of 
any country which is not a Participating Country or for goods produced in, or 
services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any 
payment to persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such payments 
or import, to the knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a decision of 
the 
United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of 
the 
United Nations."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Loan Agreement, General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have, 
when used in this Agreement, the respective meanings therein set forth or referred to, 
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"PCU" means the Project Coordination Unit established and maintained 
within the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance, Industry and Planning pursuant to Section 
3.02 of the Loan Agreement; and
(b)
"Project Implementation Manual" means the manual described in Section 
3.04 (a) of the Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to one million eight hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 1,800,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to the this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to the 
Loan Agreement (the Project) and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be January 31, 2002   or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
Page  3
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each March 15  and September 15 commencing March 15, 2009  and ending September 15, 
2033.  Each installment to and including the installment payable on September 15, 2018 
shall be one and one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each 
installment thereafter shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal 
amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years  the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08 The currency of the United Sates of America is hereby specified for 
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) Subject to the provisions of Section 3.02 of this Agreement, 
Article III and Section 5.01 of the Loan Agreement and Schedules 2 and 4 thereto are 
incorporated in this Agreement, with the following modifications in said Sections and 
Schedules unless the context otherwise requires:
(i)
the term "Bank" shall be read as "Association";
Page  4
(ii)
the term "Loan" and "Loan Account" shall be read as "Credit" and 
"Credit Account";
(iii)
the term "this Agreement" shall be read as "the Loan Agreement";
(iv)
the paragraph under Section I, Part A of Schedule 4 to the Loan 
Agreement is numbered as 1 and a new paragraph 2 is added 
immediately thereafter, reading as follows:
"2.
In paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of the Guidelines, the references 
to "Bank member countries" and "member country" shall be deemed to 
be references, respectively, to "Participating Countries" and 
"Participating Country"." and
(v)
the paragraph under Section II, Part A of Schedule 4 to the Loan 
Agreement is numbered as 1 and a new paragraph 2 is added 
immediately thereafter, reading as follows:
"2.
In paragraph 1.10 of the Consultant Guidelines, the 
references to "Bank member countries" and "member country" shall 
be deemed to be references, respectively, to "Participating 
Countries" and "Participating Country"."
Section 3.02. So long as any part of the Loan provided for under the Loan 
Agreement shall remain outstanding and unless the Borrower has been notified otherwise 
by the Association:
(a)
all actions taken, including approvals given, by the Bank with respect to 
any Project-related matter under the Loan Agreement shall be deemed to be taken or 
given in the name and on behalf of both the Bank and the Association; and
(b)
all information or documentation furnished by the Borrower to the Bank or 
to the Association with respect to any Project-related matter pursuant to the 
provisions of the Loan Agreement, including the General Conditions Applicable to Loan 
and Guarantee Agreement referred to therein or of the Development Credit Agreement, 
shall be deemed to have been furnished to both the Bank and the Association.
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Association
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that any event set forth in Section 
5.01 of the Loan Agreement shall have occurred, provided that the term "Bank" 
appearing in such Section shall be read as "Association".
Section 4.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely that any event set forth in Section 
5.02 of the Loan Agreement shall have occurred, provided that the term "Bank" 
appearing in such Section shall be read as "Association".
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General 
Conditions, namely that all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the Loan 
Agreement, other than those related to the effectiveness of this Agreement, have been 
fulfilled.
Section 5.02. The date March 11, 1999 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01 The Minister of Finance, Industry and Planning of the Borrower is 
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions.
Page  5
Section 6.02 The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Government Headquarters
Roseau, Dominica, WI
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C. 
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, U.S.A., as of the day and year first above written.
COMMONWEALTH OF DOMINICA
By /s/ Judith-Anne Rolle
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Danny Leipziger
Acting Regional Vice President 
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Civil works
   1,140,000
100%
(2)
Goods
     220,000
100%
(3)
Consultants’ services
     220,000
100%
(4)
Operating Expenditures
      20,000
100%
(5)
Unallocated
     200,000
    ________
TOTAL
   1,800,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule term "Operating Expenditures" means 
Page  6
expenditures required for the operation of the PCU such as office supplies and 
communications costs.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of:
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of SDR 
250,000 may be made in respect of Categories (1), (2), (3) and (4) set forth in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule on account of payments made for expenditures 
before that date but after July 1, 1998.
(b)
any payments for civil works under Part A of the Project until the 
Bank shall have received the Project Implementation Manual. 
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for (i) goods 
costing less than $100,000 equivalent; (ii) works costing less than $250,000 
equivalent; (iii) services of consulting firms costing less than $100,000; and (iv) 
services of individual consultants costing less than $25,000, all under such terms and 
conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
